19-10-2021||Members of Doaba Sahitya Akademi in its recently organised monthly meeting dwelled upon latest trends in writing and held discussion on the books written by Dr Jawahar Dheer. The writer had authored four books during the lockdown period. Dr Dheer spoke about the contemporary style of writing and content imagination. In less than a year his three books||Monthly meeting of Doaba Sahitya Akademi||Grants released for development projectsAnita Som Prakash, wife of Union Minister of State for Commerce and Industry Som Prakash, issued a grant letters related to development projects at Urban Estate and Shivpuri area to residents. The fund would be utilised for the construction of a community hall worth Rs3 lakh in Shivpuri, Rs7 lakh for Ambedkar Bhawan in Urban Estate and Rs 7 lakh for installation of water recharging plant.5 LPU students make it to Pro Kabaddi LeagueAs many as five students of the Lovely Professional University (LPU) will participate in Pro Kabaddi League (PKL) Season-8. The season is slated to commence from December 22 at Bengaluru in Karnataka. LPU students will play from teams namely Telugu Titans, Tamil Thalaivaas, Gujarat Giants and Haryana Steelers. Many of the overseas players from Iran, South Korea, Japan, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and will also participate in the eent. LPU student Surinder Singh has been valued by Telugu Titans at a price of Rs 55 lakh, Sagar has been valued by Tamil Thalaivaas at Rs8 lakh, Rakesh Sangroya will play for Gujarat Giants for Rs7.98 lakh whereas, Meetu Sharma and Jaideep Dahiya were taken by Haryana Steelers for Rs7.98 lakh each. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/monthly-meeting-of-doaba-sahitya-akademi-326402
19-10-2021||Jalandhar||Message of fitness at CT Group||Inter-house basketball tournamentEnthusiasm and talent were witnessed at their best at Delhi Public School when players from the four houses- Lavenders, Daffodils, Carnations and Orchids competed in the Inter-House Basketball Tournament. Principal Ritu Kaul declared the tournament open. Lavenders House boys team defeated Daffodils House boys team by 14 points. Amitoj Singh turned the game for Lavenders House by scoring 8 points and helped his team to get the one-sided 28-14 victory. In the girls match, Daffodils House beat Lavenders House by 25-19. Shambhavi performed exemplary in the match by scoring a half-court shot just as the match was about to end.Lyallpur girls shine in judo meetLyallpur Khalsa College for Women won five silver medals and two bronze medals in the 43rd Jalandhar District Judo Championship and overall runner-up in senior category.From the senior category, Lovely was winner and won silver medal in 48 kg, Nisha won silver in 63 kg, Priya Nahar won silver in 70 kg and Palvi also won silver in 78 kg, while Kareena won bronze in 78 kg-plus. In junior category, Kareena won bronze medal in open category. Principal Dr Navjot applauded the winners and sportswomen of the institute. She also appreciated the guidance of Parminder Kaur, Assistant Professor, Department of Physical Education.BCom (Hons) Sem IV result of KMVThe PG Department of Commerce and Business Administration of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya announced the result of BCom (Honours) Sem IV. Pawanpreet stood first by scoring 490/550 marks, second position is bagged by Khushi Malhotra by scoring 477/550 marks and Kashish scored 476/550 marks and stood at third position. It is pertinent to mention that 57 students from this class are the distinction holders. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated the students.Lecture on Civil Services ExamsKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised an extension lecture on the topic ‘How to Crack Civil Services Exam’. The session was organised under the aegis of School for Competitive Exams. The resource person for the session was Dr Madhur Mahajan, PG Dept of Economics, GGDSD College, Chandigarh. Dr Madhur cited the examples of various rank holders of UPSC who had cleared the exam inspite of all adverse circumstances and financial constraints. He motivated the students to dream big and to invest 100 per cent of their time and efforts to convert their dreams into goals. He also addressed all the queries of students in a very lucid manner and cleared all their doubts and apprehensions regarding these exams.Gift making workshop inauguratedA three-day workshop for skill development among students at the local Hindu Kanya College, Kapurthala, was inaugurated by Principal Dr Archana Garg on Monday. Fifty students participated in the workshop organised by the Fashion Designing Department of the college. Dr Garg said the workshop would develop skills for manufacturing handicrafts related items by staying at home within the students. She told the students that on the occasion of festivals, when everyone spends a lot of money to give gifts and purchase goods for home decorations, these items can also be prepared well at home. She said it is very good if relatives are gifted with self-created handicraft items.International Programmers’ DayComputer Club of PG Department of Computer Science and IT celebrated International Programmers’ Day by organising special programming events. Two separate competitions were organised, one on “HTML and JavaScript” for testing Web Designing Skills and other on “C Language” for testing Logic Building Skills. In HTML and JavaScript event Diksha, Tripti and Devanshi of BCA third year stood first, second and third respectively. In C Language event, Sheetal stood first, Muskan Sharma- Muskan Kpaoor stood second, and Massarat-Ramnik and Deepali –Palak stood third. Gullagong, Sonia Mahendru, judged C language programming and Gurmeet Singh and Jagjit Bhatia judged HTML and Java Script event.Seminar on Power of Positive LivingTo maintain the optimistic mind set of students, Innocent Hearts Group of Institutions organised a seminar on topic “Power of Positive Living”. The resource person for the same was Mandeep Kaur (CEO, Simba Quartz). The seminar started with the welcome speech for the guest speaker by Anuradha (Assistant Prof, Management Dept). Mandeep Kaur started the session with motivational quote and enunciated that “When no one is with you, you still have you with yourself”, which inspires everyone to recognise their inner power for resolving difficulties of life. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/message-of-fitness-at-ct-group-326401
19-10-2021||Hoshiarpur||Health Department to sensitise pupils to adulteration||In order to educate the youngsters about the food adulteration and its adverse effects on human health, the Health Department would launch a mass awareness drive in schools and colleges to sensitise the students against adulteration. District Health Officer Dr Lakhvir Singh said awareness seminars would be organised in schools and colleges and students would be detailed about harmful effects of food adulteration through videos and pictures on the projector. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/health-department-to-sensitise-pupils-to-adulteration-326389
19-10-2021||---||Nawanshahr: Liquor contractor evades tax, booked||Jalandhar, October 18The Excise Department has got an FIR lodged against a liquor contractor based at Nawanshahr, after seizing liquor, on which excise duty was not paid, from one of his vends, during a surprise check.Divisional Excise and Taxation Commissioner (DETC) Jaspinder Singh said on the direction of Excise Commissioner Rajat Aggarwal, the department had initiated an operation at liquor vends.He said as many as 17 bottles, on which excise duty was not paid, were seized by the inspection teams. The DETC said these vends were being run by Sohan Singh Uppal and Associates.The DETC said the seized bottles of imported brands had been sent for testing. The Excise Department has initiated action against the licensee under the Punjab Excise Act and subsequently the police have lodged an FIR under various Sections of the IPC and the Excise Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-liquor-contractor-evades-tax-booked-326388
19-10-2021||---||‘Book policeman who mowed down Navjot Kaur’||Jalandhar, October 18The city Youth Congress (Urban) president, Angad Datta, today demanded strict action against cop, who mowed down two girls here today. He said the incident should be treated as a ‘murder’ and not an accident.Datta demanded that action should be taken under Section 302, IPC, for the murder of the girl in this case. “Whether the wrongdoer is a police officer or a common man, the law is same for all,” Datta added. He also demanded dismissal of Punjab Police inspector, who was driving the vehicle.In his statement here today, Datta said, “The Youth Congress has full sympathy with the family of the deceased girl. The CCTV footage has also been released in which girls can be clearly seen stepping back after seeing the approaching vehicle, but still it rammed into them. It is a clear case of murder.”“Punishment should be given as per what a murderer deserves. The Youth Congress demands a proper action in this matter. The police inspector must be dismissed from service with immediate effect,” added Datta.According to media reports, Punjab Police inspector Amrit Pal Singh was driving the vehicle bearing Hoshiarpur registration number, said Datta. He was arrested, Datta added. He was currently posted at Harike Pattan, said Datta.The incident took place today morning at Dhanewali village on the Jalandhar-Phagwara highway. After the incident, local people stopped vehicles and blocked the highway causing a traffic jam.Notably, inspector Amrit Pal’s vehicle ran over two girls on the Phagwara-Jalandhar highway today morning.One of the girls died on the spot while another, who was seriously injured, was admitted to a local hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/book-policeman-who-mowed-down-navjot-kaur-326390
19-10-2021||Jalandhar||45 girls vaccinated at cervix cancer awareness camp||The Rotary Club held a vaccination camp today to spread awareness on prevention and treatment of cervix cancer.Cancer in cervix (lower part of uterus) was common among women above 40 years of age, said the doctor. During the camp, as many as 45 girls from different schools were given first dose of immunisation.Dr SPS Grover talked about the importance of holding such camps and the implications of this deadly disease, which could be kept at bay if preventive measures were taken at the right time and age.The second dose of the vaccine would be given after six months, said the doctors.The global grant for the project was mooted with the help of the Rotary Club, Sudbury, Canada, along with the Rotary Club, Jalandhar West, and the club members.Dr Grover said, “Cervix cancer is caused due to papillomaviruses. It is a preventable disease. If the vaccine is given before the onset of puberty by administering two doses at an interval of six months, the disease is largely preventable. While the vaccine costs Rs 4,000 in the market, it was provided for free in the camp. Not many people know about the vaccine and its benefits.”Dr Grover said 15 days ago, as many as 31 persons were vaccinated at another free camp.Other club members including president Mandeep Juneja, secretary TPS Bajaj, Kuldip Singh, AS Juneja, PS Bindra and Resham Kaur were also present at the camp. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/45-girls-vaccinated-at-cervix-cancer-awareness-camp-326391
19-10-2021||---||Academician couple’s terrace abounds in herbs, vegetables||Jalandhar, October 18Herbs, flowers and fruits coexist in the terrace garden of a couple’s house in Jalandhar. They source their greens from places as far as Jammu, the foothills of Himachal Pradesh, Palampur and Dharmasala.Associate Professors at Dayanand Ayurvedic College, Dr Rajni Thakur and Dr Gagan Thakur are fond of sourcing rare plants from north India and nurturing them in their garden. They even have a cotton plant sourced from Bathinda, which steadily yields cotton balls.Dr Gagan Thakur says, “My father-in-law has his own rooftop garden in Jammu. My wife also wanted to make her herb garden in Jalandhar. About five to six years ago, we began planting the saplings. Today, we have a huge collection of plants.”While the entrance to the house is decked with flowering plants, including gulmohar, the terrace has medicinal, flowering and ornamental plants, as well as veggies. Bougainvillea and trumpet flower vines are also present.The ornamental plants include bamboo, Mimosa pudica (touch me not plant), money plants of various varieties, jade, succulents and Dracaena trifasciata.“We also have plants that heal ailments. Aloe vera and amla give relief from liver problems, shirish is good for skin diseases, shatavari serves as a tonic and aparajita heals migraines. Giloy, lemon grass and tulsi cure multiple ailments,” says Dr Rajni Thakur.Sharing a tip on making plants thrive, she adds, “The initial phase when they are brought from some other place is crucial. Planting attempts in scorching summer rarely yield results. Monsoon is the best time to replant the recently sourced plants.”Their garden emits scent of flowers such as rajnigandha (tube rose), lily, jaba (hibiscus), chameli (jasmine), amaltas, chrysanthemum, cock’s comb and marigold. Flowering vines of golden shower (Pyrostegia venusta) and bougainvillea add to the colours.Vegetables and fruits thriving at their house include brinjal, chillies planted in lush bushes, coriander, pomegranate, kinnow, mango and lemon. “We expect spinach and radish planted recently to yield a bountiful produce in winter,” she says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/academician-couples-terrace-abounds-in-herbs-vegetables-326392
19-10-2021||Hoshiarpur||Man held with banned powder||Programme on free legal aidHoshiarpur: The CJM-cum-Secretary, District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), Aparajita Joshi, said pan India awareness and outreach programme was being run by the NALSA from October 2 to November 14. “Under this programme, residents of 1,405 villages of the district have been apprised about free legal aid schemes as a part of Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav,” she added. “Secretaries and sarpanches of 95 gram panchayats, along with the DDPO, made 2,000 people aware about free legal aid schemes on Monday,” she said. Besides, separate awareness programmes about free legal aid were organised in 78 villages, she added. Seminars were organised in three villages by para legal volunteers of the DLSA, which were attended by 200 people, she said. OCOne held with stolen batteryHoshiarpur: The Sadar police on Sunday arrested a person with a battery of solar lights, which was stolen from Nara village. He was seen by a villager while fleeing after stealing the battery. The accused has been identified as Ranjit Singhm, alias Kaka, a resident of Bajwara village. The police have registered a case against the accused. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-held-with-banned-powder-326393
19-10-2021||---||Covid-19: No new case, death reported in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, October 18No new Covid case was reported today in Jalandhar district and the tally remained at 63,356. With no new death, the total number stayed 1,495. As many as 61,841 persons have recovered from Covid in the district, while the number of active cases is 20.As many as 17,07,825 samples have been collected so far, of which 15,75,047 tested negative. Results of 252 samples are awaited. Ten patients are under home isolation.Meanwhile, no case of Covid was reported in Kapurthala on Monday and the tally remained 17,846. No Covid-related death was reported. With four new Covid cases reported in Hoshiarpur on Monday, the tally reached 30,805 in the district. No death was reported. The number of active cases is 15, while 29,808 patients have recovered so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-no-new-case-death-reported-in-jalandhar-district-326394
19-10-2021||---||Surprise check in govt offices, absentee staff issued notices||Kapurthala, October 18Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal conducted a surprise check of government offices in the district today.The absent officers and employees have been issued show-cause notices. The DC started the operation from Kadupur Government School at 9.07 am. The SDMs and other higher officials also conducted a surprise check at the tehsil-level offices. Uppal has sought detailed reports from the SDMs and other officers in this regard.During the inspection of government schools, anganwadi centres and polling booths at Kadupur village, she directed the District Education Officer (Elementary) to ensure the schools had basic amenities. Harjit Kaur, anganwadi worker, was found absent at the centre, and the District Programme Officer has been directed to take action against her.ADC (D) SP Angra inspected the office of the Zila Parishad. Two employees were found absent there, to whom show-cause notices have been issued.SDM, Sultanpur Lodhi, visited the BPEO-1 and 2 and the treasury office. Some of the absentees were accountant Gaggandip Singh, Paramjit Kaur, Bhupinder Singh, clerk Ravneet Kaur and data entry clerk Ramesh Kumar. The civil hospital, Sultanpur Lodhi, was also inspected.Civil Surgeon Dr Parminder Kaur checked the civil hospital at Kapurthala, where seven employees were issued show-cause notices for being late. They have been asked to reply within two days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/surprise-check-in-govt-offices-absentee-staff-issued-notices-326395
19-10-2021||---||AAP holds protest over enhancing BSF powers in border areas||Jalandhar, October 18The Aam Aadmi Party on Monday held a protest against the recent increase in the powers of the BSF and termed it detrimental to the rights of the states and the federal structure of the country.Members of the Aam Aadmi Party held a protest outside the DC office in Jalandhar and burnt effigies of both the state CM and the PM in protest over the issue.The protest was over increased jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) to give its officers the powers of arrest, search and seizure to the extent of 50 km from the border in the states of Punjab, West Bengal, Assam and Tripura. The BSF previously had similar jurisdiction to take action over only 15 km of this area.AAP mahila wing president Rajwinder Kaur and district rural president Principal Prem Kumar termed CM Punjab Charanjit Singh Channi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah as equally responsible for the decision. They said the decision was announced a few days after Channi met the HM and demanded strictness from the Centre to curb the increasing incidents of illegal trafficking of drugs and weapons from across the international border. They said Channi opened way for the Centre’s increased powers over 50 per cent of the state by doing so.Rajwinder Kaur questioned the CM, “He should tell as per which deal has he handed over much of Punjab to the Centre and opened way for indirect President’s rule in the state.”AAP leaders Darshan Bhagat, Dr Shiv Dyal Mali, Sr Sanjeev Sharma, Harcharan Singh Sandhu, IS Bagga, Subhash Sharma, Indervansh Singh Chaddha, Sanjeev Bhagat, Ajay Bhagat among others were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aap-holds-protest-over-enhancing-bsf-powers-in-border-areas-326396
19-10-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Ahead of polls, Jalandhar Municipal Corporation releases its appeasement agenda||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 18Releasing the agenda of the Municipal Corporation House meeting fixed for this Friday, the Jalandhar Municipal Corporation has rolled its appeasement plan to open nearly 2,000 appointments and initiate nearly 500 development works in various parts of the city.While most other new works announced, including concrete flooring, repair of parks, renovation of cremation grounds, etc, are of smaller amounts, the only major project announced is of construction of railway underbridge at Subhana across the Jalandhar-Nakodar railway line. The project cost has been pegged at Rs 9.31 crore.The main focus of the agenda has been largely fresh appointments and giving extension to outsourced staff. Among the new posts to be filled include those of 975 safai sewaks, 500 sewermen and 500 gardeners. The agenda also proposes to fill posts of 32 junior engineers, 16 assistant XENs, six XENs and three Superintending Engineers, besides 12 posts of junior engineers only in the electrical wing.There also is a plan to extend the services of outsourced staff in the Operation and Maintenance cell for two years for which a budgetary provision of Rs 84 lakh would have to be made. An additional outlay of Rs 24.89 lakh has been proposed for appointment of a project manager and data entry operators in various departments on an outsource basis for one year. An item also deals with appointing 10 sewermen on DC rate (contract basis) for one year.The MC authorities have also proposed that the parks in the illegal colonies be declared so that the funds can be used from the civic body for their upkeep. The city councillors have raised the issue that the parks in illegal colonies remain prone to encroachment owing to no provision of development funds. It has been proposed that if the parks are declared by the MC, these could be developed and kept safe from the land mafia.More on the table||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ahead-of-polls-jalandhar-municipal-corporation-releases-its-appeasement-agenda-326397
19-10-2021||---||IKGPTU develops ‘Sodhavani’ for virus protection||Jalandhar, October 18In the pandemic situation, it is most important to keep ourselves disinfected. For this purpose, people are doing lot of things like washing hands and clothes repeatedly, but they are still at risk. A team of student-faculty of IK Gujral Punjab Technical University claims to provide a solution to the problem.A student of BTech Electronics and Communication Engineering (ECE) Rachit Kumar, under the guidance of Dr Rakesh Goyal, Assistant Professor, has made a device named ‘Sodhavani’. This device will fumigate all commodities, which one brings from market, even eatables without harming its nutrition properties and also decontaminate surroundings leaving no trace of virus.University Vice-Chancellor Ramesh Kumar Ganta and Registrar Jaspreet Singh congratulated the team. Sharing the technical part of device, Dr Goyal, Assistant Professor, ECE, said, “It has a quadruple fully automatic fumigate system that has two radiation chambers — first is high radiation chamber for our basic commodities and second chamber is a low radiation chamber, which can be used to fumigate all eatable items without harming its nutrition properties.”“The last system of this device is air refiner, which can be used to refine or purify the polluted air of our surroundings. The device costs between Rs5,000 and Rs6,000. This device can be used in all places like houses, offices, cinema halls, religious places, hospitals, airport and railway stations because it is portable, cheap and loaded with fully intelligent modern technology,” he shared. He confirmed that an application for patenting of the project had also been moved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ikgptu-develops-sodhavani-for-virus-protection-326398
19-10-2021||Aparna Banerji||Navjot Kaur, who died after cop’s car hit her,  was the sole breadwinner of her family||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 18Hailing from a family trapped in the quagmire of poverty, 22-year-old Navjot Kaur, who was mowed down by a policeman’s car this morning, was the sole breadwinner of her family of six members.A resident of Dhanowali village in Jalandhar, Navjot had been working at a car showroom for the past over a year. Navjot and her friend were mowed down this morning by a car driven by a cop while they were standing by the Jalandhar-Phagwara highway. Both of them are residents of Dhanowali village.While Navjot’s father Ranjit Singh is a daily-wage labourer, the family primarily depended on Navjot to make ends meet. Besides Navjot, there was her mother Tejinder Kaur, father Ranjit Singh and three sisters, one of whom is polio-stricken since childhood and bed-ridden in the family. While one of her sisters is married, another one is studying.Sukhwinder Singh, who is next-door neighbour of Navjot, said, “Her demise has left the entire family devastated. She was their only hope. She was a good-natured girl. The family lives in extreme poverty. Her father Ranjit Singh works as a daily wager who is unable to find work due to his age and ill health. They depended totally on Navjot. She started going to work over a year ago and the family somehow made ends meet.”He said, “Her mother took care of house and remained busy mostly with her handicapped sister, who does not speak anything. The sisters have a fifth sibling, who was adopted, but do not live with the family.”Hailing from an agrarian family, the family had little land. Navjot’s father also visited the kisan morcha regularly, which was held at Dhanowali a few days ago.Her friend, Mamta (30), who was injured in the accident, had been working at the same car showroom for the last nine years. She is currently being treated at a local private hopistal.Naresh, a cousin of Mamta, said, “Her condition is better and hope she would recover soon.” He said both had been going to office together for the past many months.Naresh said, “Navjot also came to attend my birthday party. She had brought a cake for me. She came from a poor family. The incident that happened this morning will remain etched in our minds. We never thought that she would meet such a fate.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/navjot-kaur-who-died-after-cops-car-hit-her-was-the-sole-breadwinner-of-her-family-326399
19-10-2021||---||Farmers block rail tracks in Jalandhar, seek arrest of Ajay Mishra||Jalandhar, October 18Farmers’ protest over the Lakhimpur Kheri episode in Uttar Pradesh affected train passengers here on Monday. Following the call for ‘rail roko’ movement given by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the farmers blocked several railway tracks demanding the arrest of Union Minister of State Ajay Mishra.The protests were organized across the state on behalf of farmers’ groups, stated district leaders of the SKM. On behalf of members of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal), a sit-in was organised at Dakoha Gate near Jalandhar cantonment railway station. The blockage continued till 4 pm, causing cancellation of nearly a dozen trains.Members of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Doaba), under the leadership of Satnam Singh Sahni, sat on the railway tracks affecting goods and passenger train services in Phagwara. They demanded the sacking of Ajay Mishra from the Cabinet, the alleged main accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in which five farmers were mowed down while protesting against the contentious farm laws.The district unit of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee also supported the ‘rail roko’ dharna.Similarly, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee district president Satnam Singh Raiwal and district press secretary Harpreet Singh Kotli led a dharna on the Shahkot-Malsiyan railway tracks.Speaking on the occasion, farm leaders stated that as long as the government did not change its stubborn attitude their protest would continue. He appealed to local residents to unite in their movement against the government to repeal the three black laws. Apart from that, the Delhi morcha would continue till the Power Act 2020 was repealed.The railway tracks wers blocked at Dhanno Walin Phatak, Lohian Khas, Phagwara, Phillaur, Kartarpur, Dadwindi Phatak between Panjian and Sultanpur Lodhi, Nakodar and others.While around 100 farmers under the banner of the BKU (Rajewal) were present at the Dakoha crossing, a large number of farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee were sitting at the Lohian Khas railway crossing.Amarjot Singh Jandiala, district youth president, BKU (Rajewal), said, the rail roko agitation was being organised against the Centre’s three controversial farm laws and the continuous rise in fuel prices.The farmers condemned the lynching of Lakhbir Singh at the Singhu border and told that farmers had nothing to do with the killing. Meanwhile, langar for passengers and the protesters was arranged by Baba Nidhan Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-block-rail-tracks-in-jalandhar-seek-arrest-of-ajay-mishra-326400
