20-10-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Rana Gurjeet Singh starts ‘assuming more power’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 19Since his Cabinet re-induction last month, Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjeet Singh has begun to assume more power in entire Doaba with some of his party rivals already beginning to face the heat.The first one to face the heat has been Sukhpal Khaira, whose resignation as the MLA was accepted on Tuesday almost three years since he resigned after having quit Aam Aadmi Party from which he had contested in 2017All those seven party MLAs of the region, who had reportedly written to the party high command against allotting ministerial berth to Rana Gurjeet Singh, are learnt to be on the hit list of Rana. The first one to face the heat has been Sukhpal Khaira, whose resignation as the MLA was accepted today almost three years since he resigned after having quit Aam Aadmi Party from which he had contested in 2017. He had floated his own party, but had recently joined Congress back.Rana is also learnt to have visited the residence of sarpanch of Khaira’s native village Rampur in Bholath recently. Rana is already prodding his confidant Gora Gill from Khaira’s constituency.Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Cheema, who is friends with Khaira, too has begun to face some “interference” in his constituency. Rana, it is learnt, is interested in fielding his son Rana Inder Partap Singh or his wife and ex-Kapurthala MLA Rana Rajbans Kaur from this seat.Rana Inder Partap, when asked about the same, too hinted saying: “It all depends on the will of the party.” Rana is already learnt to have opened more than 10 offices of his family’s company in Sultanpur Lodhi in the past few months.If that was not all, Rana Gurjeet Singh had on Saturday last visited Phagwara with no information sent across to the local Congress MLA BS Dhaliwal. Rana visited the residence of party leader Harjit Singh Parmar. Rana met the residents along with former minister Joginder Mann and Rani Sodhi, both of whom are also ticket aspirants from the seat.Rana’s visits to Jalandhar events have also become a routine. He attended Valmiki Jayanti shobha yatra today. On the occasion of Dasehra too, he was in the city attending a function organised by Dinesh Dhall, Congress leader and arch rival of Jalandhar North MLA Bawa Henry. Henry too was one of the MLAs to have pitched his voice against the allocation of ministerial berth to Rana.Rana Gurjeet Singh, however, has been maintaining that he has been cordial with all the party leaders and was only working to uplift the party ahead of the Assembly elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rana-gurjeet-singh-starts-assuming-more-power-326949
20-10-2021||---||Jalandhar MC accused of favouritism in installing LED streetlights||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 19Even as the civic body authorities claim to have completed nearly 80 per cent LED streetlight project in the city, a large number of residential areas and city roads are sans streetlights. In addition, highlighting the biased attitude of the MC, councillors of the opposition parties have said despite approaching the officials concerned on several occasions, the project could not see the light of day in their wards. After a sluggish start, the project finally gained momentum in May this year.Manjit Singh Johal, Municipal Corporation Engineer (O&M), said 55,000 LED lights had so far been installed in the city and only 10 wards were left to be covered under the project. “The entire city will illuminate with LED lights before Diwali,” he added. However, the councillors state that the wires from the poles or main connections have not been replaced, rendering the LED lights useless.Tanmanpreet Kaur, councillor of Ward No.1, said, “The colonies in her ward do not even have a single streetlight pole. People are forced to spend nights in darkness. We have been told that over 50 per cent work has been finished.”Similarly, Paramjit Singh, a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) councillor, whose ward includes areas Hargovind Nagar, Rehru Pind, Parsuram Nagar, Ramneek Avenue, Sodal, Bachint Nagar and others, said, “Considering the accident prone area, he had been raising the issues with the official concerned for the past six months, but to no avail. The workers conducted a survey in my ward. Neither the new lights were installed nor were the damaged ones replaced.” Shelly Khanna, councillor of Ward No.17, said, around 60 per cent street lights in her ward had been replaced but for the past 20-25 days, the LED streetlight project has come to a standstill.Meanwhile, MC Commissioner-cum-Smart City CEO Karnesh Sharma assured that the remaining wards would be covered under the project in a few weeks.He said, “The LED lights project has been divided into three categories. First, replacement of lights; second, category includes Dark Zones (the areas where there are not sufficient streetlights); and third, category include the areas which never had streetlights. Around 75,000-80,000 LED lights will be installed in the entire city and around 57,000 LED bulbs have been already installed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-mc-accused-of-favouritism-in-installing-led-streetlights-326950
20-10-2021||---||Poll sop: Camps for waiver of power arrears on Oct 28, 29||Jalandhar, October 19After the state government recently waived off arrears of electricity bills up to 2 kW load and to implement the scheme efficiently in the district, Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori today held a meeting with the officials concerned here.The DC said beneficiaries of electricity bills up to 2 kW load could visit Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL)‘s Suvidha Centres from 9 am to 5 pm to apply for waiver of their arrears.He said over 1 lakh people would be given the benefit of the scheme in the district. People could visit their nearby PSPCL Suvidha Centres under the Jalandhar circle, including west division office, Maqsudan, Model Town division office, east division office at Focal Point, Pathankot bypass and Cantonment division to avail benefit of the scheme.The DC said besides, special camps would be organised on October 28 and 29 at the sub-divisional level and district-level to facilitate people and provide them hassle-free services under the scheme. He said no deadline had been fixed to avail benefit of the scheme.The DC appealed to beneficiaries to contact the PSPCL’s Suvidha Centres for any queries or to attain further information about the scheme. Thori categorically directed the officials concerned to ensure that eligible beneficiaries would not face any harassment during the process.Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Jaspreet Singh, Additional Deputy Commissioner (Urban Development) Himanshu Jain, Additional Deputy Commissioner (General) Amarjit Bains, SDM-1 Harpreet Atwal, SDM-2 Balbir Raj Singh, Shahkot SDM Lal Vishwas, Nakodar SDM Poonam Singh, Assistant Commissioner (under training) Ojasvi Alankar, Assistant Commissioner (General) Hardeep Singh, Senior XEN PSPCL Division (West) Sunny Bhagra were among others present in the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/poll-sop-camps-for-waiver-of-power-arrears-on-oct-28-29-326951
20-10-2021||---||IKGPTU ranks 3rd in Digilocker NAD||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 19IK Gujral Punjab Technical University has been ranked third in the list of top performers of the country in the Digilocker National Academic Depository (NAD), which is a system developed by the University Grants Commission (UGC) to digitise the academic record of students. Digilocker National Academic DepositoryIKGPTU has already uploaded more than 8 lakh documents, including degrees and detailed mark cards of its students, earning the tag of the top performer as per the last month records of Digilocker NAD website. The university has taken the lead in the process among all institutes in Punjab.The officials of the university deployed for the job said they would upload more than 15 lakh awards from 2008 onwards in a month or so.“Being a state technical university, we are much concerned about the implementation of government policies and projects. We are feeling proud that in taking the lead in the digitisation by providing all academic related data of our students,” said Jaspreet Singh, Registrar, IKGPTU.The uploading of the documents has been done by a dedicated university NAD cell in coordination with the examination department. Under the supervision of the Vice-Chancellor and senior IAS officer Ramesh Kumar Ganta and the Registrar, the NAD team is getting data verified from authority in-charge Dr Paramjit Singh, Controller of Examination (CoE) and uploading it under the signature of Deputy Registrar-cum-NAD Nodal Officer Rishi Gupta.The officials said now onwards, it would be very beneficial for verification agencies in India to verify student records through online mode sitting anywhere and the students would no longer be required to carry their original certificates at any place, including for further admission in higher courses or for the purpose of job. The documents would now be ready to be fetched just at the click of a mouse. They said NAD had huge benefits such as there would be no more forgery of documents. Also, as per the IT Act, 2000, digitised documents are valid for all purposes.The officials added that even though they were still continuing with the process of issuing transcripts to the students for admission abroad, but in the coming years this burden too could go away if foreign verification agencies would start considering online verification from the NAD.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ikgptu-ranks-3rd-in-digilocker-nad-326952
20-10-2021||Jalandhar||Fraud case registered against Jalandhar's eatery owners||A case of fraud was registered against the owner of the city’s Head Quarter’s restaurant and his wife on Tuesday.It is alleged that the couple had ordered gas cylinders worth lakhs of rupees in different outlets of the restaurant but did not pay their payment. When the matter reached the police, about a year ago, the couple gave cheques amounting to Rs 8.64 lakh to the gas agency owners but all cheques were bounced.After a prolonged investigation by the Commissionerate Police, a case of fraud has been registered against the accused, Amarpreet Sidhu and his wife Ritu.In his complaint to the police, Gaurav Kataria, owner of Prem HP Gas Agency, said in the complaint that there were three outlets — Head Quarter’s restaurant, Mahir Catering Services and Hospitality Concept Services — owned by Amarpreet Sidhu and Ritu Sidhu, residents of Jalandhar Heights.According to Kataria, gas cylinders worth Rs 8,64,000 were supplied by them from time to time to the three outlets but the payments for the same were not paid.About a year ago, when he gave a complaint to the police, the Sidhu couple reach a settlement by giving him two cheques of Rs 8.50 lakh but later when the cheques were deposited in bank, they were bounced.The matter was investigated by the ADCP (Investigation). After the probe, a case under Sections 406, 420 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered against the owners of the restaurant at the Police Division Number 8.| The SHO said the couple was yet to be arrested in the case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fraud-case-registered-against-jalandhars-eatery-owners-326953
20-10-2021||---||Over 70 gastro cases in Phagwara||Our CorrespondentPhagwara, October 19More than 70 persons, including women and children, have fallen ill following the outbreak of gastroenteritis in localities of Sham Nagar, Pipa-Rangi, and Shiv Puri on Tuesday. As many as 23 residents of these three localities, including 12 men and 11 women, were admitted to the Civil Hospital whereas 10 patients were admitted to Gandhi Hospital, nine to GB Hospital and four to Gupta Hospital, Phagwara, while other patients are being treated by private doctors of the town.Six water samples collectedThe teams of the Health Department led by Senior Medical Officer Lehmber Ram and Microbiologist Dr Ramanpreet Kaur visited the affected localities and took eight stool samples and six water samples to examine the cause of the outbreak of the disease.Senior Medical Officer Dr Lehmber Ram while confirming the outbreak of gastroenteritis said two patients have been referred to Jalandhar due to their serious condition. Leakage in water pipes and mixing of water and sewerage pipes was said to be the cause of the outbreak. Phagwara SDM Kulpreet Singh instructed health officials to take care of the admitted patients. He also instructed the water supply officers to check the leakage of pipes. Pardeep Chattani, SDO, Water Supply, rushed to the spot but the team of the department could not find out the leakage. The teams of the Health Department led by SMO Lehmber Ram and Microbiologist Dr Ramanpreet Kaur visited the affected localities and took eight stool samples and six water samples to examine the cause of the outbreak.Meanwhile, the health team has collected water samples from a hand pump installed within the premises of the houses and sent these for testing. Meanwhile, a medical camp was set up and the health team distributed ORS packets and medicines to the affected patients. SMO Dr Lehmber Ram of the Civil Hospital said the situation was under control and there was no need to panic and all patients admitted in the Civil Hospital are stable now.SDM Kulpreet Singh said slum dwellers were being sensitised to maintain hygiene in and around their houses and made them aware of the preventive steps to be taken in case of vomiting and diarrhoea. The health officials said the outbreak could probably be due to the consumption of contaminated water.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/over-70-gastro-cases-in-phagwara-326956
20-10-2021||---||Prepare calendar of I-Day related events, DC orders officials||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 19The District Administration, Jalandhar, is all set to organise a series of events to mark the 75th anniversary of Independence of India as a part of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ being celebrated throughout the country. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori today asked various departments to prepare a calendar of events listing all activities up to August 2023.Presiding over a meeting of representatives of several government departments, the DC said departments including education, local government, youth services, rural development and panchayat besides other to must come up with a detailed activity plan which would be held in the district until 2023. He further asked officials to appoint nodal officers for the smooth implementation of all activities related to their departments adding that all such activities be uploaded at government’s website. Thori further mentioned that an iconic activity would also be held in the district to give befitting tribute to our martyrs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/prepare-calendar-of-i-day-related-events-dc-orders-officials-326957
20-10-2021||---||SDM conducts surprise checks at cracker godowns||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, October 19SDM, Hoshiarpur, Shiv Raj Singh Bal on Tuesday paid a surprise visit to godowns of firecrackers in the district.During his visit, he checked security arrangements at the godowns and the stock registers, which were found to be faulty. Even fire extinguishers were not installed in sufficient numbers. The godown owners were asked to remove the shortcomings within three days else strict action would be initiated against them.The SDM inspected the godown of firecracker dealer Bhushan Lal on Adamwal Road and the godown of Pankaj Kalra at Bajwara on Una Road. He said during the inspection, it was found that the fire extinguishers in the godowns were not in sufficient numbers. If any untoward incident like fire in a godown occurs, there can be considerable damage.The Fire Brigade, police and emergency phone numbers were also not displayed in the warehouses. Meanwhile, the stock register was not maintained by the warehouse owners. He directed the owners of the cracker godowns to make necessary arrangements for fire extinguishers in their godowns, maintain stock registers and display the emergency numbers so that they could be used in case of emergency.Giving three days to the owners, SDM Shivraj Singh Bal said if they did not rectify these deficiencies, found in the warehouses, within the stipulated time, a recommendation would be made to the Deputy Commissioner to revoke the licences of these firecracker godowns.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sdm-conducts-surprise-checks-at-cracker-godowns-326958
20-10-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar's HMV College organises competitions||Stepping into New lifeApeejay Rhythms organised the Vidya Aagam ceremony – a holy start of education for the tiny tots of nursery and pre-nursery. The ceremony started with zest and fervour. The ceremony was presided over by the Principal Sinia Sajith and headmistress Nidhi Ghai. The tiny-tots took their first step towards their education by writing Om and Ek Onkar with their tender fingers on the paddy plates along with their parents and grandparents with the belief that writing on grains denotes the acquisition of knowledge, which leads to prosperity. The ceremony winded up with the best wishes by the principal for children tracing a new journey into the world of education. The great smiles and shine in the eyes of parents and children made this ceremony a success.Flower arrangementDIPS School, Gilzian, and Blooming Dales organised flower arrangement competition, where in all students used fresh as well as artificial/dry flowers to arrange them beautifully. Students explained their arrangement by giving exclusive presentation confidentially about the theme and colour combination. They even used cards, paper, broomsticks etc to make the flower arrangements. Students were judged on the basic of creativity presentation and colour selection. The winners were awarded with appreciation certificates. Teacher and enlightened the students about the various flowers as they were told about the various seasonal flowers and their use in medical field. Principal Gurpreet Narula and Vani Sehgal applauded the immense creativity of all the participants and appreciated their efforts to make the competition a huge success.World Mushroom DayKanya Maha Vidyalaya commemorated World Mushroom Day with full zeal and enthusiasm by organising various meaningful activities. The celebration was organised by PG Department of Botany. More than 50 students enthusiastically participated in various competitions namely e-photography, painting/drawing, essay writing, E-poster and PowerPoint presentation competition. An expert talk on ‘Fantastic Fungi’ was also delivered by the faculty members of PG Department of Botany. Students of the department also displayed informative and beautiful posters on the theme of World Mushroom Day. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi lauded the students for their innovative and creative efforts. In photography competition, Simran Jaswal and Shereen won first and second prizes, respectively.Soumya gets AIR 1189 in JEE (Advanced)Soumya Gupta, a student of Delhi Public School, has secured AIR 1189 in JEE Advanced this year. Earlier, he got 99.78 percentile in JEE Mains 2021 and scored 99.6 per cent in CBSE Class 12th Board Exam. He now aims to get admission in any of the older IITs. His father Dr Suraj Gupta is working in Military Hospital, Jalandhar, and mother Abhilasha Gupta is a homemaker. His younger sister Gauri Gupta is studying in class 11th and is preparing for NEET 2023.Sahodaya inter-school quizSamridhi Singh and Jayesh Mahajan of Class VIII of Delhi Public School, Jalandhar, emerged winners in Sahodaya inter-school quiz competition organised by Innocent Hearts School, Green Model Town. The winning duo answered various questions on current affairs, sports, social science, science, language and literature and mathematics. Principal Ritu Kaul praised the team and congratulated the students for hitting the bull’s eye by securing the top position. She also wished them luck for future opportunities.Lyallpur Khalsa College toppersHarpreet Kaur of Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, has bagged second position in the Guru Nanak Dev University exams of MA (economics, semester IV) by getting 1601 marks out 2000. The President of the college governing council Balbir Kaur congratulated the students and wished them success in life. Jaspal Singh Waraich, joint secretary, governing council, Prof Navdeep Kaur, head, Department of Economics, and Dr SS Bains were also present.inclusive classroom cultureHoshiarpur: The skill-in-teaching committee of the DAV College of Education, Hoshiarpur, organised an online training programme on inclusive classroom culture and classroom inclusiveness. Shelly Sharma, Principal, JSS Asha Kiran Special School, Hoshiarpur, was the resource person. All faculty members and students of MEd and BEd participated in the programme. Shelly Sharma said all children, regardless of ability or disability, learn together in the same age-appropriate classroom. It is based on the understanding that all children and families are valued equally and deserve access to the same opportunities. She also asserted her point of view on the different teaching methodologies. TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhars-hmv-college-organises-competitions-326960
20-10-2021||Jalandhar||Inspector caught taking bribe||two killed in road accidentsHoshiarpur: Two persons died in separate road accidents in the district in the past 24 hours. Gurnam Singh, a resident of Painsara village, said he was working as a watchman in the main market of Saila Khurd along with his son Narinder Singh (28). When he was in the market last night, a vehicle hit both of them. They were admitted to the hospital from where his son was referred to Nawanshahr but he died on the way. The Mahilpur police have registered a case against the accused driver, Akash Bhatti, a resident of Dadyal. In the second case, Balwinder Masih, a resident of Budhpur, said his father Joan Masih was going to Srinagar with a truck. A vehicle hit him when he was getting the punctures repaired at a shop near Lachowal. ocsix booked for murder attemptHoshiarpur: The police have registered a case of attempt to murder against six persons. Boney son of Surinder Kumar, a resident of Mohalla Balmiki, told the police that his nephew Avinash was putting up posters in the locality at around 11 pm on October 8 when he was attacked by Lavish, Ashok Kumar and Rajit along with three other men, all residents of the locality. He said when the people gathered, the accused ran away. He told that Avinash was admitted to the local hospital where in view of his condition, he was referred to Jalandhar. oc13K beneficiaries for 5-marla plotsJalandhar: As the Punjab Government has announced to allot 5-marla plots to all homeless people across the state, the Jalandhar administration has started its efforts in this direction Chairing a meeting, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori has asked the officials to accelerate the allotment process so that maximum people can avail the benefit of this welfare scheme in the district. He said as many as 13,306 beneficiaries have been identified so far in the district for allotment of plots in Jalandhar. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/inspector-caught-taking-bribe-326961
