21-10-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Sukhbir Badal contesting from Shahkot?||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 20Even as Shiromani Akali Dal has already announced tickets for 74 of the 117 seats, there is a buzz that the party chief Sukhbir Badal could contest from two seats – his traditional seat Jalalabad from Malwa and Shahkot from Doaba.Since Doaba is the region from where the party got representation on five of the 15 seats that it had won in 2017, it is considered to be a safer bet for the party chief. Shahkot seat too has been traditionally a stronghold of Akali Dal as former minister Ajit Singh Kohar had won five consecutive polls from here. It was after his demise that byelections were held in 2018 and Congress leader Hardev Singh Laddi Sherowalia turned the tide, winning against the ex-minister’s son, Naib Singh Kohar.Though there are murmurs of Sukhbir coming here, but my advice to him is that his position would further fall in the larger area of Malwa if he attempts to contest from Doaba, which has just 23 seats. But if he still wants to contest from here, I am ready to face him. I have served my voters with utmost dedication and they will support me wholeheartedly. —Hardev Singh Laddi, Congress MLA, ShahkotWhile the Akali Dal has already announced candidates from five of the six seats it is contesting from Jalandhar, including Phillaur, Nakodar, Adampur, Jalandhar Cantonment and Jalandhar Central, it is only Shahkot, which still remains to be announced. The party insiders said Sukhbir Badal had already held a discussion on the matter with some prominent leaders of Shahkot and the impact that it could have.The party workers of Doaba are reportedly quite upbeat about the decision as they have said that it could not just have an overall impact on the seats from the region but also on those from surrounding areas of Malwa, including Zira, Dharamkot, Ferozepur and Moga. They also said that if not Sukhbir, Harsimrat too could contest from this seat. If any of the two leaders contest from here, it surely will spell trouble for Laddi, who had so far been quite comfortably placed.The party leaders also shared that announcing ticket for Kamboj leader Capt Harminder Singh from adjoining Sultanpur Lodhi seat was also a part of the same strategy as there is a good representation of Kamboj community in Shahkot too and the prospects from the seat could further increase. There also have been reports that ex-Finance Minister Balwant Singh’s son Rajanbir Singh could also be inducted soon in the SAD as a part of the same strategy.Among those from SAD who have already been in race for the ticket from Shahkot include Dr Amarjit Thind, CD Kamboj and ex-minister’s grandson Bachitar Singh Kohar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sukhbir-badal-contesting-from-shahkot-327454
21-10-2021||---||Manifesto should be made legal document: MLA Bawa Henry||Jalandhar, October 20Jalandhar North MLA Bawa Henry on Tuesday batted for making the poll manifesto a legal document.Talking to the media at Circuit House here, he said, “I am definitely for this reform. I am also personally a votary for mid-term recall of the government if it does not fulfil its poll promises. The people of our country do not have much faith in the political system. It is common for the politicians to make tall promises just to woo the masses and later backtrack on the same commitments on which they had been elected to power. But once manifesto becomes a legal document, the elected representatives will become legally bound to fulfill their agenda.”Henry added, “Each point in the manifesto must be clearly spelt out. If some jobs are to be promised, it should be clearly stated as to what kind of jobs these are, whether there are as many vacancies in the departments, who all can qualify for these jobs and by which date how many posts will be filled up.”Asked if he felt that his government had fulfiled its own manifesto, he said, “We promised 1 lakh jobs under Ghar Ghar Naukri Scheme in 2017 and the process is on.” He further said the reforms may also include imposition of penalty on the voters if they do not cast a vote as is prevalent in Australia and the amount of penalty keeps on increasing with subsequent abstinence from voting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/manifesto-should-be-made-legal-document-mla-bawa-henry-327455
21-10-2021||---||Jalandhar youth sentenced to life in jail by UK court for killing wife||Jalandhar, October 20A city-based youth, Kashish Aggarwal (29), was sentenced to life imprisonment recently by a UK court for stabbing his Phillaur-based wife Geetika Goyal to death on March 3 this year.The couple had got married in 2016 and had moved to Leicester in the UK. On the day of the murder, the duo was at their place on Wintersdale Road and they reportedly had a fight after which Aggarwal stabbed his wife 19 times in the neck, chest and arms. He then wrapped her body in a plastic bag, carried it in the boot of his car and dumped it on a nearby street.Kashish initially told everyone that his wife had gone missing. The police caught him the next morning after the CCTV footage showed him driving her body to the site. He had later admitted to the murder. The life sentence would imply that Aggarwal would remain in prison for 20 years. While passing the orders, the court termed it as a ‘wicked killing’.Brij Bhushan Goyal, father of Geetika, said, “The incident has left our family devastated. We cannot get our daughter back, but we are at least satisfied that some justice has been done to the soul of our dear daughter. Her husband, who brutally attacked our daughter, has been issued sentence by the court in just six months’ time. Our son, Hemant Goyal, who is also in the UK, had contested the entire case.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-youth-sentenced-to-life-in-jail-by-uk-court-for-killing-wife-327456
21-10-2021||---||Eyeing polls? Harsimrat Badal does Karwa Chauth shopping in Jalandhar Cantt bazaar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 20As ex-Union Minister and Akali MP Harsimrat Badal on Wednesday visited the city to campaign for two of the party candidates including ex-MLA Jagbir Brar from Jalandhar Cantonment and Chandan Grewal from Jalandhar Central, she spent her entire day here shopping for Karwa Chauth in the market paying several other visits.She visited at least five holy shrines in the city, including Bajrang Bali temple and a gurdwara, in Jalandhar Cantonment along with party candidate Brar. With Valmiki leader Chandan Grewal, she went to three Valmiki temples today on the occasion of Valmiki Jayanti. These included a temple in Banda Singh Bahadur Nagar and two temples in Basti Guzan.Taking half an hour round of Jalandhar Cantonment market area, she shopped for the coming Karwa Chauth festival. She bought few sets of bangles picking them personally from the stands after trying them.As she visited Pushpa Gujral Nari Niketan, she first paid homage to the founders AN Gujral and Pushpa Gujral. Accompanied by CEO Navita Joshi and general secretary Gurjot Kaur, she sat down to watch a cultural show put up by the girls there. She also gifted girls pack of sweets. She also announced to provide the centre a good sound system. Ex-Senior Deputy Mayor Kamaljit Bhatia, district SAD president Kulwant S Manan, women wing president Parminder Kaur Pannu and YAD district president Sukhminder S Rajpal also went with her.She took lunch at the residence of Brar in Model Town. Prior to this, she also met the party workers at a palace in Jalandhar Cantt.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/eyeing-polls-harsimrat-badal-does-karwa-chauth-shopping-in-jalandhar-cantt-bazaar-327457
21-10-2021||---||Part ex-gratia grant handed over to martyr Naib Subedar Jaswinder Singh’s family||Kapurthala, October 20The bhog ceremony of Naib Subedar Jaswinder Singh (39), who made the supreme sacrifice during a terrorist attack in Jammu and Kashmir a few days ago, was today held at his native Mana Talwandi village in Bholath.On behalf of Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Cabinet Minister Rana Gurjit Singh paid tribute to the slain soldier. He also handed over the ex-gratia grant of Rs5 lakh out of Rs50 lakh announced by the Punjab Government to the wife of the martyr. The minister said the remaining ex-gratia grant and the process of giving a government job to a family member of the martyr would be completed soon.Speaking on the occasion, the minister said Jaswinder Singh’s sacrifice would inspire youth to come forward for the nation’s service by safeguarding its borders from external forces and extremists as per the rich legacy of every Punjabi.Recalling the role of Punjabis in freedom struggle, followed by wars with adjoining countries, he added, “We always led from the front whenever required to defend the country and provide food security, an example of which cannot found elsewhere in the world.”He also announced that as per the policy of the Punjab Government, a sports stadium would be constructed in the name of martyr Jaswinder Singh besides providing Rs10 lakh to the village for development works. The minister also announced financial assistance for cleaning and renovation of the village pond.Former MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur and others also paid homage to Jaswinder Singh.SDM Dr Jai Inder Singh, District Sainik Welfare Officer Col Dalwinder Singh (retd), administrative and police officials, and leaders were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/part-ex-gratia-grant-handed-over-to-martyr-naib-subedar-jaswinder-singhs-family-327458
21-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Spreading goodwill message from Kargil to Kanyakumari||Hoshiarpur, October 20Social worker Paramjit Singh Sachdeva and his team welcomed Nepal resident Eeh, who reached city today. Eeh has started a walk from Kargil to Kanyakumari to spread the message of goodwill among masses.On the occasion, Eeh said he started his journey from Kargil to spread the message of goodwill and unity and travelled 30 km to 35 km in a day. As there was some pain in his feet, so he did not walk for long distance, Eeh added. He was happy for getting support and best wishes of the public while on way to Kanyakumari, said Eeh.Speaking on the occasion, Sachdeva said there were peace loving people in the country and abroad, who travelled to spread the message of harmony and unity in the world.He welcomed two people in the city yesterday, who had set out on a cycle tour from Kerala to Ladakh, Sachdeva added. “It is our duty to encourage those, who make such efforts. These are the people whose efforts and inspiration create awareness in society,” said Sachdeva.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/spreading-goodwill-message-from-kargil-to-kanyakumari-327459
21-10-2021||---||560 villages achieve 100% vaccination target in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, October 20The district on Wednesday logged only one new Covid-19 case, taking the tally to 63,361. With the lowest number of cases being reported in the past two weeks, the positivity rate has also significantly dropped to 0.18 per cent, the lowest in the last 18 months.The last death due to Covid-19 was reported on October 5. At present, the toll stood at 1,495.Two new cases in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: Two new Covid cases were reported from the district today, taking the Covid tally to 30,808 in the district. No death due to Covid was reported in the district today keeping the death toll still at 983. There are 16 active cases in the district while 29,809 have recovered from the disease. OCBesides, owing to the intensified vaccination drive, around 560 villages in the district achieved the 100 per cent target of administering the vaccine dose. Officials said a special drive was underway to ensure 100 per cent vaccination in all villages across the district. Under the drive, district health department teams have been camping in the villages to cover maximum population.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said it was the need of the hour to vaccinate people on a war footing to build herd immunity to combat the third wave by sending teams in every nook and corner of the district.The villages that have achieved 100 per cent vaccinations include 36 villages under Bilga Health Block, 30 villages in Jandiala, 15 in Lohian, 76 in Bara Pind, 48 in Adampur, 1 in Bundala, 44 in Kartarpur, 54 in Mehatpur, 85 in Kala Bakra and 68 in Jamsher and 103 villages in Shahkot health block.Under the immunisation drive initiated from January 16 this year, the district administration has covered more than 90 per cent population by administering over 20.50 lakh doses to eligible beneficiaries of the district.Locals have been called upon to come forward for the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine to ensure their safety from the virus. The DC added that special mobile camps were being held across the district to assist people with doorstep inoculation facilities.In addition, District Immunization Officer Dr.Rakesh Chopra said in the 560 villages, all eligible beneficiary people had been vaccinated with first dose of the vaccine.He said that drive was going on and remaining villages of the district would be covered soon to ensure 100 per cent immunization in coming days as around 90 per cent eligible population in villages have already received first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/560-villages-achieve-100-vaccination-target-in-jalandhar-327460
21-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Rs 2.58 cr released for sheds in 43 gaushalas||Hoshiarpur, October 20The Gau Seva Commission set up by the Punjab Government has released Rs 2.58 crore for the construction of permanent sheds in 43 gaushalas of the state, which is nothing more than a drop in the ocean and this move is politically motivated.Ashwani Gaind, member of the District Animal Welfare Committee and founder of the Nai Soch Welfare Society, stated this during a meeting with representatives of gaushalas from across the district here on Wednesday.He said the Punjab Government had collected billions of rupees in the form of cow cess from all over the state in the last over our four and a half years, but released a meagre amount for the government cattle pounds or gaushalas in the state.It is sad to see cows die in cattle pounds due to paucity of money, but no one knows why the Punjab government is keeping cows’ money with it. All the representatives appealed to Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi that keeping in view the problem of unclaimed cows as the major one, the electricity bills of all gaushalas of the state Punjab should be waived. They urged the CM to distribute the money collected from cow cess equally among all gaushalas.They demanded that special attention should be paid to Doaba area as being a semi hilly terrain, the problem of stray cattle is prominent here. They warned that is a concrete police if not made for it, the outline of the struggle will be prepared by the cow service organisation.On this occasion, Sukhwant Rana from Gausrakshani Sabha Talwara, Ashok Kalia, Ashok Sharma from Gau Raksha Seva Society Mukerian, Neeraj Sahni, Gurjit Singh from Rajiv Dixit Gaushala Dasuha, Arun Kumar, Hira Lal from Govind Gaudham Gaushala Tanda, Sukhdev Sharma, Bharat Vikas Parishad’s Sanjeev Arora, Rajinder Moudgil, Neeraj Kumar, Aman Tiwari, Avtar Singh, Gaura, etc, were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-2-58-cr-released-for-sheds-in-43-gaushalas-327461
21-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Chabbewal MLA Dr Raj Kumar meets party members||Hoshiarpur, October 20The Chabbewal MLA, Dr Raj Kumar, held at a special meeting with chairman and members of the zila parishad, block samiti, panches and sarpanches, office-bearers and his entire team here today.“My constituency residents and comrades are my real strength. I hope that all Congress workers, elected representatives and comrades will do their duty without any discrimination so that the public has faith in them,” said the MLA.“The Punjab Government has always been working for the welfare of the people. From time to time it has provided required facilities to them,” the MLA added.It was responsibility of all to make the general public aware of the work done by the Punjab Government for their welfare so that they could avail benefits from it, said the MLA.“We should complete our tasks honestly. In the last four and half years, development works have been carried out in the Chabbewal constituency with the grants given by the Punjab Government,” the MLA added while motivating party members present at the meeting.The MLA held open discussions with workers on strengthening activities of the Congress and preparations for the 2022 Assembly elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/chabbewal-mla-dr-raj-kumar-meets-party-members-327462
21-10-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar DPS students excel in Technofest||Fine arts students excel in academicsStudents of Bachelor of Fine Arts (Sem-IV) of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya excelled in academics. Kanishka bagged the 6th position in the university by scoring 560 out of 600 marks, Sheena bagged the 11th position in the university with 548 marks. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated students, Head of Department Dr Neeru Bharti Sharma and Dr Shailender Kumar.Jaya tops in Journalism resultsStudents of MA Journalism and Mass Communication (Sem IV) of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya came out with flying colours in exam results. Jaya Mishra of the class bagged the first position by securing 1201/1600 marks, Mansi stood second with 1109/1600 marks and Pooja Rani bagged third position with 1010/1600 marks. Principal Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated students and the faculty of PG Department of Journalism and Mass Communication on the success.Inter-School Hindi Street PlayShiv Jyoti Public School organised Sahodaya Inter-School Hindi Street Play Competition. Students from 17 schools under the aegis of Jalandhar Sahodaya Complex participated in the event. Students of Shiv Jyoti Public School made the school proud by winning the 2nd position. Principal Neeru Nayyar and vice principal Parveen Saili appreciated the efforts of all participants and winners. They congratulated Meenakshi Sharma (Mentor) and activity in-charge Bhavna Sabharwal and their team of students — Tanishq Chadda, Khushi Dhir, Siddhi Sharma, Riya, Vanshika Rana, Kamakshi, Dhruvika, Shivom, Madhav Sekhri for their performance.Rishabh 2nd in MVoc resultsRishabh Dhir of Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, bagged the 2nd position in the Guru Nanak Dev University exams of M.Voc (Web technology & Multimedia) Semester-II by getting 487 marks out of 500 whereas Simarpal Singh secured the 3rd position by getting 476 marks, Jyoti and Kajal jointly bagged the 4th position by getting 473 in the same class. The president of the college governing council Balbir Kaur congratulated the students and wished them success in life. Prof Manohar Singh, Head, Department of Computer Science and IT, was also present on the occasion. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-dps-students-excel-in-technofest-327463
21-10-2021||---||Psychological impact of militancy||Amritsar, October 20The entire generation suffered deep psychological scars during the 80s when Punjab dealt with militancy in the bloody aftermath of Operation Bluestar.While political and its social impact has been documented and discussed, writer and noted psychologist, Anirudh Kala, has come up with a book, ‘Two and a half rivers’, which draws attention to the psychological impact of the events.Kala informed about his book in conversation with author Amandeep Sandhu in a session of the month-long literary celebrations under ‘Sarhard Anhad Naad’ festival of Sanjha Punjab initiative by Majha House.Sandhu, who has delved into the subject of emotional and psychological trauma through his book, ‘Journeys through the faultlines’, said among other problems during the time of distress, Punjab has also dealt with the trauma of caste system.And Kala’s book also has a Dalit character. Kala said being a psychiatrist and Punjabi himself, he understands the anguish faced by the Sikhs during this time. “The protagonist of the novel is a doctor, who has links with terrorists and ends up being a victim of both the terrorists and the police. Since, I have lived through that phase and I wanted to write about it. Apart from this, there haven’t been many books written about this period, which I as a Punjabi find baffling,” said Kala.Talking about the tile of the book, Kala said ‘Two and a half rivers’ was not the original title. “The book has Shamsi, a Dalit girl, who is one of the main characters in the novel. The title I had in mind originally was ‘The dancing girls of ucha pind’, which represented this girl. But it wasn’t considered an appropriate title. We thought of some others titles and then ended up finalising this one,” said Kala.Sandhu also remarked upon the fact that the book also deals with issues of the Dalits. “Through Shamsi, Kala represents her entire caste and what she goes through is not her individual humiliation or pain, it is that of her entire caste,” said Sandhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/psychological-impact-of-militancy-327464
21-10-2021||---||Jalandhar hospital performs 79 angiographies for free||Jalandhar, October 20As cardiovascular issues are common in patients, who recovered from Covid, multi-specialty NHS Hospital in collaboration with Rotary Club is offering free of cost angiography test to patients as a part of their corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative.The campaign started on July 25 and within a period of three months, the hospital performed 79 free angiographies. Of these 16 patients underwent angioplasty at a concessional rate and some free under PM Ayushman Scheme.Angioplasty, which involves insertion of a tube or a stent to widen blocked arteries, costs Rs1.5 lakh to Rs2 lakh in most private hospitals. It usually takes between 30 minutes and two hours, and one can usually go home the next day.“In such unprecedented times of the Covid-19 pandemic, people have suffered financial setback. Everybody is facing cash crunch. The risk of heart attacks due to thickening of blood post Covid has also increased. Most people are avoiding their health check-up due to paucity of funds. So, the hospital has decided to address the issue under its CSR initiative,” said Dr Shubhang Aggarwal, director, NHS Hospital.“The fact is that patients, who recovered from Covid, have heart-related issues. Such patients do not have symptoms such as angina or chest pain. The virus infiltrates the body by binding to a type of receptor on cells called ACE2. These special receptors are found not only in kidney and lung cells, but also in the heart. We want to help the needy,” said Dr Sandeep Goel, director, NHS Hospital.“ACE2 receptors are essentially docking sites for the virus. It’s also possible that the heart damage seen in coronavirus patients occurs secondary to the viral infection. It’s because the body is unable to deliver enough oxygen to organs as Covid hits lungs. The damage could also be the result of the virus’ effects on the blood, which can lead to formation of clots,” said Dr Kamaldeep Bansal, cardiologist, NHS Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-hospital-performs-79-angiographies-for-free-327465
21-10-2021||---||Jalandhar-based lecturer shines in 43rd Master Athletic Championship||Jalandhar, October 20A physical education lecturer of the Government Senior Secondary School, Mand, has won gold medal in 200 metre and 100 metre race in the 43rd Master Athletic Championship, which was held in Chandigarh today.People in the age group 30 to 80 years participated in the championship.Elated, Regwinder Singh Bhatia (39), who first ran to victory in the 200 metre race, said he had qualified for in the National Championship to be held in Benaras, Uttar Pradesh, from November 25 to 29.Qualifies for national championshipIn the 100 metre race, Bhatia competed with six participants (35 to 39 years age group). Besides, 250 people from different age groups participated in the athletic meet.Notably, Bhatia has been a swimming coach in the Education Department. He won the title of best water polo player of Punjab in 1997.Earlier, Bhatia had made a record by winning 15 medals in various swimming tournaments. He remained one of the top most swimmer in the state.Meanwhile, Brij Lal, lecturer, physical education, Government Senior Secondary School, Binpalke, bagged first prize in 1,500 metre and 800 metre race (50 plus age group). Heera Lal, DPE, Government High School, Taj Pur Bhagwanpur, remained on top in the 400 metre and 800 metre race (45 plus age group).Two more retired teachers, including Satpal Singh Rana got first prize in 400 metre race (65 plus age category) and Sushil Kumar Dogra bagged first spots in 100 metre and 200 metre race in (65 plus age category).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-based-lecturer-shines-in-43rd-master-athletic-championship-327466
21-10-2021||Jalandhar||Income tax raid at immigration firm in Jalandhar||In-laws booked for cheatingHoshiarpur: The police have registered a case of cheating and dowry harassment against husband, mother-in-law, father-in-law and sister-in-law of a woman. Poonam Saini, a resident of Mohalla Prem Garh, had lodged a complaint with the police that she was married to Gaurav Saini, a resident of Anmol Nagar. At the time of marriage, they had promised that they would take her to Canada after 15 days of marriage. She said after the marriage, the accused allegedly started harassing her by demanding Rs 10 lakh, gold and more dowry from her. The police have registered a case. OCTwo held with stolen vehiclesHoshiarpur: The Model Town police arrested a person, who was found roaming on a stolen vehicle with a fake registration plate at a naka in the area on Tuesday night. The accused has been identified as Harvinder Singh, a resident of Kotla Nodh Singh. In the second case, on a tip-off, the Sadar police arrested a person from Shergarh village with a stolen bike. The accused has been identified as Randeep Kumar, alias Nini, a resident of Islamabad. OCTruck driver dies in road mishapHoshiarpur: A truck driver was killed after being hit by an unidentified vehicle here on Tuesday. The Mukerian police have registered a case in this regard. Jarnail Singh, a resident of Chochian Chhedian village in Gurdaspur district, told the police that his son Lovepreet Singh (24) was a truck driver. He was hit by an unidentified vehicle and died near Mukerian. The police have registered a case. OCOne booked for assaulting womanHoshiarpur: The Dasuya police have booked a person for abusing and assaulting a woman after entering her house on Tuesday night. A woman of Rampur Haled village told the police that Sham Singh, a resident of her village, entered herhouse forcibly in a drunken state and tore her clothes. When her husband’s friend reached there, he also attacked him with a baseball bat. The police have registered a case against the accused. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/income-tax-raid-at-immigration-firm-in-jalandhar-327467
