22-10-2021||Aparna Banerji||Kapurthala turns into dengue hotspot||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 21With no let-up in dengue in the region, the cases in Kapurthala have reached 432. The Health Department termed migrant population and lack of awareness among people living in congested areas as a reason behind the spurt in cases.While Jalandhar district has reported 178 dengue cases, Kapurthala district has more than twice the number of cases.Out of 432 cases, most have been reported from Bholath in the last two months. Coolers, tyres, refrigerator trays, open utensils have been found as prime breeding grounds for mosquitoes.The rise in dengue cases was primarily seen in July after which the cases dropped in August, but a steep hike has been witnessed again in September and October.Kapurthala district reported 2 cases (each) of dengue in May and June and saw 49 cases in July. In August, the cases dropped to 10, in October, 210 cases have been reported in the district so far.Of the 432 cases (reported since January) a whopping 255 cases have surfaced from Bholath. Of these 255, as many as 207 cases have been reported in September and October. Seventy-five cases have been reported Kapurthala city, 39 from Dhilwan, 21 from Phagwara, 20 from Kala Sanghian, six from Panchatt, five from Sultanpur Lodhi, four from Begowal and Tibba and three from Fattu Dhinga.Sources in the Health Department said, “Follow up of patients has revealed that most of them are migrants.Many said they keep changing places from time to time. In the case of Bholath, most migrants do not even know which locality they live in. There is lack of awarenes, thus dengue has spread its tentacles.”Kapurthala Epidemiologist Dr Nandika said, “We held meetings with councillors earlier and now fogging drives are being conducted by the MC daily. Teams have been dispatched to areas where larvae is being detected. Teams of breeding checkers are also conducting regular inspections. All measures are being taken to prevent further breeding of mosquitoes and people are also being made aware.”178 cases in JalandharIn Jalandhar, 178 dengue cases have been reported so far. Of these, 121 were from urban areas and 57 from rural areas. In Jalandhar district, majority of cases have been reported from Barapind (20 cases), Kartarpur (12 cases) and Jamsher and Basti Danishmandan (nine cases each).In rural areas of the district, Barapind leads with 20 cases, followed by Kartarpur (12), Jamsher (nine), Mehatpur (six), Shahkot (four), Kala Bakra (three), Adampur (two) and Jandiala (one).In urban areas, Basti Danishmandan reported nine cases, Bhargo camp (six), Sodal Nagar (five), Shatri Nagar (four), Basti Sheikh and Mohalla Gobindgarh (three each) and Kisanpura and Gopal Nagar (two).Jalandhar Epidemiolgist Dr Aditya Paul said, “While fogging is being carried out regularly by the MC teams, health teams are daily inspecting affected areas. Anti-larval and spraying measures are also being taken.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-turns-into-dengue-hotspot-327957
22-10-2021||---||Two women crushed to death on Jalandhar-Amritsar Highway||Jalandhar, October 21Two women were crushed to death by a speeding truck today at 5 pm. The accident took place at the Chuggiti bypass, on the Jalandhar-Amritsar Highway.The women were reportedly heading towards the PAP chowk, when the vehicle hit them from the rear side. As per the police, the women were travelling on a two-wheeler.ACP Balwinder Iqbal Singh Kahlon, reached the spot. Sub-Inpector Pavitar Singh said the women were identified as Amarjit Kaur (42) and Anita Sharma (43), residents of Mohan Vihar area, near Chuggiti.The ACP said the women fell on the road due to the collision, and sustained fatal injuries on their head and neck. An ambulance took the bodies to the civil hospital for post-mortem.The police have nabbed the truck driver, who had left the spot immediately, near the PAP chowk. The truck driver has been identified as Satnam Singh, a resident of Kadian, Gurdaspur. The cops have seized the truck. A case has been registered against the driver at the Rama Mandi police station.This is second such fatal road accident reported in the past three days. On Monday, a woman had died on the spot, while one sustained grievous injuries, after they were hit by a car on the Jalandhar-Phagwara highway. As per the CCTV footage, the women were crossing the road when the mishap occurred.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-women-crushed-to-death-on-jalandhar-amritsar-highway-327958
22-10-2021||---||Ajit Singh Kohar’s grandson stakes claim on Shahkot, holds show of strength||Jalandhar, October 21Following reports that SAD chief Sukhbir Badal could contest from Shahkot, a show of strength was today organised by Bachitar Singh Kohar, grandson of ex-Punjab minister Ajit Singh Kohar.Also read: Sukhbir Badal contesting from Shahkot?The rally was held at Kohar Khurd, the native village of the family. Various traditional Akali families, youth SAD workers, ex-Zila Parishad and Block Samiti members, ex-panches and sarpanches and other party leaders gathered to raise their demand that the grandson of Ajit Singh Kohar, who won from the seat for five consecutive tenures, had a rightful claim from the seat.They demanded that while SAD chief Sukhbir Badal had announced its 74 candidates from across the state, the party should announce this ticket for Kohar junior, who is also an advocate, at the earliest.Charan Singh, circle president of Shahkot, Harvinder Singh, circle president of Dona, Daljit Singh Kahlon, circle president Mehatpur, Baldev Singh Kalyan, member SGPC, and Mahla Singh, ex-chairman, Zila Parishad, delivered their speeches in favour of the Kohar family and said that they stood for the area residents for 35 years.They said if Bachitar Singh Kohar would get the ticket, they would take him to victory. Bachitar’s father Naib Singh Kohar had lost with a huge margin against Congress’ Hardev S Laddi Sherowalia in 2018 bypoll, held after the demise of Ajit Singh Kohar.Bachitar too addressed the gathering at the end and thanked everyone for their support. He said: “Today’s gathering proves as to who should get the ticket from Shahkot. I have done my best to fulfil the duty as halqa in-charge of the party from the seat. But if Sukhbir Badal wants to contest from here, I will welcome him with an open heart.”The party workers in the area said that Kohar’s idea of organising the rally today had a twin purpose – to put up a claim for himself before a final call is taken and to thwart a likely entry of Rajanbir Singh, son of ex-Finance Minister Balwant Singh into the party fold.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ajit-singh-kohars-grandson-stakes-claim-on-shahkot-holds-show-of-strength-327959
22-10-2021||---||Brawl at PIMS leaves 3 MBBS students injured||Jalandhar, October 21Three MBBS students (2016-17 batch) got badly injured in a brawl that took place on the campus of Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) during the daytime on Tuesday.The parents of the students alleged that some outsiders entered the campus and thrashed their children with iron rods leaving their hands, arms and legs fractured. Though the parents took their children to the Civil Hospital and got their Medico-Legal Reports made, no FIR has been lodged yet.The video of the incident went viral today. The fight went on for quite sometime and even clothes of students got torn. The students, who got injured were hostellers and have gone back to their respective places. The parents said, “We cannot send our children back to an unsafe atmosphere till the offenders are identified and taken to task.”The college authorities have so far not taken any action against the offenders. Principal Dr Kulbir Kaur is learnt to be unwell for the last two days.Amit Singh, Director, PIMS, said, “We have checked all CCTV footages of the incident. We have not been able to identify all the offenders yet as none of these footages were clear. One or two students involved in the incident could be outsiders, but we are not sure. Action will definitely be taken against the attackers once the inquiry is completed.”SHO of Police Division Number 7 said the incident wasn’t reported and no case has been registered so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/brawl-at-pims-leaves-3-mbbs-students-injured-327960
22-10-2021||---||Police martyrs remembered||Jalandhar, October 21Police Commemoration Day was observed in all police districts of Doaba on Thursday. The state-level function was held on the campus of the Punjab Armed Police in Jalandhar, in which Home Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa and Director General of Police Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota and other senior police officials, including Jalandhar Police Commissioner Naunihal Singh, participated. They recalled the valour of the police martyrs who laid their life in fighting against the enemy. They also interacted with the families of the martyrs who had been invited to attend the function.In Police Lines, Kapurthala, today, SSP Harkamalpreet Singh and others paid rich tributes to the police personnel who made sacrifice at Police Commemoration Day Parade.Hailing the role of Punjab Police and other security forces for safeguarding the country from internal and external threats, he said that “the society will remain indebted to the sacrifice of forces “. Police personnel also laid the wreath at the memorial in memory of slain soldiers and families of police personals were also honoured by the SSP Kapurthala.A commemoration day was also held at the Border Security Force headquarters where the martyrs of the paramilitary force were remembered. Wreaths were laid by the senior officials at the memorial site today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/police-martyrs-remembered-327961
22-10-2021||Jalandhar||Clean India Movement at Apeejay College of Fine Arts, Jalandhar||Book Reading SessionIvy World School under the aegis of the Vasal Education Society provided a virtual platform to the Ivyians to attend online book reading session. The students witnessed the exuberant book reading session conducted by Mehak Kaushik, the resource person. The main objective was to mark the importance of reading in one’s life and inculcate the reading habit in students. Class discussions were also conducted wherein students talked about the books that they have read, highlighting characters and events that they particularly liked and students got the opportunity to share their valuable inputs.Makshi excels in swimming ChampionshipMakshi Bansal of Class VIII of Delhi Public School has yet again brought glory to the institution and her family as she has been selected to represent the state in National Level Swimming Championship 2021 to be held at Bengaluru from October 19 to 23. Her entry is for the 200 m backstroke. This achievement comes as a commendation of her outstanding performance in the 44th Junior and 43rd Senior Punjab State Swimming Championship held on October 2 and 3 at Mohali in which she had won seven medals. .Spicmacay workshop organisedNineteen students from the PG Department of Fashion Designing and NSS volunteers of Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women took part in five-day online workshop on traditional Indian paintings including Patt-chitar and Patua paintings under Spicmacay (Anubhav-3) from October 10-14 on the college premises. They are celebrating ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ by organising 150-plus workshops of Indian classical dance, Hindustani and Carnatic music, folk arts and traditional painting for 15,000 young students from schools and colleges in India, as well as Japan, South Korea, Singapore, Malaysia, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, UAE.Best School of the Year AwardHMV Collegiate Senior Secondary School has been accorded with the Best School of the Year Award (Indian Shiksha Award) by Education Sensations on the virtual platform. The award has been bestowed after the strict scrutiny and minute analysis by the judges on the basis of different criteria set by them related to academics, sports, extra curricular activities, experiential learning, basic research, innovative practices and infrastructure. .University MSc (Maths) positionsMonika of Lyallpur Khalsa College has bagged 2nd position in the Guru Nanak Dev University exams of MSc (Mathematics) Semester-IV by getting 1,664 marks out of 2,000, whereas Jaspreet Kaur, Rupali, Sarbjit Kaur, Akshay Kumar, Anureet Kaur of the same class bagged distinction by getting 1,619, 1,605, 1,564, 1,556 and 1,526 marks respectively. The president of the College Governing Council Balbir Kaur congratulated the students and wished them success in life.Students get jobsStudents of CSE Department of Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus brought laurels by getting placed in renowned software companies. B.Tech CSE-7th semester student Jatin has got placement in Chicmic as Associate Software Engineer, Muskan has got placed as Product Engineer in Pepcoding at a pay package of 9 lakh per annum and Deepak has got selected in RTS, Mohali, at a pay package of Rs6 lakh per annum.Face Painting CompetitionJalandhar Sahodaya Inter-School Online Face Painting Competition was hosted by Saint Soldier Divine Public School (Main Branch). It was organised under two categories viz category-1 for classes VI to VIII and category-2 for Classes IX and X. Students of Shiv Jyoti Public School participated in the event. In category-2, Kirti of 9-C class stood second whereas for category-1, Lavanya Sharma of Class 8-B bagged consolation prize. ViceWorkshop on Food AdulterationA workshop on ‘Food Adulteration’ was organised by the PG Department of Chemistry for 10+2 students. Prof Paramjit Kaur acted as resource person. She was accorded a hearty welcome by Principal Dr Pardeep Bhandari, Prof. KK Yadav, Head, faculty and students. Principal Dr Pardeep Bhandari said that the chemicals used in adulteration cause grave danger to health. He said there was only one solution of timely awareness to eradicate this acute problem.Poetry Recitation CompetitionHoshiarpur: A district-level poetry recitation competition was organised by Electoral Literacy Club, Panjab University Swami Sarvanand Giri Regional Centre (PUSSGRC), Hoshiarpur. Karanpreet Kaur of SHSM College for Women, Chella Makhsuspur stood first, Prashant Sharma of PUSSGRC, Hoshiarpur stood second while the third prize went to Amarvir Kaur of SHSM College for Women, Chella Makhsuspur . The competition was held on the theme “Let’s Celebrate Democracy”. TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/clean-india-movement-at-apeejay-college-of-fine-arts-jalandhar-327962
22-10-2021||---||Vigilance nabs ASI for taking Rs 15,000 bribe||Jalandhar, October 21Punjab Vigilance Bureau on Thursday nabbed ASI Santa Singh posted at Sadar Police Station, Nakodar, red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs 15,000. SSP Vigilance Jalandhar Diljinder Dhillon said the accused ASI was arrested on the complaint of Kuljit Singh, an employee of a gas agency at Nakodar.The complainant has approached the VB and alleged that Santa Singh was demanding bribe of Rs 20,000 in lieu of not to involve him in a police case. He further said that he had already paid Rs 5,000 as a first instalment to the accused ASI.After verifying his information, a Vigilance team from Jalandhar laid a trap and the accused ASI was arrested on the spot while taking bribe of Rs 15,000 as second instalment from the complainant in the presence of two official witnesses. A case under the Prevention of Corruption Act has been registered against him at VB police station, Jalandhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vigilance-nabs-asi-for-taking-rs-15-000-bribe-327964
22-10-2021||---||Gang of thieves busted, 3 held||Jalandhar, October 21The Jalandhar police have busted a gang of robbers who used to target locked houses in the city.The accused have been identified as Sonu alias Babb, a resident Basti Sheikh, Vishal Verma, a resident of Shastri Nagar and Aman Verma, a resident of Dashmesh Nagar, Jalandhar.Senior Superintendent of Police (Rural) Satinder Singh said the accused were arrested at a naka set up at Narangpur village on October 20. He said the trio were nabbed along with an Activa, two motorcycles and six gold rings. During questioning, the accused admitted to the crime they committed in Model Town, Urban Estate, JP Nagar, GTB Nagar and Basti Bawa Khel. The police said the trio will be presented before the court.The police said the accused used to do a reccee of closed houses falling under the jurisdiction of Patara police.Babb revealed that a total of 18 cases were registered against him regarding various thefts. Similarly, a couple of cases have been registered against Vishal and Aman.On October 19, a case was registed against the accused under Sections 379 B, 380, 454, 457 and 482 of the IPC at Patara police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gang-of-thieves-busted-3-held-327965
22-10-2021||Jalandhar||Three new Covid cases in Jalandhar district||A total of three fresh Covid cases were reported from the district on Thursday, taking the tally of cases to 63,364 cases. In Jalandhar, no death due to Covid was reported and the deceased tally remained at 1,495. As many as 61,844 people have recovered from the virus in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 23. Of the 17,05,933 samples collected in the district so far, 15,82,244 have tested negative. Results of as many as 502 tests are awaited.Meanwhile, no fresh case of Covid was reported from Kapurthala, keeing the Covid tally at 17,849. No casualty was also reported from the district either.One dies in HoshiarpurNo new Covid case was reported from the district today, keeping the Covid tally unchanged at 30,808 in the district. However, a 65-year-old man from Khunkhun village succumbed to the virus in the district today taking the death toll to 984. There are 14 active cases in the district while 29,810 have recovered from the disease. — TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-new-covid-cases-in-jalandhar-district-327966
22-10-2021||---||‘Iodine must for human body every day’||Jalandhar, October 21Global Iodine Deficiency Disorders (IDD) Prevention Day was observed at the Shaheed Babu Labh Singh Memorial Nursing School in Jalandhar on Thursday. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh Ghotra released iodine awareness posters and pamphlets at the event.Dr Ghotra spoke about the significance of iodine and stressed on how important it was for the human body. He said at least 150 microgram iodine was necessary for the human body every day and its deficiency can lead to interruption of mental and physical health of the body leading to goitre, hearing and speech impairments and heart illness.Iodine Deficiency Disorders Prevention DayHe also said Iodine was very important for pregnant women. He said if there is a deficiency of iodine in a pregnant woman, then it could impact the baby adversely and could also lead to other complications or miscarriage.District Family Welfare Officer Dr Raman Gupta said to make up for the deficiency of iodine in the body, iodised salt should be consumed. He said even though the government has banned the sale of non-iodised salt in the market, yet we should take care that we check and confirm before buying. He said the rising sun logo on salt packet was a sign of iodised salt.The day was also observed at Kapurthala. Civil Surgeon Dr Parminder said micro-nutrients were very essential for our body and they help maintain a healthy balance of elements in the human body. She said iodine deficiency in children and pregnant women cause diseases, which could be incurable.District vaccination officer Dr Randeep Singh said the thyroid gland regulated the balance of iodine in our bodies and was essential for our overall development and to keep many diseases at bay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/iodine-must-for-human-body-every-day-327967
22-10-2021||Hoshiarpur||Legal Awareness campaign by Hoshiarpur DLSA||aid were organised in 49 villages by the district programme officer, she added. OCMC staff seek regular jobsHoshiarpur: Municipal Corporation (MC) employees led by Kulwant Singh Saini, General Secretary, Punjab Municipal Corporation Employees Federation and Karanjot Adia, president, Safai Karamchari Union, Municipal Corporation, Hoshiarpur, presented a demand letter to Mayor Surinder Shinda on Thursday. In the memorandum, employees demanded regularisation of the services of sewermen and sweepers. They said the proposal number 53 dated September 16 has been approved by the Local Bodies Department hence, after completing the process of the MC, the sewermen and sweepers should be confirmed. It was also demanded passing a resolution to regularise the temporary employees of all remaining branches of the MC, it should also be sent to the local government department so that before the implementation of the electoral code of conduct, all the employees of the corporation could be regularised. OCPunish Lakhimpur perpetratorsGarhshankar: The dharna by Joint Farmer Front under the leadership of Bakshish Singh Dayal and Jarnail Singh Fatehgarh Sahib, continued on Thursday, in front of a corporate company’s centre at Garhshankar. Addressing the protesters, Comrade Darshan Singh Mattoo and vice president of Kul Hind Kisan Sabha, Punjab, vice president of Janwadi Stree Sabha, Punjab Subhash Mattu, the struggle would continue till all three agricultural laws were repealed, guarantees were given to MSP and the accused of Lakhimpur Kheri violence were punished. OCNew services at Sewa KendrasHoshiarpur: Deputy Commissioner (DC) Apneet Riyat said two new services related to the Culture and Tourism Department have been included in all Sewa Kendras of the district. Applicants can now apply for these services at their nearest service centre. The DC said the farm tourism and bed and breakfast homestay services will now be available at the Sewa Kendras of the district. She said the fee for new services has been fixed at Rs 50. The government fee for gold category of both these services has been kept at Rs 5,000 and for silver category at Rs 3,000. The DC told that the applicant himself can apply for these services by visiting the link https://eservices. punjab.gov.in through online medium sitting at home or can apply with necessary documents in the service centers of the district. He said that the applicant is not required to submit any documents in any office. OCTwo killed in road accidentsHoshiarpur: Two persons were killed in separate road accidents in the district. The first accident took place near Bheekhowal village on the Hoshiarpur-Dasuya road. Nirmal Singh of Dasuya said the Hariana police that he, along with his son Gurjit Singh, daughter-in-law Sarmeen Kaur and granddaughter Sargun, was coming from Hoshiarpur at around 8:15 pm last night. When they reached near Bhikhowal village, their car met with an accident with a canter. His son Gurjit Singh died while the others were injured in the mishap. The police have registered a case against the accused canter driver Jasveer Singh of Sherpur Pakka village under Sections 279, 304-A, 337, 338 and 427 of the IPC. In another accident, a woman was run over by a canter while she was standing on the roadside along with her husband on the Baddoan-Poh road. The Mahilpur police have registered an FIR against an unidentified driver. OCOne booked for abducting minorHoshiarpur: The Bullowal police have booked a minor boy of Nasrala village for luring a minor girl away on pretext of marriage. Her mother complained to the Bullowal police that her daughter was a student of Class IX in a local school. She said the accused lured her daughter away on pretext of marrying her when she had gone to school on October 18. The police have booked the accused under Sections 363 and 366 of the IPC. OCIllegal mining: 2 trailers seizedHoshiarpur: After on a tip-off, the Sadar police raided the Bassi Ghulam Hussain village and seized two tractor trailers of sand used in mining. The police have registered an FIR under Section 379 and Mining and Minerals Act against unidentified accused. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/legal-awareness-campaign-by-hoshiarpur-dlsa-327968
