23-10-2021||Jalandhar||Workshop on Indian Sweets conducted at Innocent Hearts Group of Institutions in Jalandhar||Karva Chauth Fest ‘21-Riti RivazTo apprise the significance of Indian festivals, the School of Management of Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus celebrated Karva Chauth festival ‘Riti Rivaz’ with the fervour. Mehndi, nail art and thali competitions were organised on the occasion. In mehandi competition, Gurneem (MBA first year) and Danisha (MCA first year) got the first position, Anjali (BCom third year) got the second position and Jasleen (BCA first year) got the third position. In thali competition, Tanya (BCA) second year) and Radha (MBA first year) got the first position, Muskaan (MBA first year) got the second position and Reet Verma(MBA first year) got the third position.Guru Ramdas Gurpurb celebratedThe primary department of Eklavya School celebrated Gurpurb of Guru Ramdas in the school auditorium with great excitement and fervour. Primary school students came as ‘Panj Pyare’, the five devoted spirits beloved of the guru. The Director of School, Seema Handa, addressed the students of senior school and told them the purpose to organise this celebration was actually to make the students know about the Gurpurb. Principal Komal Arora and administration Dimpal Malhotra blessed the participants and students, following the tradition of Sikhism.English Rhyme competitionAn English rhyme competition was held in the Nobel School. The little Nobelians expressed themselves with great energy, expression, exposure and elegance. The heartfelt gratitude and the feelings of the young stars were left with every gesture, full of love for their everlasting heroes- their grandparents. They came up with beautiful props and elegant presentation at the stage. The confidence added to their smartness and was applauded by chairman Prof CL Kochher. Managing Director Kumar Shiv Kochhar appreciated the pre-primary tiny tots for the posture and their speaking skills.Legal outreach event organisedOn the eve of commemorating the 75th year of India’s Independence “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav”, the Department of Law, GNDU, Regional Campus, Jalandhar, organised pan India Awareness and Outreach Programmes under the patronage of District Legal Service Authority (DLSA). The college was assigned the task of raising legal awareness in various villages Mehatpur and Noormahal by DLSA. Under the headship of Dr Rupam Jagota, two different teams of students were constituted under the governance of different faculty members. Villagers were invited to enhance their knowledge and made aware about their legal rights.Writers’ Conclave-2021 organisedThe PG Department of Mass Communication and Video Production along with HMV Alumnae Welfare Association organised Writers’ Conclave 2021 to stimulate young writers under the guidance of Principal Prof Ajay Sareen. The occasion witnessed the presence of Sarvinder Kaur, president HMV Alumnae Welfare Association, eminent writers Des Raj Kali, Preet Inder Dhillon and Media Strategist Naveen Sharma. The conclave commenced with the recital of DAV Gaan and lighting of the lamp as per tradition.Cooking without fire competitionDIPS School organised cooking without fire competition on the International Chef Day. Students dressed up in chef get up and reached the school to participate in the competition. Students prepared various dishes without fire like salad, sweets, fruit cake, fruit chaat, juice, sandwiches etc. students explained why a particular recipe was selected by them and also mention the ingredients and nutritional value of the dishes so that value of healthy eating is propagated amongst the masses.NCC Annual Training CampKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised a 10-day annual training camp of 2Pb (G) Battalion NCC Jalandhar. More than 450 cadets from 23 different institutions will be trained in various subjects like Weapon Training, Map Reading, First Aid and Communication Skills etc. during this 10-day camp. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi welcomed the cadets to the seat of women empowerment. Addressing the cadets, Prof Dwivedi inspired them all to set high goals in life to become good citizens.Seminar on new education policyLyallpur Khalsa College for Women organised a seminar on New Education Policy in the college premises. The eminent speakers for the occasion were Debashish Rai, secretariat member (AISEC, All India Committee), Prof Aminderpal Singh (Convener, AISEC, Punjab)and Shibashish Prahraj (Student Council, Punjabi University, Patiala). Principal Dr Navjot welcomed the speakers and in her address, she highlighted the bad policies related to various grants. Prof Aminderpal Singh apprised the audience about various topics and outlined them in a simple and easy language. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/workshop-on-indian-sweets-conducted-at-innocent-hearts-group-of-institutions-in-jalandhar-328208
23-10-2021||Jalandhar||Pendu Mazdoor Union to burn electricity bills in Jalandhar||Members of the Pendu Mazdoor Union said today they would burn electricty bills across the district on October 27. In a meeting of the union held here today, members, under district president Hans Raj Pabwan, decided that farm labourers would hold a joint morcha and protest outside the residence of the CM in Morinda on October 29.Union state president Tarsem Peter and state press secretary Kashmir Singh Ghugshore said seeking waiver of power bills for households, where connections had been severed, they had held a protest rally in Morinda on October 13. They had plans to march to the residence of the CM. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pendu-mazdoor-union-to-burn-electricity-bills-in-jalandhar-328209
23-10-2021||Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur: Rs 2 lakh grant for social service||It is our duty to encourage youth engaged in the interest of society. Therefore, all possible help is being given to encourage them towards social service so that the youth can move in the right direction. This was said by former Cabinet minister and Hoshiarpur MLA Sunder Sham Arora while presenting a cheque for Rs2 lakh to the Home Welfare Society for social service activities. Appreciating the social service being done by the office-bearers and members of the society, Arora said the entire team deserves appreciation for the work that these youths are doing to bring the wandering youth on the right path. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-rs-2-lakh-grant-for-social-service-328210
23-10-2021||---||1 more suspected dengue death, toll 4 in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, October 22A 28-year-old resident of Jalandhar, suspected to be a dengue patient, died last night. A resident of the Seth Hukam Chand Colony, the man was admitted to a private hospital in Jalandhar, from where he was referred to a private hospital in Ludhiana. He died there yesterday.This is the fourth suspected dengue death in Jalandhar, after two were reported in September and two in October. The victims include two children and two adults. The Health Department has not formally confirmed dengue as the cause of the four deaths.Meanwhile, the number of dengue cases in Jalandhar reached 178. The man, who died yesterday, had been suffering from fever for many days. His father has a garment shop in the Shiekhan Bazaar.Sources said the Mac-Elisa NS1 and IgM test reports of the patient came out to be negative. However, the Mac-Elisa IgG test report was positive. NS1, IgG and IgM are Mac Elisa tests done at different stages for suspected dengue patients.Epidemiologist Dr Aditya Paul said, “So far, we can call him a suspected dengue patient. We have written to the private hospitals in Jalandhar and Ludhiana, and sought his details. A committee will look into the response and determine whether the patient died of dengue or some other illness. A report regarding the committee’s findings will also be sent to Chandigarh.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-more-suspected-dengue-death-toll-4-in-jalandhar-328211
23-10-2021||---||Flying squads keeping tab on illegal inflow of paddy into Punjab||Jalandhar, October 22To curb the illegal inflow of paddy into Punjab from other states, the district administration has been ensuring round-the-clock monitoring at different locations in the district through flying squads and checking teams.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the administration has formed 11 flying squad teams, which were ensuring that no paddy from other states get pumped into Punjab so that our farmers’ interest could never be compromised at any cost. He said 21 permanent check points (nakas) have been set up across the district where flying squads, comprising officials from the Food and Civil Supplies Department, district administration and police department, were checking vehicles passing through Jalandhar district. These teams were ensuring that no vehicle could carry out such illegal activities on any route, he added.The state government in its directions had asked the district authorities to initiate such checking to prevent illegal inflow of paddy from other states, following which, the administration has taken a slew of measures to implement the directions issued by the state government in the right earnest.The DC added that these flying squads would continue their operations till the completion of ongoing procurement season. He also said that the decision to check illegal flow of paddy was taken in the larger interest of the state’s peasantry as several cases of illegal transportation of paddy into Punjab was reported by the authorities in the past few years.He said strict action would be taken against the perpetrators of such acts if any kind of similar incident reported in the district as the Punjab government was firmly committed to protect the interests of the state’s farmers.Meanwhile, District Food and Civil Supplies Controller Harsharan Singh said no such incident has been reported in the district so far adding that the special teams have been keeping a close tab over the situation as the administration would leave no stone unturned to prevent such instances.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/flying-squads-keeping-tab-on-illegal-inflow-of-paddy-into-punjab-328212
23-10-2021||---||2-day Bhangra World Cup begins today in Jalandhar college||Jalandhar, October 22Lyallpur Khalsa College is organising a two-day Bhangra World Cup starting from tomorrow. Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra said on the first day, the competitions will take place in online mode. The event will take place on offline mode on the next day which is Sunday.There are four categories of participants, including those below 16 years, between 16 and 40 years, 40 and 60 years and above 60 years. We have allowed participants to perform individually or in combination as well in the contest. Dr Gurpinder S Samra, PrincipalOver 20 teams were participating in each of the two modes. He said the event was going to witness a variety of participants from across the globe as they are from age groups 7 to 68 years.Dr Samra said: “There are four categories of participants, including those below 16 years, between 16 to 40 years, 40 to 60 years and above 60 years. We have allowed the participants to perform individually or in combination as well. The main attraction in the Sunday event will be a group of girls ‘Ankhi mutiyar’ from Chandigarh. Even as most participants in the event are boys, this will be an all-girls group, who will be participating as a special entry”.Dr Samra added that live telecast of this cup would be available on YouTube channel of the college - LKC cultural affairs and Facebook page Bhangra World Cup in addition to telecast on some web portals and news channels of India and abroad.The telecast time has been fixed from 5 pm and 11 pm IST onwards keeping in mind the suitability of the foreign viewers including those in Australia, Canada, US and other participating countries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-day-bhangra-world-cup-begins-today-in-jalandhar-college-328213
23-10-2021||---||Panel to protest Jallianwala Bagh ‘facelift’ today||Jalandhar, October 22The Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Committee (DBYC) will hold a rally in Amritsar tomorrow, in protest against the recent changes made at the Jallianwala Bagh at Amritsar.The rally, which was postponed twice, will be finally held on Saturday outside the Jallianwala Bagh. Farmers' outfits, students’ groups, academic and litereray bodies will participate in the protest.Also read: The Jallianwala Bagh makeoverJallianwala Bagh: History massacred or restored?Jallianwala Bagh: Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historiansThe protest will be held at a separate stage outside the Jallianwala Bagh, where members of the committee will address the crowd.DBYC president Ajmer Singh, general secretary Gurmeet Singh, cultural convener Amolak Singh and other members have also been intimating about the protest.A group of 50 to 70 persons will set out in a bus from Jalandhar tomorrow, and will be joined by various groups on the way. The members will reach the Bhandari bridge in Amritsar, from where they will march to the Jallianwala Bagh.The general secretary of the committee said, "We have sent repeated written appeals to the Prime Minister, the President, the Jallianwala Bagh Trust and the district administration. There have been discrepancies in the recent renovation done at the monument. Our demand is to restore the original structure of the Jallianwala Bagh. The march will be our first mark of protest against the changes made."In a letter written to the PM and the Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust on September 8, the committee had sought constitution of a group of prominent historians to ‘set right the wrongs done’ at the monument. It also metioned that ‘rendition of history in the videos had deliberate erasures and inaccuracies’. The committee objected to the use of the terms ‘nationalism’ and avoiding terms ‘freedom struggle’ or ‘anti-colonial movement’.The objections||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/panel-to-protest-jallianwala-bagh-facelift-today-328214
23-10-2021||Ajay Joshi||Jalandhar Smart City? Ladowali Road turns into dumping ground||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 22The Health and Sanitation Department of the Municipal Corporation has installed barbed wire on the Ladowali road, near the District Administration Complex, to stop locals from dumping the garbage there. Five days have passed, but residents continue to litter the road.The road is the main route to the DC office, the PUDA Complex and many residential colonies. However, the authorities concerned are not bothered about its upkeep. Rahul Soni, a residentThe fencing on the road has reduced its area. The authorities concerned have failed to improve the condition of the stretch in the past three years. Nazim, a fruit vendor, said, “Heaps of waste on the road have turned it into a mini dumping ground. The foul smell emanating from the garbage troubles the commuters.”During rain, waste gets scattered on the road, inconveniencing the commuters. Rahul Soni, a resident, said, “The road is the main route to the DC office, the PUDA Complex and many residential colonies. However, the authorities concerned are not bothered about its upkeep.”The condition of the road has put a question mark on the civic body’s mission of ‘Clean and Green Jalandhar’. Residents claim there is no proper garbage dumping point in the area, forcing them to throw it on the road. The garbage remains unlifted from the unauthorised dumping sites, which have become a breeding ground for stray animals.“We are forced to use alternative routes. The garbage poses a threat to our health,” said Gurkamal Singh, a resident of the P&T Colony.A dhaba owner of the area said, “Garbage needs to be lifted soon, as stray cattle feed on it. This blocks the way of vehicles, resulting in traffic jams. Being one of the busiest roads in the city, it is necessary for the MC to install a proper bin here.” Rag-picking should be curtailed as a lot of waste is spilled in the process, he said.Mayor Jagdish Raja said the MC had installed the fencing to check the practice of dumping waste, and it would continue to take such actions in future as well. The MC was about to complete its biomining waste project, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-smart-city-ladowali-road-turns-into-dumping-ground-328216
23-10-2021||---||9-day Surjit Hockey tourney begins today in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, October 22The stage is set for the inauguration of the 38th edition of the Surjit Hockey Tournament, starting here at local Army AstroTurf hockey ground, Katoch Stadium, Jalandhar Cantonment.Organising Secretary IS Sandhu said the 38th edition of the tournament would be played on league-cum-knockout basis. “This year, all12 teams have been seeded directly into quarterfinal league stage and are divided into four pools with three teams each. The top four teams from each pool will qualify for the semifinals, scheduled to be held on October 30. No gate entry money will be charged from the spectators who will come to witness the game of hockey,” he explained.Sandhu further said that last year’s champion Punjab & Sind Bank, Delhi, and runners-up team Indian Oil, Mumbai, along with 10 other top teams — Indian Army, Delhi, Indian Navy Mumbai, Indian Railways, CAG, Delhi, Indian Air Force Delhi, CRPF, Delhi, Punjab Police, Punjab National Bank, Delhi, BSF Jalandhar and RCF, Kapurthala, of the country will take part in these nine-day hockey tournament. Arrangements have been made for the live telecast of both the semi-finals and final match of the tournament on PTC News and PTC Gold Channels on October 30 and 31, respectively. All India Radio, Jalandhar will also relay the ‘Ball-to-Ball’ running commentary of the final match, Sandhu added.USA-based sports promoters Gakhal Brothers — Amolak Singh Gakhal, Palwinder Singh Gakhal, and Iqbal Singh — will give a cash prize of Rs 5 lakh to the champion team of the tournament like last year whereas the runner-up team will be given a cash prize of Rs 2 lakh by Sant Tarminder Singh of Kahna Dhesian dera in Jalandhar. As in the past, the best player of the tournament will get Mohinder Singh Tut Memorial Award along with a cash prize of Rs 51,000, sponsored by Ranbir Singh Rana Tut.Former champion Punjab Police will face Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala, in the inaugural match of the day at 3 pm. The tournament is organised every year by the Surjit Hockey Society to keep alive the name of ex-Olympian Surjit Singh Randhawa, who lost his life in a fatal car accident near Jalandhar on January 7, 1984, while fighting hard for upliftment of the national game of hockey in the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/9-day-surjit-hockey-tourney-begins-today-in-jalandhar-328215
23-10-2021||Our Correspondent||7 Hoshiarpur villages to get treated water for irrigation||Hoshiarpur, October 22Punjab Soil and Water Conservation Minister Rana Gurjeet Singh on Friday laid the foundation stone of a project, which would provide treated water to irrigate 2,264 acre of land at a cost of Rs 11.10 crore.Kick-starting the construction of the project here at Piplanwali village, Rana Gurjeet Singh said the project would cater to the irrigation needs of seven villages by utilising treated waste water of Hoshiarpur city through underground pipeline systems. “This project will ensure round-the-year availability of water to the farmers. Treated water being rich in nutrients, will also help increase the yield. When compared to earthen open channels, the underground pipeline system helps reduce the amount of water lost during conveyance. The project will reduce dependency of farmers on groundwater,” he said.Divisional Soil Conservation Officer Naresh Gupta said treated water from a sewage treatment plant that uses MBBR technology and has a capacity of 30 MLD would be supplied to seven villages, namely Piplanwala, Purheera, Bassi Daulat Khan, Singhriwal, Kuragana, Pandori Rukman and Madooli Bhrahmna.The minister urged people to conserve groundwater by adopting drip irrigation and reducing paddy cultivation. He said water of ponds could also be used for irrigation purposes as the state government had started this project a few years back by allotting 23 ponds. Presently, Punjab had 4 million acre feet (MAF) water of ponds available and efforts were afoot to make this initiative successful in time to come.MLA Sunder Sham Arora said farmers of seven villages would benefit from it in a few months after its completion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-hoshiarpur-villages-to-get-treated-water-for-irrigation-328217
23-10-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Jalandhar Mayor postpones House meeting as 2 councillors couldn’t study agenda!||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 22Just as all the councillors had barely settled at the venue of the Municipal Corporation House meeting at Red Cross Bhawan at 3 pm today and Mayor Jagdish Raja had got seated to start the proceedings, two councillors Pawan Kumar and Manmohan Raju came up with a request to postpone the meeting.The councillors said they had not been able to read the copy of the agenda provided to them since October 18 as they were busy with Valmiki Jayanti functions in their areas. Seemingly all a pre-designed plan, the Mayor immediately took to the mike and announced that the meeting stands postponed and would be convened again sometime after four-five days. Saying this, he quickly got down from the stage.As he was leaving the hall, some councillors confronted him saying that it was a sheer wastage of time and money to do this but he just waved his hand and left.Rohan Sehgal, a Congress councillor, said: “Everyone who had come here had spared time of busy schedule to take up matters of city development to attend the meeting. There was no point in dispersing an already gathered assembly of councillors over such a trifle issue”.Soon after, some Congress councillors got onto the stage. They took to the chairs that were occupied by the Mayor, MC Commissioner Karnesh Sharma, Senior Deputy Mayor Surinder Kaur and Deputy Mayor Harsimranjit Banti. Ward number 80 Congress councillor Des Raj Jassal took to the mike and started a dummy house meeting. Jassal sat on Mayor’s chair while other councillors sat along with him.Jassal announced: “Whenever we meet next, we will elect a new Mayor. If our CM can be changed, our Mayor, too, can be changed. The reason why we need a change is the fact that no development work is being carried out in the city. We must send him out packing the way Capt Amarinder Singh has been dislodged as the CM. We must bring in a new Mayor to give him the command the way Charanjit Channi has been brought in as the new CM. We too need a good Mayor. Only then our party can come to power in the next MC poll.”While some supported the move, others kept saying “No, no”. Later, Jassal said since Raja too had been Capt Amarinder Singh’s yesman, he too needed to be ousted. “Our city has become a hell under Raja’s Mayorship. The roads and in fact all the facilities are in such a bad shape. Only a new Mayor can bring everything on track”, he said.Congress councillors Sushil Kalia, Jasleen Sethi, Aruna Arora and Uma Beri, however, condemned the move of Jassal. “There has to be decorum for everything. A councillor has to be pushy himself to get the work done. It is wrong to blame the Mayor for everything. His position commands respect and we as councillors of his party must support him,” they said.‘There was no big project in agenda’The councillors who opposed the postponement of meeting said: “There was no big project in the agenda which required to be studied in depth. The agenda was all about 2,000 new recruitments, extension to some existing contractual staff and small development works in some wards. Even if the councillors had not read the agenda, there was nothing much they had missed. There are so many issued outside the agenda, which we could have discussed as well. Alternatively, a quick run through the agenda for 10 minutes during the course of the meeting itself would have served the purpose. To our mind, there will not be any meeting till the polls. The meeting will get lingered on for several months now”.Lame excuseAll councillors got aghast at what had happened as many of the old timers said Mayor Raja had set a completely new example of postponing the already assembled House over such a lame excuse. “If the Mayor was to cancel the meeting, he should have announced it well in advance. Even the councillors who had the demand for postponement could have used the WhatsApp group in the morning itself to put in a request instead of doing it this way. It was all scripted to be done this way. Mayor chose his two favourite councillors to propose cancellation,” the councillors kept grumbling.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-mayor-postpones-house-meeting-as-2-councillors-couldnt-study-agenda-328218
