24-10-2021||---||Sukhbir Badal tries to woo urban dwellers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 23SAD chief Sukhbir Badal on Saturday campaigned for party candidates Jagbir Brar from Jalandhar Cantonment and Chandan Grewal from Jalandhar Central area in the city areas only.Sainis ready to contest poll Hoshiarpur: A meeting of the Saini Jagriti Manch, Punjab, was held under the chairmanship of president Kulwant Singh Saini. It was resolved that the Saini community will contest the upcoming elections and if parties ignore them, the community would be fielding its own candidates. Sandeep Saini, founder, and Prem Saini, district president, were present in the meeting. Kulwant Singh Saini said the community was being discriminated against by every party. It was discussed and resolved that the party, which will give 18 to 20 seats to the Saini community according to its population, will be supported and the community’s votes will be cast in favour of that party. OCThe first programme of the party was listed for Birring village, where he was scheduled to pay tributes to freedom fighter and Babbar Akali Movement leader Kishan Singh Gargaj. He was slated to accompany Grewal at his first halt but the villagers sent across a message that they will not allow any political activity and hence the programme got cancelled and he confined his activities to the city only.The SAD president was led by hundreds of SOI activists, who escorted him on bikes. In his jeep, Sukhbir visited Phagwara gate market, Band Bazaar, Bansanwala Bazaar and Model House road, where he interacted with locals, tasted some local food and obliged people with selfies. Taking his campaign to the complete grassroots level, he enjoyed the vadas of popular eatery of Narain Dass, savoured mathis at sweets shops and even got photos clicked with vegetable vendors.His visit to Gurdwara Singh Sabha Model Town in the daytime with ex-MLA Brar got somewhat delayed as Brar’s political opponent and minister Pargat Singh was already at the gurdwara premises along with administrative officials. They were there for the inauguration of the gurdwara after its recent renovation. Badal also paid obeisance at Guru Ravidass Dham in the city. MLA Pawan Tinu and SAD chief Kulwant Singh Manan accompanied the party president. He also visited the residence of former Deputy Mayor Parvesh Tangri and former Chairman Punjab Gau Sewa Commission Kimti Lal Bhagat. Badal also appointed Parvesh Tangri as member of the Political Affairs Committee of the SAD. He had lunch at the residence of BJP councillor Manjinder Chatha. Though Chatha is learnt to be ill and was not at his place today, his family assured support for SAD.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sukhbir-badal-tries-to-woo-urban-dwellers-328921
24-10-2021||Jalandhar||Man booked for opening fire||The police have booked a man for opening fire outside an eating joint near the Workshop Chowk late on Friday.Panic gripped the area after residents and commuters heard the gunshot. The accused was reportedly in an inebriated state, when the police reached the spot. A case was registered. The man was later arrested after his medical. Area SHO, SI Seva Singh said the PCR received an information that a firing had taken place at a dhaba. Subsequently, they rushed to the spot and took the youth Navjit Kalia of Tower Enclave, in their custody. The police further reported that the weapon used in the incident was a licenced .32 revolver. The accused owns the licence. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-booked-for-opening-fire-328922
24-10-2021||---||Unemployed BEd teachers protest||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 23TET pass unemployed BEd teachers protested for jobs here today. Teachers warned they would intensify their protest and hold a permanent sit-in outside Education Minister Pargat Singh’s residence if their demands were not met by the ruling dispensation.Members of the union, who have been protesting for jobs for the past four years, today held a protest at the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall in the city after which they headed to Education Minister Pargat Singh’s residence where they submitted a letter regarding their demands to his office secretary Sukhi Waraich.Venting their ire on former Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and former Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla, teachers said employment in every home was a promise of the Congress government. They would not let the present Education Minister and the Chief Minister run away from their responsibility, teachers added.They also accused present Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Congress workers of maintaining callous attitude towards unemployed teachers protesting outside former’s residence at Morinda on October 5.Union members under state president Sukhwinder Singh Dhilwan said though Pargat Singh held meetings with unemployed teachers on October 5 and 12, yet no assurance was given to teachers regarding future appointments.Unemployed teachers demanded that advertisements for 9,000 posts of teacher for social studies, Hindi and Punjabi and at least 18,000 posts of master cadre be released immediately. Notably, unemployed teachers had gheraoed former Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla’s residence for at least nine months. They said from October 28 a permanent morcha would be started outisde Pargat Singh’s residence.Gurpreet Singh Pakka, Balraj Singh Faridkot, Sandeep Singh Gill, Aman Sekha, Rashpal Singh Jalalabad, Hajinder Kaur Goli, Alka, Ruby, Rajwant Kaur, Daljinder SIngh, Pawan Kumar, Balvir Chand, Sukhjit Singh Harike, Mandeep Singh Rattu, Harpreet Singh Phagwara were present on the occasion among others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/unemployed-bed-teachers-protest-328923
24-10-2021||---||20 vends to sell crackers from tomorrow||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 23The much-awaited firecracker market will be set up at Burlton Park here from Monday onwards. After a draw of lots, 20 applicants willing to set up stalls at the market have been shortlisted. The administration has said licences will be issued to shopkeepers from Monday onwards.A total of 94 people had applied for setting up cracker stalls and out of which, only 20 have been selected as per the guidelines. Ever since firecrackers were banned from being sold in markets across city areas, Burlton Park has been the only designated place where firecrackers are allowed to be sold around a fortnight before the festival of lights. The stalls, to be set up from Monday, will sell crackers till 9 pm on Diwali night (November 4).The vendors are expecting a brisk business this year as most of the Covid-19 restrictions have been eased. Around four to five days before the festival of Karva Chauth, a considerable rush of people is already being witnessed in the marketplaces and streets are lined up with stalls selling festival-related goodies and mehndi vends. Moreover, there is abundance of vends selling decorative pieces, sweets, gifts, buntings, etc, in the markets. At some major city bazaars, the rush is so much that people are facing parking problems.Sensing the festive enthusiasm, the cracker sellers are expecting decent returns this Diwali. DCP, Jalandhar, Jagmohan Singh said, “The draw of lots was held on Friday and stalls were allocated to 20 firecracker vendors to set up stalls at Burlton Park. The licences will be issued to them on Monday or Tuesday.”While the magazine (or godowns) where firecrackers have been stored for the city is in Kahmbra, the stock will be delivered directly to the Burlton Park market on Monday. No vendor, retailer, wholesaler, godown owners, etc, can either stock or sell firecrackers anywhere else in the district.While crackers are manufactured in Shivakashi, Jalandhar market primarily gets its cracker stock from there. Further, they are brought in from godowns in either Khambra or Ferozepur. Vendors say since the change of norms, people now go in more for rockets and like crackers more than small crackers, phuljharis, chakris, etc.Raghav Mahajan, a member of the Bajrang Bali Fireworks’ Association, Jalandhar, said, “Vends have been allocated to us and we expect to start business by Monday. Our stalls will be put up until 9 pm on Diwali night. Most of our crackers come from Khambra (godown) in Jalandhar or Ferozepur. We will receive the stock directly at the market on Monday. We hope for good returns this year amidst cheer and festivities this Diwali. There is eagerness among people for the festival and with changing trends people now prefer fancy crackers or rocket-like crackers to little bombs or stick crackers which they earlier preferred. More will be clear when the market opens.”Rajesh Jain, a member of the firecracker association in Jalandhar, said, “We are looking forward to doing good business this year. After the first and second waves, things have changed for the better. We hope we will see the reflection of that in the market. We expect to start work from next week.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/20-vends-to-sell-crackers-from-tomorrow-328924
24-10-2021||---||Ensure prompt justice to people, SSP tells officials||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, October 23Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh on Saturday directed all officials to win public trust by delivering prompt justice to people and by addressing their complaints in a time-bound manner.In a series of meetings with SPs, DSPs, SHOs and other heads of various branches, including Sanjh Kendras, EOW, women cell, highway patrolling, PCR motorcycle patrolling, traffic police, the SSP said all of them must infuse fear among criminals and strengthen the trust of public on the force.He directed them to ensure that people do not suffer while getting heard and instead their issues must be settled at the level of police stations/police posts, which would help in gaining public faith.He said the police have been adopting zero tolerance against corruption and if anyone was found to be indulging into this malpractice, will face severe action. Khakh also urged the general public that if any police employee in this district asks for bribe or if they have a tip-off about corruption, he or she can directly meet him and strict action would be taken against them.The SSP reiterated that the police have already been dealing with drug peddlers, gangsters and other anti-social elements with a heavy hand and no one would be spared to ensure crime-free society. Khakh said the police have been making all-out efforts to maintain law and order in the city at any cost.The SSP also directed the GOs to initiate such random checking drives in their areas, adding that the checking of inter-state travellers must be ensured at various check-points in the city, especially on highways.He said special checking drives would be carried out in crowded places such as markets, railway stations, bus stands, and shopping malls to ensure foolproof security arrangements at these vulnerable points.He asked all Station House Officers (SHOs) to tighten noose around anti-social elements by keeping a close tab over their activities besides ensuring monitoring of criminals on bail. Further, he asked the officials to intensify patrolling at public places as well so as to maintain the law and order situation in the wake of the festive season.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ensure-prompt-justice-to-people-ssp-tells-officials-328925
24-10-2021||---||Rs 24 lakh waiver for 698 power consumers||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, October 23Pending power bills worth Rs24 lakh received by consumers were waived off on the first day of the Suvidha Camps launched as per the state government’s newly announced policy.The district had 37,000 domestic electricity connections with a capacity of 2 KW. The PSPCL will ensure that all eligible people avail this benefit. Connections disconnected due to non-payment of electricity bill will be restored without charging any amount from the consumer. —  Inderpal Singh, Deputy Chief Engineer (Distribution)Interestingly, Cabinet Minister Rana Gurjit Singh himself skipped the inauguration event in Kapurthala. Instead, a camp was launched by his wife Rajbans Kaur Rana, a former MLA. Meanwhile, at Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Singh Cheema inaugurated Suvidha Camp for waiving pending power bills of consumers.In Kapurthala district, the campaign kicked off with the waiver of the outstanding amount of electricity bills upto 2 KW.In all, applications of 698 eligible consumers received for waiving of Rs24 lakh power bills were approved today at camps.Rajbans Kaur Rana inaugurated the camp at Sant Nagar Mohalla in Kapurthala to facilitate people today. She called it a historic decision of the Punjab Government that would provide relief to all economically weaker sections of society.At Sultanpur Lodhi, Suvidha Camp was launched at the local PSPCL office by MLA Navtej Singh Cheema. Applications of 478 consumers received for the waiver of power bills worth Rs18 lakh were approved at the camp.The Punjab Government would reimburse the waived amount to the PSPCL to avoid fiscal burden on the board, said the MLA.The Deputy Chief Engineer (Distribution), Inderpal Singh, and the Additional SE, Kapurthala, Darshan Singh, said the district had 37,000 domestic electricity connections with a capacity of 2 KW. The PSPCL would ensure that all eligible people availed this benefit, they added. Connections disconnected due to non-payment of electricity bill would be restored without charging any amount from the consumer, they said. To facilitate people more such camps would be organised in the coming days at the sub-divisional level, they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-24-lakh-waiver-for-698-power-consumers-328926
24-10-2021||---||Festive fervour grips educational institutions||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 23Even as the city markets remained crowded on Saturday owing to preparations for the Karva Chauth falling on Sunday, the campuses of schools and colleges across the district, too, remained occupied with the festive fervour. Contests for mehndi, thali decoration and modelling were held at many campuses.St Soldier Group of InstitutionsSt Soldier Group of Institutions celebrated Karva Chauth in full zeal. Vice chairperson of the group Sangeeta Chopra was present as the chief guest and was welcomed by the Principal Divpreet Kaur. Mrs Karva chauth competition was organised, in which teachers from Mithu Basti, Nangal Karar Khan, Man Nagar participated. In the competition, the teachers performed dance and modelling. Nitika titled with Mrs. Karva Chauth, Anjana Sharma got second place, Preeti got third place and Anita Yadav and Sapna got the consolation prize. While congratulating all the victorious teachers, Sangeeta Chopra briefed about the belief and importance of the festival in Indian culture.The Nobel SchoolMehndi competition was organised at The Nobel School to mark the importance of the festival. The cultural setup added to the event in extending the warm wishes and happiness. Students of Classes VI- XII participated wholeheartedly in the event. Principal of the school Amita Sharma motivated the students to develop mehndi applying as an art form as it is the best mode of stress buster, vigour and rejuvenation. The event came to an end with the declaration of the results for the event. First position was attained by Pavneet and Nimrat, second position by Kalpana, Gurleen and Tanveer, third position by Simran, Navneet and Anmolpreet, consolation to Sukhmeen, Arshpreet, Glory, Simran, Palakpreet and Ritika. The winners were awarded with certificates.Tagore’s International Smart SchoolTo apprise the significance of Indian festivals, Tagore’s International Smart School commemorated Karva Chauth with a lot of zeal and enthusiasm in the school premises. On this auspicious occasion, mehandi competition was held in which the students participated enthusiastically. They applied various alluring designs and exhibit their talent in this art form. The staff sang songs and danced in groups to make this day more special. Winners were rewarded with certificates. Dean Vinod Shashi Jain and Director Ruchika Jain applauded the endeavours of the students and congratulated the whole team for successfully conducting this event.Kanya Maha VidyalayaKanya Maha Vidyalaya celebrated Karva Chauth. On this occasion, stalls of various attractive items were set up jointly by the Department of Cosmetology, Fashion Designing Department and Retail Management Department for two consecutive days. While the Cosmetology Department introduced different forms of decoration items, the hands of girls were also decorated with different designs of mehndi and nail art. Along with this, Department of Retail Management set up a special stall under the banner of Budding Entrepreneurs to develop entrepreneurial skills like customer handling, stock handling, visual merchandising, stall layout, inventory management and record management etc. Mehndi, photo frames, gift items, jewellery, bangles, masks and beautiful carry bags etc. were also sold in this stall. Apart from this, the students of Fashion Designing once again used the extravagant items and displayed jewellery items related to the festival like earrings and neckpieces etc. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi while congratulating the students for their efforts also congratulated each and everyone.Lyallpur Khalsa College for WomenThe Cosmetology Department of Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women organised a mehndi competition. Students participated in full swing, thereby drawing beautiful and intricate henna designs on hands. Anjali was declared first. Anuradha was declared second and Indresh was declared third. The consolation prize went to Nidhi. Principal Dr Navjot applauded the winners and participants. She also appreciated the efforts of Palka, Assistant Prof, Department of Cosmetology, for organising this event.DIPS College, DhilwanDIPS College (co-educational) Dhilwan organised mehndi competition on the occasion of Karva Chauth. Students from various courses exhibited their creativity. They applied henna on their classmate’s hands artistically. Nail art and thali decoration competitions were also organised. Students performed beautifully Arabian, bridal, Arabic, Indo Arabic and Pakistani style henna. The winners were applauded and awarded with certificates. The competition was conduct under the supervision of college professor Rohini. College coordinator Harpreet and CEO Monica Mandotra said festivals bring everyone close to the rich culture heritage.MLU DAV College, PhagwaraUnder the guidance of Dr Kiranjeet Randhawa, Principal of MLU DAV College Phagwara, a mehndi competition was organised to mark the celebration of Karvachauth. The competition was organised by Fine Arts Department. The students created beautiful designs on different themes. The main objective of this competition was to sensitise students towards the rich culture heritage of our country and to encourage them to enhance their creativity skills. Dr Randhawa said that the core significance of applying mehndi is to utilise its natural medicinal herbal remedies, cooling the body and relieving the stress. At the end of the competition, prizes were given to the winners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/festive-fervour-grips-educational-institutions-328927
24-10-2021||---||Surjit Hockey Tournament begins||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 23The Punjab Police beat Rail Coach Factory (RCF) Kapurthala by 1-0 and earned three points in the inaugural match of the Surjit Hockey Tournament here at Katoch Astroturf Hockey Stadium this evening.Lt Gen C Bansi Ponnappa, GOC, Vajra Corps, inaugurated the tournament.In Pool B’s first match, the Punjab Police, Jalandhar, and the RCF played good game. The first quarter of the match was goalless. In this quarter, the Punjab Police and the RCF wasted one penalty corner each. In the second quarter’s 27th minute Olympian Ramandeep Singh scored a field goal from pass of Simranjit Singh for the Punjab Police. After that, the railmen wasted two penalty corners in a row. At the half time, the Punjab Police was leading by 1-0.After the half time, the RCF team mounted pressure and earned three penalty corners in the third quarter, but Punjab Police goalkeeper Harjot Singh made good saves. In the last quarter, both teams wasted many chances to score.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/surjit-hockey-tournament-begins-328928
24-10-2021||Jalandhar||Modern stitching techniques||School organises Cultural festA colourful cultural festival-UTSAV, was organised by Apeejay School, Model Town. The maiden initiative by the school witnessed huge enthusiasm and participation from various schools across the district. Tiny tots presented mesmerising stories. Putting their best foot forward, dressed in the best costumes students from various schools captured many hearts. Surtaal, the musical event again had many melodious songs being presented by participating schools. Folk songs from different regions of the country showcased the versatility and vibrance of our nation’s culture. Another genre of Surtaal was patriotic song. Dhamaal and Shan-e-Punjab events witnessed foot tapping folk dances from across the nation. Folk dances from Rajasthan, Haryana and Punjab brought everyone on their feet. Bhangra performances from Shan-e-Punjab captivated and entertained the online audience. From the artistic scene, Ode to Flowers had beautiful floral arrangements made on the theme ‘Spring’. Acrylic painting event also witnessed students from participating schools presenting colourful expressions of art on the theme-celebration of life. Mukhauta was another unique competition where students had to paint the face of another child based on the theme Jungle book.INA Raising Day observedThe Indian National Army (INA) Day was observed in Shiv Jyoti Public School. A special morning assembly was organised where the students were made aware about this day through a song “Kadam Kadam Bhadhaye Jaa” prepared by the students under the guidance of co-associate teachers of Samridhi House Rekha Joshi and Nalini Chopra. Chopra made the students aware through her speech about the life and works of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. Principal Neeru Nayyar said the tree of liberty must be refreshed from time to time with the blood of patriots and tyrants. The activity was done under the guidance of Simmi Grover and Housemaster Parminder Vasran. Krishna Jyoti (Chairperson), Dr.Vidur Jyoti (Chairman Trust) and Dr Suvikram Jyoti (Manager, Managing Committee and general secretary Trust). Principal Neeru Nayyar, vice principal Parveen Saili appreciated the initiative taken by the teachers.Freshers’ Party at HMVFreshers’ Party Aagaaz-2021 was organised at Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya for the UG students of humanities and skilled courses by Student Council and Student Welfare Departments. The event was coordinated by Kuljit Kaur, Dean Holistic Development and Dr Shallu Batra, Dean Discipline under the dynamic guidance of Principal Prof Ajay Sareen. The programme began on a pious note with “DAV Gaan” and lighting the lamp of knowledge. The exuberant students put up a splendid show with their songs, dances, guitars and catwalk in the modelling rounds. The judges of the event were Mamta, Dean, Vedic Studies, Veena Arora, Dean, Outreach Activities and Dr Ashmeen Kaur, IQAC Incharge. Conveying her best wishes on the occasion, Principal Prof Ajay Sareen encouraged the students to complete their tasks timely and not to linger on things along with maintaining regularity in studies. Towards the conclusion, the names of the tag winners were announced. Ms Graceful was won by Parul, Ms. Gorgeous by Gulnaaz, Ms. Proficient by Mehkash, Ms. Ethical by Srishti. Second runner up by Karishma, first runner up by Khushi and Ms. Freshers’ Tag was won by Tanya.Essay Writing Competition heldAn Essay Writing Competition was organised by the English Literary Society of the PCM SD College on the topic “Romanticism and Glorification of Nature.” Almost 47 students from different streams participated enthusiastically. The theme of the year is “Celebrating nature with poets of the romantic age.” Principal of the college Dr Pooja Prashar felicitated the students for their participation. She also praised the efforts of the Head, Department of English, Ujla Dada Joshi for organising such events for the overall development of the students. The organising committee comprised of Aabroo Sharma, Gurjit Kaur and Ruby Batra.Indian Commodity Markets discussedA webinar on “Indian Commodity Markets-Prospects and Challenges” was organised by Alumni Association and PG Department of Commerce and Management of Hindu Kanya College, Kapurthala, under the guidance of Prof Monika Aggarwal, president, Alumni Association, Hindu Kanya College, Kapurthala. As many as 289 participants attended the seminar from different colleges. A formal welcome was addressed by Dr Nitya Sharma, secretary, Alumni Association. Sanjay Gakhar, vice president and regional head, Business Development at MCX Delhi, and Chandra Nath Pandey, manager, Business Development and Heading Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Delhi NCR region of MCX, opened the theme. Then the session was further continued by Vineet Singh Kler, Senior Manager, Training and Education with Multi Commodity Exchange of India Limited, the keynote speaker of the day. He gave his elaborated views on virtual commodity market, equity and currency derivatives market of India. Prof Monika Aggarwal from UIAMS, Panjab University, Chandigarh, concluded the session with speech of thanks. Principal Dr Archana Garg appreciated the efforts of Jaswant, vice-president Alumni Association, and Head, Physical Education Department and Neetu Bhargava, Head, PG Department of Commerce and Management, who took efforts to organise the webinar. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/modern-stitching-techniques-328929
