25-10-2021||---||Rain damages basmati, potato crops in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 24Rain that started on Saturday evening continued on Sunday adding to the woes of farmers. Heavy rain accompanied by strong winds and thunderstorm damaged major crops like basmati, sugarcane, potato and peas.Gurpal Singh, a Phagwara-based farmer, said about 80 per cent of his basmati crop and 30 per cent ready-to-harvest paddy had been damaged in the rain.The fresh spell of rain not only caused damage to the standing crop, but also delayed the sowing of seasonal vegetables. Farmers in several parts of the Doaba fear that the harvesting of the standing paddy crop would further be delayed by one more week.“Besides, farmers, who had sown potato recently, also reported damage to their crop. The untimely rain will lead to rotting of potatoes sown in the soil. However, we hope weather will remain clear in the next few days and we will sow again our crop,” added Gurpal.Agricultural experts said, “Undoubtedly, rain at this time is not favourable for any crop, but it is too early to assess the loss caused to crops as in some parts of the region, rain did not cause much impact. In areas where paddy and basmati plants have flattened, we fear the quality of the harvested paddy and basmati will fall in the lowest range quality.”Besides, farmers say that paddy grains would be discoloured as the moisture content has increased in the crops. “Basmati 1509 has suffered more damages than other varieties,” adds Amardeep Singh, another farmer. He said there was a possibility that paddy growers would suffer a loss of nearly three to four quintals of rice grains in one acre land.“Besides, farmers in our village, who have sown potato, also reported damage caused to the crop due to incessant rain,” Amardeep further added.The late arrival of monsoon had already affected the quality of rice saplings and now flattened crop would again get discoloured and we would face difficulties in selling it, said a Bhartiya Kisan Union farmer. Earlier, cracks had developed in many areas owing to water shortage, eventually reducing the quality of the crop sown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rain-damages-basmati-potato-crops-in-jalandhar-329297
25-10-2021||---||Bhangra World Cup in Jalandhar revives folk tradition of Punjab||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 24Liveliness and bonhomie was at its peak on the second day of the Bhangra World Cup at Lyallpur Khalsa College where Cabinet minister for higher education Pargat Singh was invited as the chief guest. College president Balbir Kaur and Joint Secretary Jaspal Singh Waraich welcomed the chief guest who lauded the efforts made by the college in promoting and preserving the Punjabi cultural heritage.Speaking on the occasion, college Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra said the higher education sector was feeling quite optimistic on the appointment of Pargat Singh as the Minister for Higher education. He also informed that on the second day around eleven teams gave onstage performance which included Real Folk Bhangra Academy, GHG Khalsa College Gurusar Sadhar Ludhiana, Folk Art Lover Academy Chandigarh, Anakhi Mutiyaraa, GNE Ludhiana and others. In the evening. Parminder Singh Heer SP Rural Jalandhar also arrived as the guest.The performance of the participants was adjudged by a panel of five judges, who declared Chandigarh University as the first position winner, G.N.E. Ludhiana remained at second position, whereas jointly third position went to G.H.G. Khalsa College Gurusar Sadhar Ludhiana and Singh International Cultural Academy which were given prizes of Rs 81,000/-, 41,000/- and 21,000/- respectively. Jagjot of GHG Khalsa College Gurusar Sadhar Ludhiana was declared the best dancer, whereas second and third positions went to Ramandeep, Chandigarh University and Asish, Anakhi Mutiyaraa. The live telecast of the event was shown on YouTube channels of the college along with TV channels.On this occasion, a letter of appreciation was awarded to late Dr Inderjit Singh which was received by his daughter Prof. Ekjot Kaur. In addition, Lifetime Achievement Award was given to folk singer Sarabjit Singh Cheema and renowned Bhangra artiste and Bhangra director Jagdeep Singh Goga for their contribution to Punjabi folk dance Bhangra. Apart from this all the participating teams were given a prize of Rs. 11000 each by the College Governing Council.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bhangra-world-cup-in-jalandhar-revives-folk-tradition-of-punjab-329298
25-10-2021||---||5 fresh Covid cases reported in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 24In a consistent rise in the cases, the city saw five new Covid cases today. With six cases yesterday, as many as 11 cases have been witnessed in just two days. With five new Covid cases reported today in the Jalandhar district, the total tally has risen to 63,376 cases. In Jalandhar, no new Covid death was reported either and the district deceased tally remained 1,495 today. As many as 61,852 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 29. Of the 17,27,509 samples collected in the district so far, 15,91,728 samples have tested negative. Results of as many as 1,607 samples is awaited.All well in KapurthalaNo new case of Covid was reported in Kapurthala today as the Covid tally reached 17,850. No death from Covid was reported from Kapurthala today either.No case, death in HoshiarpurNo new Covid case was reported from the district on Sunday, keeping the Covid tally unchanged at 30,812. Also, no death was reported from the district. There are 12 active cases in the district at present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/5-fresh-covid-cases-reported-in-jalandhar-329299
25-10-2021||---||Dengue figures spiral in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 24The total number of dengue cases in Jalandhar has now risen to 203. With 30 more cases in the district on Saturday, Jalandhar is also emerging as a dengue hotspot. Notably, four persons suspected of dengue have also died in the district.On Saturday, as many as 62 samples were tested by health teams for dengue, of which 30 tested positive. Of these, 17 are from the urban areas and eight from rural areas. The rest of the samples are from patients of other districts.Notably, four persons have lost their lives to dengue in district. The four cases include a 28-year-old, who died a few days ago, a 42-year-old man from Bhargo Camp, who died in September and an eight-year-old child from Chandan Nagar. Another child also died of dengue in October. An 11-year-old child from Sodal Nagar, son of a businessman died on October 11.Of the 178 cases of dengue reported in the district until October 21, as many as 121 were from the urban areas and 57 are from rural areas. So far, 679 samples of dengue suspects have been carried out in the district of which total 203 have tested positive. As per reports, a majority of dengue cases are from rural areas. Until October 21, Barapind reported 20 cases, Kartarpur (12 cases) and Jamsher and Basti Danishmandan (9 cases each).In rural areas, cases came mainly from Barapind, Kartarpur, Jamsher, Mehatpur, Shahkot, Kala Bakra, Adampur and Jandiala. Meanwhile, among urban areas, Basti Danishmandan, Bhargo Camp, Sodal Nagar, Shatri Nagar, Basti Sheikh and Mohalla Gobindgarh as well as Kisanpura and Gopal Nagar reported most cases.Meanwhile health teams said fogging was also being carried out regularly by MC teams and health teams were inspecting affected areas.Anti-larval and spraying measures were also being taken in affected areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dengue-figures-spiral-in-jalandhar-329300
25-10-2021||Jalandhar||Give backward classes same status as SCs: BC commission||Amid political instability in the state ahead of the 2022 Assembly elections, a state-level meeting of the Punjab State Commission for Backward Classes (BC), was conducted in the district.As per sources, the members of the commission have urged CM Charanjit Channi to implement the Backward Classes Act in the state, giving the community an equal status as that to Scheduled Caste. The members also sought reservation for BC leaders in each district on at least one seat.The meeting of the commission was held at the residence of Yashpal Dhiman, district-based member of the commission, at Lajpat Nagar, Jalandhar.The commission members passed the agenda of presenting the BC Act to be enacted by the state government. With regard to this, recommendations were forwarded to the CM to pass the Act, which provides equal rights and reservation as provided under the SC Act, 1989.“The objectives of the Act clearly emphasise the intention of the government to deliver justice to these communities through proactive efforts to enable them to live in society with dignity and self-esteem and without fear, violence or suppression from the dominant castes. The practice of untouchability, in its overt and covert form, was made a cognisable and non-compoundable offence and strict punishment is provided for any such offence. Grievances received by the commission under the Act from across the state were also discussed during the meeting and necessary actions were ordered to resolve these. It was among the main agendas discussed in the meeting,” said Yashpal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/give-backward-classes-same-status-as-scs-bc-commission-329301
25-10-2021||---||‘Kalash yatra’ for Lakhimpur violence victims in Doaba belt||Jalandhar, October 24The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha organised “Kalash Yatra” of the farmers martyred in Lakhimpur Kheri in the Doaba belt of Punjab. While passing through various districts, it reached Jalandhar city on Saturday. The Azaad Kisan Sangharsh Committee (Punjab) and EduYouth Foundation (regd.) received the “kalash yatra” at Gurudwara Sri Guru Amardas, Defence Colony, Jalandhar.Sanyukt Kisan Morcha leaders Manjit Singh Rai, Mukesh Chander, Jangvir Chauhan and Prof Kanwar Sartaj Singh accompanied the yatra and encouraged the local residents to support the farmers’ protest in large numbers.Prof Kanwar Sartaj Singh asked locals to support farmers in their protest against three farm laws. “It’s been almost 11 months since farmers started its agitation peacefully at Delhi borders and more than 650 farmers have lost their lives since. The government must take back the controversial farm laws and ensure that the MSP was given on all crops,” added Sartaj.While paying respects to the farmers who lost their lives in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, the farm leaders said, “The farmers are the lifeline and backbone of the country’s economy and they must not be treated in such a way. The demands should be met as soon as possible so that everyone can return to their homes and they must not suffer anymore.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kalash-yatra-for-lakhimpur-violence-victims-in-doaba-belt-329310
25-10-2021||Incentivise celebrating a cracker-free Diwali||Open House:  Do you think it is the sole responsibility of the administration to curb pollution?||Let us take a vow to welcome the festival of lights with cheer in our eyes and heart without bursting crackers. We need to wake up from deep slumber and save our flora and fauna by celebrating green and healthy Diwali. The administrators should handle the situation innovatively and efficiently. Incentives should be extended to the people who celebrate cracker-free Diwali. Awareness campaigns should be organised to educate the people residing in hinterlands about the hazards of playing with firecrackers. Celebrities and intellectuals should be roped in to encourage people to celebrate Diwali in a harmonious manner. Moreover, the vendors should not be permitted to sell dangerous and heavy crackers which harm the health and hygiene of the ecosystem. Still, if people don’t understand and spoil the ecological fabric, the government should handle the situation with an iron hand before it is too late. Environmental protection laws should be implemented in letter and spirit to rein in the culprits. Last but not the least, the common men should also come forward and show some responsibility to help the administration to safeguard the lungs and liver of the nature. Let us take a vow to gift a plant sapling to our loved ones to increase our eco-footprint and help reduce the pollution through our small but meaningful steps.Simranjeet Singh SainiInstead, spend time with family & friendsCome winter, the whole NCR region and its surrounding areas will be enveloped in the toxic smog blanket, primarily due to stubble burning, industrial waste and burgeoning vehicular traffic. This deteriorating environmental condition is further compounded by the celebration of Dasehra and Diwali. The rising pollution level is detrimental to human health, ecology and economic prospects, especially in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The environment and health analysts have long drawn attention to the worsening air quality in the state. The government, NGOs and civil society organisations have been continuously campaigning against the prevailing appalling issue. Every year, ahead of these festivals, the local administration makes tall claims about its preparedness to check the menace but without much durable success. All appeals and warnings fall on deaf ears and people flout rules with impunity. Isn’t it a mockery of democratic functioning? Are we a civilised society or mere psychopaths? Does it behove the proud inheritors of a rich cultural legacy to behave irresponsibly? People should rise above narrow religious dogmas. They should realise that Diwali is a sacred occasion to spend quality time with family and friends, exchange sweets and light earthen lamps and candles. On the governmental front, it is imperative to have the correct combination of political will, appropriate implementation and a strong compliance mechanism to address the problem. Moreover, the authorities should focus on sensitising people to embrace green Diwali. Let us all earnestly contribute towards making our environment neat, clean and safe for future generations.Tajpreet S KangOrganise community laser showsThe festive season has begun. Diwali is celebrated every year with enthusiasm and joy across the country. However, certain unwanted bad practices such as gambling, extravagant parties and influencing men in position with expensive gifts to serve the vested interests have cropped up in the society. Such vicious trends have given rise to many evils and malpractices in our human relations. On Diwali night, crackers are burst everywhere which leads to mishaps apart from polluting the air. In the wake of grossly deteriorating air pollution index (API), even the strict restrictions imposed by the NGT and PCBs to save environment go haywire. It is the responsibility of each one of us to be serious about the problem. While the crackers with harmful chemicals are banned ab-initio, the government should organise community laser-shows and arrange common display of green fireworks only. To prevent the eventual outages, it should rather firmly enforce the ban. The cracker selling ships as well as the firework manufacturing concerns is forewarned to shut down and the violators are dealt with carrot and stick policy. Surely, the mindset has to be rechristened for other options to make merriment than giving room to severe health hazards by aggravating the environments issues. The health and life of the citizens has more significance than momentary pleasure of few hours! As preventive measures, NGOs and civic societies be proactively involved to sensitise the public at grass root level about the ill-effects of poisonous gases and chemicals emanating on bursting crackers. To lead better lives, we all should realise the essence to maintain air quality and avoid pollution, lest the ban without enforcement, will merely be a farce!Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathHighlight ill-effects of pollution on healthThough the adminstration had miserable failed to control the pollution owing bursting of crackers, we all are also responsible for not abiding the laws of land. A wide publicity and awareness is required to highlight the effects of pollution on health of children and elderly. Schools and colleges should also take responsibility to make the students aware of the dangers of pollution and accident during cracker bursting. Anyone violating any law must be punished severely and penalised heavily. Law and order enforcing agencies must ensure that laws breakers are challaned.GS BhullarImpose blanket ban on use, sale of crackersDiwali is coming and every year we pledge to celebrate cracker-free and noise free. All measures taken every year to ban or to lessen the pollution ultimately don’t produce desired results. Fire crackers are one of the main reasons for alarmingly increased air pollution in the country. There should be blanket ban on the use and sale of any kind of crackers. Toxic air quality, chemical hazard, noise pollution and almost every year people met with fatal accidents. It leads to respiratory problems, causes sleepless and restless nights. The condition of the workers working in these cracker factories is pathetic. They work there 24 hours to meet the demand in a very bad condition in chemicals. Crores of rupees are spent every year to burn these crackers but the money spent on this temporary happiness can be spent on good cause to bring permanent smile on some. Banning completely seemed to be the only option left. Instead of banning the government should take an action to close these units and the workers working there should be employed somewhere. It is not only the government duty; we should also cooperate in this mammoth task. This Diwali enlighten your house with low cost led lights.Shashi KiranCrackers lead to health problemsAlong with the administration, the masses are also responsible for this. Though Hon’ble Supreme Court of India has appealed to the masses to refrain from burning crackers, the administration allows the burning of crackers for a few hours. The masses visit to their nears and dears and exchange gifts on the eve of Diwali but at night bursting crackers upsets the pollution level and creates problems for those who are suffering from asthmatic, bronchitis face problems due to pollution. To curb the menace, the administration can only frame laws but implementing it is the real issue. Citizens should to come forward in supporting eco-friendly ways to celebrate Diwali this year.Rajat Kumar MohindruEnsure that citizens breathe in clean airThe ever-worsening situation of air pollution in the entire northern India, particularly the NCR region, has assumed alarming proportions that adversely impacts public health, environment and economy. Along with faulty garbage management, industrial smoke, dust and vehicular traffic, stubble burning, coal-fired power plants, the brazen bursting of fire crackers on Dasehra and Diwali contributes to the pollution conundrum. Despite the restrictions imposed by the National Green Tribunal and the Supreme Court, people celebrate these festive occasions with much fanfare and extravaganza. From time to time, the government has taken umpteen noble initiatives and policy measures to reduce the deteriorating level of air quality index (AQI). But due to absence of adequate legal framework and ambiguity about implantation, the problem continues to persist. Still more needs to be done. It is the joint moral and constitutional responsibility of the district authorities and the general public to address it on priority basis. It is beyond comprehension why the government does not put a blanket ban on the production, sale and use of traditional fire crackers. At least, the administration should tighten the noose on unauthorised cracker manufacturing units and the shopkeepers selling the stuff without license. It should fix time for bursting crackers and take strict penal action against the obdurate young violators. We need prepare a comprehensive, integrated and long-term plan of action to address the grave issue. Promoting green, eco-friendly festivities will ensure that citizens breathe in cleaner air.D S KangBronchitis, asthma patients worst hitDiwali is a special festival celebrated not only in India but world over but the burning of crackers on the occasion is not a good thing. It not only causes air and noise pollution but also damages vital organs of the body like eyes. During my tenure at CH, Jalandhar and Kapurthala, I used to be busy whole day and night attending to all such injuries cases during Diwali. There are some eco-friendly crackers but youngsters only like strong and noisy crackers. In the US, during special occasions, the local authorities earmark the places where different types of fireworks and crackers can be burnt. But these firecrackers are not allowed to use in homes or streets. The administration should follow those guidelines to save people from such troubles. People with bronchitis and asthma are the worst hit. The government should be strict on this and people should co-operate with the administration. We should buy good sweets, good clothes and decorate our homes.Dr JS WadhwaUnderstand value of clean environmentCelebrating eco-friendly Diwali is not a sole responsibility of the administration but a collective endeavour of society in general. There is an urgent need of understanding the value of clean environment in our lives and those festivities which are harmful to public health directly or indirectly need a serious introspection. Diwali, no doubt, is a major festival with wide ramifications in our social, religious and cultural ethos but we have to redefine it in the context of changing circumstances. The public must not only cooperate with the administration but is also under unflinching obligation to keep pollution free environment during Diwali celebrations. School teachers and the parents can play a significant role in convincing their students/ wards to say no to crackers. The public must shun traditional methods of burning oil lamps and candles to replace them with electrical lighting which look more beautiful and is eco- friendly too. The administration must ensure fully enforceable prohibition in the matter of manufacturing, distribution, sale and purchase of all types of crackers responsible for air and noise pollution. The administration must encourage community gatherings at carefully chosen sites to carry out symbolic celebrations of Diwali under a regulated regime.Jagdish ChanderActive, aware citizenry can play an effective roleQUESTIONWrong parking of vehicles, temporary encroachments, illegal cuts on roads and wrong side driving are common problems ailing the city traffic. What steps should be taken to solve traffic congestion on city roads, especially during the current festive season?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (October 28)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/open-house-do-you-think-it-is-the-sole-responsibility-of-the-administration-to-curb-pollution-329316
25-10-2021||Jalandhar||Park named after martyr Kulwinder Singh inaugurated in Jalandhar village||MP Chaudhary Santokh Singh today exhorted the NRIs to play a proactive role in the social and economic development of the state.The MP, accompanied by former MP and Chairman Punjab Technical Education Board Mohinder Singh Kay Pee, MLAs Sushil Kumar Rinku and Chaudhary Surinder Singh, was here to inaugurate a park named after martyr Naik Kulwinder Singh who attained martyrdom during a terrorist operation. The park has been developed by NRI Amolak Singh Gakhal after transforming a village pond.Lauding the role of NRIs, the MP said NRIs have by their sheer hard work and dedication carved a niche for themselves across the globe.He said that such concerted efforts are need of the hour so that the state can be further put on the high growth trajectory. The MP said the state government is leaving no stone unturned holistic development of the state.Chaudhry Santokh Singh also lauded NRI Amolak Singh Gakhal and his all associates for this path breaking initiative.Describing the park as tribute to martyr Naik Kulwinder Singh, the MP said the braveheart had sacrificed his life while defending the honour and integrity of the country.In his address, MLAs Sushi Kumar Rinku and Chaudhary Surinder Singh also lauded the role being played by NRIs in the social-economic development of the state. Amolak Singh Gakhal revealed that he has spent Rs 2.5 crore for transforming the village pond into this beautiful park. He said for this purpose sewerage pipes were laid in entire village and disposal of waste water was ensured outside the village by constructing a new pond. Gakhal also thanked all dignitaries for joining them on the occasion of dedicating this park. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/park-named-after-martyr-kulwinder-singh-inaugurated-in-jalandhar-village-329317
25-10-2021||Jalandhar||Sportspersons felicitated at DAV University||Punjab Sports and Higher Education Minister Pargat Singh felicitated national and international sports medalists of DAV University on Saturday. The minister and former Indian hockey team captain was received by university officials, including Vice-Chancellor Dr Jasbir Rishi, Executive Director Rajan Gupta, Registrar Dr KN Kaul, Dean (Academics) Dr RK Seth and Deputy Director (Sports) Dr Yeshbeer Singh.Displaying a true sportsmanship, the minister headed straight to the university playground and witnessed an ongoing cricket match. He also interacted with players and the faculty of the Sports Department of the university.Following university students were honoured by the minister:Judo: Sanyogita Singh (silver medalist, Commonwealth Championship-2018; gold medalist, Khelo India-2018, bronze medalist, cadet and junior national-2019); Prachi Panwar (SGFI national bronze medalist-2018-19); Yeshvir Singh (Common Wealth Championship silver 2018, Khelo India Gold 2019); Vikram Singh (Khelo India silver medal 2019).Equestrian: Akash (gold medalist, Junior National Equestrian Championship 2020-21 and gold medalist in Junior National Equestrian Championship 2019-20)Taekwondo: Syed Taha (Olympic ranked international taekwondo player 2019); Tamanna Dhiman (open international participation in taekwondo 2019, black dan 1 holder, 2021 grand finale talent show taekwondo winner)Power lifting: Roshni (National gold 2021); Aadesh (National silver 2019; Rohit (National bronze 2019); Akshay (National bronze 2019)Kho-Kho: Navin Kumar (National gold 2019); Arun (National bronze medal 2019; Happy (Junior national gold 2015 Gujarat, All India University gold 2015 Orissa, All India university silver 2014 GNDU, Junior national gold 2012); Harpreet Kaur (third in Junior Asian Championship, Hong Kong, 2014, participation in World University South Korea 2015). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sportspersons-felicitated-at-dav-university-329318
25-10-2021||Hoshiarpur||Road accident: Case registered||Labourer dies in road mishapHoshiarpur: A migrant labourer, Sandeep, was killed after being hit by an unidentified vehicle here on Saturday. Garhdiwala police have registered a case in this regard. Kashmir Singh, a resident of Mastiwal village, told the police that Sandeep Singh, alias Zulfi, had been working in his dairy for about six years. The state to which Sandeep, alias Zulfi, originally belonged to, is not yet known. A case has been registered. OCFour arrested with drugsHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested four persons after recovering a huge quantity of narcotics from different places. Mehtiana police arrested Jaspreet Singh and recovered a huge quantity of sedative pills from him. While Garhshankar police have arrested Rajesh Kumar and Ashni Kumar and recovered a huge quantity of sedative capsules from them. Similarly, Tanda police arrested Gurcharan and recovered a huge quantity of sedative capsules from him. OCTwo arrested with intoxicantsHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested three smugglers recovering intoxicating powder from them. Garhdiwala police have arrested Preet Singh and Sarvjit Singh and recovered 40 grams of powder from them. Mukerian police have recovered 12 grams of powder and arrested Mukerian resident Vinod Kuma. Separate cases under the NDPS Act have been registered against them. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/road-accident-case-registered-329320
