26-10-2021||Jalandhar||Suvidha camps for pension cases||2 mobiles found in jail, 4 bookedHoshiarpur: Central Jail authorities lodged a complaint against four inmates after they recovered two mobile phones from the jail premises in the last 24 hours. Two cases have been registered on the complaint of Assistant Superintendent of Police, District Jail, Surinderpal Singh and Sarvjeet Singh by the city police. Officials of the jail said one mobile phone was recovered from Imtyaz Ahmad and Imran Ahmed, both residents of Rampur in Uttar Pradesh, in Barrack No.17. Similarly, during the search of Barrack No.13, the officials recovered another mobile from Gurpreet Singh, alias Khalsa, a resident of Jalandhar, and Sandeep Kumar, alias Ravi Balachauriya, a resident of Rampur Bilron. OCNarcotics seized, seven arrestedHoshiarpur: The district police arrested seven smugglers with a huge quantity of narcotics from different places here during the last 24 hours. The city police have arrested Bhavuk Sharma and seized 135 grams of intoxicating powder from him. While Mahilpur police recovered 70 grams of heroin and arrested two accused — Kulwinder Singh, alias Babbu,and Jasvir Singh, alias Mika. Similarly, Tanda police recovered 12 grams of heroin from Sukhjinder while Hajipur police seized 27 grams of intoxicating powder and arrested Naseeb Singh. Mukerian police recovered 58 grams of charas and arrested the accused, identified as Pawan Kumar. Dasuya police arrested Ravinder Singh, alias Deesha, and seized 21 grams of intoxicating powder from him. OCWoman among 5 booked for theftHoshiarpur: Bullowal police booked five accused, including a woman, for allegedly threatening and stealing cash and gold from a house in the last 24 hours. Sher Ali, a resident of Pyalan village, told the police that Nazo and Sarju, both residents of his village, Saif Ali, a resident of Jalandhar, and Hazur Ali Sheefa, a resident of Badowal, allegedly stole Rs 50,000 cash and gold from his house and also threatened her. The police have registered a case. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/suvidha-camps-for-pension-cases-329845
26-10-2021||Jalandhar||Junior National Wushu Championship||World Information Development DayThe Department of IT of Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus observed World Information Development Day. On this special occasion, the department of IT organised three events -- power point presentation, app demonstration and creative design. The main objectives of these events were to focus on improving the dissemination of information and mobilising public opinion among the students and to draw their attention and create awareness of problems surrounding development, promoting efforts in the field of international corporation for growth and development.Dengue awareness campaignBowry Memorial Educational and Medical Trust made the students of Innocent Hearts Group aware regarding mosquito-borne viral infection dengue, which is rapidly spreading in children due to climatic changes. Dr Nupur Sood, (Consultant Paediatrician, Innocent Hearts Multispecialty Hospital) shared some basic symptoms, causes and prevention measures of dengue. She stated that fever with cough, vomiting, pain in stomach, nausea, headache and rashes all are the symptoms of dengue fever. Efficient and accurate diagnosis of dengue is of primary importance for proper treatment of patient.Budding journalists honouredKanya Maha Vidyalaya felicitated the students of Post Graduate Department of Journalism and Mass Communication on receiving much acclaim for their contributions to various forms of media. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi honoured all the students who have been contributing immensely in social development and imparting meaningful thinking to the people with their writings that are being published daily in various newspapers. Students named Davinder Kaur, Agam Garg, Sakshi Sharma, Kirandeep Kaur, Manpreet Kaur, Jasmeen Kaur, Palwinder Kaur, Ishmit Kaur and Rupinder Kaur are among the achievers.Cyber Awareness Day observedThe IT Forum of the Department of Computer Science of Apeejay College of Fine Arts observed Cyber Awareness Day. On this occasion, poster presentation competition was organised. Dr Neerja Dhingra acted as the chief guest and addressing the young brigade of students opined that everybody has an easy access to Internet in this concurrent world. In fact, internet is relied upon for every sector of our respective lives. In this scenario, it is essential for us to be aware of the risks which it involves. People should be aware of possible hacking, saving confidential passwords, giving access to their devices while using websites.Essay Writing CompetitionAn Inter-Class essay writing competition was organised by Amrita Pritam Sahit Sabha (Punjabi Department) on the birth anniversary of Guru RamDas. The topic of the essay was “Life and Compositions of Guru Ramdas ji”. In this competition, 27 students from different streams participated enthusiastically. The students who gained first, second and third positions were awarded by prizes. The members of the managing committee and Principal Dr Pooja Prashar congratulated the winners.Webinar on Yoga at doaba collegeThe Alumni Association of Doaba College, Jalandhar, in collaboration with AR Holdings UK and S-VYASA Yoga University, Bangalore, organised a webinar on “Yoga as Cure and Preventive Medicine” under the stewardship of Principal Dr Pardeep Bhandari. Dr NK Manjunath, Pro-Vice Chancellor S-VYASA University, Bengaluru, and Manoj Thakur, MD, Vyasa Yoga, Singapore, graced the occasion as resource persons for the event. Dr Manjunath shed light on the topic through his presentation that described yoga as a cure and preventive medicine for various diseases like depression, diabetes, cancer, etc.Talk on news weeklyUnder Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat (EBSB) programme launched by the CBSE, Shiv Jyoti Public School organised a special morning assembly in which around 40 students along with the teachers took part in teacher-students talk on ‘Current affairs News weekly of Andhra Pradesh and Punjab’ in English, Punjabi and Hindi languages. Co-associate teachers of Samridhi House Vaishali and Nidhi made the students aware about the importance of ‘Current affairs news’.Zara excels in swimming c’shipIvy World School under the aegis of the Vasal Education Society, feels proud to announce the remarkable feat achieved by Zara Chaudhary of Grade -2 in Punjab State Swimming Champhionship, organised at Mohali. She has brought laurels to the school by winning the gold medal in U 11 backstroke 50 m and the silver medal in under 11 freestyle 50 m swimming. Achievers from all over the state came to participate in this remarkable event. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/junior-national-wushu-championship-329844
26-10-2021||Jalandhar||NHM contract staff meet OP Soni, seek more pay||A delegation of the contractual employees, working under the National Health Mission (NHM), today met Deputy CM and Health and Family Welfare Minister OP Soni. Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, state president, NHM Employees Union Punjab and union member Yogesh Sachdeva told the minister that the contractual and outsourced employees, working under the NHM, Punjab, for the past 15 to 16 years had been receiving meagre salaries.They said as many as 11,000 such clerical, medical and paramedical employees were working in the department for the past 15 to 16 years.They also said every time, assurances of regularising them were meted out by the governments but the promise was never kept and none of the employees making the demands has been regularised as yet.They said with meagre salaries and rising inflation, making ends meet had become an uphill task for them. They said they were working not just on week days but also on holidays. They sought regularisation on a priority basis for the state’s contractual NHM employees from the health minister and sought regular pay scales for these employees.They also said during Covid pandemic, they had worked day and night to ensure facilities and reach of health services to the common public. The minister assured them of solving their issues soon. Dr Sumit Kapahi, Dr Rohit Kalra and Dr Sandeep were also present on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nhm-contract-staff-meet-op-soni-seek-more-pay-329843
26-10-2021||Jalandhar||Athletics meet concludes||Government schoolteachers won three medals in the Punjab Master Athletics Meet, which concluded on Monday in Sangrur. While Regwinder Singh Bhatia, lecturer of Physical Education, bagged the second spot in 200m race and third spot in 100m race; Brij Lal, lecturer, physical education, GSSS, Binpalke, Jalandhar, won one silver in 10,000m race and one bronze medal in 5,000m race.The athletics meet was held beween October 23 to 25. Heera Lal, DPE, won two silver medals in 400mts and 800mts race. As many as 450 people participated in the race. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/athletics-meet-concludes-329842
26-10-2021||---||Hoshiarpur Civil Surgeon meets health officials||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, October 25A special meeting of all programme officers of the district and senior medical officers posted at the health institutions was held at the office of the Civil Surgeon under the chairmanship of newly-appointed Civil Surgeon (CMO) Dr Parminder Kaur. The meeting was attended by assistant Civil Surgeon Dr Pawan Kumar, District Family Welfare Officer Dr Sunil Ahir, District Health Officer Dr Lakhvir Singh, District Immunisation Officer Dr Seema Garg, SMO Dr Jaswinder Singh and SMOs of subdivision hospitals Garhshankar, Dasuya and Mukerian.Dr Parminder Kaur was informed about the health services being provided by the health centres in the district as well as their problems.Dr Parminder Kaur. instructed the present authorities to expedite the information, education and communication (IEC) activities and focus on sampling and vaccination and to create awareness among the people about the situation of Covid-19 and dengue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-civil-surgeon-meets-health-officials-329841
26-10-2021||---||Extension Lecture at DAV College of Education, Hoshiarpur||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, October 25Skill-in-Teaching Committee of the DAV College of Education, Hoshiarpur, organised an extension lecture on “Emergence of Smart Education System in Government Schools of Punjab”. Sukhwinder Singh, District Resource Person, Hoshiarpur and Chander Prakash Singh, Promoter of Smart Schools and New Education Techniques in Elementary Schools were the resource persons. Faculty members and students of MEd and BEd participated in the seminar. Sukhwinder Singh highlighted the traditional and modern system of education. He asserted about the usage of the Punjab Educare App, National Achievement Survey (NAS), Punjab Achievement Survey (PAS) and National Talent Search Exam (NTSE). Chander Praksh shed light on the smart infrastructure available in the Govt.Schools and said that the teachers are using modern techniques of teaching to make the teaching-learning process effective. Principal Dr Vidhi Bhalla extended the vote of thanks and said that teacher-trainees can take the benefit of Punjab Educare App during the internship and can consult the e-books for lesson planning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/extension-lecture-at-dav-college-of-education-hoshiarpur-329840
26-10-2021||---||E-week begins at IKGPTU||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 25“Concentration, contemplation and meditation are the generators of new ideas. Students have to work on these. Take the example of technology in life. See the daily innovations and ideations of various companies surround you like technology master Apple never stops.It keeps giving you one new app or function after another. This is the specialty of success today,” said Ramesh Kumar Ganta, Principal Secretary Technical Education and Industrial Training Department, Punjab and Vice-Chancellor of IK Gujral Punjab Technical University while addressing the entrepreneur week (E-Week) which started today.Presiding over the function, University Registrar Jaspreet Singh, who is also the Additional Deputy Commissioner, said internet was becoming the basis of GDP growth of the world. Recalling an incident during his engineering studies, he said his idea was that it would be better if the traffic lights (signals) did not indicate traffic according to the time, but based on the number of vehicles. Because sometimes the number of vehicles is more on one side. In such a situation, there should be a number of vehicle-based signals through RIDF technology so that the chances of traffic jams are less and today Chandigarh is following it.On the first day of the function, two guest speakers met the students. Among them was Harit Mohan, Founder and CEO, Signicent India, and Akshit Goyal, owner of Shagun Group and alumnus of the university. Harit spoke on how to start a profitable and innovative business and Goyal delivered an interactive session on business development and entrepreneurship.The welcome address at the function was read out by Navdeepak Sandhu, Deputy Director, Corporate Relations and Alumni Department of the university. The e-week brochure was also launched on the occasion. This week is being celebrated by the Institutional Innovation Council (IIC) and e-Cell jointly.Among the students, Akanksha of third year, Harshita of fifth semester and Shubham Kumari of third semester performed excellently during the culture event. University faculty and students were present at the function.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/e-week-begins-at-ikgptu-329838
26-10-2021||---||Jalandhar: 74 out of 203 dengue cases reported are from other districts||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 25There has been a dramatic rise in the number of dengue cases being reported in the district with as many as 203 cases registered until Saturday. Besides, a number of cases from other districts and peripherial areas are also being reported in the district.Of the 203 samples found positive in Jalandhar, as many as 74 are from other districts. As per the Health Department, a majority of the samples were taken from Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur districts.In the last one week (since October 21), of the 42 samples tested positive in Jalandhar, 11 are from other districts. On October 21, of the 70 samples tested at the Civil Hospital, 18 tested positive. Of the 18, 12 were from Jalandhar and six from other districts (Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur). Similarly, on October 23, as many as 62 samples were taken out of which 30 tested positive. Of these, 25 were from Jalandhar and five from other districts (Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur). A large number of these samples being tested at the Civil Hospital also include samples from private hospitals.Notably, of the total 203 samples tested positive in Jalandhar, 65 are from rural areas and the rest are from urban areas. A number of congested Jalandhar localities in both urban and rural areas which had little or no cases until September suddenly reported a large number of cases since mid-September and all through October.The areas which have emerged as primary hotspots in rural areas include Barapind, Jandiala, Bilga, Jamsher, Adampur, Kala Bakra, Kartarpur, Mehatpur and Shahkot. Urban hotspots include Basti Danishmandan, Bhargo Camp, Avtar Nagar, Sodal Nagar, Basti Sheikh, Shastri Nagar, among others. During surveys and door-to-door drives, health teams on Monday visited areas like Basti Danishmandan, Guru Tegh Bahadur Nagar, Raseela Nagar and Preet Nagar, among other areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-74-out-of-203-dengue-cases-reported-are-from-other-districts-329837
26-10-2021||---||She beats her blues with gardening||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 25The pandemic sparked a global gardening obsession, with many growing their own produce for the first time. With more time at one’s disposal, a large number of city residents adopted healthy hobbies and taking interest in nurturing their kitchen gardens on terrace or balconies. Likewise, Rita Chahal (60), a resident of Urban Estate phase-1 is also nurturing a garden on her terrace garden.The unfortunate demise of her husband in November 2019, pushed her into depression. She didn’t want to do much and was unable to find any way to express her grief. However, the Covid-19 outbreak in March 2020, followed by lockdown, compelled her to get over the depression and also rejuvenated her to put her interests in the front seat.Living alone in the lockdown was the saddest thing but, as people around the world turned to gardening as a soothing hobby, I also took out my tools to turn my terrace into a flower bed. Its been almost a year, since I’m maintaining my roof top garden, now I don’t feel like leaving my garden space in the morning and sit back again in the closed rooms. Nothing tastes better than a veggie you have grown yourself, nothing looks better than watching your plant grow into beautiful flowers”, added Chahal.Apart from the terrace garden, she also has a small lawn area and a space from green vegetables. She says, tending to her plants and reaping them gives her a sense of pride. Rita spends 2-3 hours every day to maintain or water her plants. She has even trained her servant on how to keep the plants healthy and nourished, so that in her absence, he could take care of them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/she-beats-her-blues-with-gardening-329832
26-10-2021||Jalandhar||Surjit hockey: RCF eliminated after draw||On Day 3 of the ongoing Surjit Hockey Tournament being organised at Katoch AstroTurf Hockey Stadium in Jalandhar Cantonment, Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala, held Army XI 3-3 and split one point each. Army XI’s Harman Singh scored the first hat-trick of the tournament.With this, Kapurthala RCF got eliminated from the tournament as they had lost their first match to Punjab Police on Day 1. Army XI will play their last match against Punjab Police. For Army XI Harman Singh scored in 8th, 32nd and 47th minute. For Rail Coach Factory, Arjun Sharma scored in 38th minute, Karanpal in 49th minute and Rajin Kandulna in 60th minute.PNB beat Indian Navy 3-2In the second match, Punjab National Bank beat Indian Navy 3-2 to earn three points. Punjab National Bank took lead in 5th minute with penalty corner conversion by Bhagat Singh Dhillon. In 6th minute, Indian Navy equalised as their Aakib Rahim converted penalty corner (1-1). In the 22nd minute of play, PNB’s Bhagat Singh Dhillon again converted a penalty corner (2-1). In 54th minute, PNB’s Gursimran Singh netted the ball from penalty corner (3-1). In 56th minute, Indian Navy’s Nitish converted the penalty corner to reduce the margin (2-3). — TNSToday’s matchesIndian Oil Mumbai vs Indian Navy Mumbai: 2 pmCAG Delhi vs CRPF Delhi: 3.30 pm||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/surjit-hockey-rcf-eliminated-after-draw-329828
26-10-2021||---||Man on mission to preserve, promote Punjabi reaches Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 25On a mission to preserve Punjabi language and culture, a Mansa-based Tejinder Singh (38) reached the district today. He has been pedalling his bicycle across the state to promote the language among youngsters. During his visit to several government schools, he is also donating a wooden sculpture with engraved Punjabi alphabets.Tejinder daily pedals around 130 kilometres and visits like-minded people or associations working in the field of Punjabi literature. He says, he launches this mission every year, however it was cancelled due to lockdown last year and he participated in the farmers protest last year.He has so far covered around 70-80 schools and met hundreds of teachers. The Education Department today also appreciated him for his mission and assured him that the department would issue a letter to all government schools to join hands with him on his mission to propagate the Punjabi language.While he has so far covered the entire Malwa region, he would finish his journey by November 2, that he started on October 14.Highlighting the minor or optional status given to Punjabi in the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) board affiliated schools, Tejinder stated that, in 2008, a law was passed in the state assembly mentioning it was mandatory to teach Punjabi as a subject (to students from Classes I-X), in each school of the state, failing which NOC of the the schools were withdrawn. “Hence, I urge, the state Education Department to take action against the schools, not adhering to guidelines related to Punjabi,” added Tejinder.Today, he met Joginder Pal Singh, Chief Sewadar Khalsa Naujwan Sewa Society, Gurdarshan Singh, Arminder Singh, Prabhdeep Singh Khalsa and other members.A postgraduate and BEd in Punjabi language, Tejinder’s mission is to cover as many regions and schools in the state to encourage the use of the language. In addition, he has been fixing placards with slogans such as ‘Punjabi meri aan hai’, meri shan hai’ and ‘Apni boli, apna maan’ at every bus stand.Upset with the performance of board students in the Punjabi subject under the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) and the continuous decline of Punjabi language, he had commenced a similar journey in 2019 and received tremendous support and response from the people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-on-mission-to-preserve-promote-punjabi-reaches-jalandhar-329823
26-10-2021||---||4 new cases of Covid, 1 death in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 25In a consistent rise in cases of Covid, the district saw four new Covid cases today. With this, the total tally has risen to 63,380 cases. With another Covid death reported in Jalandhar today, the total deceased tally has reached 1,496 today. As many as 61,855 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 29. Of the 17,28,483 samples collected in the district so far, 15,94,638 samples have tested negative. The result of as many as 164 tests is awaited.All well in KapurthalaNo new Covid case was reported in Kapurthala on Monday as the Covid tally reached 17,850. No death due to Covid was reported here either.1 new case in HoshiarpurOne new Covid case was reported from the district on Monday, taking the Covid tally to 30,813. whereas, no death was reported from the district. There are 11 active cases in the district at present while 29,818 persons have recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-new-cases-of-covid-1-death-in-jalandhar-district-329821
26-10-2021||---||Dengue stings harder in Kapurthala, 484 cases recorded||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 25Various samples of dengue were collected by the health team in Kapurthala on Monday. Notably, the total number of dengue cases in Kapurthala has reached 484. A majority of the cases are from the Bholath area.The health teams today visited several homes and conducted checks at the Lahori Gate, Malkana Mohalla, Kesri Bagh, Shehria Mohalla, Topkhana, Aman Nagar, Preet Nagar, among other areas. Epidemiologist Dr Nandika Khullar said dengue larvae were found at the Lahori Gate, which were destroyed by the Health Department teams. With the recent rains, Dr Nandika also appealed to residents to ensure that not water was left standing around their homes and their surroundings were cleared of all water accumulation. She also asked residents to remain covered and to abide by dry day regulations strictly.The health teams also appealed to people to report to a doctor immediately the moment they experience symptoms of fever and viral.A majority of these dengue cases in Kapurthala have been reported in the past two months and most of them have been reported from the Bholath region.Coolers, vases, tyres, refrigerator trays, open rooftop utensils etc. have been found to be the prime breeding grounds of dengue mosquito. The health teams said the majority of the cases were being reported from people belonging to such poor strata that they don’t even know how to spell the names of their villages and localities.The rise in dengue cases was primarily seen from the month of July after which cases dropped in August and a steep hike was again witnessed in September and October. Kapurthala had merely two cases (each) of dengue in May and June and saw 49 cases in July. In August, the cases dipped to 10, in the month of September they rose to 128 and in October 262 cases of dengue have been reported in the district so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dengue-stings-harder-in-kapurthala-484-cases-recorded-329819
26-10-2021||---||Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri gets convicted for blocking train in 2015||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 25Jalandhar Central Congress MLA Rajinder Beri today got convicted by the court of Chief Judicial Magistrate Amit Kumar Garg in a case filed by the Railway Police Force for blocking Dakoha railway crossing in May 2015.Beri was sentenced to one-year imprisonment and Rs 2,000 fine in the case lodged by RPF under FIR number 1172 under Section 174 of the Railways Act. His lawyer Rohit Gambhir said he had deposited a bond of Rs 25,000 to secure the bail of his client today itself.While the incident had occurred on May 2, 2015, but it was filed in the court after more than four years (November 4, 2019). “We had moved an application that there was a limitation of three years for taking cognisance in a case under the Railways Act but it got rejected. We will now file an appeal in the matter in the Sessions Court,” he said.Beri was a part of the Congress delegation that led the protest post the death of a Moga girl, who died after boarding the Orbit Transport bus on April 30, 2015. There was a demand for the arrest of then Deputy CM and owner of Orbit Transport Sukhbir Badal in the case.Then Punjab Pradesh Congress Chief Partap Bajwa had announced a rail roko across the state three days later. Over 150 including other senior Congress leaders, including an MP and an ex-minister, workers and supporters had reportedly gathered at the railway crossing to lodge their protest and demand that Sukhbir be booked in the case. But Beri, who was not even an MLA at that time, was the only one to get nominated in the case by the RPF.Notably, the protest was held across the state for few hours on that day. In Jalandhar, Katihar-Amritsar Express had to be halted owing to the protest, as per the complaint.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-central-mla-rajinder-beri-gets-convicted-for-blocking-train-in-2015-329817
26-10-2021||---||5-year-old among three killed in road accident on Jalandhar-Pathankot highway||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 25Three persons of a family were killed after the car they were travelling in rammed into a vehicle on the Jalandhar-Pathankot highway near Kala Bakra on Sunday night. Besides, three persons were injured in the accident.The deceased have been identified as Anup Singh (70), his wife Surinder Kaur (63) and her nephew five-year-old Arshia Kaur. They were returning after attending a wedding at Daburji village in Tanda when their Toyota Corolla car rammed the rear of a vehicle moving ahead at about 12.30 am.The airbags of the car opened on impact. The complainant, who is a member of the bereaved family, alleged that abrupt application of the brakes by the vehicle in front of the car occupied by the family led to the fatal accident.Bhogpur police have registered a case against an unidentified person under Sections 304-A, 279, 337, 338 and 427 of the IPC at the Bhogpur police station. The police said the complainant alleged that the accident was caused by a truck moving ahead of the family which abruptly applied the brakes, causing the vehicle behind to ram into it.While Anup Singh was driving the vehicle, Surinder Kaur sat beside him on the front seat. Five-year-old Arshia Kaur Kunner was in Surinder Kaur’s lap. The three were killed on the spot.Arshia is the daughter of Surinder’s real brother’s son. Anup and Surinder are residents of Defence Colony in Jalandhar. Arshia’s mother Prabhjot Kaur Kunner and her second daughter Ajuni Kaur Kunner were sitting on the rear seat. Another relative, Mehak Kaur, was also sitting along with them.They are admitted to a local private hospital. While Prabhjot and Ajuni’s condition is said to be stable, Mehak Kaur is serious and on ventilator.Barring Anup Singh and Surinder Kaur, who live in Jalandhar, the other four persons were US citizens and had come to India especially from the US to attend the wedding of Surinder Kaur’s real sister’s daughter at Daburji village in Tanda.SHO, Bhogpur police station, Harinder Singh said, “The complainant, who is a family member, alleged that the accident was caused by the truck. The police are searching for the driver.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/5-year-old-among-three-killed-in-road-accident-on-jalandhar-pathankot-highway-329816
