27-10-2021||---||Rash driving at midnight costs Jalandhar youth dear; two others injured||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 26The midnight gehri route turned tragic for three youths on Monday midnight after one of them was killed on the spot and two others sustained serious injuries after the car they were travelling in crashed into a tree near Kapurthala Chowk.The fatal accident took place outside MGN around 1.15am when the driver lost control of the car and dashed into a roadside tree. The impact of the accident was such that the car flipped thrice before coming to a halt. The car broke into pieces.Sub-Inspector Seva Singh, SHO, Police Division-2, stated that the victim was identified as Vikramjit Singh Ramgarhiya (30), alias Vicky, a resident of Prithvi Nagar, and the injured, who were real brothers, as Narender Singh (20) and Parvinder Singh (21), both residents of Adarsh Nagar.The SHO said as per eyewitnesses, the car was being driven rashly and the condition of the car proved it. Even the steering of the car came off and fell on the road. Many parts, including the bonnet and the bumper, were found 30 feet away. The pictures and videos of the car crash went viral on social media.Parvinder, alias Gaurav, who was sitting on the back seat, was thrown out of the car and both Vicky and Narender sitting on the driver and passenger seats, respectively, came under the overturned car.Even as the airbags of the car (PB-08-C 777) opened after the collision, Vicky could not be saved. All the three victims were rushed to Satyam Hospital, where doctors declared Vicky brought dead and stated the condition of Narender was serious. However, with internal wounds on the legs and the back, Gaurav was discharged today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rash-driving-at-midnight-costs-jalandhar-youth-dear-two-others-injured-330252
27-10-2021||---||Won’t return home till farm laws are repealed: Farmers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 26“Pehlan kanoon vaapsi, fir ghar vaapsi” was the response from the farmers on the occasion of completion of 11 months of the farmers’ protest. To mark the occasion, the farmers on Tuesday held a protest in various parts of the district. Keeping their morale high, they said they wouldn’t return home until the farm laws were repealed.Apart from demanding a repeal of the contentious farm laws, they also sought compensation for the crop loss this year and legal guarantee for the MSP for all crops. In unison, the farmers demanded the arrest of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra and his dismissal from the Union Cabinet over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. The farmer leaders warned the Centre and the Punjab Government that if their demands were not met, they would intensify their struggle.Members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) staged a protest at the SDM’s office in Shahkot. Salwinder Singh Janiyan, district president, and Gurmel Singh Rerwan, district general secretary, respectively, of the KMSC, Jalandhar, are protesting at the Singhu border in Delhi from October 15 to 26. As per the guidelines of the state committee, Harpreet Singh Kotli Gajran, press secretary, and Satnam Singh Raiwal, district committee member, along with several others participated in the dharna.“We seek immediate compensation for damage caused to crops by heavy hailstorms, removal of difficulties in procurement of paddy, elimination of shortage of DAP fertilizer and its black marketing and withdrawing of fuel prices,” added Harpreet Singh.Kunwar Sartaj Singh, district leader of the Azad Kisan Sangharh Committee, Punjab, said the protest would continue. “We have been meeting people and conducting meetings. People are registering their support in large numbers. After the paddy harvesting season, farmers would reach Delhi-Haryana borders in huge numbers and over 10,000 people are reported to be present at the Singhu and Tikri borders on completion of one year of the farmers’ protest. We won’t return until the laws are taken back.”While submitting a memorandum to the Shahkot SDM, the farmers demanded the enactment of a law-guaranteeing procurement of 23 crops, immediate repeal of the Electricity Amendment Bill, 2020, and the Air Pollution Act, 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wont-return-home-till-farm-laws-are-repealed-farmers-330253
27-10-2021||---||Educating the vulnerable: NRI to provide 100 volunteer teachers in govt primary schools||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, October 26Introducing a new model in the field of school education, Nawanshahr-based philanthropist Barjinder Singh Hussainpur’s NGO ‘Naroya Punjab’ has started a campaign ‘Parhda Punjab’.Under the innovative programme, US-based NRI Hussainpur has announced to provide 100 volunteer teachers on the vacant posts of government primary schools and has offered to pay them their salaries from the NGO funds. With this unique announcement, the social activist in the town has won the hearts of people.The social activist, who hails from Hussainpur village, 7 km from the town, made the announcement while addressing the media at Baradari Garden. He said when he was a student at Doaba Sikh National School of Nawanshahr, his headmaster Darshan Singh Atwal had come to their class and announced that an NRI wants to fund the education of a child in the school. “Since then, I too had a desire to do such a noble deed when I grow up. That dream has come true today as God has given me a plan to help the poor students studying in the government schools,” he said.He said: “While earlier, too, I was involved in small social initiatives, but now have started taking up some projects in a planned way. We have started ‘Parhda Punjab’ campaign so that the government schools students come at par with their private school counterparts right at the primary level. We realised that shortage of staff has been the main issue. We also got to know that some qualified youth were sitting unemployed. So, through our social organisation, we decided to solve the two problems at one go”.Hussainpur said: “While the volunteer teachers are already serving in some schools but they are drawing salaries through parent-teacher association funds. Now we will have our own placements and fund them too. To begin with, we have readied a team of 15 volunteer teachers and have sent them to different schools. Slowly, we will do more appointments as we get more such motivated youth.Office-bearer of ‘Naroya Punjab’ organisation Kamajit Singh said everyone had lauded the move as it would help the students get better education and at the same time help the youth get employed. “I am sure that this model of appointing volunteer teachers will be emulated in other districts too,” he said.Sunny Singh Jaffarpur, who too attended the event, said if all donors start thinking like NRI Barjinder Singh Hussainpur, the state can move towards prosperity. Volunteer teachers assured everyone that they would work hard and strive to bring good results in the schools.Hussainpur had recently got planted 25,000 tree saplings in the area. He had also announced to fund for the wages and all needs of a special school run by the Red Cross Society in Nawanshahr.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/educating-the-vulnerable-nri-to-provide-100-volunteer-teachers-in-govt-primary-schools-330254
27-10-2021||---||Surjit hockey: Indian Oil outplay Indian Navy||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 26Indian Oil Mumbai edged out Indian Navy Mumbai 5-2 to earn three points in the Surjit Hockey Tournament at Jalandhar Cantt’s Katoch AstroTurf Hockey stadium here this evening. In the second match, CRPF Delhi beat CAG Delhi 4-2 to earn three points.In Pool A, the Indian Oil team faced tough fight from Indian Navy in the first quarter. In the 23rd minute of the game, Armaan Qureshi scored for Indian Oil (1-0). In 36th minute Indian Navy’s Jugraj Singh netted the ball for equalizer (1-1). In 38th minute, Talwinder Singh scored for Indian Oil (2-1). In 40th minute Jugraj Singh equalised for Indian Navy (2-2). After that Indian Oil scored three goals in a row. Sumit Kumar scored in 48th and 49th minutes and Raghunath VR completed the tally (5-2) in 56th minute.Second match played in Pool D between CAG Delhi and CRPF Delhi. In the 20th minute of play, CRPF took lead when their Kuldeep Ekka (Captain) scored field goal (1-0). In the 24th minute CRPF consolidated with penalty stroke conversion by Shamher (2-0). In 32nd minute of play CRPF’s Bikash Kujur scored field goal (3-0). In 55th minute, CAG was able to reduce the margin when their Mohammad Naeemuddin scored a field goal (1-3). In the 59th minute, CAG’s Nitin Thimah scored another field goal (2-3). In the 60th minute of play, CRPF’s Lovejeet Singh completed the tally (4-2). In their first match, CRPF lost to Indian Railways 2-4. CRPF earned three point after two league matches.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/surjit-hockey-indian-oil-outplay-indian-navy-330255
27-10-2021||---||MC Commissioner visits diarrhoea-affected areas||Tribune News ServicePhagwara, October 26Municipal Corporation Commissioner Charandeep Singh along with officials of the MC, Health, Water Supply Departments paid a visit to the diarrhoea-affected areas of the city for four hours on Tuesday.He visited houses in the affected areas and interacted with residents and talked about the treatment, drinking water supply by the teams of the Health and Water Supply Departments. In his presence, eight water connections were snapped due to suspected leakage and contamination. Sewerage covers were opened to review sanitation arrangements.The Commissioner said the Water Supply Department should check the daily supply of drinking water and ensure its supply. He asked the officials of the civic body to intensify the campaign to ensure regular fogging and safety awareness by the teams of the Health Department.During his visit to the affected areas, he appealed to the people to take good food and use boiled water as well as ORS. He said if any person was facing any health problem, he should immediately contact the Health Department.Sandeep Tewari, Assistant Commissioner, Satish Kumar Saini, SE, Baljinder Singh, Additional XEN, and Balraj, SDO, were also present on the occasion. SDE, Water Supply, Pradeep Chutani and others were present on the occasion.The Health Department maintained that cases of diarrhoea in Phagwara had started receding and the situation was under control. Out of the total 76 patients from the Pipa Rangi, Sham Nagar and Shivpuri areas admitted to hospitals due to ill-health, 66 had been discharged after recovery. Seven were undergoing treatment. Three patients had been referred to other hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mc-commissioner-visits-diarrhoea-affected-areas-330256
27-10-2021||---||Vigilance Week begins in Hoshiarpur||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, October 26The Vigilance Bureau, Jalandhar Range, on Tuesday kick-started weeklong vigilance awareness drive from local DAV BEd. College with a call to act against corrupt practices, if found anywhere in the system.While inaugurating the Vigilance Awareness Week under theme “Independent India @ 75: Self Reliance with Integrity”, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait administered the integrity pledge to students, common people, social representatives and officers/official so that they could play a key role against this menace. She said that all of us should promote ethical business practices besides fostering a culture of honesty and integrity as well as discharging duties with utmost dedication and transparency.SSP, Vigilance Bureau, Jalandhar Range, Diljinder Singh Dhillon, solicited fulsome support and cooperation from all stakeholders to wipe out corrupt practices in larger public interests. He said people could act against such practices and in case of any corruption they should immediately report the same to the Vigilance Bureau or its toll free helpline 1800-1800-1000. He said that the bureau was focusing on the youngsters having age group of above 18 years so that young minds could be involved in this mission against corruption, who would further motivate others to join hands for complete eradication of this menace.Industrialist, author and social activist Inderjit Singh also emphasised the need to wage a unified war against corruption for larger interest of society and nation. He said that we could only build a developed nation, healthy society and a strong system in our offices with putting the malpractices to an end.Extending the vote of thanks DAV BEd College Principal Dr Vidhi Bhalla also exhorted the students to play a constructive role in this drive besides taking the awareness drive to grassroots level. College students Jasmine Kaur and Divya also shared their views on vigilance awareness with the gathering.Prominent amongst those present on the occasion included Commandant, PRTC, Jahankhelan, HS Mander, DSP Vigilance Bureau, Hoshiarpur, Unit Naranjan Singh and DSP Gurpreet Singh etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vigilance-week-begins-in-hoshiarpur-330257
27-10-2021||---||1 new case in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, October 26Just one new case of Covid was reported from the entire Doaba on Tuesday. The fresh case was recorded from Jalandhar. Despite zero per cent positivity, Hoshiarpur teams took 1,335 samples, Kapurthala teams took 522 samples and Nawanshahr teams took 914 new samples for virus detection. Nawanshahr also reported nil active cases today. Jalandhar has 29 active cases. While two patients got discharged in both Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala, one completed quarantine in Jalandhar.No new case in HoshiarpurNo new Covid case was reported from the district, keeping the tally unchanged at 30,813. No death was also recorded from the district. There are nine active cases in the district at present while 29,820 persons have recovered. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-new-case-in-jalandhar-district-330258
27-10-2021||---||Jalandhar industrialists take part in investors’ summit virtually||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 26Leading industrialists and business houses from Jalandhar today virtually joined Progressive Punjab Investors’ Summit as the district administration arranged live streaming of the event held in Mohali.Welcoming the industrialists at HMV College, accompanied by Additional Deputy Commissioner Jaspreet Singh, Principal HMV College Dr Ajay Sareen, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the path-breaking and pro-industry initiatives of the state government have made Punjab an emerging state in terms of industrial development. He mentioned that the state government had earlier launched ‘Business First’ portal to assist businesses with hassle-free NOCs to start their industries in Punjab.Thori said the event would also bring on the table the significant efforts laid by the state government in supporting the ecosystem in the state. He also said that the state provides a platform for growth of trade and industry. He added that the conducive ecosystem supports the prosperity of the industries in the state and always strides in line with the industry trends.The DC called upon the business community to come forward with more investment in the district to further propel the development of the state. He also reiterated round-the-clock assistance by the administration to investors in setting up their businesses here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-industrialists-take-part-in-investors-summit-virtually-330259
27-10-2021||Kapurthala||RCF Kapurthala staff take integrity pledge||The Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala, is observing Vigilance Awareness Week from October 26 to November 1 with the theme ‘Independent India@75: Self-reliance with integrity’. The week commenced with a function wherein Integrity Pledge was administered to all the officers by BM Agrawal, Principal Chief Mechanical Engineer, RCF.Vigilance bulletin releasedA vigilance bulletin was released on the occasion through which RCF, (Vigilance) has attempted to issue guidelines for officers and supervisors in their day-to-day working. The bulletin incorporates in brief of some of the cases and system improvements during the last year.A vigilance bulletin was released on the occasion through which RCF, Vigilance, has attempted to issue guidelines for officers and supervisors in their day-to-day working. The bulletin incorporates in brief of some of the cases and system improvements during the last year. Briefing on the week, Ravinder Kumar Verma, Chief Vigilance Officer, said the CVC has desired that certain activities are to be taken as campaign mode like internal house-keeping, benefits to person working in outsourcing activities, leverage of IT as preventive tool etc. has been circulated for compliance. Employees will be encouraged to take e-pledge on integrity. Verma added that for dissemination of information about complaints under Public Interest Disclosure and Protection of Informers (PIDPI), various posters have been displayed at various locations.Senior officer BM Agrawal advised all officers to inculcate the principle of RCF — Honesty, Esteem, Hard Work — to maintain the high standard of integrity. He lauded various steps taken by IT department of RCF in promoting transparency in day to day of RCF’s working through portal ‘PARDARSY’.The function was also addressed by CV Raman, Principal, Chief Material Manager, where he shared his valuable experience of tenure as Vigilance Officer and recalled various interesting cases studies of his personal experience. He said that no vigilance was required if all decisions are taken with right intent and with proper recorded reason. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rcf-kapurthala-staff-take-integrity-pledge-330260
27-10-2021||---||Ashesh Agrawal joins as RCF GM||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, October 26Ashesh Agrawal joined as the General Manager of Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala, on Tuesday. Prior to this, he was working as Adviser (Environment and Housekeeping Management) in Railway Board.After his schooling in Mumbai, he studied in Mumbai IIT for one year but was selected by UPSC in the SCRA Exam and joined at Jamalpur in 1982.Ashesh Agrawal has degrees in mechanical engineering, electrical engineering and electronics and communication as well as an MBA degree.He has attended short-term management training courses in the UK, Italy and USA as well as in Anti Corruption Academy, Luxemburg, Austria. Prior to his joining, VM Srivastava, General Manager, Modern Coach Factory, Rai Bareilly, was having an additional charge as the GM of RCF after the transfer of Ravinder Gupta as Director General/Safety at Railway Board, New Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ashesh-agrawal-joins-as-rcf-gm-330261
27-10-2021||Sahitya Sanstha||Sahitya Sanstha holds annual function||Rotarians on Save Environment MissionThe Rotary Club, Phagwara, welcomed two rotarians who after covering a distance of around 24,000 km on cycle reached the district last weekend. The cyclists, Hemant and Dhanush, left Bengaluru with a mission to spread out a message on Save Evironment and ‘Clean and Green Environment’. Appreciating their efforts, members of South-east Phagwara Club gave them appreciation letters and a cheque for Rs 1,100.12 saplings planted during Drive at varsityThe NSS wing of GNA University organised a tree plantation drive in which a total of about 12 saplings were planted on the university campus. Students participated in the drive with full enthusiasm. Registrar Dr RK Mahajhan, Deputy Registrar Kunal Bains, Dean Academics Monika Hanspal and Dean Dr Sameer Varma graced the occasion and expressed the importance of planting trees and saving nature. TNs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sahitya-sanstha-holds-annual-function-330262
27-10-2021||Jalandhar||Jagjit Wrestling Academy stadium at Wariana gets new seats||Kabaddi tourney from todayHoshiarpur: A kabaddi tournament dedicated to the farmers’ struggle will be organised at the local Roshan Ground on tomorrow (Wednesday). Giving information in this regard, Sumir Sood and Sumit Sood, the organisers of the tournament, said the tournament would start at 11 am after being inaugurated formally by MLA Sunder Sham Arora. They said four international-level teams would participate in the tournament. The team that comes first will get Rs 1 lakh cash prize, while the team that comes second will get Rs 75,000. OCMC House meet on October 28Jalandhar: Having earlier postponed the Municipal Corporation House meeting which was fixed for October 22, Mayor Jagdish Raja has now called the meeting again for October 28. The meeting, which is usually held at 3 pm, has been fixed for 11 am at Red Cross Bhawan. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jagjit-wrestling-academy-stadium-at-wariana-gets-new-seats-330263
27-10-2021||Jalandhar||Open District Judo Championship||Award for Apeejay singerRaghav Kapoor of MBA (first semester) student of Apeejay Institute of Management and Engineering Technical Campus, has received “Akhand Bharat Gaurav Award 2021” for his contribution in music industry. This award function was organised by Mumbai Global at Chandigarh. The award was presented by Indian actress and politician Jaya Pradha and Indian actor, comedian, film director and producer Raj Pal Yadav. Dr Rajesh Bagga, Director, encouraged Raghav Kapoor for this achievement and motivated him to achieve greater heights in his singing career.Firdoush 2nd in BA BEd (Sem IV)The result of BA BEd (Sem IV) of PCM SD College for Women, Jalandhar, has been remarkably outstanding. Firdoush stood second in the university by scoring 431 (86.20%) out of 500 marks. Arshdeep grabbed the sixth university position by getting 419 (83.80%) marks. This is worth mentioning that the result of this class has been hundred per cent. The members of the managing committee and Principal Dr Pooja Prashar applauded the students on their success.Orientation Programme organisedAn orientation programme on Assessment in learning and speaking skills Term II was held at Police DAV Public School for the teachers of English for Classes XI and XII of DAV Schools of Jalandhar Zone. Manoj Dutt, resource person, trained the teachers in how to conduct the assessment in their classes. He elaborated upon the type of listening, the type of listening material to be used. In the same manner they were apprised of the detail of the speaking projects to be assigned and the rubrics to be created.NCC Training Camp at KMVKanya Maha Vidyalaya is hosting the Combined Annual Training Camp organised by 2Pb (Girls) Battalion NCC for the cadets of the unit. During the camp, a motivational lecture-cum-interaction was organised in which Major General Prof GG Dwivedi (retd), Prof, Strategic and International Studies, Aligarh Muslim University, and also visiting Faculty at Foreign Services Institute, Delhi, was the resource person for the session. During the session, he spoke to young cadets about how to set goals for their future, overcome their fears and explore themselves to become achievers.CT sets up Business FoundationCT Group of Institutions has established a CT Business Foundation and has invited applications for incubation of new ideas/concepts for entrepreneurship through start-up ecosystem. Applications are invited from IT/ITES, healthcare, agriculture, manufacturing, clean energy and e-Commerce, hospitality, pharmaceutical, bio-medical and life sciences thrust areas. Applications will be evaluated by an expert committee for incubation. Selected individuals or teams will get financial support up to Rs 20,000 towards expenses for new company.United Nations Day observedThe United Nations Day was observed at Delhi Public School, Jalandhar, to raise awareness among students on the significant and crucial role of the UN. Various activities were planned for the students of Classes VI-IX. Class VI and VII participated in calendar making activity of important days observed by the UN while Class VIII participated in a collage making activity on the role of UN with special focus on the various UN missions. Class IX participated in a class discussion on UN and its agencies. They also answered a quiz on the same.Webinar on Road Safety by NSSThe NSS Department, Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women, in collaboration with the Honda Motors organised a webinar on Road Safety for the first year students of all streams. The guest speaker for this webinar was Amrit Sharma, Honda Motors. He addressed more than 60 students online, in which various concepts in association with road sense and safety were discussed. He enlightened the audience about the Good Samaritan Law and explained them that if they help the accident victims, legal protection would be provided to them.Jungle walk activity at DIPS SchoolDIPS School, Uggi, organised jungle walk activity to give students a joyful walk in the jungle and awareness about animals. Students wore mask of different animals like lion, cheetah and deer monkey etc. during this activity school garden was beautifully decorated to make it look like a forest. Teachers narrated interesting tales associated with animals like Thirsty Crow, King of the Jungle etc. Students sat together in the garden and relished their food and student told which animal they were and significance of that particular animal. Principal Deepak remarked that due to Covid-19 it is difficult for students to go outside but the school makes an effort to provide conducive environment for the children to enjoy learn and have fun so that they avail an outing. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/open-district-judo-championship-330264
