28-10-2021||Jalandhar||‘Cooking without fire’ competition||Solo Dance Contest organisedUnder the guidance of the school management and Principal Neeru Nayyar, Shiv Jyoti Public School, an Inter-House Solo Dance Competition for Classes I to V was held. A total of 45 participants were shortlisted for the same. The final judgement was made by Meenakshi Sharma and Rajni Sharma. In Class 1, Ananya bagged the first position, Harshita got second, Jeevansh and Khwaish stood third. In Class II, Seerat bagged the first position followed by Avleen Kaur who stood second. Bani and Khushi Handa got third prize. In Class III, Saanvi Dogra bagged the first position, Divya Bhola got the second position, Mallik Arora and Pihu Taneja got the third prize. Kani Madan bagged consolation prize. In Class IV, Harnoor, Deepanshu Bajaj, Saloni Bansal, Reyana and Mishti got the prizes. In Class V, Sukhmanpreet Kaur bagged the first position. Ridhima got the second position. Mishika and Kushal Seth stood third. Agampreet Kaur got consolation prize.Inter-College basketball c’shipLyallpur Khalsa College has won Guru Nanak Dev University Inter-College Basketball Championship. This information was given by the college Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra who informed that the college defeated SSN College Dinanagar with a score of 70/65 in the final match. Prior to this the college won all league matches to reach the finals. He congratulated the Head of the Sports department Dr Simranjeet Singh Bains, the coach and the manager of the team and players on this achievement.Admission date extendedThe last date for admission to Mehr Chand Polytechnic College, initially fixed for October 30, has now been extended. Principal Dr Jagroop Singh informed that as per the new instructions /guidelines of AICTE, New Delhi, and Punjab State Board of Technical Education, Chandigarh, the last date of admission for the first year has been extended up to November 30, whereas the admission in 2nd year under LEET category, has been extended up to October 30. This news has come as a great relief for the students and their parents who were unable to take admission due to some personal reasons. Principal Dr Jagroop Singh also informed that only few vacant seats have been left in Mehr Chand Polytechnic College and the interested students can report with requisite fee and documents on any working day up to November 30.Book exhibition at KMVKanya Maha Vidyalaya has initiated Book Bank which operates under the aegis of the Department of Student Welfare. As the new session has commenced, KMV book bank has put up an exhibition of books of all subjects in order to facilitate the students. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that KMV’s book bank is operational throughout the year. Students deposit the syllabus oriented books of their previous classes in the book bank and those who want to use the books can collect them from the book bank without a need to buy them.‘Balance walk’ competition at DIPSTo maintain a balance between games and studies, DIPS School organised Balance Work competition. Pre-primary wing tiny tots participated in the competition and held various objects in their hands maintained balance and did balance walk teachers also participated in the games and with the help of pillars stones and toys they prepared hurdles. Bricks were taken to make a pathway for the students and on which they had to make a balance and walk. They had to walk on this pathway by balancing the objects without falling. Principal Aashish encouraged the students and the best performers were awarded with certificates. DIPS Chain MD Tarwinder Singh applauded the participants and remarked that such game train students not only the art of balancing but also build up the confidence of young building talented students. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cooking-without-fire-competition-330793
28-10-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar reports 8 new Covid cases, no death||In what could be called a consistent rise in Covid cases, the city saw eight new cases today. With this, the total tally has reached 63,389. No new Covid death was reported in Jalandhar today. The deceased tally of the district remained at 1,496.As many as 61,857 persons have recovered from Covid in the district, while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 36. Of the 17,35,828 samples collected in the district so far, 15,99,177 samples have tested negative. Results of as many as 3,443 tests is yet awaited.All well in KapurthalaNo new positive case was reported in Kapurthala today. The Covid tally remained at 17,850. No death from Covid was also reported at Kapurthala today either.2 new cases in HoshiarpurTwo new Covid cases were reported from the district on Wednesday, taking the Covid tally to 30,815. No death was reported from the district. — OC/ TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-reports-8-new-covid-cases-no-death-330792
28-10-2021||---||District-level legal aid camp held||Jalandhar, October 27As per the directions of the National Legal Services Authority and Punjab State Legal Services Authority, the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), Jalandhar, today organised a district level legal aid camp at the Lyallpur Khalsa College. It was presided over by Rupinderjit Chahal, District and Sessions Judge-cum-chairman, DLSA, Jalandhar.Fifteen stalls of various departments of Jalandhar such as District Social Security Officer, District Red Cross, District Welfare Officer, Health Department, Employment Office, Assistant Labour Commissioenr Office, Food Supply Controller, Horticulture, Sakhi One Stop Centre, District Child Protection Officer, and Education Department as well as of District Legal Services Authority, Jalandhar, were put up in the camp.Smart ration card, pension benefits to children who lost their parents to Covid-19, employment letters to the youth, Sarbat Bima Yojna Card, wheel chairs to physically disabled persons, sewing machines to women were provided to the needy on the spot.A vaccination camp was also organised with the help of the Health Department, Jalandhar. A help desk for providing legal services to the needy litigants was also established in which legal services were provided to 20 persons whose cases were either pending or were to be filed in the Competent Court of Law.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/district-level-legal-aid-camp-held-330790
28-10-2021||---||Jalandhar: Nine St Soldier students get placed in Taj Hotel||Jalandhar, October 27Placements like every year started at Saint Soldier Institute of Hotel Management and Catering Technology. Taj Hotel selected students in this year’s first campus placement drive.College Principal Sandeep Lohani, Training and Placement Coordinator Varun Sharma said that 17 students had participated in this placement drive, out of which nine students Devraj, Anmol, Gurpreet, Harman, Jatin, Sagar, Aarti, Gurpreet and Priya were interviewed by the general manager of the hotel in the final round and got selection.Chairman of Saint Soldier Group Anil Chopra, Vice Chairperson Sangeeta Chopra congratulated the students and motivated them to work hard and make their parents proud.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-nine-st-soldier-students-get-placed-in-taj-hotel-330789
28-10-2021||Jalandhar||Murder case: SGPC member Kulbir Singh Barapind among nine sentenced to life||The court of Additional Sessions Judge Sarabjit Singh Dhaliwal today sentenced SGPC member Kulbir Singh Barapind and eight others to life imprisonment in a six-year-old murder case at Salarpur village on the Phagwara-Jandiala road in the district.While the accused were pronounced as guilty by the court under Sections 302 and 120-B of the IPC yesterday, the sentence was announced today. Barapind, who is already lodged in Ferozepur jail, appeared through video conferencing. Other accused, including Sukhwinder Singh, Manohar Singh and Gurmel Singh too are lodged in jail. The accused who were on bail have been taken into judicial custody.Barapind, who is also a senior executive member of Dal Khalsa, had intervened into a fight between brothers over dispute of a 19-acre property in Salarpur village. In the incident on November 5, 2015, Shingara Chand (55) got shot dead while his two brothers had sustained bullet injuries.Barapind was extradited from the US in militancy-related cases in 2006. He faced trial in three cases but got acquitted in all. He took bail to contest SGPC elections as an independent candidate and won from Phillaur.Barapind’s lawyer Amit Joshi said there were a total of 13 accused in the case. While two of them passed away during the course of trial, two are proclaimed offenders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/murder-case-sgpc-member-kulbir-singh-barapind-among-nine-sentenced-to-life-330786
28-10-2021||Our Correspondent||39 FIRs filed, 53 held in one week in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, October 27Senior Superintendent of Police, Hoshiarpur, Kulwant Singh Heer on Wednesday stated that they had conducted a meeting last week in the Police Lines (Hoshiarpur) directing the police force of the district to take stern action against bad elements in the district.This has resulted in the registration of 39 FIRs and arrest of 53 accused, including perpetrators of murder and kidnapping. SPs Ravinderpal Singh and Mandeep Singh, all GOs, all SHOs and heads of various branches of district police office had participated in the meeting.Providing information about the action taken after the meeting, the SSP said in the last 10 days, the district police registered 25 cases, arrested 31 accused and recovered 1 kg of opium, 603 gm of intoxicating powder, 82 gm of heroin, 58 gm of charas, 933 capsules, tablets and injections, besides eight motorcycles, one car and one truck.The district police have registered 11 cases and arrested 19 accused found indulging in gambling under the garb of doing lottery business and recovered Rs 44,050 from them. Similarly, acting against persons involved in illegal mining, the police registered two cases and recovered a tractor trolley from them. Apprising the officers of the instructions given by the Government of Punjab, the SSP directed the officials to perform their duty with honesty and utmost sincerity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/39-firs-filed-53-held-in-one-week-in-hoshiarpur-330783
28-10-2021||---||‘Illegal building’ coming up in violation of civic body norms||Jalandhar, October 27Alleging corruption and violation of the building bylaws, an Amritsar resident has lodged a complaint against the Building & Roads (B&R) Department of the Jalandhar Municipal Corporation.In his complaint submitted to the Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Jalandhar, Kuldip Singh (the complainant) has alleged that an illegal commercial building is being made in Jalandhar in violation of the laws of the local bodies of the state government.The said building's ownership, commercial registry, change of land use (CLU), front and rear parking area, field ratio area (FRA) and height approval be probed in detail and the architects and owners causing loss of crores of rupees to the state government's revenue and Local Bodies department must be taken to task. The complainantThe complaint, which was submitted on October 23, has also been marked to the Chief Justice, Punjab and Haryana High Court; the Lokpal, Punjab; the state CM; the Director, Punjab Vigilance Bureau; the Local Bodies Minister; the Principal Secretary, Local Bodies; the Chief Vigilance Officer; and the Director, Local Bodies.The complainant alleges that a building on Ladowali Road, Central Town, is being made without any change of land use and without leaving any space for rear and front parking as per the law.He alleges that the building is being constructed with utter disregard to the field ratio area (FRA) in connivance with MC officials. The multi-storey building is being made after depositing illegal and false documents, maps, statement and information. The building will pose a threat to the neighbouring buildings, it alleges.The complaint states that no objection is being raised by any official — who are supposed to supervise buildings in Jalandhar — of the department concerned.The complainant, who claims to be a resident of Amritsar (at present, residing in Dalhousie), has demanded a detailed investigation into the building by the MC Commissioner. The complainant demands that the said building’s ownership, commercial registry, change of land use (CLU), front and rear parking area, field ratio area (FRA) and height approval be probed in detail and the architects and owners causing loss of crores of rupees to the state government’s revenue and local bodies departments must be taken to task.Furnished illegal documentsThe building is being constructed with disregard to the field ratio area (FRA) in connivance with MC officials. The multi-storey building is being made after depositing illegal and false documents, maps, statement and information. The building will pose a threat to the neighbouring buildings, it alleges. The complaint states that no objection is being raised by any official - who are supposed to supervise buildings in Jalandhar - of the department concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/illegal-building-coming-up-in-violation-of-civic-body-norms-330782
28-10-2021||Hoshiarpur||One booked for duping Rs 10L||Man booked for seeking dowryHoshiarpur: The city police have booked a man for harassing his wife for allegedly demanding more dowry. Raman of the local Railway Road said she was married to Manjit Singh of Faridkot district. She said after marriage her husband started harassing her for more dowry. He even threw her out of the house. The police have registered a case under Section 498-A, 406 of the IPC. OCMan hurt in road accident diesHoshiarpur: A person who was injured in a road accident died on Tuesday. Ajit Shah of Kantian village lodged a complaint saying that his co-worker, Ajay Kumar was going to his house on foot, when a vehicle passing by hit him. Ajay was admitted to a hospital, where he died during treatment. The police have registered a case against accused driver Rajesh Kumar of Nai Abadi. OCTwo held with illicit liquorHoshiarpur: The Sadar police have arrested Sahil of Bajwara and recovered 9,000 ml liquor from him. Similarly, the Hariana police have recovered 45,000 ml liquor from Chotala of Paramjit Singh, alias Pamma. The accused have been booked under the Excise Act. OCIntoxicants seized, 3 heldHoshiarpur: The police have arrested three smugglers and recovered huge quantity of intoxicants from them. The police of Garhdiwala police station arrested Hardeep Singh of Galowal, and recovered 42-gm intoxicating powder from him. The Mahilpur police arrested Pradeep Kumar, alias Manga, and Jatinder Kumar, alias Tajinder, alias Buta, residents of Nagdipur, and recovered a huge quantity of sedative capsules from them. The accused have been booked under the NDPS Act. OCDrug supplier held in phagwaraPhagwara: The CIA staff police arrested a drugs supplier identified as Naveen Kumar of NRI Colony, Phagwara, and recovered 50-gm heroin, a weighing scale, 12 intoxicating injections and Rs6.08lakh drug money from him. SSP Kapurthala Harkamalpreet Singh said the suspect was nabbed at a checkpoint, when he was on an Activa. He said the accused was involved in supplying drugs in and around Phagwara after purchasing it at cheaper rates from his accomplice Bhana, who was still at large. The accused was produced before the judicial magistrate, who sent him in police custody for further interrogation. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-booked-for-duping-rs-10l-330781
28-10-2021||Phagwara||2 bikers killed in accident||Two persons died on the spot, when the bike which they were riding was hit by a speeding tractor-trailer on the Jalandhar-Ludhiana National Highway before the Royal King Palace late on Tuesday night. The deceased have been identified as Sundar Singh (23) of Ludhiana and Ravi Gupta (22) of New Vijay Nagar, Jalandhar. They were working as waiters at a hotel in Ludhiana and were returning to Ludhiana with their friend from Jalandhar, when their bike was hit from behind. The tractor-trailer driver fled after leaving the vehicle behind at the accident site. Both of them were taken to the Civil Hospital, but the doctors declared them brought dead. An autopsy was conducted and the body was handed over to their family members on Wednesday. The police have seized the tractor-trailer and registered a case under Sections 304-A and 427 of the IPC. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-bikers-killed-in-accident-330780
28-10-2021||---||Surjit Hockey Tournament: Punjab Police Jalandhar beat Army XI 1-0, enter semis||Jalandhar, October 27Punjab Police Jalandhar entered the semi-finals of Surjit Hockey Tournament by beating Army XI 1-0, with six points from two outings. In another match, Indian Air Force Delhi registered their first victory by beating Border Security Force Jalandhar 4-1 to earn three points in league stage.In Pool C, the Border Security Force stared in very fast note. In the very first minute, their Sanjeev Kumar scored a field goal (1-0). After that the Indian Air Force controlled the game. In the 21st minute of the play, Air Force’s Cariappa MB equalised (1-1).In the 22nd minute, Indian Air Force’s Manip Kerketta put its team ahead by 2-1. In the third quarter of the game, Indian Air Force’s Sukhdev Singh netted the ball from the right flank (3-1). In the last minute, Indian Air Force’s Cariappa MB completed the score sheet (4-1).With this win, Indian Air Force bagged three points in the league stage as they lost their first match to Punjab & Sind Bank Delhi. BSF have to play their last league match on October 29 against Punjab & Sind bank Delhi.The second match in Pool B between Punjab Police and Army XI was played on a very fast note. The first quarter was goalless. In second quarter’s 19th minute, Punjab Police took the lead with the field goal scored by Raman from right flank (1-0). Armymen wasted two golden chances to equalise. At half time, Punjab Police were leading 1-0.After lemon break, the Army team mounted pressure and earned five penalty corners but they were not able to equalize. With this win, Punjab Police topped the Pool B and reserved berth in semis. Earlier Punjab Police beat Rail Coach Factory Kapurthala in their first league match.October 28 matches||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/surjit-hockey-tournament-punjab-police-jalandhar-beat-army-xi-1-0-enter-semis-330778
28-10-2021||---||Bills of 7,219 domestic consumers waived off in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, October 27Deputy Commissioner Jalandhar Ghanshyam Thori on Wednesday said Rs 8.10 crore arrears of electricity bills of 7,219 domestic consumers with up to 2kW load usage in the district have been waived by the Punjab Government so far.He said in the East Division, falling under Jalandhar Circle, arrears of electricity bills of Rs 86.79 lakh of 869 domestic consumers, in Model Town division arrears of electricity bills of Rs441.38 lakh of 4,219 connections, in West Division arrears of electricity bills of Rs132.66 lakh have been waived of 1,005 domestic consumers and Rs149.44 lakh of 1,126 domestic consumers have been waived in the Cantonment division.Rs 8.10 crore arrears of electricity bills of 7,219 domestic consumers with up to 2kW load usage in the district have been waived off by the Punjab Government so far. The officials concerned have been directed to provide the benefits of this scheme to the needy consumers of all sections in a transparent manner. Ghanshyam Thori, Deputy CommissionerHe said the officials concerned have been directed to provide the benefits of this scheme to the needy consumers of all sections in a transparent manner.The DC said the beneficiaries of electricity bills up to 2 kW load can visit Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) Suvidha Centres from 9 am to 5pm and apply for the same.He said over 1 lakh people would be given the benefit of this scheme in the district. People can visit their nearby PSPCL Suvidha Centre under Jalandhar circle including at West division, Model town division, East division office at Focal Point, Pathankot bypass and Cantonment division to avail the benefit of this scheme.The DC said the district administration was holding special camps on October 28 and 29 at the sub-divisional level and district headquarter to facilitate people and provide them hassle-free services under the scheme.The DC appealed to the beneficiaries to contact the PSPCL Suvidha Centres for any queries or to attain further information about the scheme. Thori categorically directed the officials concerned to ensure that eligible beneficiaries do not face any kind of harassment during the process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bills-of-7-219-domestic-consumers-waived-off-in-jalandhar-330776
28-10-2021||---||VK Meena joins as Commissioner of Jalandhar Division||Jalandhar, October 27VK Meena, a 1997-batch IAS officer, took over as the Commissioner of Jalandhar Division on Wednesday. He was given a guard of honour by a contingent of the Punjab Police at the Circuit House.In an interaction with mediapersons, Meena stated that special vigil would be kept in all divisions of Jalandhar district for smooth completion of paddy procurement arrangements so that farmers do not face any problem.Proper implementation of various social welfare schemes of the government, including the old-age pension and housing schemes, besides, distribution of five-marla plots to landless people, clean and transparent administration would be given top priority. VK Meena, Commissioner, Jalandhar DivisionHe said proper implementation of various social welfare schemes of the government, including the old-age pension and housing schemes, besides, distribution of five-marla plots to landless people, clean and transparent administration would be given top priority.Apart from this, he would ensure that development projects were completed at the earliest. “Strict action would be taken against adulteration during the festive season as per the instructions of the government,” Meena added.He directed administration officials to resolve pending public grievances. No case should be pending in revenue matters, he said. Meena said the heads of departments, including SDMs, should show seriousness towards implementing various schemes of the government at the ground level so that the public could get the benefits of these schemes in time. He also directed the officials to reach their offices on time.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said no discrepancies would be allowed in giving transparent administration to the residents of the district. He said various schemes of the government were being taken at the grassroots level and it was being made credible that no eligible beneficiary was deprived of the benefits of the government schemes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vk-meena-joins-as-commissioner-of-jalandhar-division-330775
28-10-2021||---||Traders relieved as administration allows sale of firecrackers||Jalandhar, October 27A day after the announcement of the ban on burning firecrackers in the most polluted districts of the state, including Jalandhar and Mandi Gobindgarh, the firecrackers dealers on Wednesday heaved a sigh of relief as the district administration on Wednesday allowed the sale of crackers.The ban order had reportedly left the traders worried as they were likely to suffer huge losses. In order to make an appeal to the government to lift the ban order announced when Diwali is round the corner, the traders also met North Constituency MLA Junior Avtar Henry.Members of the Association of Wholesale and Retail Traders of Atari Market urged the MLA to allow the traders to sell crackers as they had already purchased the stock. Following which, the district administration, in an official order allowed burning and sale of crackers not only during Diwali, but also during Gurpurb, Christmas and the New Year.However, no permission has been granted to sell firecrackers at places other than the designated places in Burlton Park. A complete ban on imported crackers in the form of toys and electrical items has also been ordered. DCP Jagmohan stated that action would also be taken against unauthorised storage and sale of firecrackers in view of Diwali.In addition, hospitals and educational institutions have been declared as silent zones in which there would be a complete ban on bursting of firecrackers. Apart from that, there is a ban on bursting crackers on the demarcation of Suchi pind and within 500 yards of the oil terminals of Indian Oil Corporation, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd.The DCP further stated that there would be a complete ban on the import of firecrackers in the form of toys and electrical items. Moreover, people would be allowed to burst crackers on Diwali between 8pm and 10pm.Similarly, on the occasion of Christmas and New Year’s Eve, the permission to burst firecrackers will be from 11.55pm to 12.30 pm. On Gurpurb, the permission to burst firecrackers will be from 4am to 5am and from 9pm to 10pm. “The ADCP (City-1 and 2), the ACP (North), the ACP (West), the ACP (Central), the ACP (Model Town), the ACP Cantt, the ACP (Special Branch) and SHOs of all police stations will ensure effective implementation of these orders,” the DCP added.Temporary licences for cracker sale at 18 locations in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: The district administration, on Wednesday, issued 57 temporary licences for selling firecrackers at 18 different locations. Presiding over an event of allotting temporary licences through a draw at the district administrative complex, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait made it clear that no one would be allowed to sell crackers at other than designated places in the district. Strict action will be taken against the violators, she added. Deputy Commissioner said as many as 14 licenses were allocated for the Dasehra Ground, Hoshiarpur, six in Zila Parishad market (Adda Mahilpur, Hoshiarpur), two in Roshan ground Hoshiarpur, three in Ram Leela ground Hariana, one place in Bullowal (open place) and Chabbewal, respectively. In Garhshankar sub-division, temporary licences were issued for six places in the Military Ground, Garhshankar, (opposite SDM office), three in Shaheeda Road, Dana Mandi, Mahilpur. In Dasuya sub-division, two licenses were allocated for Maharishi Valmiki Park, three for Block Samiti Stadium Dasuya and two for Garhdiwala Dasehra ground, two licenses for Khalsa College ground, three for Shimla Pahadi Park, Tanda, two licenses were allocated for Government Senior Secondary School in Tanda. In Mukerian, two licenses for Dasehra Ground Mukerian, Dasehra Ground, Hajipur, and Talwara, respectively. Deputy Commissioner said the shopkeepers would sell firecrackers only at said earmarked locations. She said shopkeepers could sell the crackers only from 10 am to 7.30 pm and the bursting time had already been fixed 8 pm to 10 pm. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/traders-relieved-as-administration-allows-sale-of-firecrackers-330772
28-10-2021||---||Jalalndhar district sees 33 new dengue cases||Jalandhar, October 27There is no let-up in the number of dengue cases in the district. The number of dengue cases on Wednesday rose to 241 with 38 new cases being reported in the past two days.On Tuesday, 15 people tested positive for dengue in the district, while 33 more cases tested positive on Wednesday. Of the cases reported today, 23 cases are from Jalandhar district and the rest are from other districts. With this, the total number of dengue cases in Jalandhar has risen by 23 cases, of these 19 are urban cases and four are rural cases.The total amount of rural cases in Jalandhar has also risen to 74.As far as rural areas are concerned, Barapind has reported 23 cases, Jandiala 2, Jamsher 13, Adampur 2, Kala Bakra 3, Kartarpur 17, Mehatpur 10 and Shahkot has reported four dengue cases until now.While there were 203 dengue cases in Jalandhar until Monday, the new cases have led to a rise of 38 cases in the past two days taking the district total to 241.Notably, which district had 203 Dengue cases until Saturday; a number of cases from other distrsicts and the periphery were also being reported in Jalandhar. As per health authorities, majority of these outside-of-Jalandhar samples are from Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur.From October 21 to 26, as many as 42 samples tested positive in Jalandhar (of which 11 were from other districts). On October 26 and 27, as many as 48 more samples tested positive at the Civil Hospital of which 10 are from other districts. A sizeable number of these samples, being tested at the Civil Hopistal, also include samples from private hospitals.Primary rural hotposts include Barapind, Jandiala, Jamsher, Adampur, Kala Bakra, Kartarpur, Mehatpur and Shahkot. Urban hotspots include Basti Danishmandan, Bhargo Camp, Avtar Nagar, Sodal Nagar, Basti Sheikh and Shastri Nagar, among others. During surveys and door-to-door drives, health teams have been visiting areas like Basti Danishmandan, Guru Tegh Bahadur Nagar, Raseela Nagar, Preet Nagar and among other areas.Sources in the Health Department said of the dengue cases reported in Jalandhar, many were also being reported from Bholath.SymptomsPeople infected by the dengue virus may suffer from high fever, severe headache, severe pain behind the eyes, joint pain, muscle and bone pain, rash and mild bleedingDosDon’ts||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalalndhar-district-sees-33-new-dengue-cases-330765
