29-10-2021||Hoshiarpur||Intoxicants seized, 4 held||Shots fired at combine driverHoshiarpur: The Bullowal police have registered a case against unidentified persons for firing gunshots at a combine driver last night. Davinder Singh, a resident of Narike Kalan village, told the police that last night when he was resting with his boss at a pump located in Nainowal Vaidh village, some unidentified persons opened fire at him. The police have registered a case. OCOne booked for assaultHoshiarpur: The Garhdiwala police on Wednesday registered a case by against a man for allegedly assaulting a girl. The victim told the police that Manjeet Singh, a resident of Chanora village, allegedly entered the factory, where she works, and assaulted her. After registering a case, the police have started further investigation. OC75th Infantry Day celebratedJalandhar: Vajra Corps celebrated the 75th Infantry Day with pride and honour here on Wednesday. In a solemn ceremony, Major General Sanjay Maini, Chief of Staff, Vajra Corps, laid a wreath at ‘Vajra Shaurya Sthal’ in Jalandhar Cantt in the honour of brave martyrs who have made supreme sacrifice for the nation. TNSAwareness drive on free legal aidHoshiarpur: Under the Pan India Awareness and Outreach Programme being run by the NALSA, New Delhi, a mobile awareness van regarding “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav” was flagged off. CJM-cum-Secretary District Legal Services Authority Aparajita Joshi said an awareness programme regarding free legal aid was run in 27 villages with the help of the district programme officer, in which 550 people participated. ocWorkshops on vigilance weekJalandhar: The Vigilance Awareness Week is being observed in Jalandhar Postal Division from October 26 to November 1, in which banners for sensitisation of the staff and general public were displayed. A workshop was organised at post office, Jalandhar. Central Bank of India also organised a seminar on the occasion of Vigilance Awareness Week at its Regional Office for its staff members. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/intoxicants-seized-4-held-331348
29-10-2021||---||Surjit Hockey Tournament: Indian Railways, Punjab National Bank in last four||Jalandhar, October 28Sukhjeet Singh’s hat-trick helped Punjab National Bank Delhi beat star-studded Indian Oil 5-3 at Katoch AstroTurf Hockey Stadium, Jalandhar Cantt, this evening. In another match, Indian Railways Delhi defeated CAG Delhi 1-0. Both PNB and Indian Railways booked their berths in the semifinals.In Pool A match, Indian Oil Mumbai and Punjab National Bank Delhi played on very fast note. In the 6th minute, PNB’s Sukhjeet Singh scored a field goal (1-0). In the very next minute, Indian Oil scored an equaliser when Affan Yusuf converted a penalty corner (1-1).In the 11th minute, Armaan Quareshi put Indian Oil ahead by scoring a field goal from the pass of Talwinder Singh (2-1). In the 14th minute, Affan Yusuf scored a field goal after dodging goalkeeper for Indian Oil making it 3-1.In the 22nd minute of play, PNB’s Bhagat Singh Dhillon converted a penalty corner to reduce the margin (2-3). In the 29th minute, the bank team equalised with a field goal by Sukhjeet Singh (3-3). At half time both teams locked at 3-3. The third quarter was goalless. In the 4th quarter’s 48th minute, Sukhjeet scored another field goal (4-3). In the 56th minute Bhagat Singh Dhillon completed the tally with a penalty corner conversion for the PNB (5-3).In Pool D, Indian Railways Delhi played fast hockey from the start. In the 28th minute of play, Indian Railways’ Raju Pal netted the ball from left flank to put their team ahead (1-0). At half time, Indian Railways was leading by 1-0. In third and fourth quarters, both teams wasted many chances to score. With this win, Indian Railways earned six points from two matches. Earlier, Railways beat CRPF Delhi 4-2.Today’s matchPunjab & Sind Bank Delhi vs BSF 3.30 pm||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/surjit-hockey-tournament-indian-railways-punjab-national-bank-in-last-four-331339
29-10-2021||---||Three arrested with 110-kg poppy husk, 190-gm heroin||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 28The Jalandhar police have arrested three persons and recovered 110-kg poppy husk and 190-gm heroin in two separate cases today.The accused arrested in the first case has been identified as Daljit Singh, a resident of Rajpur, in Hoshiarpur.In the second incident, cops nabbed Patricia Nalojia, alias Sara, a citizen of Uganda (residing at Uttam Nagar in New Delhi), along with her driver Naresh Kumar, a resident of Burari, New Delhi (second case). SSP (rural) Satinder Singh said 110-kg poppy husk was recovered from Daljit, whose vehicle was intercepted at a naka set up at Tandi village, near Bhogpur.The SSP said they received information that Daljit and Ravinder Singh, a resident of Daulatapur village, sell poppy husk in large quantity. He said the duo was booked in similar cases earlier and after coming out on bail they restorted to same tactics. He said the accused were supplying poppy husk in Bhogpur and Adampur.The police said Ravinder used to drive his vehicle ahead of Daljit’s MUV and inform him about nakas. Daljit has been booked under Section 15-C of the NDPS Act. The SSP said they would soon nab Ravinder.In another incident, the police party intercepted a car at Bidhipur. The police said during inspection of the car occupants (Sara and Naresh) they recovered 190-gm heroin. A case was has been registered under Sections 21B, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act.Earlier, heroin was recovered from Sara’s husband Paul, who is currently lodged at Kapurthala jail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-arrested-with-110-kg-poppy-husk-190-gm-heroin-331338
29-10-2021||---||1 tests positive for Covid, no death in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, October 28One new Covid case was reported from the Jalandhar district on Thursday, taking the total tally to 63,390 cases. No new Covid death was recorded in Jalandhar today, keeping the district deceased tally at 1,496. As many as 61,861 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 33. Of the 17,39,427 samples collected in the district so far 16,03,824 samples have tested negative. Results of as many as 1,517 tests are awaited.1 case, no death in K’thalaOne new case of Covid was reported positive from Kapurthala on Thursday as the Covid tally reached at 17,851. No death from Covid was also reported at Kapurthala today either.2 new cases in HoshiarpurTwo new Covid cases were reported from the district on Wednesday, taking the Covid tally to 30,817. No death was recorded from the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-tests-positive-for-covid-no-death-in-jalandhar-district-331334
29-10-2021||---||Jalandhar district administration steps up efforts against dengue||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 28With an aim to sensitise people on dengue, its symptoms and measures to be followed to keep their area free of dengue, the district administration has intensified its campaign against the disease. The students, along with team of the Health Department covered most of the areas of the district and educated the people about disease.They also distributed pamphlets on dengue among people and motivated them to clear out stagnant water on their premises, streets and public places.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said people were being sensitised on all breeding grounds of mosquitoes. He said aedes aegypti mosquitoes breed in clear water and flower pots, refrigerator, coolers, tyres and bird feeders and other utensils are normal places besides stagnant water where breeding is found.He said as a part of the drive, the MC along with health, education, youth welfare and other departments have formed joint teams to visit door-to-door for sensitising people on breeding grounds at the hotspots. He said these teams would also carry awareness rallies in the major affected areas.Further in the rural areas, the teams of panchayat, Health Department, EOs, BDPOs are carrying out awareness campaign in all villages so as to sensitise the rural folk against the ill-effects of this disease, he added.The DC said the district administration had launched this drive to keep spread of dengue disease under check by adopting multipronged strategy ranging from enforcement drive to awareness campaign in dengue hotspots adding that a list of dengue affected areas has also been circulated among the stakeholders for effective implementation of the government’s guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-administration-steps-up-efforts-against-dengue-331331
29-10-2021||---||Dy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa conducts surprise check at Phillaur naka||Jalandhar, October 28The claims of the state police of heightening the security arrangements during the ongoing festival season by adding more nakas and attaching more cops at each naka fell flat during a surprise check by Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa this morning.The naka was laid at Phillaur just ahead of the Sultej where he found three cops sitting leisurely. The deputy CM immediately ordered their suspension on the charges of negligence of duty. The cops were reportedly negligent to the extent that their rifles, too, were lying in their trunks.Randhawa, who also holds the charge of the Home Department, expressed displeasure over the laxity on the part of the police personnel in traffic management and checking. He called up the DGP from the site. He reprimanded the police personnel posted at the police check post on the road and asked them how they could be sitting so casually while on duty. His staff also made a video of the whole action, which went viral.After the spot checks carried out by the Deputy Chief Minister at the police check post at Phillaur, the SSP, Jalandhar Rural, Satinder Singh, suspended ASI Jaswant Singh, ASI Balwinder Singh and constable Kuljit Singh for dereliction in duty and a departmental inquiry was ordered. “All three of them have been sent to Police Lines till the time inquiry goes on,” said the SSP.Randhawa said dereliction of duty would not be tolerated and no compromise would be made with the security.Of the three cops places under suspension, one came on record and said today’s action was uncalled for. “We are giving 24-hour duty here. I am 56-year-old employee on the verge of retirement. I am diabetic and still deployed on a tough duty. I was uniformed, had my arms with me and was still penalised. The vehicle of the Home Minister stopped at the time when the shift was changing. I had gone to the washroom. An ASI who was getting relieved was wiping the window panes of the car and was set to leave. None of the three cops who were to be present with me were here were working today as one of them is on leave, the second had to go to the court and the third had been called to Police Lines. Today's suspension will only demoralise a cop like me who has stood on toes all through the career and was present on duty even today.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dy-cm-sukhjinder-singh-randhawa-conducts-surprise-check-at-phillaur-naka-331326
29-10-2021||---||Jalandhar MC House meeting ends in just 40 minutes||Jalandhar, October 28The Municipal Corporation House meeting, which earlier got postponed on October 22, was finally convened on Thursday at Red Cross Bhawan. Today too, this meeting was wound up hurriedly and lasted for just 40 minutes. The agenda for the meeting was read for just a minute when Mayor Jagdish Raja announced it all declared as pass and left the venue.The meeting ended with the BJP councillors, who were in very small number, staging a sit-in during the House, trying to gherao the Mayor on the stage of the bhawan and raising slogans against the Congress leadership in the MC and against the state government. The Congress councillors on the other hand raised slogans against the BJP-led Centre and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and everyone slowly left the venue.The main issue flagged by the BJP councillors, who are in opposition, pertained to the partisan attitude of the MC officials for getting the works done. BJP’s ward no. 73 councillor Chanderjit Kaur Sandha took a lead today as she was extremely agitated over no say being given to her over the works being done in her area, including for the installation of the LED lights.“While all Congress councillors are asked about the exact points where these lights have to be installed and accordingly the contractor does the work, the officials keep avoiding me and are getting all work done as per their whims and fancies. I am an elected representative and just because of the fact that I am in the opposition, the officials keep on ignoring me. Can they please tell me where these lights have been kept? Why are they not consulting me for works?”Sandha kept asking for good 30 minutes getting no reply at all till the end of the meeting. Agitated, she and another councillor Shweta Dhir from ward No 77 sat down on the floor near her seat. Later, she even climbed up the stage and sat down on floor in front of the Mayor and Commissioner Karnesh Sharma’s desk. But she got no reply from anyone.The councillors from the Congress tried to suppress her voice by taking to mikes and raising their own issues but Sandha did not budge till the end and even went on to gherao the Mayor to seek a convincing reply. Mandeep Jassal of ward No 10 tried to distract her by thanking the officials for getting new equipment for fire department ahead of Diwali.Prior to Sandha, BJP councillor from ward No 40 Varesh Mintu, too, had raised the issue of poor condition of roads in the city lying all dug up due to the ongoing 24x7 water supply scheme. “This should not be the way,” he said as the Commissioner went on to give him a detailed reply telling all the councillors that such mega projects, which are started to benefit the residents in the longer run are bound to inconvenience them at the time of the starting of the work.“The officials of L&T company doing the project have been told to not to dig up all roads at one go and instead go on with one road at a time and get it repaired soon after laying of water pipes.” He specifically told Mintu: “Your area for which boats have to be used in the monsoons owing to water logging will also get rid of the problem once and for all. So you should be happy about getting this work started”.Mintu also raised a yet another important issue that the MC officials have failed to properly contest the case against the advertisement contractor Creative Designers pertaining to installation of the billboards in the city. “The last two hearings of the case in the Punjab and Haryana High Court got adjourned as the lawyer for Municipal Corporation had failed to appear. We suspect the MC officials to be hand-in-glove with the advertisement company,” he said.Will accept objections in writing: MayorAs Mayor Raja was going out of the bhawan, he told the media: "The BJP councillors had no issue at all. They tried to disrupt the House owing to which we had to conclude the meeting quickly and announce our agenda as passed in one go. We will take written objections from the councillors, if any. We are ready to consider them. I had allowed zero hour before the discussion on agenda but they all raked up irrelevant points. I had planned a proper discussion on the agenda but the Opposition councillors did not let that happen.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-mc-house-meeting-ends-in-just-40-minutes-331323
