30-10-2021||Garhshankar||Garhshankar: Aadhaar services back at post office||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/garhshankar-aadhaar-services-back-at-post-office-331984
30-10-2021||---||It’s protest time in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 29Members of the TET Pass Unemployed BED Teachers’ Union spent a night underneath a water tank near gate number 6 of the local bus stand on Thursday night.The overnight protest marked the start of their pakka morcha following a day of protest outside the Education Minister’s residence on Thursday afternoon. The Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) Mid-Day Meal Non-Teaching Employees’ Union on Friday declared that they would be holding a pakka morcha in Jalandhar post Diwali.With around three months left for the Assembly elections, various unions have intensified their protest calls and have threatened to take out morchas right after Diwali in the state.With a huge workforce of the state belonging to the Education Department, Education Minister Pargat Singh’s residence has turned into a hub of agitations as the state nears the elections.The unemployed teachers said they would continue with their agitation in the coming days and a call would also be taken regarding Diwali. The members of the union also began a hunger strike today. Several members of the union had to be hospitalised on Thursday after some women teachers collapsed following lathi charge.SSA/Mid-Day meal staffThe Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) Mid-Day Meal Non-Teaching Employees’ Union declared that they would hold a protest outside Education Minister Pargat Singh’s home on October 31. They also threatened to hold a pakka morcha after Diwali if their demands remained unmet.Talking to The Tribune, union leader Shobhit Bhagat said, “Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has repeatedly said that all contractual employees will be regularised, but like four years of the Capt government, Channi too is issuing only statements. The leaders said there is much angst among non-teaching unregularised employees. In 2018, the then education department had regularised the services of 8,886 teachers of the SSA (into the education department), but office employees working with them were not regularised.Unemployed TET teachersFive members of the Unemployed TET Pass Teachers began their hunger strike. Those on strike included Sandeep Kaur, Binderpal Kaur, Amanjot Kaur, Sajan Fazilka and Vipan Kamboj. Today was also the second day of the protest from Munish Kumar and Jaswant Ghubaya, two teachers who started a protest atop a tank on Thursday.Notably, Munish held a protest for over three months atop a tank in Sangrur. Meanwhile, a delegation of teachers who refused to end their agitation despite repeated requests from the administration, met Education Minister Pargat Singh who sought time for a week to resolve their demands.NHM employeesNHM employees of the Health Department also started a hunger strike on Thursday onwards. Inderjit Singh Rana, state president of the National Health Mission, said, “We have started a hunger strike in Kharar on Thursday, demanding the regularisation of their services and better pay scales. We will continue our agitation until demands are met. Various districts will join the agitation turn by turn to press for fulfilment of their demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/its-protest-time-in-punjab-331937
30-10-2021||---||Surjit Hockey Tournament: Punjab & Sind Bank enter semis, to face Punjab Police||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 29Punjab National Bank Delhi will clash swords with Indian Railways Delhi and Punjab Police Jalandhar will face Punjab and Sind Bank Delhi in the semifinals of Surjit Hockey Tournament at Katoch AstroTurf Hockey Stadium Jalandhar Cantt tomorrow. In the last league match today, Punjab and Sind Bank Delhi beat BSF Jalandhar 3-0. Semifinals can be watched live on PTC tomorrow.Semifinals todayPunjab National Bank vs Indian Railways: 2 pmPunjab Police vs Punjab & Sind Bank Delhi: 3.30 pmIn Pool C match today, the last league match holders Punjab and Sind Bank and Border Security Force played a defensive game. Punjab and Sind Bank wasted three penalty corners whereas the BSF wasted two penalty corners in the first two quarters of the game.After changing ends in the 40th minute of play, Punjab and Sind Bank’s Gaganpreet Singh converted a penalty corner (1-0). In the 51st minute of play, bank’s Surinder Singh netted the ball from left flank (2-0). In the 55th minute of play, Gaganpreet Singh of Bank converted another penalty corner to complete the tally (3-0). With this win, the bank bagged six points from two matches. Earlier the bank team had beaten Indian Air Force by 4-3.In the matches so far, the team of Punjab National Bank has emerged as the dark horse. The team could barely manage to reach the semifinals in the 2017 tournament but this time its boys have been playing exceptionally well and have defeated the last time finalists Indian Oil in the league match.The hockey lovers have been appreciating the much improved fitness level of the team. Sukhjit Singh, who hails from Ropar, has scored a hat-trick in the tournament. The PNB team will be facing Indian Railways in the semis, which was the 2018 champion of the tournament.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/surjit-hockey-tournament-punjab-sind-bank-enter-semis-to-face-punjab-police-331938
30-10-2021||---||Get IKGPTU documents from Sewa Kendras now||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, October 29With a view improve accessibility, the Punjab Government has decided to make available 20 different facilities related to the Technical Education Department at the Sewa Kendras from November 1. Under this new facility, the documents related to IK Gujral Punjab Technical University will also be available from any Sewa Kendra.The applications for availing these 20 facilities will now be able to easily apply through the e-Sewa portal by visiting Sewa Kendras. Jaspreet Singh, Registrar, IKGPTU, who is also the Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development), shared that the documents related to the university like backlog certificate, bona fide certificate, transcripts, detail mark card and attestation of other certificates, duplicate degree, etc, will be done online at the Sewa Kendras only after paying the government fee fixed by the department.He said while this would save time for students and their parents to go to different universities, for their work will be done in a transparent manner near the house in a stipulated time on fixed fees.IKGPTU receives the maximum number of applications for getting duplicate documents and transcripts for studies abroad and jobs. The facility will also be applicable to Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University, Bathinda, ITIs, polytechnic institutes coming under the Punjab State Technical Education Board.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/get-ikgptu-documents-from-sewa-kendras-now-331939
30-10-2021||---||Special children show their football skills at  Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 29The Punjab chapter of the Special Olympics, in association with S Ajit Singh Foundation Society Hans Raj, organised games for the special children at Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya (HMV) here on Thursday.Around 250 participants working under the National Child Labour Project and special athletes along with 100 sports girls of HMV participated in the event. Special educators Navjot Kaur and Rekha Kashyap from the Special Olympics spoke on the special children and the need of unified sports meet.The participants demonstrated their football skills. They did not compete for the games but only played to understand one another and develop the spirit of sportsmanship.Ramanpreet Kaur, president, S Ajit Singh Foundation Society, said the children with disabilities and special needs should be treated as normal children in society. They needed love more than sympathies. The sports department of HMV played an active role in arranging the sports meet along with members of S Ajit Singh Foundation Society.Principal Prof Ajay Sareen welcomed the guests, including Himanshu Jain, ADC, Urban Development, Major Amit Sareen, Joint Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, and Deepak Bali, Adviser, Art, Culture and Languages, Government of Delhi, and consultant, Punjabi Academy, New Delhi.Principal Prof Sareen expressed that the college, which is hailed as a ‘Nursery of Olympians’, felt honoured to host the unified sports meet. Paramjit Singh Sachdeva, MD, Sachdeva Stocks Pvt Ltd, remarked that it was a remarkable initiative on the part of the college to host this event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/special-children-show-their-football-skills-at-hans-raj-mahila-maha-vidyalaya-jalandhar-331940
30-10-2021||Jalandhar||3 fresh cases, no death in Jalandhar||Three new Covid cases were reported on Friday from the district, taking the total tally to 63,393 cases. No new Covid death was recorded. The district deceased tally remained 1,496 today. As many as 61,862 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 35. Of the 17,42,989 samples collected in the district so far, 16,07,422 have tested negative. Results of as many as 1,489 tests is yet awaited.One case in KapurthalaOne new case of Covid was reported from Kapurthala today as the Covid tally reached at 17,852. The patient is a 12-year-old from Phagwara. No death from Covid was also reported from the district today either. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-fresh-cases-no-death-in-jalandhar-331941
30-10-2021||---||Sports minister urged to open SAI Centre in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, October 29Taking up a proposal to set up a Sports Authority of India (SAI) Centre at the local Raizada Hansraj Badminton Stadium, the District Badminton Association (DBA) secretary met Union Sports and Youth Affairs Minister Anurag Thakur on Friday. Benefits players get at SAI CentreFormer national player Ritin Khanna handed over a letter of request to the minister seeking a SAI Centre at the stadium for young badminton players. The minister assured him of considering the demand and appreciated the initiatives being taken by the association for the development of the game of at the stadium for the past two years.In the letter submitted by Ritin Khanna to Anurag Thakur, it has mentioned that presently 150 to 200 players of different age groups are undergoing training at Olympian Dipankar Bhattacharjee’s Badminton Academy, established at Hansraj Stadium. The stadium also has hostel facility and five synthetic courts. Apart from this, the stadium also has a sports canteen, gymnasium, yoga and aerobics centre.Khanna pointed out that many badminton players of north India are not able to perform well at the national level, the biggest reason for which is that the players here have to travel to South India (Bengaluru and Hyderabad) for getting training in professional academies. Ritin Khanna said, “Going to South India for training also puts lot of financial burden on the players and they also have to face the problem of food. It also creates a lot of hurdles in the smooth pursuit of studies of players. Besides, training away from home also creates lot many other problems as well. Therefore, if the Sports Authority of India (SAI) Centre is setup in Jalandhar, it will provide lot of relief to the players”.Khanna requested the minister to depute officials on behalf of the Sports Ministry, who should visit Hansraj Badminton Stadium and inspect the infrastructure set up for the development of badminton in the stadium.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sports-minister-urged-to-open-sai-centre-in-jalandhar-331943
30-10-2021||Kapurthala||Agri summit with Israel on crop diversification in Dec||Punjab Agricultural and Food Processing Minister Randeep Singh Nabha announced that a special summit would be organised in the first week of December in cooperation with Israel to transfer the agricultural technology to the farmers of the state.Talking to the media on the sidelines of a dialogue session with the students at Hindu Kanya College here on the subject ‘Punjab da bhavikh, the minister said: “Agricultural experts across the globe, FICCI and World Bank representatives will be the participants in the summit.” He also announced to set up two processing plants in the state having facility to process the crops as per the zonal crops production specification.He also said the Punjab Government has implemented a new policy to safeguard the interest of farmers under that all seed dealers from other states like Haryana, Rajasthan etc would have to get certification from the agricultural department of Punjab for the quality and sale of crop seeds in Punjab.He also said that the state government would repeal the black agrarian laws in a special session on November 8 as it would demolish the economy of the Punjab. He also said that the state would provide all kind of help to the families of farmers, who lost their lives in farmer struggle at Delhi borders and towards that the state has given appointment letters to 157 family persons of deceased farmers.Replying to a question about the compensation against the cotton crop damaged in Malwa and Basmati across the state, the minister said that the girdawari of damaged crops has been completed and it would be given in next few days.Earlier talking to the students, the minister said that the youth of the country, who count as the maximum population in the country, must come forward to save the secular credentials and democratic set up in the country. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/agri-summit-with-israel-on-crop-diversification-in-dec-331944
30-10-2021||Jalandhar||On-the-spot sanction of pension to 98 beneficiaries||To assist people with the benefit of 19 pro-people government schemes under one roof, the district administration today started two-day Suvidha camps at district and sub-division levels.Four camps were held at DAC Jalandhar, Phillaur, Nakodar and Shahkot adding that similar camps would be held again tomorrow. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshayam Thori handed over on-the-spot pension sanction letters to 98 beneficiaries.Visitors were offered assistance in as many as 19 welfare schemes, which included bus pass, LPG connection, waiving off electricity bills, electricity complaints, CLU, social security schemes, Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna, water supply connections, revenue department, loans, allotment of five marla plots, Ashirwad and scholarship schemes, and others.District Social Security Officer Varinder Kumar said during the Suvidha camps, 154 forms for social security schemes were filled, of which 151 were found eligible and sanction letters were handed over to 98 beneficiaries. He also mentioned that the department has been providing pension benefit to over 1.87 lakh beneficiaries comprising 1,23,024 old age pensioners, 42,652 widow pensioners, 10,743 specially-abled persons, and 10,834 orphans/dependent children with a pension benefit of worth Rs. 28.08 crore per month.The DSSO further appealed to beneficiaries facing suspension of pension amount into their accounts to immediately submit their Aadhaar cards with the department so that their pension could be resumed.Simlar camps were also organised in Hoshiarpur. Local MLA Sunder Sham Arora, who interacted with beneficiaries and handed over requisite documents after approval, said these Suvidha camps ensured necessary facilities at the doorsteps of people so that they could get take benefit of welfare schemes. — TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/on-the-spot-sanction-of-pension-to-98-beneficiaries-331945
30-10-2021||Jalandhar||Talent Hunt Show at Dav university||Botanical Bonanza-Prakariti at HMVThe PG Department of Botany of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya celebrated “Botanical Bonanza-Prakariti” under DD Pant Botanical Society. Various events/competitions like fireless cooking, poster/slogan writing were organised on themes like ‘Miracles of plants’, ‘Plastic-free environment’, ‘Go green and planter decoration. Dr Meena Sethi NJSA College, Kapurthala, Dr Seema Marwaha, Dean Academics, Deepshikha from Chemistry Department acted as judges for the events.Kanica excels in BA b.EdKanica Prabhkar of PCM SD College for Women entered in the Guru Nanak Dev University merit list with third position in the recently declared BA BEd (SemII) result by securing 428 marks out of 500. Komalpreet got tenth university position by 407 marks. Applauding the meritorious students on their remarkable success, the members of the managing commmittee and Principal Dr Pooja Prashar wished for their bright future and commended the highly dedicated faculty of the department for the spectacular results year after year.Lecture on rainwater harvestingThe Department of Geography and NSS of Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women organised a lecture on “Rainwater Harvesting System” under the aegis of Mahatma Gandhi Rashtriya Pendu Sikhya Parishad, Department of Higher Education, Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India under “Jal Shakti Abhiyaan”. Manita, Head, Department of Geography, apprised the NSS volunteers and students about the Rainwater Harvesting System. She said that in today’s scenario it is of urgent need to save every single drop of water as that day is not far away when Punjab would also be deprived and face a similar danger of water till 2025 like Rajasthan.hands-on Workshop on Kali LinuxGNA University organised a hands-on workshop on ‘Kali Linux’. Kamlesh Kumar from Webtouinx Pvt. Ltd., Mohali, was the keynote speaker. The students were imparted with the basic skills in Kali Linux Programming, which will later enhance their cyber security skills. Kamlesh explained about Linux being a free operating system and free from viruses that has been adapted by more computer hardware platforms for cyber security. He added that Linux is the most preferred operating system for mobile phones, tablet computers, network routers and video games, and is used by 95 per cent of the world’s fastest supercomputers. The keynote speaker not only explained it analytically but also demonstrated practically to the students.Police Martyrs’ Day observedTo commemorate Police Martyrs’ Day, an English essay writing, declamation competition and painting competition were organised by Police DAV Public School on the ‘Role of police in society’. Principal Dr Rashmi Vij apprised the students of the historical background of Police Martyrs’ Day. She also told them about how the school came into existence during the testing time of terrorism. She also felicitated the police officers-DSP Jasvir Singh, Inspector Gurcharan Singh and his team. The Police Disaster Management Drill was carried out by Punjab Police officers under the directions of DGP Punjab. The team comprised Inspector Manoj, Sub-inspector Bhagwant Singh, and ASI Rupesh Kumar. A cultural programme comprising songs, dance, poem recitation and speech was presented as a tribute to the police martyrs.Workshop by Diaspora StudiesThe Centre for Diaspora Studies, Lyallpur Khalsa College, organised a one-day workshop on the theme “Youth of Punjab and Fascination for the foreign: Challenges and Redressals”. The workshop was attended by more than a hundred students and members of the faculty. Principal of the college Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra appreciated the efforts of Dr Kanchan Mehta, the co-ordinator of the Centre for Diaspora Studies in organising such relevant activities for the youth. The workshop consisted of two sessions. Prof. Jasreen Kaur, Dean Academics, chaired the workshop sessions. Dr Mehta said, “The focus of the workshop has been to sensitise the youth regarding the challenges that await them in the foreign lands and to let them explore the possibilities and opportunities in the land being left.”lecture on curbing CorruptionUnder Vigilance Awareness Drive organised by Integrity Club of Police DAV Public, a programme was held in which Dilbir Singh, DSP Vigilance Bureau, spoke on corruption for the students of senior secondary. He explained in detail what is corruption, who fall under the category of public servants and what is the role of the Vigilance Bureau, how complaints against a person misusing his office can be filed, how the Vigilant Bureau helps that person In the interactive session, he answered the queries of the students and teachers. Dr Rashmi Vij thanked him for providing valuable information. In the end an oath was taken by everyone to maintain high integrity in their lives and not to support corruption and work against it. The event was coordinated by Gurpreet Johal, the incharge of the club. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/talent-hunt-show-at-dav-university-331946
30-10-2021||Hoshiarpur||Labourer beaten up, Farmer booked||Injured Granthi succumbsHoshiarpur: A granthi, who was injured in a road accident on October 24, succumbed to his injuries. The Mahilpur police have registered a case against unidentified accused. Kuldeep Kumar, a resident of Meghowal village, told the police that Makhan Singh was a granthi in Gurdwara Shaheedan in Meghowal. He was returning after path from Paddhi Sura Singh village on October 24, when a vehicle hit him near Nariala village. He was admitted to the PGI in a critical condition where he died yesterday. After registering a case, the police have started further action. OCTwo arrested with drugsHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested two smugglers and seized huge quantity of narcotics from different places. The Hajipur police have arrested Savinder Singh alias Sanju, a resident of Ludhiari and seized 22 grams of intoxicating powder from him. Meanwhile, the Mukerian police have arrested Paramjit Singh alias Mintu alias Lambu, a resident of Bagowal and seized 10 grams of heroin from him. Both the accused have been booked under the NDPS Act by respective police stations. OC17-ton plastic waste collectedHoshiarpur: Under the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav initiative, the month-long cleanliness drive concluded at Dussehra Ground. During the month long programme, the volunteers of different organisations and students collected 1,100 kg plastic waste. District Youth Officer of Nehru Yuva Kendra Rajesh Kumar said the kendra launched the clean in less drive on October 1 in villages, town and cities with a focus on collection of plastic waste. He said that during this drive more than 17,000 kg plastic waste was collected with the support and cooperation of various organisations and students. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/labourer-beaten-up-farmer-booked-331947
