31-10-2021||---||Cleanliness takes a back seat at Civil Hospital in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, October 30When it comes to cleanliness, the Civil Hospital paints a picture of neglect with rubble strewn across the pathways and outside key departments due to a number of construction works undergoing at the hospital. Besides, a video of various rats roaming outside the ICU of the dialysis unit on Saturday did the round on social media.Patients visiting the hospital are greeted by ugly sights of rubble and mud as well as piles of construction material all around its premises at its entrance. While the facade has been already unkempt due to multiple construction works, the new video had raised further questions about the state of affairs of sanitary condition in the hospital.In the video, one can clearly see six or more rats outside the ICU dialysis unit and some roaming about on the hospital floor amidst the waiting room seats where patients sit. A water tank and a pile of clothes on a chair can be seen in the background.At least a dozen or more rats can be seen walking around the OPD unit of the dialysis unit of the Civil Hospital. As per sources, the video was shot by some visitors at the hospital on Friday night. The dialysis unit is on the third floor of the Civil Hospital, which also houses the male and female surgical wards.Therefore, the video raises questions whether the sanitary conditions are compromised on the floor which houses many critical patients with serious ailments as well as also holds sensitive and costly medical equipment.The authorities have denied such reports. However, the video makes it clear that there is a major rat infestation om the premises.While the burns unit is coming up in the trauma ward a ramp is also under-construction outside the ward, a separate unit is also under construction for the installation of an MRI machine (coming up in a public-private partnership) near the hospital’s emergency. A number of units are also under renovation. Renovation work is currently going on in the hospital’s mortuary, ortho and ENT wards. And construction work is also going on near the hospital’s oxygen plant.Medical Superintendent Dr Seema said, “There is no such thing. The wards are all clean. No such thing has come to my notice. There are some construction works going on, but the wards are in proper sanitary condition.”Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Ghotra said, “I have not come across any such information yet. But I will take up the matter with the MS.”Video of rats roaming outside dialysis unit viralIn the video, one can clearly see six or more rats outside the ICU dialysis unit and some roaming about on the hospital floor at the waiting room seats, where patients sit. A water tank and a pile of clothes on a chair can be seen in the background.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cleanliness-takes-a-back-seat-at-civil-hospital-in-jalandhar-332329
31-10-2021||---||Jalandhar girl Kiranjot Kaur shines with silver at world championship||Jalandhar, October 30A city-based girl recently won a silver medal in the World Hapkido Cup-2021 Championship held at Saint Petersburg in Russia Kiranjot Kaur is a third-year BSc health and physical education martial arts student at Lovely Professional University (LPU). With this applauding win, black-belt holder Kiranjot has made the city proud.She fought four winning fights only to lose the last golden one. She was the only girl from India, who won a medal in Russia during the competitions.Kiranjot has already won numerous gold medals at the national-level. It was her first international tour, where she made her mark. Kiranjot entered LPU at a sports scholarship and exhibited her skills of perfection in both sports and studies.She has consistently got a good CGPA in all her examinations and remained with regular attendance as well. Her mentor at LPU described her as a dedicated, devoted and disciplined student in all forms. LPU Chancellor Ashok Mittal has also congratulated her for bringing laurels to the university.Kiranjot’s mother Maninder Kaur shared that she got a full scholarship of Rs2.1 lakh, which is Rs35,000 per semester for three-year programme.About Hapkido‘Hapkido’ is considered to be a Korean-Japanese collaborative martial arts form of self-defence which was massively utilised after World War II. This year, competitions were held in the 75th year of continuation (1946-2021) of the Championship. The World Hapkido Council is supposedly part of the Russian Union of Hapkido Federations, which is a full member of the Global Hapkido Association and the European Hapkido Union. Hapkido Russian Federation had organised this martial arts world cup competition in Russia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-girl-kiranjot-kaur-shines-with-silver-at-world-championship-332331
31-10-2021||---||Farmers to block Punjab CM’s convoy||Jalandhar, October 30Ahead of Channi’s visit in the city, farmers under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union, on Saturday announced to gherao the Chief Minister’s convoy tomorrow.A farmer leader said around 100 farmers would take part in a protest to gherao Charanjit Singh Channi. The farmers would protest against the black marketing of DAP (fertiliser) as well as its shortage.“A few days are left for the sowing of wheat and farmers do not even have DAP, which is an essential fertiliser for the crop. However, we have been returned empty-handed by government cooperative societies in the last few weeks.“Private dealers are also reporting its shortage. However, our sources claimed that the private dealers who had stored the fertiliser in bulk were now selling it in the black market or demanding farmers to pay extra. Farmers are even forced to purchase additional fertilisers and seeds with DAP,” added Malkiat Singh, a farm leader.The CM is likely to visit Surjit Hockey Stadium as the chief guest here tomorrow on the occasion of the concluding ceremony of the Surjit Hockey Tournament. OnSaturday, Channi also played as a goal-keeper at a hockey tournament in the International Hockey Stadium in Mohali. Channi, who played handball at the college and university level during his college days, will also play with hockey champions here tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-to-block-punjab-cms-convoy-332333
31-10-2021||---||32-yr-old run over by truck near Shriman Hospital||Jalandhar, October 30A 32-year-old man was crushed to death under the wheels of a truck on the Jalandhar-Pathankot highway on late Friday evening. The accident reportedly took place outside Shriman Hospital when the victim along with his friend was going towards Kala Bakra.This is the second fatality on the Jalandhar-Pathankot highway in five days after a five-year-old toddler and her grandparents were killed in a road accident involving a car and a truck.ASI, police station number 8, Kishore Kumar said the victim was identified as Sarfaraz, a resident of Jallowal village.A daily wage worker, Sarfaraz was a native of West Bengal. After completing some work in the city, he was heading back to his home with Adam Hussain. While Hussain was driving the motorcycle, Sarfaraz was riding pillion. When they reached outside Shriman Hospital, Hussain’s bike was hit by a truck from the rear, following which Hussain lost balance and Sarfaraz fell off the bike. Unfortunately, he was crushed under rear tyres of the truck. Hussain also sustained serious injuries in the accident. He was rushed to a nearby hospital.The ASI further informed that the victim used to work in a tyre shop in Jallowal. A case under Section 304-A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at Police Division number 8 against the truck driver. The police also impounded the truck.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/32-yr-old-run-over-by-truck-near-shriman-hospital-332335
31-10-2021||Hoshiarpur||3 booked for Rs 67-lakh fraud||Dowry: Two persons bookedHoshiarpur: The police have booked two persons for allegedly harassing a married woman for dowry. The victim, Kajal, a resident of Quila Barun, told the police that she got married to Ajay Kumar, a resident of Milap Nagar. She said her husband and father-in-law harassed her and threw her out of the house for not fulfilling their demands. After registering the case, the police have started probe in the matter. OCAssault: Husband among 4 bookedHoshiarpur: The police have registered a case against four persons for allegedly assaulting a woman. Sakshi Goyal, a resident of New Colony, told the police that her husband Ashish Goyal, brother-in-law Manish Goyal, father-in-law Anil Goyal and mother-in-law Sushma Goyal thrashed her. She said after hearing her cries, people gathered outside their house and got her admitted to the hospital. A case has been registered under relevant sections of the IPC. OC4 peddlers held in separate casesHoshiarpur: The police have arrested four peddlers and recovered huge quantity of contraband in separate cases. The Bullowal police have arrested Gurmeet Kaur, a resident of Nainowal Vaid, and recovered 25 gm of intoxicating powder from her. The Mahilpur police have recovered huge quantity of vials from Didar Singh, a resident of Kheda village. The Model Town police have arrested Manjeet Singh alias Lovely, a resident of Kheda, and recovered 20-gm intoxicating powder from his possession. The Hariana police have seized 27,000 ml liquor from Harsh Varma, a resident of Janauri. The accused have been booked under relevant sections of the IPC. OCTwo cell phone thieves arrestedAmritsar: The Amritsar police on Saturday arrested two thieves, who used to steal mobile phones from people. The accused have been identified as Harpreet Singh, alias Harman, a resident of Bhai Manjh Road and Simranpreet Singh, alias Simma, a resident of Sultanwind Road. ASI Jaspal Singh, in-charge Darshan Avenue police post, said they received a tip-off about the accused. The police kept a tab and nabbed Harpreet and Simranpreet, who were going to sell the mobile phones towards Daburji side on a bike. A case was registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-booked-for-rs-67-lakh-fraud-332338
31-10-2021||---||Mela Gadri Babeyan Da all set to kick off from today||Jalandhar, October 30The 30th Mela Gadri Babeyan Da, dedicated to the Babbar Akali Movement and the historic Kisan Andolan will be held on October 31 and November 1. P Sainath will be a keynote speaker at the mela.Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Committee President Ajmer Singh, General Secretary Gurmeet Singh, cultural wing convenor Amolak Singh, assistant secretary Dr Parminder Singh, vice-president Seetal Singh Sangha and treasurer Ranjit Singh Aulakh today, while addressing a press conference at the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall, said while the mela this year will discuss the historic significance of the Babbar Akali Movement, it will also be dedicated to the Kisan Andolan going for the past one year in Delhi and across the country.They said the mela would also reaffirm the firm commitment to continue the agitation against the ‘black laws’ and against the government which remains steadfast in its support for the corporate.Committee leaders said on the first day of the mela on October 31, there will be a discussion on the Babbar Akali Movement and Kisan Andolan. ‘Farm Crisis: Struggle and Solutions’ topic will see Dr Gyan Singh (acclaimed economist, Punjabi University, Patiala) as the key speaker along with assistant secretary of the Desh Bhagat Committee. Dr Parminder Singh, committee member Jagroop and Darshan Khatkar.In the second session, ‘Babbr Akali Movement’s History’ topic will see Dr Kamlesh Mohan, (retd Prof History Punjabi University, Chandigarh) as speaker. At 4 pm in the evening there will be Kavi Darbar followed by screening of a documentary film.On November 1, the custom of hosting the Ghadar party flag at 10.30 am in the morning will be held by Senior Trustee Bhagat Singh Jhuggian. Committee President Ajmer Singh and general secretary Gurmeet Singh will address the gathering. Penned by Amolak Singh, an opera-like flag song (jhande da geet) on Babbars, Jallianwala Bagh and labourer-farmer struggle will be presented next. Dr Surjit Patar, Dr Varyam Sandhu’s poetry will be part of the song. A workshop is also being held at the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar hall on October 28.On November 1, acclaimed journalist, environmental expert, winner of the Ramon Magsaysay Award and founder of the People’s Archive of Rural India (PARI), P Sainath will be the keynote speaker. Acclaimed playwright Gursharan Singh’s ‘Sees Tali Te’will be presented by Chandigarh School of Drama. Folk and cultural performances will mark song- music presentations on the day.The book, ‘Kirti Party: During the Second World War’ originally authored by Chain Singh Chain and edited by Chairunji Lal Kangniwal will be released. A jago will also be presented in the evening by Phulwari Kala Lendra, Lohian.The plays to be presented at the mela’s acclaimed night of theatre will include - Prof Ajmer Singh Aulkah’s team Lok Kala Manch Mansa’s “Ain Kiven Hoh Lainge Zameenan Sadian’; Manch Rang Manch Amritsar’s Kewal Dhaliwal directed “Khooni Vasakhi”, Adakar Manch Mohali Dr Sahib Singh’s ‘Dhann Likhari Nanka”, Anita Shabdish directed Italian theatrist Dario Fo’s play’s Punjabi adaptation “Eddan Tan Fer Eddan hi Sahi’ from Suchetak Rangmanch Mohali and Shiv Sihora-Pavel Sihora directed ‘Ghasseya Hoeya Admi’ from Avami Rang Manch Sihora (Ludhiana).The mela will also be marked by a book exhibition, exhortation for restoring previous look of Jallianwala Bagh.Watch out for these events||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mela-gadri-babeyan-da-all-set-to-kick-off-from-today-332339
31-10-2021||---||National Unity Day: Sardar Patel’s contribution recalled||Hoshiarpur, October 30National Unity Day was observed and an oath taking ceremony was organised today at the Subsidiary Training Centre of Border Security Force, Kharkan, Hoshiarpur. On the occasion, Madhu Sudan Sharma, Inspector General, BSF, addressed the personnel and new recruit constables.He emphasised upon the contribution of the Iron Man of India Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel for the national integration and apprised of the purpose of celebrating National Unity Day. Inspector General and all present personnel took oath to dedicate them to maintain the unity, integrity and security of the nation, try their best to spread this message among the countrymen and to ensure the internal security of the country.‘Ensure unity, integrity of nation’Madhu Sudan Sharma, Inspector General, Border Security Force (BSF) emphasised upon the contribution of Iron Man of India Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel for the national integration and apprised the audience of the purpose and the essence of celebrating the National Unity Day. Inspector General and all the personnel present on the occasion took an oath to dedicate them to maintain the unity, integrity and security of the nation, try their best to spread this message among the countrymen and to ensure the internal security of the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/national-unity-day-sardar-patels-contribution-recalled-332340
31-10-2021||---||Norah Richards remembered on her 150th birthday||Jalandhar, October 30The 150th birthday of Norah Richards, the grand old lady of Punjabi theatre, was celebrated on Friday at Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar. In this event, organised by Punjabi Culture and Folklore Study Centre of the college, noted writer and director Sardarjeet Bawa acted as the key speaker.Norah Richards who is also referred to as ‘’Punjbai Natak Di Nakkardadi’’, tutored the likes of Prithviraj Kapoor and IC Nanda in Punjbai theatre. Her home and workshop at Andretta was frequented by acclaimed theatrists and also became a settlement of Punjab artists under her initiative. Speaking on the occasion, Sardarjeet Bawa highlighted the contribution of Norah Richards to the development of Punjabi drama. Welcoming the chief Guest, the college principal Dr GS Samra reiterated the commitment of the college to promotion of Punjabi culture and said the centre had been established with the same purpose. He also added that the organisation of Bhangra World Cup was a step in the same direction.The head of Punjabi department Dr GS Buttar informed the audience about the beginning and development of Punjabi theatre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/norah-richards-remembered-on-her-150th-birthday-332342
31-10-2021||---||Unemployed teachers step up protest, want 9,000 posts filled||Jalandhar, October 30The protest of the B Ed TET pass unemployed teachers entered its third day here today. The B Ed TET pass unemployed teachers also burnt the effigy of the state government here. The teachers have been protesting atop the tank where two other teachers Munish Kumar and Jaswant Ghubaya have been protesting since Thursday.Teachers held a protest outside the office of the Deputy Commissioner, Jalandhar, here they burnt the effigy and raised slogans even as other teachers remained atop a water tank.Union leader Sukhwnder Singh Dhilwan said while they had been promised a meeting with CM Charanjit Singh Channi on October 29, it just proved another false assurance. Teachers said while both the CM and Education Minister had been asking them to drop the stir, they will stay out until their demands are met.Dhilwan said on October 28, there was a fierce protest outside the minister’s residence and several women teachers also collapsed. He added that Munish Fazilka and Jaswant Singh Ghubaya continued protesting atop the tank near the Jalandhar bus stand. The prime demand of the teachers is that 9,000 posts of teachers be filled.Five teachers, including Jaswinder Kaur, Narpinder Kaur, Sarbjit Kaur, Resham and Neelam are also on hunger strike. Meanwhile, teachers said their protest would continue until the government releases advertisement for their appointments to various posts.Aman, Sandeep, Amandeep, harpreet, Deepika, Malak Preet, Tahira, Amanjit, Devinder, Harjinder, Jaswinder, Mandeep, Narinder, Ashwani, Nitin, Pritpal, Neetika, Angrej Singh and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/unemployed-teachers-step-up-protest-want-9-000-posts-filled-332343
31-10-2021||---||Surjit Hockey Tournament: Indian Railways, Punjab & Sind Bank face off in final||Jalandhar, October 30Indian Railways Delhi will clash with Punjab & Sind Bank Delhi in the final of the 38th Indian Oil Servo Surjit Hockey Tournament at Katoch AstroTurf Hockey Stadium in Jalandhar Cantt on Sunday at 2pm.The winners will receive Rs 5 lakh prize along with and the runners up will take home Rs 2 lakh. Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi will distribute prizes to the teams. Pargat Singh, Education, Sports and NRI Affairs Minister, will preside over the event.In the first semifinal, Indian Railways Delhi defeated Punjab National Bank Delhi 2-1 to reserve berth in the final. In the second semifinal, Punjab & Sind Bank Delhi edged out Punjab Police 1-0 to enter the final. Indian Railways made it to the final for the third time where as Punjab & Sind Bank entered the final for the 18th time.In first semifinal, Indian Railways displayed total control. The first two quarter went goal less. In the third quarter’s 34th minute, Pardeep Singh of Indian Railways, scored a field goal. In 54th minute, Varinder Singh scored the second goal. In the 57th minute of the play, Punjab National Bank, reduced the margin after Bhagat Singh Dhillon converted the penalty corner (1-2).In the second semifinal, Punjab & Sind Bank and Punjab Police displayed good hockey skills. In the second quarter’s 25th minute, Gaganpreet Singh put Punjab & Sind Bank ahead with a penalty corner (1-0). Punjab Police failed to score from three penalty corners in a row. In the last quarter, Punjab Police again wasted three chances to score.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/surjit-hockey-tournament-indian-railways-punjab-sind-bank-face-off-in-final-332344
31-10-2021||Ajay Joshi||This fitness buff sets up gym using junk material||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 30It is being said if you aim at something, you will hit it every time. This holds true in case of Jaspal Singh. A fitness freak, he says he is now contended as he owns a gym. However, what’s special about his fitness centre is that he built it on his own.The 24-year-old youth has turned scrap into fitness machines. The videos of his makeshift gym ‘Bal Fitness Club Ramidi,’ are now viral on the social media, bringing him accolades.With an investment of just Rs 20,000, one can spot every workout essential machine in Jaspal’s gym. From using discarded iron rods, spring to cemented poles lying unused in the roads, he has transformed every piece of scrap to give wings to his imagination.Mentioning his continuous toil for three months, Jaspal said, “By the time lockdown ended, I was convinced enough to build a gym in my village. As to keep themselves toned and fit, the youth in our village had to move towards fitness centres in the cities. For which they sometimes had to travel extra miles. Hence, once I was sure, I visited city based gyms and accumulated knowledge on how a particular machine works.” To add perfection, he scrutinised minutest details, following which he tried to create replicas of all machines and weights.“For dumb bells, I used cement and iron rods. The concrete was also prepared using discarded iron to make the weights and dumb bells strong. To give weights, a proper shape, unused buckets were used. We used the base of the buckets for apt round shape weights. Similarly, while wooden or cemented slabs were used as tables, unneeded, sofa seats and mattresses were used as cushions or sitting support. Besides, that out of use cylinder was also tuned into sitting support with proper padding. It took me nearly three months to set up the gym, which has become the talk of the town,” added Jaspal, a resident of village Ramidi, in Kapurthala.There is a free entry for both men and women in the gym. Interestingly, those who didn’t like his idea of building up a DIY gym, now come to his fitness club to tone their muscles.“I wasn’t bothered about the negative comments. When I gradually succeeded in devising the gym equipments, the results forced my friends and fellow youngsters to lend an extra had for early completion of the fitness club. It was formally opened on October 20. Both men and women are allowed to work out in the gym. While morning time is kept for women, evening time is kept for men,” said, Jaspal, who used extra space around his house to set up his gym.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-fitness-buff-sets-up-gym-using-junk-material-332345
31-10-2021||---||Covid-19: Jalandhar district reports  2 new cases||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 30Two new Covid case was reported in the district on Saturday, taking the tally to 63,395 cases. No new Covid death was reported in Jalandhar on Saturday. The district toll remains at 1,496. As many as 61,863 people have recovered from Covid in the district, while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 36.Of the 17,46,378 samples collected so far, 16,10,786 samples have tested negative. The results of as many as 1,425 tests are still awaited.No new case, death in KapurthalaNo new Covid case or death was reported in Kapurthala on Saturday. The Covid tally remains at 17,852 in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-jalandhar-district-reports-2-new-cases-332346
31-10-2021||Jalandhar||Pre-Diwali Bash at Apeejay School, Jalandhar||Open Mic-Season 3 at CT GroupGiving a platform to people who are contributing their bits in society, and to share their inspiring stories, CT Group organised one of its kind events named Open Mic Season-3 at CT World School. In this, seven speakers from varied fields shared their life struggle, challenges and accomplishments. Speakers were namely Malika Handa, World Chess Champion (Deaf and Mute); Shaina Kochar, life coach and TV presenter; Preet Inder Dhillon, author, columnist and radio presenter from the UK; Ishu Joshi, choreographer, make-up artist; Narinder Kaur, wheelchair dancer and motivator. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pre-diwali-bash-at-apeejay-school-jalandhar-332347
