01-08-2021||India||Karnataka extends Covid guidelines imposed till 2nd August for the next 15 days||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said, "The guidelines imposed till 2nd August will be extended for the next 15 days," as reported by ANI. This came after the state reported 1,875 new cases and the figure was higher than the number of people who recovered. Karnataka chief minister  Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday had directed the administrations of districts bordering Kerala, that has seen a spurt in Covid-19 cases, to take up special surveillance measure, aimed at controlling the spread of the infection. ”There is a spurt in the number of Covid cases in Kerala in the last one week. It is a cause of worry. We have to take it very seriously. The borders have to be monitored strictly. I have ordered senior officials- Deputy Commissioners and Superintendents of Police to take the responsibility,” Bommai said. Speaking to reporters after a meeting on the COVID situation in eight districts, especially those bordering Kerala and others where effects can be felt, on his arrival from Delhi, he said, Assistant Commissioners and DySPs should supervise every day, and District Health Officers (DHOs) should ensure health units for testing. Meanwhile ANI reported that apartments in Bangalore have become containment zones because residents are not disclosing their travel history and information. According to reports, there are 108 active micro-containment zones in Bangalore. Most of them were added in July as on the 1st of the month the number of was 44.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
01-08-2021||India||BJP's 'Tiranga Yatra' in Haryana plan to instigate and defame farmers: Samyukta Kisan Morcha||Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Sunday appealed to Haryana farmers not to oppose the 'Tiranga Yatra' of the state's BJP unit claiming that it was a devious plan to instigate and defame farmers.  The umbrella body of 40 farmer unions said in a statement that the other programmes of boycott and flag protests against the BJP and the JJP will continue.  "The proposed 'Tiranga Yatra' of the BJP's Haryana unit is mainly to instigate farmers and defame them. SKM urged farmers to see through this devious plan of BJP, and to not let this dirty tactic, under the guise of the national flag, succeed," it said in the statement.  The Haryana BJP's two-week-long 'Tiranga Yatra' ahead of the 75th Independence Day began from Bhiwani on Sunday, with party's state chief O P Dhankar claiming that thousands of farmers also joined the event.  Dhankar, along with state Agriculture Minister J P Dalal, rode a tractor with tricolour fixed on its both sides during the 'yatra', which was taken out on a 30-km-long route from Bahal to Loharu.  The SKM also said the 'Kisan Sansad' will continue at Jantar Mantar in Delhi on Monday.  "The Kisan Sansad, despite the site of the Sansad in Jantar Mantar being flooded with water, is functioning in a disciplined manner, with detailed deliberations. In Chhattisgarh, a parallel Kisan Sansad was run by the state Kisan Sabha on Friday, in solidarity with the Kisan Sansad near the Parliament," it said.  The Kisan Sansad is part of the latest strategy of the farmers who have been protesting against the Centre's three contentious farm laws at multiple Delhi borders since November last year.  The farmers have expressed fear that the new laws will eliminate the Minimum Support Price system and leave them at the mercy of the big corporations.  Over 10 rounds of talks with the government that has been projecting the laws as major agricultural reforms have failed to break the deadlock between the two parties.  As part of these Kisan Sansad sessions, 200 farmers from the protest sites participate in a mock Parliament session at Jantar Mantar during which issues concerning the farming community are discussed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
01-08-2021||India||Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs to visit J&K and Ladakh from August 17 to 22||The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs is likely to visit Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh from August 17 to 22, sources said on Sunday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on June 24 held the first high-level interaction between the Centre and political leadership mainly from Kashmir after August 5, 2019, when the Centre revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcated it into two union territories. Among the 14 leaders who participated in the meeting were Congress's Ghulam Nabi Azad, Tara Chand and GA Mir; National Conference’s Dr Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah; PDP's Mehbooba Mufti, J-K Apni Party's Altaf Bukhari. The issue of restoration of statehood was also raised by several participants in the meeting. The PDP chief told reporters after the 3.5 hour-long meetings that she has told the Prime Minister that the people of Jammu and Kashmir do not accept the manner in which Article 370 was abrogated “unconstitutionally, illegally and immorally”. “People of Jammu and Kashmir are in a lot of difficulties after August 5, 2019. They are angry, upset, and emotionally shattered. They feel humiliated. I told Prime Minister that people do not accept the manner in which Article 370 was abrogated unconstitutionally, illegally and immorally.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
01-08-2021||India||Indian and Chinese armies establish hotline for Sikkim sector||A hotline has been set up between the Indian and Chinese armies in the North Sikkim sector to further boost confidence along the Line of Actual Control in the region, officials said on Sunday.  The hotline is between the Indian Army in Kongra La, North Sikkim and China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) at Khamba Dzong in Tibetan Autonomous Region, they said.  The Army said the hotline is aimed at furthering "the spirit of trust and cordial relations along the borders".  The opening of the hotline coincided with the PLA Day on August 1, it said.  "The armed forces of the two countries have well-established mechanisms for communication at ground commanders level," the Army said.  "These hotlines in various sectors go a long way in enhancing the same and maintaining peace and tranquility at the borders," it said in a statement.  The inauguration of the hotline was attended by ground commanders of the two sides and a message of friendship and harmony was exchanged, the Army said.  The setting up of the hotline came amid a continued standoff between the two armies in a number of friction points in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
01-08-2021||India||UP govt to create 134-acre urban forest in Mathura ||The Uttar Pradesh government will be creating an urban forest covering 134 acres in Sunrakh village on the outskirts of Vrindavan and work is set to begin in September, officials said on Sunday. It would be blending the heritage of Vrindavan with other similar developments made in the 'land of Radha Rani'," Mathura District Magistrate Navneet Singh Chahal said, while talking to a group of reporters. He said the landscape would be inspired by the ancient culture of Braj Bhoomi, known for its expansive forest cover. In the Rig Veda, the chosen location is described as the abode of sage Saubhari Rishi who had gone there to seek penance by meditating inside the Yamuna river, said Shailjakant Mishra, Vice-President, UP Braj Teerth Vikas Parishad. The project will be a joint venture of the UP Braj Teerth Vikas Parishad, forest department, district administration and Mathura Vrindavan Development Authority (MVDA), officials said. Under the programme, nearly 77,000 saplings will be planted at a cost of Rs 2.5 crore, the officials said. After levelling work is completed, the area will be demarcate with barbed fencing by the MVDA while a pond and a park would also be developed inside the premises later. DM Chahal said the urban forest will be a natural habitat for animals, especially monkeys, and it would attract domestic as well as international tourists with a scenic location along the river. It would not only be a model of greenery in urban areas but would act as an "oxygen factory", he said. Nagendra Pratap, Vice-Chairman, MVDA, said the final phase of the forest will involve developing a pathway for tourists inside the urban forest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
01-08-2021||India||BJP's Tiranga Yatra in Haryana aims to instigate, defame farmers: SKM||Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Sunday appealed to Haryana farmers not to oppose the 'Tiranga Yatra' of the state's BJP unit claiming that it was a devious plan to instigate and defame farmers. The umbrella body of 40 farmer unions said in a statement that the other programmes of boycott and flag protests against the BJP and the JJP will continue. "The proposed 'Tiranga Yatra' of the BJP's Haryana unit is mainly to instigate farmers and defame them. SKM urged farmers to see through this devious plan of BJP, and to not let this dirty tactic, under the guise of the national flag, succeed," it said in the statement. The Haryana BJP's two-week-long 'Tiranga Yatra' ahead of the 75th Independence Day began from Bhiwani on Sunday, with party's state chief O P Dhankar claiming that thousands of farmers also joined the event. Dhankar, along with state Agriculture Minister J P Dalal, rode a tractor with tricolour fixed on its both sides during the 'yatra', which was taken out on a 30-km-long route from Bahal to Loharu. The SKM also said the 'Kisan Sansad' will continue at Jantar Mantar in Delhi on Monday. "The Kisan Sansad, despite the site of the Sansad in Jantar Mantar being flooded with water, is functioning in a disciplined manner, with detailed deliberations. In Chhattisgarh, a parallel Kisan Sansad was run by the state Kisan Sabha on Friday, in solidarity with the Kisan Sansad near the Parliament," it said. The Kisan Sansad is part of the latest strategy of the farmers who have been protesting against the Centre's three contentious farm laws at multiple Delhi borders since November last year. The farmers have expressed fear that the new laws will eliminate the Minimum Support Price system and leave them at the mercy of the big corporations. Over 10 rounds of talks with the government that has been projecting the laws as major agricultural reforms have failed to break the deadlock between the two parties. As part of these Kisan Sansad sessions, 200 farmers from the protest sites participate in a mock Parliament session at Jantar Mantar during which issues concerning the farming community are discussed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
01-08-2021||India||Cong ‘James Bond of spying’ when in power; Pegasus a ‘fabricated issue’, claims Mukhtar Naqvi||Attacking the Congress which has been protesting in Parliament demanding a discussion on the Pegasus snooping allegations, Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Sunday said the party was "James Bond of spying" when in power and it now wants to waste Parliament's time over "fake and fabricated" issues. Naqvi, who is the Rajya Sabha Deputy Leader, also accused the Congress and a few other Opposition parties of working with the policy of "rant and run" by making allegations and scooting off. The Minority Affairs Minister said the government is ready to discuss all issues that are related to people and expressed hope that the impasse between the government and the Opposition will be broken allowing Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha to function smoothly. Both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have failed to transact any significant business, except passage of some bills, amid continued protests by Opposition parties over the Pegasus and farmers' issues since the Monsoon session of Parliament commenced on July 19. The Opposition and the government are locked in a standoff with the former seeking a debate over the Pegasus issue. The senior BJP leader also rejected talk of the Parliament's Monsoon session being curtailed and said there was no basis of such "rumours" as the session was to scheduled till August 13 and business is listed till then. Asked if a middle path can be found to end the deadlock in Parliament, Naqvi said the Congress and a few other Opposition parties are adopting a "rant and run" formula and are not interested in participating in debate and discussion on people's issues. "They first said that we want a discussion on corona but then later did not agree to it. They said we want a discussion on farmers and then did not agree on that. There has been the problem of floods in various parts of the country, they are not showing any interest in that also or on the price rise issue that they talk about," he said. On the Opposition insisting on debating the Pegasus issue, Naqvi said they want to waste Parliament's time on “fake and fabricated issues that have no identity”. "Without wasting time, IT Minister (Ashwini Vaishnaw) had made a statement and they had an opportunity to get a clarification in Rajya Sabha. But instead of taking a clarification they created a ruckus and adopted a violent attitude," he alleged. Naqvi said most of the Opposition parties are interested in debate and discussion but unfortunately the Congress is trying to be their self-appointed head and in that attempt it is "propagating its own negative attitude as that of the Opposition". "They (the Congress) are trying to hijack the thinking of even those opposition parties that are thinking on constructive lines. Congress is trying to become a self appointed leader of the Opposition," the Rajya Sabha MP said. Naqvi said the Congress also tried to "mislead" people on the Rafale jets issue and wasted Parliament's time and everybody knows what happened as they were exposed. "These people (Congress) were the James Bond of spying (when in power). They spin a web of spying when in government and when in opposition create a hullabaloo alleging surveillance," Naqvi said, making a reference to the fictional super spy character that novelist Ian Fleming created on which several movies have been made. In the UPA time, their own finance minister had accused his government of spying on him, he said. "They want to create that atmosphere even now, though there is no substance in these allegations," the minister asserted on the Pegasus snooping row. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on a list of potential targets for surveillance using Israeli firm NSO's Pegasus spyware. Opposition leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, two union ministers -- Prahlad Singh Patel and Railways and IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw -- businessman Anil Ambani, a former CBI chief, and at least 40 journalists are on the list on the leaked database of NSO. It is, however, not established that all the phones were hacked. The Congress and several other Opposition parties are demanding a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the allegations and also asking the government to come clean whether Pegasus spyware was used or not. Naqvi said the government has stated that it is ready to discuss all issues that are related to the people and the Opposition parties should give notices over it on which the Speaker in Lok Sabha and the chairman in Rajya Sabha will decide. The Rajya Sabha deputy leader said the government is reaching out to opposition leaders and there is no communication gap. "In a day, three-four times discussion is happening with opposition leaders but unfortunately what path the leadership of the grand old party wants to adopt is baffling," he said. Asked about the Opposition's charge of the government passing bills amid din without debate, Naqvi said they should look at their own history as to how many bills were passed by the UPA amid din. "The din during their time would have been due to Commonwealth, 2G spectrum scams, but they don't have any issue. It is an issueless Congress party," he alleged. "We humbly request the Opposition to participate in debate and discussion. They can give notices on the issues they want to discuss and the speaker and chairman will allot time and day," he said. On the call for Opposition unity during Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's Delhi visit recently, Naqvi said there are more than one dozen prime ministerial candidates in the Opposition with many leaders trying to project themselves as PM probables. "Opposition unity is good, we have no issues with it but neither they have leadership nor do they have a programme or policy. Their only programme or policy is (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi bashing," he said. Modi bashing will not pay any dividends, Naqvi added. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
01-08-2021||India||Duty of society to give chance to a criminal to defend themselves, says SC judge||It is the duty of every member of an orderly society to offer every possible opportunity to a "criminal" to defend himself, Supreme Court judge U U Lalit said on Sunday. He said that even though a criminal must be brought to book and punished for his wrong deeds for an orderly society, legal representation is part of everyone's fundamental rights. Justice Lalit was speaking at the launch of the year-long campaign Quality of services is key to access to justice for all , organised by Haryana Legal Services Authority in Gurugram in Haryana. "It is true that for an orderly society a criminal must be brought to book, a criminal must be proceeded against, a criminal must be punished for his wrong deeds. "But at the same time, as an orderly society, it is the duty of every member of the society to offer to him every possible opportunity to defend himself, he said. He said that during the last year and a half, when the entire humanity has been on the back foot because of the COVID-19 pandemic, the virtual platform has emerged as a "platform of solution". All interactions, whether through public offices or other modes, even entertainment and other things have gone for a toss completely due to the pandemic situation, he said. However, this situation has also taught us to improvise, innovate "and to sort of bring out the best within us. "It has taught us that the virtual platform can be a platform of solution, where many of our problems can get sorted out." Today all the courts are functioning through virtual modes, he noted. Justice Lalit also inaugurated the video conferencing facilities in all 22 DLSAs (District Legal Services Authorities) in the state, which will facilitate an interactive platform to fill the communication gap between legal aid counsel and client. He also inaugurated 'Kids Zones' in 18 DLSAs to cater to the needs of children who accompany young couples whose cases are referred for mediation. Besides Justice Lalit, Punjab and Haryana High Court Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and HC judges - Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Rajan Gupta - also spoke at the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
01-08-2021||India||No security clearance for passport, govt services for stone pelters||The CID wing of Jammu and Kashmir Police has ordered the denial of security clearance required for passport and other government services to all those involved in stone-pelting or subversive activities. In an order issued on Saturday, the senior superintendent of police (SSP), CID, Special Branch (SB), Kashmir, has directed all the field units under it to ensure that the person's involvement in law and order, stone-pelting cases, and other crime prejudicial to the security of the state be specifically looked into during verification related to passport, service and any other verification related to government schemes. The same must be corroborated from the local police station records, the order read. The SSP also said digital evidence like CCTV footage, photographs, videos and audio clips, quadcopter images available in the records of the police, security forces, and security agencies be also referred during the verification. Any subject found involved in any such cases must be denied the security clearance, the SSP, CID-SB, Kashmir said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
01-08-2021||India||Rainfall seven per cent below normal in July: IMD||After its vigorous revival in the first week of July that saw floods, cloudburst and landslides in several parts of the country, the Southwest Monsoon ended with a seven per cent deficit for the month, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday. The rainfall in July was minus seven per cent which comes to around 93 per cent of the Long Period Average, IMD Director General Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said. Rainfall in the range of 96-104 is normal whereas precipitation in the range of 90-96 is classified as below normal. July recorded extremely heavy rainfall over coastal and central Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka. Several towns and cities in Maharashtra were deluged to very heavy rainfall which resulted in catastrophic events like landslides claiming scores of lives and damaging property. The north Indian states -- Jammu and Kashmir, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Ladakh -- also saw cloudburst events that claimed several lives. The national capital too recorded a very good rainfall activity. But overall, the rainfall recorded for the month was seven per cent less. The IMD had predicted normal rainfall in July. "We had predicted normal rainfall for July which was somewhere around 96 per cent of the LPA. July brings maximum rain over the country, but there was no rainfall activity over north India until July 8 which could have been the reason behind the deficit," Mohapatra said. The Southwest Monsoon arrived over Kerala on June 3, two days after its normal schedule. But it very rapidly covered the east, west, south and parts of north India by June 19. But after that it entered into a phase that witnessed a spell of no rainfall activity. It started reviving from July 8. The Southwest Monsoon reached Delhi on July 13 after a delay of 16 days and covered the entire country the same day. June received 10 per cent more rainfall than normal. Of the four-month rainfall season, July and August receive the maximum precipitation. Overall, the country has received one per cent less rainfall than normal from June 1 to July 31. The deficit was minus 13 per cent in the east and northeast subdivision of the IMD. Northwest India division which covers north India recorded a two per cent deficit. The south peninsula division which covers the southern states received 17 per cent more rainfall while the central India division that comprises west and central India recorded one per cent more rainfall than the normal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
01-08-2021||India||Mansukh Mandaviya takes swipe at Rahul, says jab drive to get a major boost||The vaccination drive in the country is set to get a major boost this month, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said Sunday as he took a swipe at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for questioning the government's vaccine delivery programme. The minister asked Gandhi to join everyone in feeling proud about the work done by the country's health workers. In a response to Gandhi's tweet questioning the availability of vaccines last month, Mandaviya said more than 13 crore doses were administered in July and the drive is going to accelerate this month. "More than 13 crore doses were administered in India in the month of July. It is going to accelerate this month. We are proud of our healthcare workers for this achievement. "Now you too should be proud of them and the country," Mandaviya said in a tweet in Hindi in response to Gandhi's post. Earlier during the day, Gandhi had tweeted in Hindi saying "July is gone, but the shortage of vaccine hasn't gone away." He used the hashtag #WhereAreVaccines. The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 47 crore with 60,15,842 doses being administered in a span of 24 hours, the Health Ministry said Sunday morning. More than 3 crore balance and unutilised doses are still available with the states, union territories and private hospitals, it stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
01-08-2021||India||Muslim Women’s Rights Day observed across India||'Muslim Women's Rights Day' was observed by different organisations across the country on Sunday to mark the enactment of the law against triple talaq with victims of the "social evil" hailing the government for the legislation in their interaction with three Union ministers. Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani and Labour Minister Bhupender Yadav attended the "Muslim Women Rights Day" programme here, an official statement said. The Union ministers also interacted with several Muslim women, who were triple talaq victims, it said. The Muslim women thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for bringing the law against the criminal practice on August 1, 2019 which has made the social malpractice a criminal offense, it said. The Muslim women, while interacting with the ministers, said the Modi government has strengthened "self-reliance, self-respect and self-confidence" of the Muslim women of the country and protected their constitutional, fundamental and democratic rights by bringing the law against triple talaq. Addressing the Muslim women on the occasion, Irani said August 1 is a day to salute the struggle of Muslim women against triple talaq. She said the Ministry of Minority Affairs, the Ministry of Women and Child Development and the Labour Ministry will work unitedly to encourage entrepreneurship among Muslim women. Muslim women have immensely benefitted through schemes such as 'Mudra Yojana', 'Jan Dhan Yojana', 'Stand Up India' and 'Poshan Abhiyan', she said. On the occasion, Yadav said the Modi government has been working to ensure dignity and empowerment of women from every section of the society. “The Modi government has ensured dignity of Muslim women by bring the law against triple talaq,” Yadav said. The Modi government's policy of "development without discrimination' has created an atmosphere of trust across the country, he said. The Modi government's decision to provide quota for OBC and economically backward section in medical/dental studies will also benefit poor sections of the Muslim community, he added. Yadav said the Modi government has always worked for welfare of the needy. In his remarks, Naqvi said the law against triple talaq has proved to be a "big reform" to ensure constitutional rights of Muslim women. There is a significant decline in triple talaq cases across the country after the law came into effect, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
01-08-2021||India||Police get defamed due to either 'no action' or 'extreme action', says Amit Shah||Police get defamed due to either "no action" or "extreme action", Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Sunday as he laid emphasis on "just action". "I often say that police get defamed due to two reasons -- one is no action, and the second is extreme action. No action is not right as indolence cannot rectify the law and order system. And extreme is also not correct as it triggers reaction. So, the police should come out of no action and extreme action, and move in the direction of just action," he said. He was addressing a function after laying the foundation of the UP State Institute of Forensic Sciences here. Shah said the institute along with the National Forensic Sciences University in Gandhinagar will help the police move ahead in the direction of natural action. "Today policing is not confined to what was imagined 20 years ago, be it counterfeit notes, narcotics, narco-terror, cyber crime or cow smuggling. The day is not far when every district in UP will have a mobile forensic van, and there will be regional FSLs (forensic sciences laboratories)," he said. The government will work towards making the utilisation of FSL compulsory for conviction in crimes carrying punishment of more than 6 years, he said. "Today, the seeds of the UP State Institute of Forensic Sciences have been sown. Once it becomes a banyan tree, a number of children will make their career from here, they will take part in research and will prove to be the backbone of the country's law and order. When (Prime Minister Narendra) Modiji was the chief minister (of Gujarat), he had established the first-of-its-kind forensic sciences university in Gandhinagar. The Government of India has approved Rs 15 crore for establishment of a DNA centre here." He also said that the institute will prove to be a milestone in terms of police modernisation. "Though law and order is a state subject, the Centre is taking some initiatives so that the law and order of the country can be strengthened. Many colleges in the country are going to start after taking affiliation from the National Forensic Sciences University, Gandhinagar. By 2024, half of the states in the country will have forensic science colleges," he said. Highlighting the low rate of conviction in the country, Shah said, "The rate of conviction in the country is very low. In some countries like Israel, it has been taken to 90 per cent. India is lagging behind, and the main reason is lack of professional education." He said forensic sciences university will help in conviction, leading to punishment. "When there will be punishment...the crime rate will automatically come down," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
01-08-2021||India||India takes over United Nations Security Council’s presidency for August||India will always be a voice of moderation, an advocate of dialogue and a proponent of international law, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Sunday as the country takes over the presidency of the United Nations Security Council for August. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi described it as a ‘momentous day’ and referred to the Sanskrit phrase 'Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam' (the world is one family) to describe India's worldview. “As we take over UNSC Presidency for August, look forward to working productively with other members. India will always be a voice of moderation, an advocate of dialogue and a proponent of international law,” Jaishankar tweeted. Bagchi said India's tenure at the UN Security Council has been guided by five 'S' --- 'Samman (respect), Samvaad (dialogue), Sahyog (cooperation), Shanti (peace) and Samriddhi (prosperity)'. The first working day of India's Presidency will be Monday, August 2. India began its two-year tenure as a non-permanent member of the UNSC on January 1. It is India's seventh term on the UN Security Council as a non-permanent member. India has previously been a member of the UN Security Council in 1950-51, 1967-68, 1972-73, 1977-78, 1984-85, and 1991-92. Following its election to the global body, India said that it will promote responsible and inclusive solutions to international peace and security and would pitch for a new orientation for a reformed multilateral system.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
01-08-2021||India||Cabinet expansion order from BJP likely by tomorrow, says Karnataka CM||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said the cabinet expansion won't take a week and the direction from the BJP high command in this connection was likely by tomorrow. Speaking to reporters here ahead of his meeting with the officials on a host of issues, Bommai said the cabinet expansion won't take a week. He was responding to a query on whether it would take a week for him to receive directions from the party high command in this connection. The Chief Minister said, "I expect it today or tomorrow." On July 28, Bommai had taken oath as the Chief Minister following the resignation of his predecessor B S Yediyurappa who resigned on July 26. He is the lone cabinet member of his government as of now. On the flood relief measures, the CM said he has convened a meeting with the senior officials to discuss the flood situation, funds for rescue and relief operations. He has sought details from officials of various districts about the measures taken so far and directed them to prepare a list of steps to be taken on a priority basis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
01-08-2021||India||Unnao rape survivor alleges harassment by personal security officers, moves court||The Unnao rape survivor has moved a Delhi court alleging harassment by the personal security officers (PSOs) deputed on the directions of the Supreme Court for her protection. District and Sessions Judge Dharmesh Sharma has directed the investigating officer of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to submit an impact assessment report in this regard with the assistance of the local police. "Application has been moved on the behalf of the complainant that she and her family members were harassed by the PSOs who are deputed as per the direction of the Supreme Court, in a sense that they are not allowing her to enjoy her liberties," the judge said on July 31 through video-conferencing. He further said that a sealed envelope was also received from the police in which certain allegations were levelled against the complainant and her family members. "It is directed that this application be taken up for consideration," the sessions judge added. The woman was kidnapped and raped by expelled BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar in 2017 when she was a minor. The case was transferred from Unnao to Delhi and was probed by the CBI. On August 1, 2019, the apex court had directed that the survivor, her mother, and other members of the family be provided security by the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF). On December 20, 2019, Sengar was sentenced to jail for the "remainder of his natural biological life" in the rape case. On March 4, 2020, Sengar, his brother, and five others were convicted for the death of the rape survivor's father in judicial custody and were sentenced to 10 years imprisonment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
01-08-2021||India||BJP works for the poorest and not on basis of caste, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday asserted that BJP governments do not work on the basis of caste, but for the development of the poorest person and to revamp law and order. Addressing a function after laying the foundation stone of the UP State Institute of Forensic Sciences here, Shah heaped praise on Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for taking the state to the top spot in terms of law and order. "The BJP governments do not work on the basis of caste, families, or for the people who are close to them. The BJP governments work for the development of the poorest person and to revamp law and order," Shah said. "For six years till 2019, I travelled a lot in UP. Hence, I know the earlier UP very well. There was an atmosphere of fear in western UP because of which people were leaving the area, women felt unsafe, the land mafia was grabbing the land of the poor people, incidents of firing in broad daylight and riots were rampant, Shah said. "In 2017, the BJP promised that we will make UP a developed state and also revamp its law and order. Today in 2021, I can say with pride that Yogi Adityanath and his team have taken UP to the top spot in terms of law and order," he added. "Today, in 44 development schemes, UP is on the top spot in the country. Making schemes is very easy, but implementing them, removing the intermediaries, and ensuring the benefits reach the beneficiaries without any bribe is very tough," he said. Adityanath along with the Deputy Chief Ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma were present at the function.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
01-08-2021||India|| Supreme Court to hear pleas over Pegasus snoopgate on August 5||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on August 5 the pleas, including the one filed by senior journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar, who have sought an independent probe by a sitting or a retired judge into the alleged Pegasus snooping matter. According to the cause list uploaded on the apex court website, a bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justice Surya Kant would hear on August 5 three separate petitions seeking probe into the reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Israeli spyware Pegasus. On July 30, the top court had said it would hear next week the plea filed by Ram and Kumar in the matter. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the senior journalists, had told the court last week that the plea needed an urgent hearing in view of its wide ramifications. According to the plea, the alleged snooping represented an attempt by agencies and organisations to muzzle the exercise of free speech and expression of dissent in India. The petition also seeks a direction to the Centre to disclose if the government or any of its agencies obtained licence for Pegasus spyware and used it, either directly or indirectly, to conduct surveillance in any manner. The petitioners have claimed that investigations involving several leading publications around the world have revealed that several Indians, including journalists, lawyers, ministers, opposition politicians and activists, have been identified as potential targets for surveillance using the Pegasus software. Besides the plea filed by Ram and Kumar, two separate petitions on the issue have been filed in the apex court by advocate M L Sharma and John Brittas. In his plea, Sharma has sought a court-monitored probe by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) into the reports of alleged snooping. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on a list of potential targets for surveillance using Israeli firm NSO's Pegasus spyware. The targeted surveillance using military-grade spyware is an unacceptable violation of the right to privacy which has been held to be a fundamental right under Articles 14 (equality before the law), 19 (freedom of speech and expression) and 21 (protection of life and personal liberty) by the Supreme Court, said the plea, filed by the two journalists. The hacking of phones belonging to journalists, doctors, lawyers, activists, ministers and opposition politicians seriously compromises the effective exercise of the fundamental right to free speech and expression, it said. Such an act has an obvious chilling effect on expression by threatening invasion into the most core and private aspects of a person's life, it added. According to the petition, hacking of phones using the Pegasus spyware constituted a criminal offence punishable under Sections 66 (computer related offences), 66B (punishment for dishonestly receiving stolen computer resource or communication device), 66E (punishment for violation of privacy) and 66F (punishment for cyberterrorism) of the IT Act, punishable with imprisonment and/or fine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-368
01-08-2021||India||Parts of Delhi Metro to open from August 6||The Najafgarh-Dhansa Bus Stand extension of Grey Line of the Delhi Metro and a small segment of the Pink Line corridor at Trilokpuri are set to be inaugurated on August 6, officials said on Sunday. Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs, Hardeep Singh Puri and the Delhi chief minister will open the two sections via video conferencing, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said. While the inauguration function will be held online in the morning on August 6, passenger services will commence on the same day at 3 PM on both the sections, officials said. The nearly one kilometre (891 m) long Najafgarh-Dhansa Bus Stand section will take the metro further into the interior areas of Najafgarh. The opening of the Trilokpuri section, about 289 m, between the Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 and Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake stations, will fully link the entire 59 km-long Pink Line and will connect important landmarks of the city, such as the Anand Vihar Railway station, Anand Vihar ISBT, Nizamuddin Railway station, markets in South Extension, INA and Lajpat Nagar, officials said. The Pink Line spans 38 stations. However, a small portion in east Delhi's Trilokpuri area had proved a bottleneck for the DMRC authorities for a long time, due to which, the line had remained disjointed for some distance there. With the opening of these sections, the Delhi Metro network span will become 390 km with 286 stations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
01-08-2021||India||Covid: India records 41,000 new cases, active caseload rises for fifth straight day||India saw a single-day rise of 41,831 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 3,16,55,824, while the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country have crossed 47 crore, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll climbed to 4,24,351 with 541 daily fatalities. Registering an increase for the fifth consecutive cases, the active cases have climbed to 4,10,952 and comprises 1.30 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.36 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. An increase of 2,032 Covid cases has been recorded in the total number of Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 17,89,472 tests were conducted on Saturday, taking the cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 46,82,16,510, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.34 per cent . The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.42 per cent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,08,20,521, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 47.02 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and 3 crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
01-08-2021||India||Yamuna water levels rise again, over 100 families moved||The water level in the Yamuna in Delhi increased again and was recorded at 205.30 meters on Sunday morning, just below the danger mark of 205.33 meters, as rains continued to lash Delhi and upper catchment areas of the river, officials said. According to the officials, over 100 families living in the Yamuna floodplains have been moved to higher areas over the last few days. On Friday, the Delhi administration had sounded a flood alert and expedited efforts to evacuate people from vulnerable areas, as the river in the capital breached the danger mark of 205.33 metres amid heavy rains in the upper catchment areas. The water level was recorded at 205.30 metres at the Old Railway Bridge at 9 am. On Friday, the Yamuna had breached the danger mark and swelled to 205.59 metres by 9 pm. It had receded to 204.89 metres on Saturday evening, according to the Delhi flood control room. With Haryana discharging more water into the river from the Hathnikund Barrage, the Delhi Police and the East Delhi district administration have been evacuating people living on the floodplains of the Yamuna in the capital. "The flood alert remains in place. We have deployed boats in different areas and families living in vulnerable areas are being temporarily moved into tents and shelter homes of the city government," an official of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority said. A flood alert is declared when the Yamuna crosses the "warning mark" of 204.50 metres. The Delhi flood control room reported a discharge rate of 17,827 cusecs from the Hathnikund Barrage in Haryana's Yamunanagar district at 9 am. Normally, the flow rate at the Hathnikund barrage is 352 cusec, but the discharge is increased after heavy rainfall in catchment areas. It had peaked to 1.60 lakh cusecs on Tuesday, the highest this year so far. The water discharged from the barrage normally takes two-three days to reach the capital. One cusec is equivalent to 28.32 litres per second. A Met Department official said "moderate to heavy" rains are predicted in northwest India over the next few days, which is likely to increase water levels in the rivers flowing through the region. In 2019, the flow rate had peaked to 8.28 lakh cusec on August 18-19, and the water level of the Yamuna had hit the 206.60 metre-mark, breaching the danger mark of 205.33 metres. In 1978, the river had swelled to the all-time record water level of 207.49 metres. In 2013, it had risen to 207.32 metres.Yamun||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
01-08-2021||India||Delhi court upholds CBI report ruling out foul play in Unnao rape survivor's accident||A Delhi court has upheld the investigation conducted by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) that had ruled out any foul play in the Unnao rape survivor's accident in 2019. In 2019, the rape survivor, her family, and lawyer were travelling in a car when it was hit by an overspeeding truck in Rae Bareli, killing two aunts and leaving her and the advocate critically injured. Pursuant to this, a murder case was filed against expelled BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar, who was also awarded life-term imprisonment for raping the minor survivor, and nine others after her family filed a complaint alleging "conspiracy" behind the accident. Dismissing these allegations, District and Sessions Judge Dharmesh Sharma held that the objections of the complainant party read like an engrossing thrilling story but were based on mere surmises and conjectures. He further said that there are no grounds to suspect the fidelity, accuracy, and sincerity of the investigation conducted by the CBI and that the agency came out with a plausible version of the incident. Notably, the investigating agency had concluded that there was no evidence regarding criminal conspiracy hatched between those named in the FIR, including Kuldeep Sengar, and the truck driver or the cleaner or for that matter owner of the offending truck. Upholding the probe, the judge stated in an order dated July 31, "I have no hesitation in holding the findings of the CBI in the chargesheet, that there is no case against the accused persons so as to take cognisance and proceed against them under Section 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder) read with Section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), cannot be faulted." The sessions judge, however, framed charges against the truck driver for causing death by negligence and doing an act to endanger human life, besides framing charges of criminal intimidation against Sengar and his associates. Besides this, on December 20, 2019, Sengar was sentenced to jail for the "remainder of his natural biological life" in a separate case for raping the minor in 2017. On March 4, 2020, Sengar, his brother, and five others were also convicted for the death of the rape survivor's father in judicial custody and were sentenced to 10 years imprisonment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
01-08-2021||India||Caution on Centre's plan to fortify rice with iron to combat anaemia||A proposal by the Narendra Modi government for mandatory fortification of rice with iron to combat anaemia is based on flawed assumptions and haemoglobin measurements and could harm segments of the population through excessive iron intake, experts have cautioned. Eighteen experts in health economics, nutrition, paediatrics and public health have urged “extreme caution” against mandatory fortification — the addition of tiny amounts of iron into the rice cereal — saying the proposed cure could itself become a malady. Harsh Pal Singh Sachdev, a senior paediatrician in New Delhi and one of the experts, and his colleagues have estimated that rice fortification alone will cost Rs 2,600 crore a year. “What the plan proposes is avoidable and (is) wasteful expenditure with no palpable benefits,” Sachdev told The Telegraph on Friday. “On the contrary, it carries the risk of harm.” The Union health ministry has estimated through household surveys that more than half of children below five years, adolescent girls between 15 and 19, and women in their reproductive age have anaemia, or haemoglobin below 12g per decilitre. The fortification plan gained traction after the National Family Health Survey 2019-20 found little change in the anaemia situation since the previous 2015-16 survey, triggering concerns that the existing iron syrup or tablet supplementation programme for children and women hadn’t worked. Proponents of the fortification have contended that rice fortification that involves adding vitamins or minerals during the post-harvest phase is a cost-effective strategy to combat micronutrient deficiencies in countries with high per capita rice consumption. The Union food and public distribution department had in 2019-20 initiated a rice-with-iron fortification scheme that has been rolled out in at least six states — Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh. Now, the 18 experts have said the proposed mandatory rice fortification represents a misguided and potentially harmful policy because health surveys rely on finger-prick drops that yield misleadingly lower values of haemoglobin. The plan for rice fortification, which is an addition to the existing iron supplementation programme, appears to be aimed at “supplying more” instead of “doing it right”, the experts have cautioned in a report published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition. “The correct way to measure haemoglobin is via venous blood samples,” Sachdev, the senior paediatrician, said. “By using finger-prick blood, we’re overestimating anaemia in India.” A rice fortification plan that is mandatory for all rice cereal made available through the public distribution system or in midday meals could therefore needlessly expose to excess iron children and adults who are not genuinely suffering from anaemia. Limited studies have suggested that excess iron intake could adversely affect foetal development or birth outcomes in pregnant women, alter populations of human-friendly gut microbes, or increase the risk of chronic diseases such as diabetes or cardiovascular disorders. “The fortification plan seems to be driven more by wanting to be seen to be doing something good than doing the right thing,” said Anura Kurpad, a senior nutrition scientist and former head of physiology at the St John’s Medical College, Bangalore, and the report’s co-author. “Mandatory rice fortification with iron may appear attractive because it is logistically easier. But the correct approach is precision public health — finding ways to ensure that the extra iron is delivered only to those who need it.” Kurpad and his colleagues had three years ago through a study involving women volunteers in Uttar Pradesh shown that finger-prick blood samples on average yielded a haemoglobin level 1mg/dl lower than venous blood samples from the women. The Food Safety Standards Authority of India, a unit of the health ministry, has said that rice fortification has the highest potential to fill the gap in micronutrient deficiencies as it is the staple food of 65 per cent of the country’s population. Critics of fortification argue that micronutrient deficiencies should be addressed by encouraging diversity of diets and not through mass fortification. “Dietary diversity should be the main strategy for micronutrient sufficiency,” said Vandana Prasad, a community paediatrician in New Delhi, who was not associated with the study.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
01-08-2021||India||Danish Siddiqui’s body badly mutilated while in custody of Taliban, say officials  ||The body of Danish Siddiqui, a Pulitzer Prize-winning Reuters photojournalist who was killed in Afghanistan this month, was badly mutilated while in the custody of the Taliban, officials said this week. The revelation comes amid concern that the fighting in Afghanistan, where the Taliban have carried out an aggressive military offensive since the US withdrew nearly all its troops, has become increasingly brutal as peace talks have stalled. Siddiqui, 38, an Indian national who took some of the most memorable news photographs from South Asia in recent years, was killed on the morning of July 16, when Afghan commandos he had accompanied to Spin Boldak, a border district recently captured by the Taliban, were ambushed. Initial photographs from the scene showed Siddiqui’s body with multiple wounds but fully intact. But by that evening, when the body was handed over to the Red Cross and transferred to a hospital in the southern city of Kandahar, it had been badly mutilated, according to two Indian officials and two Afghan health officials there. The mutilation was reported by an Indian website, Newslaundry, in the days after Siddiqui’s killing. The New York Times reviewed multiple photographs, some provided by Indian officials and others taken by Afghan health workers at the hospital, that showed Siddiqui’s body had been mutilated. One Indian official said that the body had nearly a dozen bullet wounds and that there were tyre marks on Siddiqui’s face and chest. One of the health officials in Kandahar said the body, along with Siddiqui’s press vest, had reached the city’s main hospital around 8pm on the day he was killed. His face was unrecognisable, said the official, who added that he could not determine exactly what had been done to the body. A Taliban spokesman, Zabihullah Mujahid, denied any wrongdoing on the part of the insurgents, saying that they were under orders to treat bodies with respect and to hand them over to local elders or the Red Cross. But the Taliban were in control of the area at the time, and some photographs showed what appeared to be the group’s fighters standing around Siddiqui’s body, which was then intact. “Danish always chose to be on the front lines so that abuses and atrocities could not remain hidden,” said Meenakshi Ganguly, the South Asia director for Human Rights Watch. “The brutality with which Taliban fighters punished Danish proves the abuses that he was documenting.” Human Rights Watch and other watchdog groups say the Taliban have carried out a series of revenge killings in Kandahar province, where some of the most brutal episodes in Afghanistan’s last four war-torn decades have occurred. The Taliban rose to power from the southern province in the 1990s, promising to end atrocities carried out by local militias. In recent years, Afghan forces led by Abdul Raziq, a general who was assassinated in 2018, were accused of ruthless tactics as they fought the Taliban in Kandahar. Spin Boldak, where Siddiqui died, was General Raziq’s hometown. Reports have emerged of the Taliban detaining, and in some cases executing, people who had been associated with the general. There are conflicting reports about what happened on July 16, as the Afghan special forces with whom Siddiqui was travelling tried to retake Spin Boldak. Accounts from local officials, as well as Taliban members, suggest that Siddiqui and the Afghan unit’s commander were killed in crossfire when their convoy was ambushed from multiple directions. Their bodies were left on the battlefield as the rest of the unit retreated, according to this version of events. Some news outlets reported that Siddiqui might have been captured alive by the Taliban and then executed. Those reports could not be confirmed. One Indian official, however, said some of Siddiqui’s wounds appeared to be from gunshots at close range. Three days before his killing, Siddiqui had posted a video on Twitter in which he said several rocket-propelled grenades had struck the armoured vehicle in which he was travelling. His body, in a closed coffin, was returned to his home in New Delhi two days after his death. The narrow alley leading to his house was crowded with neighbours and friends. Colleagues — many of whom had accompanied him as he covered some of India’s most tumultuous recent events, such as mass protests and the coronavirus pandemic — wept, hugged and consoled one another. Siddiqui was buried late at night in a cemetery at Jamia Millia Islamia, the university in New Delhi from which he had graduated. At a candlelight vigil, reporters held pictures of him wearing his press vest. The text read simply, “Danish Siddiqui, Killed in Afghanistan.” New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
01-08-2021||India||Pegasus may have been an attempt to collect personal information of judges, says NGO||A non-government organisation, the Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms (CJAR), on Saturday added its voice to the chorus for a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the Pegasus controversy, expressing fears that the alleged surveillance operation may have involved an attempt at blackmailing judges. “Phone hacking via Pegasus could have been an attempt to collect personal information of judges without their knowledge, or like with the Bhima Koregaon activists and lawyers, an attempt at implanting compromising information on the phones of the judges, either of which might have been attempted with a view to blackmail such judges,” the CJAR said. The NGO said “this would per se be an attack on the independence of the judiciary that requires a response from the highest court in order to get to the truth of the matter and address the public’s concerns about such illegal attempts to compromise its independence”. “With the Union government continuing to obfuscate the issue in the public domain, not allowing a debate in Parliament and showing no interest in investigating the criminal activities outlined in the revelations concerning the NSO Group (the Israeli firm that owns the Pegasus spyware), we repose our faith in the judiciary to help bring out the facts and fix responsibility for the illegal action of phone hacking,” the CJAR added. The NGO, which takes up issues related to legal and constitutional infirmities and whose patrons include former judges and senior advocates, appealed to the Supreme Court to take the following steps: ⚫ Set up a special investigation team of independent and credible investigators, headed by a retired Supreme Court judge, to inquire into the allegations of phone hacking. ⚫ Inquire into who authorised the use of Pegasus on phone numbers of a Supreme Court judge and those of a woman employee (and her family) who had complained of sexual harassment by then Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi. ⚫ Inquire into whether there was improper collusion between Justice Ranjan Gogoi and the executive in respect of the sexual harassment allegations levelled against him. ⚫ Make public the report of the Justice A.K. Patnaik committee, which looked into the allegations of “conspiracy” in relation to the sexual harassment case against Justice Gogoi. The NGO expressed deep concern about the possibility that Pegasus was used to hack into the phones of Indian citizens. “Such large-scale intrusive surveillance of personal phones of political leaders, journalists and activists is a flagrant violation of the right to privacy as upheld by the Supreme Court and an affront to the civil liberties of citizens. That the Pegasus software was inserted in some of the target phones has been established by cyber forensic analysis of some of these phones…. That this was done at the behest of the Indian government is evident from the fact that NSO sells this software only to ‘vetted governments’,” it said. Referring to allegations that the phone of a sitting judge of the Supreme Court and the family members of the woman staffer of the apex court were potential hacking targets, the NGO said: “These allegations, made by respected media organisations on the basis of worldwide collaborative investigative efforts, need to be taken with utmost seriousness, not only for the patent illegality of such actions but the potential threat to the independence of the judiciary that they represent.” The CJAR added: “While the name of a sitting judge of the Supreme Court whose phones were the target of hacks has not been made public yet, the very fact that phones belonging to a judge were targets of hacking, reportedly by the central government, is itself sufficiently serious to merit investigation and apportion responsibility.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
01-08-2021||India||Central Information Commission gives Modi govt 10-day deadline to reveal medical oxygen data||The Narendra Modi government’s refusal to share with citizens the official records detailing the preparations and response to Covid-19 on the ground that it would threaten national interests seems “far-fetched” and “not justified”, the Central Information Commission (CIC) has said. The CIC, a statutory agency created under the Right to Information Act in 2005, has directed the Centre to reveal within 10 days information relating to an empowered group subcommittee — a panel of officials and experts —dealing with medical oxygen. The subcommittee, under the Union commerce ministry’s department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT), had been tasked with managing medical oxygen in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. The CIC order, addressed to the DPIIT’s central public information officer (CPIO), follows appeals for information on records relating to medical oxygen filed by Saurav Das, a New Delhi-based transparency activist and investigative journalist. Das had, under the RTI Act, asked for the dates on which the oxygen subcommittee had met, the agendas of its meetings, copies of the presentations made during the meetings, the minutes of the meetings and information on oxygen stocks and rollout plans. Many Covid-19 patients across India, including over-40 patients in two hospitals in Delhi, had died after their hospitals, overwhelmed with patients, ran out of medical oxygen during the peak phase of India’s second Covid-19 wave in April-May. The CPIO had responded on June 11, denying the information under Sections 8(1)(a) and (d) that allow officials to withhold details that would prejudicially affect India’s “security, strategic, scientific, or economic interests” or information that includes trade secrets or intellectual property. The CIC, in its order released on Saturday after a July 22 hearing on the appeals filed by Das, said: “The information sought being denied in a blanket manner is not justified at all.” It has ordered the CPIO to provide “maximum information as disclosable in the letter and spirit of the RTI Act”. The CIC noted that the DPIIT’s CPIO had provided a “cursory reply” to Das, claiming exemptions under Sections 8(1)(a) and (d), but “had failed to amplify the same with reasons”. “The denial was not justified in its reply,” the CIC said, adding that the CPIO’s invocation of Section 8(1) during the hearing appeared an afterthought that seemed far-fetched. “As far as the denial under 8(1)(a) is concerned, the same was also not justified,” the CIC said. “The government has been adamant in not wanting to share records on its Covid-19 responses,” said Das, who had last year too applied for information relating to the official records of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration (Negvac) for Covid-19, and was denied. “I’m hoping that this order will have broader implications, that the government will now be bound also to share information relating to Negvac,” Das told The Telegraph. Das has also sought information on data based on which India had approved the two vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — currently being used in the campaign. Some public health experts believe that India’s currently limited supplies of Covid-19 vaccines are the direct outcome of decisions taken by Negvac or other government departments. India did not order any vaccines until January 2021, unlike many other countries that had signed pacts with vaccine makers between July 2020 and December 2020. Health officials have declined to discuss details of the decisions taken by Negvac.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
01-08-2021||India||Covid: Centre flags concerns about daily rising cases in 10 states ||The Union health ministry on Saturday flagged concerns about daily rising Covid-19 infections and growing epidemics in 10 states and asked 46 districts across India to consider imposing strict curbs on people’s movements. The 10 states — Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Assam, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Andhra Pradesh and Manipur — are reporting either a rise in daily new infections or increases in test positivity rates, implying growing epidemics. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan chaired a meeting with officials from the 10 states, urging them to intensify surveillance, contact tracing and containment, especially in areas with clusters of cases, and to augment health infrastructure, including on-site oxygen plants in private hospitals. During the meeting, the officials also conducted a “granular analysis” of “districts of concern” in the 10 states, taking into account their inventories of healthcare infrastructure such as oxygen-supported beds, ventilators, oxygen concentrators and on-site oxygen plants, the ministry said. The ministry said districts with 10 per cent or higher positivity rates — the fraction of people diagnosed with Covid-19 among those tested — should consider restrictions to curb movements of people and formation of crowds. Over the past week, 46 districts — 11 in Kerala, eight in Manipur, six in Mizoram, six in Nagaland, five in Meghalaya, four in Arunachal Pradesh, two in Assam and one each in Andhra Pradesh, Puducherry, Rajasthan and Sikkim — have reported test positivity rates higher than 10 per cent. India’s daily new infections fell sharply from over 414,000 on May 6, the date that marked the peak of the second wave, to around 48,000 cases on June 30. But since then the counts have remained steady at about 40,000 daily new infections, or four-fold higher than 10,000 daily cases in early February. Balram Bhargava, the director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, the country’s apex health research agency, who participated in the meeting, warned against any complacency, pointing to the 40,000 daily new infections. The ICMR had earlier this year released guidelines that require districts to constantly monitor their test positivity rates, daily new infection counts and hospital bed occupancy rates to introduce restrictions, including lockdowns if those parameters rise too high. Health experts suspect the steady emergence of around 40,000 new cases daily over the past month is the result of the virus getting opportunities to infect susceptible people. A survey by the ICMR released earlier this month had found that at least 400 million people across India remained susceptible to the infection. Public health experts say it is unclear whether the current near-steady counts of daily cases might surge in the future or how high they might rise. Some epidemiologists have predicted that a nationwide third wave is unlikely because over 67 per cent of the country’s population is protected through either prior natural infections or vaccinations. Such a large proportion of possibly protected people would imply India is approaching the so-called herd immunity threshold — the point at which so many people are protected that the virus finds it difficult to spread. “But it is tricky — we can’t say this for certain,” a senior government epidemiologist told The Telegraph. “We have to take into account the possibility of waning immunity. We don’t know exactly how long immunity lasts after prior infections or vaccinations.” Multiple studies have suggested that immune responses against Covid-19 can last months. A US study earlier this year had found that 95 per cent of those who had recovered from Covid-19 had at least three out of five immune system components that could potentially protect them from the virus eight months after the infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
01-08-2021||India||Virtual classes unable to spark interest in school students||Udhav Santa, 17, was packing at home on Monday. His residential school in Odisha had reopened after 16 months and he looked forward to classes and hostel life. The tribal student of the Ekalavya Model Residential School in Nabarangpur, one of India’s poorest districts, had scored 84 per cent in the CBSE Class X boards last year. He will take his Class XII board exams next year in physics, chemistry, mathematics, biology and English. But for the boy from Dhanubanga Guda village, Nabarangpur, the excitement of returning to school was tempered with worry. He said the school’s pandemic-induced closure had “severely” affected his learning, because online classes lacked the rigour and fun of the physical classroom while the home environment did not allow an unstinted focus on studies. “I used to feel deeply curious about all the topics taught at school. But I could not sustain the interest after the school closed,” Udhav said. “At home you don’t get the study environment. You somehow get involved in household issues, including the economic stress.” Udhav’s parents don’t earn enough from growing paddy, maize and vegetables to feed a family of five and also pay the Internet data charges for him to download the study material and videos the teachers send on WhatsApp. “So I began working as a construction labourer (unlawful for a minor); sometimes I also worked on our farmland. My sister arranged for a second-hand Redmi 6 phone,” Udhav said. “My parents did not tell me to work but I realised their situation and started working. I spent my own money to buy data and books.” Udhav said five of his friends had dropped out of school after the closure of the hostel, where “everything was free”. “Five of my friends are working as labourers in Gujarat and Bangalore because of financial problems in their families. If their parents received good wages here, and if the hostel were open, they would not have dropped out,” he said. Students, parents and teachers told The Telegraph that the learning levels of most schoolchildren had declined over the last 16 months, with online education replacing in-person classes. Sanjay Kumar Pradhan, a parent from Sonua in Jharkhand’s West Singhbhum district, said his two daughters’ education had suffered because the teachers were unable to clarify the students’ doubts in a 30-minute online class. “Both my daughters have three 30-minute classes a day. The teacher comes and delivers a lecture; there isn’t much scope for discussion. I try to give them time but it’s not always possible,” Pradhan, who runs a mobile phone shop, said. A teacher at a Delhi government school said that when physical mid-term tests were held last December, about 10 per cent students did not turn up. Those who did fared poorly. “Only seven to eight per cent students scored over 60 per cent. In pre-Covid times, about half the students would score over 60 per cent. Learning levels have fallen sharply,” the teacher said. He said a standard complaint from the parents was that after attending online classes, the children used their phones to play online games or watch YouTube. They also spent longer hours watching TV at home. “In our class, attendance is about 50 per cent. The rest keep their mobiles switched off. As for those that attend classes, you don’t know if they have understood the lesson,” the teacher said. A Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan teacher said the parents of children enrolled in elite private schools monitored their education. But the parents of children studying in budget private or government schools left the education of their wards entirely to the institutions. “The large proportion of children enrolled in budget private and government schools are not learning anything. Their parents are not chasing them. If a survey is done, this will be clear,” he said. However, the Centre appears in no hurry to either carry out a survey or work at a remedy, having apparently left the matter for the states to handle. Ironically, it has cited the pandemic to postpone by a year the routine, three-yearly National Achievement Survey conducted by the NCERT to assess the learning standards of students of Classes III, V, VIII and X. On Monday, Lok Sabha members Sushil Kumar Singh (BJP) and Sriniwas Dadasaheb Patil (NCP) had wanted to know: “(a) Whether there has been any attempt to gauge learning levels and learning loss due to the ongoing pandemic and if so, the details thereof; (b) if not, the reasons preventing the government in carrying out such exercise and whether the government has any plans to do so.” Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan’s written reply said: “Education (is on) the concurrent list of the Constitution and majority of the schools are under the domain of respective State and UT (Union Territory) governments. The department has shared a Covid action plan with the States and UTs which includes tracking of children and their learning levels. “States and UTs have been advised to develop effective home learning programme which includes access to grade-appropriate textbooks; content identification and curation; content dissemination physically or through various platforms —WhatsApp, website, TV, radio; content engagement; assessment of learning and tracking and monitoring.” To another question, Pradhan said the National Achievement Survey — which was to be carried out in December last year — would be conducted in November this year. As for Udhav, the forced familiarity with technology has helped him in one unexpected way. He and his friends have now started their own YouTube channel, Nitesh Video, which popularises tribal music and dance. The channel will bring in some revenue for them after it achieves 4,000 watch hours by viewers, Udhav said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-369
01-08-2021||India||Pulwama encounter: Security forces gun down Jaish-e-Mohammad commander Saifullah||Security forces on Saturday killed Jaish-e-Mohammad commander Saifullah alias Lamboo, a kin of the outfit’s founder Masood Azhar and one of the alleged masterminds of the 2019 Pulwama attack, in an encounter, the army said, claiming it to be the “biggest strike of the year”. Saifullah, who had other aliases including Ismail, Adnan and Fauji Bhai, was killed along with another militant in the upper reaches of Dachigam forests in Pulwama. Army’s Valley chief Lt General D.P. Pandey said Saifullah was one of the masterminds of Pulwama attack and his death brings a closure to the incident. “He was one of the masterminds, having trained a local boy Adil who eventually blew himself up in an IED attack (in Pulwama). Ever since he has been responsible to continue to train people in making of IEDs and deployment of IEDs against security forces,” he said. In February 2019, a suicide bomber drove a car laden with explosives into a convoy in Kashmir’s Pulwama, killing 40 soldiers — the deadliest attack on Indian forces in the region — bringing India and Pakistan to the brink of another war. Pakistan has denied any involvement in the attack. “Based on an input generated by the police, boys from Victor Force launched an operation in the dense woods of Dachigam area of Pulwama on July 27. Given the fact that weather was inclement, so all cautions were taken,” Lt Gen. Pandey said. Major General Rashim Bali, who heads the South Kashmir-based Victor Force, which along with the police and CRPF conducted the operation amid inclement weather, said the forces deliberately took a “very circuitous route” to surprise the militants. “Today morning they (soldiers) had closed in on area where we were suspecting them to be. No sooner had we reached there, the dogs started barking,” he said. The officer claimed the militants tried to use women and children as human shields and opened fire and lobbed grenades from behind them to escape. The claim could not be independently confirmed. “But the cordon was very tight. No civilian suffered a scratch and they (militants) were dropped dead within two to three minutes. This is the biggest strike of the year,” the officer said. Inspector-general of police Vijay Kumar, who addressed a joint briefing with top army officers, said Saifullah was the seventh militant involved in planning and execution of the Pulwama attack to be killed by the forces. He said there are 19 accused in the attack, of whom seven have been killed and seven arrested, while five more are still absconding. Kumar said Saifullah was named in 14 FIRs and his name featured in the chargesheet filed by National Investigation Agency in the Pulwama attack. He said Saifullah was an IED expert and his death will minimise the IED threats across the Valley. The other accused in the Pulwama attack include Pakistan-based commanders of Jaish —Azhar, 53, Rouf Asgar, 48, and Ammar Alvi, 47.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
01-08-2021||India||Dial M for Yogi||The Uttar Pradesh government spent in excess of Rs 160 crore on publicity over the last year, most of it lavished on its strongarm boss, Adityanath. It could have saved some of that kitty; Prime Minister Narendra Modi advertised him like no advertising could. It came cheap, and it was priceless. Arriving in Varanasi, his Lok Sabha constituency, last month for the first time since the deadly second Covid-19 wave overwhelmed the city and UP, Modi rained superlatives on Yogi: “UP ke yashasvi, urjawan aur karmath mukhyamantri” (UP’s celebrated, energetic and hardworking chief minister). Flying in the face of deathly images from the Ganges banks, Modi called Yogi’s handing of the pandemic “unparalleled” and spelt out a list of achievements so long that it was difficult to decide what to flag and what to leave. The saffron-clad Hindu monk was his chosen one. In hailing Yogi, Modi swept aside images of dead bodies floating in the rivers and jutting out of shallow graves from riverbeds as crematoria and hospitals were overwhelmed. He also closed his eyes to the brutal rape of a Dalit girl by upper caste Thakurs, arrest of journalists under sedition laws for publishing reports critical of the state government and persistent hounding of the minorities. Assembly polls in UP are due early next year and Modi is clearly telling Yogi’s competition and dissenters to shut up and fall in line. One of India’s most divisive leaders is, unsurprisingly, also Modi’s best bet to retain UP. Brand Modi and the BJP desperately need to win UP. Bruised badly by rejection in Bengal and his halo dimmed by rampant Covid-19 mismanagement, victory in UP is a must for the Modi scheme to roll out. But if the “yashashwi, urjawan and karmath” Yogi is able to secure victory for Modi, he will also emerge as a strong claimant to succeed Modi. The foregrounding of Yogi by Modi shows the present regime loves divisive leaders. In 2017, the choice of Yogi had surprised many. In retrospect, it appears to have been a deliberate one. Since taking over, Yogi has turned into a role model for other BJP chief ministers. His aggression in dealing with anti-CAA protesters, his promotion of encounter killings of “criminals”, pushing a law against inter-faith marriages christened “love jihad” by Sanghi outfits, and the latest population control law, to name a few, have turned him into a darling of the BJP’s core Hindutva support base. Chief ministers of BJP-ruled states, including veterans like Madhya Pradesh’s Shivraj Singh Chouhan, have rushed to emulate Yogi’s “love jihad” law, underscoring that polarisation is popular. Yogi’s idea of making the existing cow slaughter law more stringent and the move to recover damages to public property from anti-CAA protesters was also emulated by other BJP chief ministers. Assam’s new chief minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, a Congress import, is also trying to copy Yogi by pushing an anti beef-eating law and embracing the encounter killing model. Yogi, who has never been an organic part of the RSS-BJP and whose influence was confined to Gorakhpur, UP’s eastern edge, has over the last four years turned into a national figure. He has been sent to canvass for the BJP from Bengal to Kerala and Maharashtra to the Northeast, on demand, though to debatable purchase. BJP leaders maintain he is a crowd-puller. Unlike Modi and many other BJP leaders, Yogi never joined the RSS. Born in Uttarakhand and brought up as Ajay Bisht, he was given his current name by his mentor, Avaidyanath, the then chief priest of Gorakhnath temple. Avaidyanath was elected from the Gorakhpur Lok Sabha seat four times, initially as an independent, then as a Hindu Mahasabha candidate and finally on a BJP ticket. Avaidyanath never needed the BJP but the BJP needed him. Yogi won his mentor Avaidyanath’s trust and emerged his religious and political heir. He got elected on a BJP ticket for five terms beginning 1998, but retained a separate identity and outfit — the Hindu Yuva Vahini — often seen as his private militia. Many BJP leaders believe the top brass picked Yogi in 2017 under pressure from the RSS, which wanted to assert Hindutva symbolism in India’s largest state. “Now he (Yogi) has turned so big that the central leadership is wary of sidelining him so close to the polls,” one BJP leader in Lucknow said. Yogi’s detractors in the party in Lucknow, who had launched a bid for change of leadership, however, are hoping the post-poll numbers could change the game. They believe the simmering anti-incumbency against Yogi, due to Covid-19 mismanagement, the farmers’ stir and Thakurvad (dominance of Yogi’s Rajput caste brethren) would hobble the party to a degree that Yogi’s leadership would come into question. Yogi, meanwhile, appears to be moving with his eye firmly on his goal. Not in a hurry though. He is only 49, considered very young in politics, and so has a long innings ahead. He has made Modi his new mentor, like Avaidyanath. He may be the chief priest of the revered Gorakhnath temple but he projects himself as an obedient disciple of “aadarniya Pradhan Mantri”. He repeatedly underlines that he is working under the “margdarshan (mentorship) of Modiji”. That doesn’t mean the disciple has given up his objective of becoming “guru” one day; after all, Modi too was disciple to L.K. Advani at one time. The polls are in UP but the Yogi hoardings have started to spring up in Delhi and elsewhere too. With just two photographs — Modi (larger) and Yogi (smaller) — the hoardings declare Uttar Pradesh the “No.1 State in the country”, using the pretext of the state bagging the first prize on some Indian smart cities’ award. “He (Yogi) is trying to make Modi and Yogi synonymous. The effort seems to be to convert Modi-Shah into Modi-Yogi,” one BJP leader quipped. Clearly, if Modi benefits from Yogi’s success in UP, Yogi himself is using the Modi currency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
