02-08-2021||India||Covid: India likely to see a third wave as soon as in August ||India may see another rise in Covid-19 cases as soon as August with the third wave peaking with less than 100,000 infections a day in the best-case scenario or nearly 150,000 in the worst scenario, researchers have said. Bloomberg reported citing researchers led by Mathukumalli Vidyasagar and Manindra Agrawal at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) in Hyderabad and Kanpur respectively that the surge in Covid-19 cases will push the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic, which may peak in October. Vidyasagar told Bloomberg in an email that states with high Covid-19 cases, such as Kerala and Maharashtra, could “skew the picture.” The third wave is unlikely to be as brutal as the second wave when India reported 400,000-plus daily cases and came down after that. The prediction by the researchers, who accurately forecast the lessening of the surge in Covid-19 cases earlier this year, is based on a mathematical model. In May, Vidyasagar, a professor at IIT Hyderabad said India’s coronavirus outbreak could peak in the coming days based on the mathematical model. “Our predictions are that the peak will come within a few days. As per current projections, we should hit 20,000 cases per day by the end of June. We will revise this as needed," Vidyasagar told Bloomberg by email. However, in April, Vidyasagar’s team's prediction that the wave would peak by the middle of last month was incorrect. He wrote on Twitter at the time that it was because of incorrect parameters as “the pandemic was changing rapidly, even wildly, until about a week ago." He also told Reuters that the peak would be between May 3-5 and to India Today that it would come on May 7. India reported 41,831 Covid-19 cases and 541 deaths on Sunday even as the Centre cautioned 10 states, including Kerala, Maharashtra and northeastern regions, amid the rising infections and asked them to take steps to arrest the spread of the coronavirus. Experts have also warned that the Delta variant of the coronavirus, which spreads as easily as chickenpox and can be passed on by vaccinated people, can fuel the surge. According to data from the Indian Sars-CoV-2 Genomic Consortium (INSACOG), nearly 8 of every 10 Covid-19 cases in May, June and July were caused by the highly infectious Delta variant of the coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-363
02-08-2021||India||India, China agree to resolve issues in eastern Ladakh expeditiously||The Indian and Chinese armies on Monday described as "constructive" the 12th round of military talks on the eastern Ladakh row during which they agreed to resolve the pending issues in an "expeditious" manner, even as no concrete outcome came out of the negotiations on the much-anticipated disengagement process in the remaining friction points. A joint statement released here by the Indian Army, two days after the talks, said the two sides had a "candid and in-depth exchange" of views relating to the disengagement and that the meeting further enhanced mutual understanding. People familiar with the talks said some forward movement was made on the disengagement in the friction points of Hot Springs and Gogra and both sides will discuss about a detailed plan on it in the next round of talks. The joint statement said the two sides agreed to resolve the remaining issues in an expeditious manner in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols and maintain the momentum of dialogue and negotiations. Top commanders of the Indian and Chinese armies held a nine-hour meeting on Saturday with a focus on the disengagement process in remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh. "The two sides had a candid and in-depth exchange of views on resolution of remaining areas related to disengagement along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Western Sector of India-China border areas," the statement said. "The two sides noted that this round of meeting was constructive, which further enhanced mutual understanding. They agreed to resolve these remaining issues in an expeditious manner in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols and maintain the momentum of dialogue and negotiations," it said. The government usually refers to the eastern Ladakh region as Western Sector. The two sides also agreed that in the interim they will continue their effective efforts in ensuring stability along the LAC in the Western Sector and jointly maintain peace and tranquillity, the statement said. During the talks on Saturday, India insisted on resolving outstanding issues in Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang. Ahead of the talks, sources in the military establishment had said that India was hopeful of a positive outcome on the disengagement process. India has been insisting that the resolution of the outstanding issues, including at Depsang, Hot Springs and Gogra, is essential for the overall ties between the two countries. The latest round of the meeting was held following talks between foreign minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Dushanbe on July 14 on the sidelines of a conclave of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO). During the meeting, Jaishankar had told Wang that any unilateral change in the status quo along the LAC was "not acceptable" to India and that the overall ties can only develop after full restoration of peace and tranquillity in eastern Ladakh. The two sides had also held diplomatic talks under the framework of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC) on June 25. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the LAC in the sensitive sector. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February in line with an agreement on disengagement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
02-08-2021||India||Kashmiris considered guilty until proven innocent: Mehbooba Mufti||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Monday alleged that former Jammu and Kashmir police officer Davinder Singh, who was caught ferrying militants in a vehicle last year, was let off the hook by the Centre while innocent Kashmiris rot in jails for years under anti-terror laws. Accusing the government of having double standards, Mehbooba Mufti said Kashmiris are "considered guilty until proven innocent". Ms Mehbooba's remarks came after a copy of a government order dated May 20 dismissing Davinder Singh, a deputy superintendent of police, from service went viral on social media. Lt Governor Manoj Sinha had ordered Davinder Singh's dismissal from service with "immediate effect" under Article 311 of the Constitution, according to the official order. This provision enables the government to withdraw presidential pleasure without holding an inquiry and the decision can only be contested in the high court. "Innocent Kashmiris arrested under anti-terror laws rot in jails for years. For them the trial becomes the punishment. But GOI (Government of India) doesn't want an enquiry against a cop caught red-handed with militants. Is it because he colluded with the system to orchestrate certain dodgy incidents?" Ms Mehbooba asked in a tweet. She said Kashmiris are "considered guilty until proven innocent".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
02-08-2021||India||EAM Jaishankar to attend swearing-in ceremony of newly-elected Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar is likely to represent India at the swearing-in ceremony of newly elected Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi in Tehran on August 5, people familiar with the development said on Monday.  Raisi, a hardliner and known to be close to Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, won the presidential election in June by a landslide.  India has already accepted an invitation by Iran for the event, which is likely to be attended by leaders and representatives of a number of countries.  Last month, the external affairs minister called on President-elect Raisi during a stopover at the Iranian capital on his way to Russia.  Jaishankar also held extensive talks with his Iranian counterpart Javad Zarif in Tehran covering a range of key issues including the fast-evolving situation in Afghanistan.  His visit to Iran coincided with Iran's hosting of an intra-Afghan dialogue in the country.  "External Affairs Minister Jaishankar is scheduled to pay a brief visit to Tehran to attend the swearing-in ceremony of Raisi," said one of the persons cited above.  Iran has been a key country for India in the Gulf region.  The two sides have been jointly focusing on improving connectivity between South East Asia and Central Asia.  At a connectivity conference in Tashkent last month, Jaishankar projected Iran's Chabahar Port as a key regional transit hub.  Located in the Sistan-Balochistan province on the energy-rich Iran's southern coast, the Chabahar port is being developed by India, Iran and Afghanistan to boost connectivity and trade ties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
02-08-2021||India||Delhi minor, raped and murdered , forcibly cremated by attackers||A nine-year-old girl was allegedly raped and murdered and her body forcibly cremated by her attackers in Delhi. The police have detained a priest in the case along with three others and investigations are on. The locals are holding a protest in the area demanding justice. The child, from an economically backward family, lived with her parents in Purana Nangal in the Delhi Cantonment area, close to the crematorium. She had gone to the crematorium last evening to fetch drinking water from the cooler but never returned. Around 6 pm, some locals who knew the cremation ground priest Radheshyam, called her mother to the crematorium and showed her the body. They said she got electrocuted while drinking water from cooler. There were burn marks on the child's wrist and elbow. Her lips were also blue, her mother said. The priest and his companions then told the girl's mother not to inform the police. Filing of a case would mean postmortem, where the child's organs will be stolen, they told her mother, suggesting that a cremation be held immediately. Apparently they prevailed, locals speculate that the girl's parents were paid some money as incentive. But later, the woman and her husband raised an alarm. Around 200 villagers of old Nangal village gathered at the crematorium and the police was informed. Pratap Singh, a senior officer of the South West district police said they received a call about the case around 10.30 pm. A case has been filed with charges under the stringent laws against child sex abuse and crimes against scheduled castes and tribes. The investigation is continuing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
02-08-2021||India||TMC candidate Jawhar Sircar elected unopppsed to Rajya Sabha||Trinamool Congress candidate for Rajya Sabha by-election, Jawhar Sircar, was on Monday declared elected unopposed to the Rajya Sabha from West Bengal, state assembly sources said. After the scheduled period for withdrawal of candidature was over this afternoon and there was no other nomination from the opposition BJP and the ISF, Sircar was declared elected unopposed and was handed over the certificate in the state assembly. The BJP last week had announced that it would not field any candidate for the by-poll to the Upper House of Parliament, paving the way for Sircar, a former CEO of Prasar Bharati, to be elected without contest from the state. The Rajya Sabha seat was vacated by former TMC leader Dinesh Trivedi earlier this year, necessitating the by-election which was supposed to be conducted on August 9. The TMC last month announced his name as their name for the Rajya Sabha bypoll. With Sircar occupying the seat vacated by Trivedi, the strength of TMC remains at 11 in Rajya Sabha, the third highest after BJP's 94 and 34 of Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
02-08-2021||India||Maharashtra government announces Covid curbs relaxation in 25 districts, malls allowed||The Maharashtra government on Monday announced further relaxations of coronavirus curbs in 25 districts showing low positivity rate of the infection, extending the existing business timings of shops and allowing shopping malls to operate in these districts.  Also, all government as well as private offices can operate with full capacity, it said.  The relaxations will come into effect from Tuesday morning, said a government order.  The state government has not taken any decision on allowing common people to travel by suburban trains in Mumbai.  All shops and other establishments which are currently allowed to operate till 4 pm can now remain open till 8 pm and till 3 pm on Saturdays, it said.  Non-essential shops will have to remain closed on Sundays, the order said.  The Maharashtra government as also allowed shopping malls to open and operate as per the new guidelines. Outlets such as yoga centres, spa, saloon and gyms can operate with 50 per cent capacity and without the use of air conditioning, the order said.  Though the malls will open, no multiplexes, theatres and cinema halls will operate till further order, it said.  There will be no restriction on movement of people between 9 pm and 5 am on these 25 districts, the order said.  The state government has asked the disaster management authorities in Mumbai and Thane districts (which figures among 25 districts with low positivity rate) to decide on their own set of restrictions.  Many traders in the state and the opposition BJP have been demanding that the timings of shops be extended till 8 pm from the current deadline of 4 pm.  Shops and restaurants in the remaining 11 districts (out of total 36), where the coronavirus caseload is high, will continue to operate under existing restrictions. As per the existing rules, shops and restaurants in these districts are allowed to operate till 4 pm on weekdays. But they have to remain shut on weekends.  These districts are Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara, Pune, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Solapur, Ahmednagar, Beed, Raigad and Palghar.  Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had said his government will issue orders on Monday allowing shops to remain open till 8 pm in the districts where the COVID-19 positivity rate is low.  He said said allowing all segments of the society in Mumbai local trains would be difficult "in the first phase" as the easing of curbs is being done slowly.  Speaking to reporters in Sangli, some 230 kilometres from Pune, Thackeray sought cooperation from people in areas where relaxing the norms was not possible currently due to the caseload.  Thackeray said the pandemic situation in the 11 districts with not so encouraging COVID-19 indicators was a cause of worry.  "I have asked district collectors to increase the number of tests as well as doctors to ensure people are protected for COVID-19 as well as water-borne diseases," he said.  Speaking on the issue of medical oxygen, the CM said as per an estimate, the amount of medical oxygen required in a possible third wave might be double of what was needed in the second wave, when Maharashtra had to procure it from other states.  He appealed to the private sector to split office timings to reduce attendance in their premises at any one point of time, as well as opt for work from home and work in office turn by turn. With the Maharashtra government granting relaxations in COVID-19 curbs in many districts mainly for traders, the Mumbai civic body on Monday also decided to allow all shops to remain open till 10 pm on all days and okayed resumption of shooting for films and television serials besides sports activities.  The new guidelines were issued by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner I S Chahal on Monday night.  However, the order is silent on allowing commoners to travel in suburban trains despite Mumbai reporting a low number of new COVID-19 cases.  Mumbai reported 259 new cases and nine deaths on Monday, which raised the overall case-load to 7,35,366 and the count of fatalities to 15,908, as per the Maharashtra health department.  All the shops and establishments under the BMC limits can now remain open till 10 pm on all days in a week, however, restaurants and hotels can function till 4 pm only, the order said.  The civic body also allowed all the indoor and outdoor games and sports clubs to operate except for swimming and other games where physical contact may take place. They can operate on all seven days as per regular timings, the order said.  Shooting for films and television serials is also permitted in Mumbai.  The civic body has warned of strict action if COVID-appropriate behaviour is not followed by people in public places. Maharashtra on Monday reported 4,869 fresh COVID-19 cases and 90 fatalities, taking the tally of infections to 63,15,063 and the toll to 1,33,038 while 8,429 patients recovered, the state health department said. With the new additions, the tally of recoveries in Maharashtra now stands at 61,03,325, leaving the state with 75,303 active cases with a recovery rate of 96.65 per cent. The case fatality rate is 2.1 per cent, it said. Mumbai reported 259 new cases and nine deaths, which raised the overall case-load to 7,35,366 and the count of fatalities to 15,908, the department said in a statement. Mumbai division reported 730 cases during the day and 15 deaths, taking the tally to 16,42,223 and the toll to 34,380. Nashik division saw 829 new cases including 739 cases in the Ahmednagar district. Pune division reported 1,574 cases during the day, including 621 in Satara, 413 in Solapur and 260 in Pune districts. Kolhapur division added 1,399 fresh cases, including 359 from the Kolhapur district, to its tally. Aurangabad division reported 49 cases, Latur division 255, including 166 in the Beed district, 26 in the Akola division and seven in the Nagpur division, the department said. Akola, Hingoli, Nandurbar, Wardha, Bhandara, and Gondia districts did not report a single COVID-19 case on Monday. With 1,67,117 new tests, the number of samples tested so far in Maharashtra rose to 4,83,52,467. The COVID-19 figures in Maharashtra are: Positive cases 63,15,063, deaths 1,33,038, recoveries 61,03,325, total tests 4,83,52,467, active cases 75,303, tests today 1,67,117.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
02-08-2021||India||University Grants Commission declares 24 universities as fake ||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has declared 24 "self-styled" institutes fake and found two more in violation of norms, Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Monday. Pradhan made the statement in response to a written question in Lok Sabha. "Based on the complaints received from the students, parents, general public and also through electronic print media, UGC has declared 24 self styled institutes as fake universities. "Besides, two more institutes namely Bhartiya Shiksha Parishad, Lucknow, UP and Indian Institute of Planning and Management (IIPM), Qutub Enclave, New Delhi are also found functioning in violation of the UGC Act, 1956. The matters of Bhartiya Shiksha Parishad, Lucknow and IIPM, New Delhi are sub-judice in the court," he added. Uttar Pradesh has the highest eight such fake universities -- Varanaseya Sanskrit Vishwavidyalaya, Varanasi; Mahila Gram Vidyapith, Allahabad; Gandhi Hindi Vidyapith, Allahabad; National University of Electro Complex Homeopathy, Kanpur; Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Open University, Aligarh; Uttar Pradesh Vishwavidyalaya, Mathura; Maharana Pratap Shiksha Niketan Vishwavidyalaya, Pratapgarh and Indraprastha Shiksha Parishad, Noida. Delhi has seven such fake universities Commercial University Ltd, United Nations University, Vocational University, ADR Centric Juridicial University, Indian Institution of Science and Engineering, Vishwakarma Open University for Self Employment and Adhyatmik Vishwavidyalaya (Spiritual University). Odisha and West Bengal have two such universities each. These are: Indian Institute of Alternative Medicine, Kolkata and Institute of Alternative Medicine and Research, Kolkata as well as Nababharat Shiksha Parishad, Rourkela and North Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology. Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Puducherry and Maharashtra have one fake university each. They are Sree Bodhi Academy of Higher Education, Puducherry; Christ New Testament Deemed University, Andhra Pradesh; Raja Arabic University, Nagpur; St John's University, Kerala and Badaganvi Sarkar World Open University Education Society, Karnataka. Elaborating on the steps taking by the UGC against the fake or non-recognised universities, Pradhan said, "the UGC issues public notices about the list of fake universities/institutes in national Hindi and English newspapers." He said, "The commission writes letters to state chief secretaries, Education secretaries and principal secretaries to take action against such universities located in their jurisdiction". "Show cause and warning notices are issued to the unauthorized institutes awarding invalid degrees when any self-styled institution is found or noticed functioning in violation of the UGC Act, 1956."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
02-08-2021||India||Nitish Kumar favours inquiry into Pegasus controversy||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Monday favoured a thorough inquiry into allegations of phone tapping with the help of Pegasus spyware which has led to a logjam in Parliament. Kumar, whose JD(U) is an ally of the BJP at the Centre as well as in the state, however, qualified his statement with the remark "I know of this controversy only from whatever I have read about it in the newspapers". "It is a known fact that modern technology can be put to sinister uses. If there have been any attempts to intercept people's telephonic conversations, it would be better to get the matter probed for suitable action", he told reporters here on the sidelines of his weekly public interaction programme. Asked about the opposition's demand that the matter be probed by a Joint Parliamentary Committee, Kumar, who has been a former Union minister himself, said "I cannot comment on what is taking place on the floor of the Parliament". "But those who have any concrete information with regard to such alleged snooping, must share the same with the government. I am sure the issue will be squarely addressed", he added. Opposition parties have been aggressively protesting over Pegasus snooping case in Lok Sabha as well as in Rajya Sabha, crippling functioning of both houses of Parliament. Responding bashfully to his party colleague Upendra Kushwaha's statement that the Bihar Chief Minister was a "Prime Minister material", Kumar who was at one point seen as a "secular alternative" to the Narendra Modi juggernaut said "I have no such aspirations. I wish to serve Bihar for as long as I can". Kumar expressed surprise when his attention was drawn towards a remark by his cabinet colleague and BJP leader Samrat Chaudhary who had complained about "compulsions of coalition politics" and "our voice is not being heard". "He never expressed such sentiments at meetings or even during the recent assembly session. In any case, our coalition has been running smoothly for decades. He may enquire from his seniors in his own party", said the JD(U) leader, who has been a BJP ally since the mid 1990s except for a 2013-17 hiatus. He also rejected the possibility of his recent meeting, at New Delhi, with former Haryana Chief Minister Om Prakash Chautala leading to apprehensions in the BJP camp. "We share a very old relationship which goes beyond the political. We were in the same party at one point of time", Kumar said referring to Chautala's Indian National Lok Dal having been a splinter group of the erstwhile Janata Dal. A splinter group of the INLD headed by Chautala's estranged grandson Dushyant Chautala is currently sharing power with the BJP in Haryana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
02-08-2021||India||NIA to HC: Pune court's move causes no prejudice to Elgar Parishad case accused||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) told the Bombay High Court on Monday that in taking cognizance of the charge sheet against lawyer Sudha Bharadwaj and some others in the Elgar Parishad case in 2018, the sessions court in Pune did not cause any prejudice to the rights of the accused. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, who appeared for the NIA, told HC the NIA took over the case only in January, 2020, and, hence, there was nothing wrong in a sessions court and not a special court taking cognizance of the charge sheet filed by Pune police and remanding Bharadwaj and others to custody. Singh made the submissions before a bench of Justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar, which is hearing a plea filed by Bharadwaj seeking default bail. Bharadwaj, through senior advocate Yug Chaudhry, said in her plea that KD Vadane, the judge who remanded her to custody following her physical arrest in 2018 and who had taken cognizance of the charge sheet filed by Pune police in the case, had pretended to be a designated special judge. Chaudhry had earlier told HC that as per Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), offences under UAPA were scheduled offences, and while the state police was permitted to continue probing the case so long as the NIA does not take over, cognizance of such a case can be taken only by a special court. On Monday, however, ASG Singh said, "Taking cognizance is irrespective of the default bail application. Even if UAPA is applicable, there is a difference in trial and pre-trial stage of a case. Till the case stands transferred to the special court, the power remains with the sessions court (to preside over it). In all this, there is no pleading that prejudice is caused to them. On these grounds, the petition need not be entertained." During previous hearings, the NIA and the Maharashtra government have opposed Bharadwaj's bail plea and urged HC to not grant her any relief. The HC will continue hearing the plea on August 4.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
02-08-2021||India||Home minister trying to defuse inter-state tension, says Mizoram Governor K Hari Babu||Amid tensions between Assam and Mizoram over the recent border clash, Mizoram Governor K Hari Babu met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday and said the Centre is trying to find a solution to the issue. Later, Babu also met Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Parliament and discussed the prevailing situation in the state. He said the home minister will resolve the situation. Talking to reporters in Parliament after meeting the prime minister, Babu said the incident was "very unfortunate". "The home minister is trying to defuse the tension and he is trying to find a solution. Both chief ministers (of Assam and Mizoram) have committed that peace will be restored," he said. At least six Assam Police personnel and one civilian were killed and more than 50 people injured, including the police chief of Cachar district, in a firefight between the police of the two states on a disputed stretch of their boundary near Dholai in Cachar on July 25. Tensions along the border with Mizoram in Cachar and Hailakandi districts of Assam have been escalating since October 2020 with frequent incidents of burning of houses and encroachment of land. The two states share a 164.6-km border along Assam's Cachar, Hailakandi and Karimganj districts and Mizoram's Kolasib, Mamit and Aizawl districts. Both states have differing interpretations of their territorial border. While Mizoram believes that its border lies along an 'inner line' drawn up in 1875 to protect tribals from outside influence, Assam goes by a district demarcation done in the 1930s.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-364
02-08-2021||India||Ex-Australian PM in India as Special Trade Envoy ||Former Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott is undertaking a five-day visit to India from Monday to boost bilateral trade relations and hold talks with Indian leaders on the comprehensive economic cooperation agreement (CECA). Abbott is visiting India in his capacity as the Australian Prime Minister's Special Trade Envoy for India. "Abbott is in India from August 2 to 6, and looks forward to meeting with Indian ministers, businesspeople and think tanks to energise the bilateral economic relationship," Australian High Commissioner Barry O'Farrell AO said. "In particular, Abbott looks forward to discussions on the India-Australia Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement, which will propel our economic relationship to its full potential, to the mutual benefit of the Indian and Australian people," he added. The High Commissioner said that Australia is keen to deepen its trade and investment links with India and take the economic relationship to the "next level". "Increasing bilateral trade and investment will help drive economic recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic, and build secure and resilient supply chains," he said. He also said that the Australia-India bilateral relationship is at a "historic high". "In 2020, Prime Minister Modi and Prime Minister Morrison elevated our relationship to a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership. We also committed to strengthening our economic relationship," he said. In June last year, India and Australia elevated their ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership and signed a landmark deal for reciprocal access to military bases for logistics support during an online summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison. The Mutual Logistics Support Agreement (MLSA) allows militaries of the two countries to use each other's bases for repair and replenishment of supplies, besides facilitating scaling up of overall defence cooperation. The Australian Navy was part of the Malabar naval exercise hosted by India in November last. The navies of the US and Japan were also part of it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
02-08-2021||India||Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin effective against Delta Plus, says ICMR study||Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin (BBV152) is effective against Delta Plus (AY.1) variant of the coronavirus, according to a study published in biorxiv by the Indian Council of Medical and Research (ICMR). “Here, we have evaluated the IgG antibody titer and neutralizing potential of sera of Covid-19 naive individuals full doses of BBV152 vaccine, Covid-19 recovered cases with full dose vaccines and breakthrough cases post-immunization BBV152 vaccines against Delta, Delta AY.1 and B.1.617.3,” the study said. The recent emergence of the SARS-CoV-2 Variant B.1.617.2 (Delta) variant with its high transmissibility has led to the second wave in India. Covaxin, a whole-virion inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine used for mass immunization in the country, showed a 65.2 per cent protection against the Delta variant in a double-blind, randomized, multicentre, phase 3 clinical trial. Subsequently, Delta has further mutated to Delta AY.1, AY.2, and AY.3. Of these, AY.1 variant was first detected in India in April 2021 and subsequently from 20 other countries as well, the study said. The study is a pre-print and has not been peer reviewed. Covaxin demonstrated 77.8 per cent effectiveness against symptomatic COVID-19 and 65.2per cent protection against the B.1.617.2 Delta variant, Bharat Biotech had said while concluding the final analysis of Covaxin efficacy from Phase3 trials on July 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
02-08-2021||India||Minorities have to be treated as weaker sections, says National Commission for Minorities to SC||The National Commission for Minorities (NCM) has told the Supreme Court that minorities have to be treated as the weaker sections in the country, where majority community is so predominant. The NCM said despite the safeguards provided in the Constitution and the laws in force there persist amongst the minorities a feeling of inequality and discrimination. In a country like India where the majority community is predominant, the minorities have to be treated as the weaker sections within the meaning of Article 46, the NCM said in an affidavit. In 40-page affidavit, it stated that numerically smaller or weaker classes are bound to be suppressed and overpowered by the dominant majority groups if special provisions and schemes were not framed by the government. The submission was made in an affidavit filed in response to a petition which said welfare schemes cannot be based on religion. Article 46 states that "The State shall promote with special care the educational and economic interests of the weaker sections of the people, and, in particular, of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, and shall protect them from social injustice and all forms of exploitation." The NCM also contended that it was founded with objective to integrate minority in the main stream to improve their social and economic status. It also clarified that it does not administer any scheme nor provides grant to any community and in fact it is the government which runs schemes for them. Earlier, the Centre had told the top court that welfare schemes for religious minority communities are legally valid which aims to reduce the inequalities and does not violate the rights of members of Hindus or other communities. "It is submitted that the schemes being implemented by the Ministry are to reduce the inequalities among the minority communities and to improve the level of education, participation in employment, skill and entrepreneurship development, reducing deficiencies in civic amenities or infrastructure. "The schemes are not in contradiction to the principles of equality as enshrined in the Constitution. These schemes are legally valid as they are only enabling provisions so as to achieve inclusiveness and do not suffer from any infirmity. The support given to disadvantaged/ underprivileged children /candidates of minorities communities through these schemes cannot, therefore, be faulted with," the affidavit had stated. The Centre had said the welfare schemes are meant only for the economically weaker sections/underprivileged, children/candidates/women of the minority communities and not for everyone belonging to a minority community. In addition, the scholarship scheme, coaching schemes etc have academic merit, as well as earmarking for girl students, it added. The petition, filed by Neeraj Shankar Saxena and five others, had said the petitioners are being unconstitutionally deprived of benefits available to similarly situated members of religious minorities in violation of their fundamental right. The petitioners and other members of Hindu community are suffering because they have been born in majority community. The State cannot promote or give any benefit to any religious community whether minority or majority keeping in view the secular ethos embedded in the Constitution of India, the petition said. The petitioners contended that by giving such undue advantage, the Centre is treating the Muslim community above law and the Constitution since no such benefits are given to the institutions of Hindu community. It has also sought the scrapping of the National Commission for Minorities Act, 1992, as there is already a Backward Classes Commission to find out the conditions of the backward classes that need aid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
02-08-2021||India||Pegasus row: Rahul Gandhi invites Opp leaders for a breakfast meet at Constitution Club||Amid the ongoing stalemate in Parliament – the non-stop disruption of the on-going session over 14 Opposition parties are all set to meet Tuesday morning to decide on staging a "mock parliament" outside. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has invited leaders of Opposition parties to a breakfast meeting at the Constitution Club on Tuesday to chalk out a joint strategy on the Pegasus snooping issue. According to sources, the meeting is being held to forge unity among the Opposition’s ranks. All Opposition MPs and floor leaders of various parties have been invited for the meeting. Most of the Opposition leaders have been alleging that they are not being heard in Parliament. According to an NDTV report, Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge, said, “All floor leaders and other MPs will join the meeting.” This breakfast meet, which will be hosted at the Constitution Club, will be the second Opposition meet since last week. The Opposition leaders of various parties have been discussing a coordinated strategy to mount pressure on the government to speak on the Pegasus row. Since the monsoon session began on July 19, Parliament has barely functioned because of the protests and demands being made by the Opposition for discussions on the Pegasus snooping scandal and the farmer protests, among other points of conflict. According to Government sources a total of Rs 130 crore has been lost because of the Parliament deadlock. Even today Rajya Sabha proceedings were adjourned for the day as Opposition MPs continued their protest over the Pegasus snooping row and other matters. When Rajya Sabha reassembled at 3.36 pm, the government moved two Bills for consideration, but Opposition members, some of them carrying placards, kept raising slogans in the Well of the House. Bhubaneswar Kalita, who was in the Chair, tried to pacify the protesting members, but in vain. Lok Sabha procceding were also adjourned till Tuesday as Opposition continued to protest against Pegasus issue and farm laws. The Opposition has been demanding a discussion in Parliament on the Pegasus row and its leaders have been giving adjournment notices everyday. The government has been saying that the Opposition is citing a "non-issue" and the IT minister has already given a reply in both Houses of Parliament.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
02-08-2021||India||Centre rushes high-level team to Maharashtra to keep tab on Zika virus situation||The Union Health Ministry has rushed a multidisciplinary team to Maharashtra to monitor the Zika virus situation and support the state government in the management of cases. A case of Zika virus has been reported in Pune district recently, the health ministry said in a statement. The three-member central team consists of a public health expert from the office of Regional Director, Pune; a gynecologist from Lady Hardinge Medical College, New Delhi; and an entomologist from National Institute of Malaria Research (NIMR), ICMR, New Delhi. The team shall work closely with the state health department, take stock of the situation on the ground and assess whether the Union Health Ministry's action plan for Zika management is being implemented. It will also recommend necessary public health interventions for the management of Zika virus cases in the state, the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
02-08-2021||India||Police charge sheets Olympic medalist Sushil Kumar, others in murder case||Delhi Police on Monday filed a charge sheet against Olympic medalist wrestler Sushil Kumar and 19 others in connection with the alleged murder of a former junior national wrestling champion at Chhatrasal Stadium here. The final report, which named Kumar as the main accused, has been filed before Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (CMM) Satvir Singh Lamba. Fifteen accused have been arrested in the case, while five are on the run. Sushil Kumar and his associates allegedly assaulted 23-year-old wrestler Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends Sonu and Amit Kumar on the intervening night of May 4 and 5. Sagar succumbed to the injuries later. Police had earlier called Sushil the main culprit and mastermind of the murder and said that there is electronic evidence wherein he and his associates could be seen beating Dhankar with sticks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
02-08-2021||India||BJP MPs from North East meet PM over recent tension between Assam and Mizoram||BJP MPs from northeastern states on Monday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the recent tension between Assam and Mizoram on border row and accused the Congress of politicising the sensitive issue. Talking to media after the meeting, Union Minister Kiren Rijiju alleged that foreign forces are fuelling fire in the region by making inciting statements and promoting manipulated contents. The prime minister told the MPs that the northeast is very close to his heart and his love for the region is very natural. Quoting Modi, Rijiju said the PM asserted that he doesn't look at the region from the prism of politics. In a memorandum given to Modi, the BJP MPs said that they want to convey to all those elements who view the Assam-Mizoram issue as a means of "spreading chaos in India that their shenanigans will not work". The MPs further said in the memorandum that they would like to unequivocally state that under the NDA government led by Modi "development work in the Northeast has been historic and unparalleled". There were 16 MPs in the meeting with the prime minister, 12 from Assam, two from Arunachal Pradesh and one each from Manipur and Tripura. The fresh round of skirmishes between the two states started late last month along the Kolasib (Mizoram)-Hailakandi (Assam) inter-state border but escalated around July 2-3 after Mizoram police accused their Assam counterparts of entering  their territory, clearing banana plantations and dismantling two of the three camps set up by them. Both sides had mutually agreed to set up camps in the Kolasib-Hailakandi border to keep an eye on encroachment in the area claimed by both states. The  inter-state border is about 164.6km long. Three districts of Mizoram — Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit — share borders with south Assam’s Cachar, Hailakandi and Karimganj districts. The border skirmishes between the two states has become frequent since August last year, triggered first by a row in Karimganj which then spread to Cachar. The fresh round of tension involves Hailakandi and Kolasib districts. Hailakandi locals allege people from Mizoram have entered and occupied at least 10 km of Assam’s territory while Mizoram locals say 2.5 km of their land has been encroached by people from Assam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
02-08-2021||India||SC advises mediation to AP, Telangana for settling Krishna water sharing dispute||The Supreme Court Monday suggested mediation to Andhra Pradesh and Telangana for settling their dispute over sharing of Krishna river water, saying it did not want to interfere unnecessarily . A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana was hearing the plea of Andhra Pradesh which has alleged that the Telangana has deprived it of its legitimate share of drinking and irrigation water. "I don't want to hear this matter legally. I belong to both the states. If the matter can be settled in mediation, please do that. We can help with that. Otherwise I will transfer this to another bench," the CJI, who hails from Andhra Pradesh, observed during the hearing. "I wish that both of you (lawyers representing the two states) convince your governments and settle the matter. We do not want to interfere unnecessarily," said the CJI who was heading the bench also comprising Justice Surya Kant. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for Andhra Pradesh along with lawyer Mahfooz Ahsan Nazki, sought time for seeking instruction. The bench then kept the plea for further consideration on Wednesday and senior advocate C S Vaidyanathan, appearing for Telangana, agreed to this. In July, Andhra Pradesh government had moved the top court claiming that the Telangana government refused to follow the decisions taken by the Apex Council constituted under the Andhra Pradesh Reorganization Act, 2014, the directions of Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) formed under this Act, and the Centre's directives. The petition said the fundamental rights including right to life of the people living in Andhra Pradesh was "seriously impaired and infringed" upon as they were being deprived of their "legitimate share of water" due to "unconstitutional, illegal and unjust" acts of the Telangana government and its officials. "The present petition is being moved because the state of Telangana is refusing to follow decisions taken in the Apex Council constituted under the Andhra Pradesh Reorganization Act, 2014, directions of KRMB, and directions of government of India," it said. "This has caused immense hardship for people of Andhra Pradesh as availability of water has been seriously prejudiced by depletion in Srisailam Dam project as well as other projects such as the Nagarjuna Sagar Project and the Pulichintala Project," it added. The petition urged the top court to direct the Centre to take control of the common reservoirs of Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar and also Pulichintala reservoirs along with all their outlets and operate them as per the rules in vogue as per the binding award. If necessary, with the help of police protection, operate both the common reservoirs of Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar and also Pulichintala reservoir without causing prejudice to Andhra Pradesh, it urged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
02-08-2021||India||Bengal finance minister writes to Sitharaman against privatisation of insurance companies||Bengal Finance Minister Amit Mitra wrote to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, urging her not to go ahead with the privatisation of public insurance companies. He said the move to privatise has brought a great sense of insecurity and distress among the people of the country. "May I express my shock and alarm at the policy decision of the Government of India venturing to privatise public sector insurance companies which are the pillars of the economy," Mitra said in the letter. The government plans to privatise public general insurer United India Insurance Company in the first instance as well as sell-off Life Insurance Corporation (LIC), considered to be the fulcrum of financial security for most of the Indians, he said. Privatisation of LIC, which has a massive quantum of investments in the economy running into Rs 36.76 lakh crore, will open up a 'Pandora's Box' and throw into insecurity 30 crore policyholders, he said. The privatisation of United India Insurance will cause major disruption and destabilise the future of almost two crore retail insurers, Mitra added. The privatisation will initiate hydra-headed financial problems while undermining the confidence of the common retail insurers of the poorer sections of the society, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
02-08-2021||India||Cabinet expansion possible on Wednesday, says Karnataka CM||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said cabinet expansion can take place most likely on Wednesday if the list is finalised in a meeting with the BJP central leadership later during the day. The chief minister, who reached the national capital late on Sunday night, said the cabinet exercise will be done in a balanced way keeping in mind the previous team. His meeting with BJP president J P Nadda is scheduled in the evening. "The list may get finalised either today or tomorrow. If it gets finalised tonight, the cabinet expansion can take place on Wednesday," Bommai told reporters before leaving for Parliament to meet Home Minister Amit Shah. A comprehensive discussion will be held with the BJP chief in the evening about the cabinet formation, including whether it should be done in several stages or one go, he said. Even balancing of regional and social representation will be kept in mind while deciding names, he added. "Based on these factors, the numbers and names will be decided. Even how many deputy CMs should be made will also be decided in the meeting," Bommai said. The chief minister further said that in the current political situation efforts will be made to take every one together. "We are hopeful that cabinet making will be fruitful. Not only fruitful, it should serve the purpose of serving the people of the state," he said. The CM also said some aspirants have met met him here and held discussions. "They also know not everyone can become ministers," he added. "We will do in a balanced way keeping in mind the previous cabinet team," he said. Bommai took oath as the chief minister on July 28 after the resignation of his predecessor B S Yediyurappa on July 26. He is the lone Cabinet member in the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-365
02-08-2021||India||SC notice to states, UTs on people being still booked under scrapped section 66A of IT Act||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notice to states, Union Territories and registrar general of all high courts on the plea of an NGO that people are still being booked under Section 66A of the Information Technology Act that was scrapped by an apex court verdict in 2015. A bench of Justices R F Nariman and B R Gavai said that since police is a state subject, it will be better that all the state governments and Union Territories are made party and "we can pass a comprehensive order so that the matter is settled for once and for all". Senior advocate Sanjay Parikh, appearing for NGO PUCL, said that there are two aspects in this matter, one is police and the other is judiciary where such cases are still being tried. The bench said that as far as the judiciary is concerned it can take care of that and will issue notice to all the high courts. The top court listed the matter for further hearing after four weeks. On July 5, the top court had said it is "amazing" and "shocking" that people are still being booked under Section 66A of the Information Technology Act that was scrapped by an apex court verdict in 2015. Under the scrapped section, a person posting offensive messages could be imprisoned for up to three years and also fined.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
02-08-2021||India||India records over 40,000 fresh Covid cases, 422 casualties in a day||India registered 40,134 fresh COVID-19 infections, pushing its virus tally to 3,16,95,958, while the number of active cases registered an increase for the sixth consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll from the pandemic climbed to 4,24,773 with 422 daily fatalities. The number of active coronavirus cases has increased to 4,13,718 and comprises 1.31 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.35 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. An increase of 2,766 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 14,28,984 tests were conducted on Sunday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 46,96,45,494, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.81 per cent . The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.37 per cent, according to the Health Ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,08,57,467, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 47.22 crore under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed one crore on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore COVID-19 cases on May 4, and 3 crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
02-08-2021||India||Heavy rains expected in Delhi today||The national capital is likely to witness heavy rains on Monday, the India Meteorological Department said. The city registered 13 mm rain in the last 24 hours and the minimum temperature was recorded at 26.1 degrees Celsius, it said. The relative humidity recorded at 8.30 am was 90 per cent. The city's maximum temperature on Monday is expected to hover around 29 degrees Celsius. Delhi's air quality was in the 'satisfactory' category on Monday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 9 am was 74. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
02-08-2021||India||Rarely invoked Rule 267 in Rajya Sabha attracts attention||The Rajya Sabha has for nearly five years not allowed discussions under Rule 267, which provides for the suspension of listed business to discuss a subject raised by one or more members. The long gap has attracted attention at a time Parliament has been paralysed by demands to debate issues such as the Pegasus controversy, farmers’ agitation and price rise. “I am receiving 10 to 15 notices under Rule 267 every day on different issues,” House Chairperson M. Venkaiah Naidu, who has rejected all these written notices from members, acknowledged on Friday. Any member can give a notice to the Chair for a discussion on any subject under Rule 267. Historically, most such notices are denied. Two such notices were allowed in 2016 and one in 2015, when Hamid Ansari was the Chairperson. According to Parliament records, the last time the Rajya Sabha witnessed a discussion under Rule 267 was on November 16, 2016. The issue was the demonetisation. Naidu — Chairperson since August 11, 2017 — has rejected several hundred notices under Rule 267, on subjects ranging from the Rafale deal to the GST implementation. Trinamul member Sukhendu Sekhar Ray — one of more than a dozen members to have given notices on the Pegasus allegations under Rule 267 — on Friday brought up the five-year gap. “Sir, I would like to draw your kind attention to the fact that since November 2016 till today, on no occasion has Rule 267 been allowed in the past five years,” Ray said in the House. “I strongly believe that the rule still exists in the rules book, and kindly allow us to discuss under Rule 267.” Naidu stressed that Rule 267 was rarely used and suggested the matter be taken up by the House’s General Purposes Committee, “whenever” it met. According to the Rajya Sabha website, the committee’s functions are to “consider and advise on such matters concerning the affairs of the House as may be referred to it by the Chairman from time to time”. “Right, Sukhendu Sekharji, you have made your point. We have to discuss it also whenever we meet in GPC or whatever it is,” he said. Naidu then shifted the focus to the Opposition’s stalling of House proceedings, saying: “If the House has to be adjourned on those… that is not good. I want the House to function and discuss the issues. That is why, there is difference of opinion. We will see to it.” Ray told The Telegraph: “If matters of national importance are not discussed in Parliament, where will they be discussed? Will they be discussed in coffee houses?” Sources said the Rajya Sabha had discussed the agrarian crisis on April 23, 2015, and the Kashmir situation on August 10, 2016, under Rule 267. The Lok Sabha has a corresponding provision — the adjournment motion — for members to demand discussion on unlisted matters they deem important. Sources said the last adjournment motion to be allowed was six years ago in August 2015. The subject was then foreign minister Sushma Swaraj’s alleged role in getting British travel papers for a fugitive Lalit Modi whose passport Indian authorities had revoked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
02-08-2021||India||Shashi Tharoor alerts South against seat recast possibility ||The Narendra Modi government might advance the delimitation of Lok Sabha constituencies from the constitutionally mandated timetable of 2026 if it feels unsure of winning the 2024 general election, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor has warned. The “reapportionment of seats” in Parliament “is a very serious threat” because “as a percentage of Parliament (total seats) we will no longer form an effective bloc from the southern states”, the former Union minister said. A delimitation is expected to reduce the proportion of seats from states like Kerala, Tamil Nadu or Punjab, which have done well on population control and where the BJP has less influence, compared with states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Rajasthan. Tharoor was speaking at a webinar on “Modi’s India” hosted by the Dravidian Professionals Forum on Thursday evening. Among the participants were French political science and sociology scholar Christophe Jeffrelot and Tamil Nadu finance minister P.T.R. Palanivel Thiagarajan. The 84th amendment to the Constitution in 2001 mandated a freeze on the total seats in the Lok Sabha and the state Assemblies till 2026, when a delimitation was to be taken up on the basis of the 2021 population census. Tharoor suggested that the BJP “may move even sooner” to conduct a delimitation, bringing in a constitutional amendment through its majority in Parliament. He went on to question the BJP’s ideology, drawing a distinction between Hinduism and “Hindutva” and accusing the party of practising a “malignant form of nationalism” that involves the use of religious identity as a “litmus test of who is an Indian”. “I am also concerned about the imposition of Hindi-Hindutva on the southern states,” he said, echoing the concerns of the Dravidian Professionals Forum. Tharoor said people had in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls voted for “Modi’s messaging” on issues of development and corruption, but the Prime Minister didn’t deliver on his promises. He said the BJP had taken its increased majority in 2019 “as a licence for majoritarian nationalism”, as witnessed in the measures taken on Jammu and Kashmir and the criminalisation of the instant triple talaq. “The majoritarian agenda is now being openly advocated.” Jeffrelot, in his opening remarks and interactions later, attributed the rise of a new kind of majoritarian, ethnic democracy under Modi to a “decline in the checks and balances” in the system. “From 2017, we have not seen the Supreme Court resisting any decision of the Government of India,” Jeffrelot, director of research at CERI-Sciences Po/CNRS in Paris and professor of Indian politics at King’s College, London, said. Parliament has been “sidelined”, the mainstream media has come under intense pressure, and the Pegasus spyware controversy has revealed a new dimension of “blackmail”, he said. These and the “privatisation of violence by vigilante groups” have all contributed to the “decline of democracy” in India. Jeffrelot said the “groundwork” of 100 years by the RSS, which advanced its agenda through every segment of society via its outfits like the Seva Bharati and the Vidya Bharati, should not be forgotten. “This was underestimated in the 2014 polls.” It’s the “federal structure of power in India” that has so far held all the states together, he argued. “But today, we are seeing an attack on federalism unprecedented in India since Indira Gandhi’s days. Decisions are being taken (by the central government) without consulting the chief ministers,” Jeffrelot said. “How could you do something like the demonetisation without consulting the states? If you undermine federalism, you repeat the mistakes of the past, re-ignite centrifugal forces. It is counter-productive.” Jeffrelot’s just published book, Modi's India: Hindu Nationalism and the Rise of Ethnic Democracy, attempts to show how “Modi’s government has moved India towards a new form of democracy, an ethnic democracy, that equates the majoritarian community with the nation and relegates Muslims and Christians to second-class citizens who are harassed by vigilante groups”. State finance minister Thiagarajan wondered why the RSS had suddenly become so politically ambitious to control a vast, diverse country. He reckoned that the “RSS has made the deal with the devil, but I don’t think they signed up for this kind of incompetence in administration and economic mismanagement (by the Modi government)”. Thiagarajan argued that the efforts to move towards a “unitary state” and the “cultist model” (around Modi’s personality) were unsustainable and would reach a “tipping point”. He underlined that the BJP’s attempts to influence voters through social media had come a cropper during the recent Assembly elections in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Bengal. In Tamil Nadu, he said, the Hindutva messaging had some influence only among segments “of the upper caste and upper economic strata”. The ordinary people who go out for work daily “are less likely to be influenced by their propaganda”, he said. Thiagarajan said the “charisma of the Prime Minister can be overstated”, asserting that his six-week tour of Tamil Nadu ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls had revealed that the “number one anti-Modi vote was from rural women, followed by urban women”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
02-08-2021||India||India-China: 12th round of military talks end without 'breakthrough'||The 12th round of military talks between India and China ended without any “breakthrough” on Saturday amid growing concern in the security establishment about the Chinese army’s foot-dragging on disengagement from the remaining friction points in Ladakh. Neither India’s army nor its government had by late evening issued a statement. India and China have been locked in a border standoff at multiple friction points in Ladakh since May last year, with the Chinese estimated to have taken over nearly 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. Sources said that at Saturday’s meeting, India had pressed for disengagement from the remaining friction points – Hot Springs, Gogra and the Depsang Plains – but the Chinese army again set preconditions. There have been “partial” disengagements from the Galwan Valley and the Pangong Lake, with the Chinese stepping back a few kilometres while still remaining within India-claimed lines, and India retreating by the same distance -- thus ceding more territory. “The talks were held in a very cordial atmosphere where both sides put forward their stands. The Chinese reiterated their claim that the occupied zones in the Depsang Plains, Hot Springs and Gogra belonged to them and demanded that Indian troops move further back,” a defence ministry official said. He said the Chinese wanted buffer zones to be created at the remaining friction points similar to those within India-claimed territory on the Pangong Lake’s north and south banks and in the Galwan Valley. The Chinese army is said to be entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines on the strategically crucial Depsang Plains. It has cut off the Indian army’s access to five traditional patrolling points — PPs 10, 11, 11A, 12 and 13 — since the border standoff began. China had in July last year agreed to disengage from Hot Springs and Gogra but has gone back on its word.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
02-08-2021||India||Amit Mitra asks FM to reconsider LIC and  United India Insurance Company's privatisation||Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra is learnt to have written to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman urging a rethink on the government’s plans to privatise public-sector insurance companies including the Life Insurance Corporation and the United India Insurance Company. In a letter sent on Saturday evening, Mitra detailed the scale of people and sectors, including the government itself, that would be affected by the privatisation of these two insurance companies. He referred to the Rs 11,396 crore invested by United India in government securities, government guaranteed bonds and short-term treasury bills and said privatising the company would “itself raise hydra-headed financial problems while undermining the confidence of the common retail insurers of the poorer sections of society”. Mitra said the same held true for the LIC, underscoring that its volume of investment in the Indian economy stood at a “staggering Rs 36.76 lakh crore (FY 2020-2021), out of which Rs 23.75 lakh crore is in government securities”. Besides, the LIC’s loans to the government, government bodies and corporate groups add up to more than Rs 21,000 crore. “Privatising LIC would lead to opening a Pandora’s box, throwing into insecurity 30 crore (300 million) policyholders. Also, such privatisation of LIC would put into jeopardy the livelihoods of 12 to 15 lakh insurance agents. This will also throw into uncertainty the lives of 1.14 lakh employees.” Mitra wrote to Sitharaman following reports that the cabinet had approved an initial offering of the LIC as part of the agenda of disinvestment. Also, there are reports that the cabinet has approved amendments to insurance laws to facilitate the privatisation of a state-owned general insurance company. The proposed privatisation of these two companies is likely to be added to the mix of issues that the Opposition is trying to raise in Parliament this session. Still, pinning the government down on the alleged Pegasus-enabled snooping remains the topmost agenda of the Opposition, which is demanding a structured discussion in both Houses in the presence of the Prime Minister or the home minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
02-08-2021||India||CDSCO asks medicine companies to justify 19 fixed dose combinations||India’s apex drug regulatory authority has asked drug companies to justify 19 cocktails of medicines, or fixed dose combinations (FDCs), which its own expert panel had three years ago deemed risky for humans and unfit for sale. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation has in a notice issued on Monday asked “concerned stakeholders” to submit information on “the rationality, safety and efficacy” of the 19 FDCs that companies have produced in India since before 1988. The FDCs include combinations of two or more medicines sold as single formulation products such as paracetamol plus nimesulide, paracetamol plus phenylephrine plus caffeine, or amoxycillin plus bromhexine, among others. Drug companies have promoted the nimesulide-paracetamol formulation for relief from pain and fever, the paracetamol-phenylephrine-caffeine formulation for relief from symptoms of common cold or influenza, and the amoxycillin-bromhexine cocktail for relief from asthma or bronchitis. Among the 19, there is also a five-drug FDC promoted for relief from cold, allergies and headache. “The move to get these FDCs examined is right,” said Sourirajan Srinivasan with the All India Drug Action Network (AIDAN), a consortium of doctors and patients’ rights advocates who have been urging the Centre to ban irrational FDCs since 2015. “But the CDSCO had already had them examined by an expert committee which scrutinised these FDCs from a technical, pharmacological viewpoint,” Srinivasan told The Telegraph. “What is the need for going through this exercise again?” The CDSCO’s Monday notice underlines that the Supreme Court had in December 2017 passed an order saying the Centre may “de novo” (afresh) carry out an inquiry whether FDCs licensed prior to 1988 should be examined. The notice said an expert committee led by M.S. Bhatia, professor of psychiatry at the University College of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, tasked with examining these FDCs, had sought data on rationality, safety and efficacy by August 25. But an earlier expert panel under the CDSCO’s drug technical advisory board had in July 2018 recommended a ban on more than 300 FDCs that it had examined after a process during which it heard arguments from FDC manufacturers. The earlier panel, chaired by Neelima Kshirsagar, former head of pharmacology at the King Edward Memorial Hospital, Mumbai, had also examined the rationality of pre-1988 FDCs and labelled many as unjustified. A query sent to the CDSCO by The Telegraph asking about the need for a fresh expert review of the FDCs already deemed unfit for sale by the Kshirsagar panel did not evoke a response. But Srinivasan said some drug companies had approached the courts arguing that the Kshirsagar panel should not have examined pre-1988 FDCs. The Kshirsagar panel had, for instance, underlined concerns that both paracetamol and nimesulide had the potential to harm the liver and that there was “no convincing scientific or clinical evidence” to justify this FDC. It had said the paracetamol-phenylephrine-caffeine formulation might expose some patients to medicines they did not need and underlined that the caffeine content in some formulations was not adequate to justify the claim of “analgesic” effects. “There could be several reasons for the irrationality of certain FDCs,” Kshirsagar said. Some FDCs might contain drugs that, when combined into a single formulation, carry the risk of enhanced side-effects or lead to dose mismatching. For instance, a drug that needs to be taken twice a day when combined with a drug to be taken four times a day can, when consumed as an FDC, expose the patient to either a lower dose or an extra dose of one of the two. The Kshirsagar panel had in its comments on the five-drug FDC expressed concern that it contained some medications that worked against each other — the antihistamine called chlorpheniramine dried up secretions, while bromhexine and guaifenesin both increased secretions by thinning the mucus in the airways. All three are part of the five-drug FDC. The AIDAN consortium had nearly six years ago submitted a plea to the Centre seeking a ban on what it considered irrational FDCs that it said were exposing patients to potential harm and unnecessary medications.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
02-08-2021||India||Shailaja advocates mandatory premarital counselling||The CPM’s Kerala chief whip, K.K. Shailaja, on Sunday advocated mandatory premarital counselling for all couples as a way of improving mutual understanding and reducing violence against women. The former health minister’s comments came against the backdrop of reports about a spate in dowry torture in Kerala, which she blamed on the growth of materialism and consumerism. “Pre-marital counselling is needed for both the man and the woman entering wedlock to make them understand that married life is not entirely based on money or sex but is also a lifelong friendship that needs to be nurtured,” Shailaja told an online seminar organised by the Calcutta Malayalee Samajam on “Violence against women: A continuing story”. “In many cases the seed of love can be sown in couples who are getting married by providing them with proper counselling. But that (igniting love) may not be possible in all cases and that’s when law enforcement authorities must step in whenever there is violence,” she added in her pre-recorded video message. Shailaja called for a panchayat-organised local council to be formed in each village in Kerala to watch out for, and counsel people against, domestic violence. “Even small girls should be given the courage to speak up whenever there is a violation of their mind or body,” she said. She suggested that society keep a close watch on whether cases were being registered following complaints of violence against women. “It’s important for us to check if cases are being registered and charges are being framed, and whether they (accused) are being put to trial. Only then we can build a society that respects women,” Shailaja said. Kerala Women’s Commission member Shahida Kamal expressed similar views and said the pre-marital counselling that most churches in Kerala had made mandatory for their flock could be a model. “It’s mandatory for Christians to attend pre-marital counselling. We have to introduce a secular pre-marital counselling for couples, irrespective of their religion, and issue a certificate that should be a requirement to get a marriage certificate,” she said. Kamal said the commission had asked the Kerala government to make it compulsory for all public marriage venues — such as community halls and temple halls — to display large billboards reminding people that dowry is illegal. “At least that should make some, if not all, cringe if they have either given or accepted dowry,” she said. Another recommendation from the commission is to increase the marriageable age from 18 to 21 for women and from 21 to 25 for men. The central government is already considering raising the marriageable age for women to 21. “Sex education is seen as a key solution to many issues: we see a lot of couples developing marital problems because of misunderstandings about their sex life,” Kamal said. CPI leader Annie Raja said it was a shame that such a seminar had to be held nearly 75 years after Independence, that too to discuss violence against women in a state often considered a model for others. “A deadly cocktail of capitalist ideology and consumerism is what is happening in our state. While there is a vulgar display of wealth on one side, there is a false sense of pride in most Malayali minds,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
02-08-2021||India||Covid: Odisha govt announces guidelines for unlocking in August||The Odisha government has announced guidelines for the unlocking process in August with focus on livelihood. According to the new guidelines, all shops, malls, parks, sea beaches and restaurants will open now but function by strictly following the Covid protocol. All the shops will remain open from 6am to 8pm across the state. After 8pm, night curfew will come into force and remain effective till the next morning. All adults visiting malls and restaurants, especially in cities such as Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Puri, will need to produce proof of full vaccination against Covid-19 for entry. Special relief commissioner P.K. Jena said at a media conference here on Saturday: “In Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Puri, for entry into malls, restaurants, bars and dhabas, adults will have to produce final vaccination certificates.” Considering the Covid-19 caseloads in cities, the state government has decided to continue with the weekend shutdown (Saturday and Sunday) in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Puri. The new guidelines will remain in force till September 1. District collectors and municipal commissioners have been empowered to open religious places, including temples, mosques and other establishments, in their respective areas in consultation with the stakeholders. “In case of the Puri Shree Jagannath Temple and Lingaraj Temple in Bhubaneswar, the respective temple administrations will take a call after consulting with the stakeholders. Compliance with Covid safety protocols and appropriate restrictions is a must,” Jena said. However, devotees will not be allowed to take bhoga or prasad in the temples. Jena said: “All the hotels, bars and restaurants will be allowed to do business with 50 per cent seating capacity in compliance with Covid guidelines. Similarly, cinema halls, auditoriums and assembly halls will open with 50 per cent capacity. Jatra and opera parties can also run with 50 per cent capacity.” With the government’s announcement that beaches can be opened, hotel owners in Puri said the tourism industry, which had suffered a setback due to the pandemic, can be revived again. “It’s a welcome step by the government to open hotels, restaurants and sea beaches. We are hopeful that the tourism industry will be revived. Tourists will flock to Puri again. However, we will ensure that everyone follows the Covid guidelines,” said Ram Krushna Das Mohapatra, president of the Puri Hotel Owners Association. Street vendors will be allowed to offer on-spot eating following Covid protocol. Inter-state and intra-state public transport will function with seating capacity. All educational institutions, including coaching centres, will function in accordance with the Covid guidelines. The Nandankanan zoo in Bhubaneswar will also be opened. All official meetings, including business-to-business meetings shall be allowed with participation of maximum 100 people and official programmes for inauguration and laying of foundation stones will be allowed with the participation of 30 people. Odisha reported 1,578 new Covid-19 cases during the last 24 hours, taking the total caseload to 977,268. The state also reported 68 deaths due to the virus on Saturday, taking the toll to 5,902, which continues to be a cause for concern.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-366
02-08-2021||India||Parliament panel to visit J&K and Ladakh from August 16 to 22||The parliamentary standing committee on home affairs will tour Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh from August 16 to 22 for an “in-depth” understanding of the region’s issues. The multi-party panel of 28 MPs is scheduled to visit a few border outposts on the Line of Actual Control, but not near the friction points where Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a standoff since May last year. Between August 17 and 21, the panel members will meet officials, ordinary people and other stakeholders in both Union Territories. Sources said the panel, led by Congress member Anand Sharma, would arrive at Leh in Ladakh on August 16 and hold meetings there on August 17. The MPs will then fly to Srinagar to hold meetings on August 18, 19 and 20. The panel will meet stakeholders in Jammu on August 21 before returning to Delhi on August 22. During the tour, the panel will review the functioning of the CRPF as well as the ITBP and the BSF, which are deployed on the India-Pakistan border and the India-China frontier. The panel members will visit some of the ITBP outposts on the China frontier as well as CRPF camps in Srinagar. The Rajya Sabha secretariat has asked the Union home ministry to organise the visit and arrange for lodging and local transport. Last October, the Centre had opposed a proposal for a Ladakh visit by a parliamentary committee that wanted to see how well the soldiers deployed in high-altitude forward areas had been clothed and equipped for the biting winter. The House panel was examining a CAG report that had flagged shortages of snow goggles and multi-purpose boots for the soldiers deployed in high altitude in Siachen and Ladakh. The defence ministry had in a letter said it would not be advisable for Parliament’s public accounts committee to visit Ladakh given the continuing border standoff with China.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
02-08-2021||India||Govt should come clean on  former J&K DSP Davinder Singh: Congress||The Congress on Sunday said the Narendra Modi government should come clean on former Jammu and Kashmir police officer Davinder Singh who was sacked on May 20 on charges of having links with terrorists. “Who is J&K DSP, Davinder Singh? Why can’t the Government hold an enquiry? Why does the enquiry threaten national security?” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala tweeted. “What is his role, if any, in (the) Pulwama (attack)? Who was he arrested with? What’s the name of his accomplices? What is the Modi Government hiding? Nation has a right to know!” The order signed by lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on May 20 said the Lt Governor was satisfied “that the activities of Mr Davinder Singh, DSP Pulwama, are such as to warrant his dismissal.” However, the order also said the Lt Governor was “satisfied that in the interest of the security of state, it is not expedient to hold an enquiry in the case of Mr Davinder Singh.” The Congress wants to know how an inquiry into a senior police officer’s alleged terror links can hurt the interests of State security.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-367
