05-08-2021||India||Covid third wave may pull GDP growth down to 7%: Abhijit Banerjee||Nobel laureate economist Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee on Thursday apprehended that the impending third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic might adversely impact the GDP, and its growth rate might go down to 7 per cent, even below the IMF's recent projection of 9.5 per cent. Banerjee, who heads West Bengal's Global Advisory Board (GAB) and advises the state government on issues related to the pandemic, said that boosting the state's economy is directly related to the revival of the country's economy as it is under stress due to the ongoing pandemic situation. "The economy is going slow due to the Covid situation. Earlier the IMF had said GDP growth would be 12.5 per cent. Now it is saying it would be 9.5 per cent. I apprehend it might go down to 7 per cent. Another wave will decrease it further. If the country's economy does not improve, the state will not be able to move forward alone," he said. Last month, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) cut its economic growth forecast for India to 9.5 per cent for the fiscal year to March 31, 2022, as the onset of a severe second Covid-19 wave cut into recovery momentum. This forecast for 2021-22 is lower than the 12.5 per cent growth in GDP that IMF had projected in April before the second wave took a grip. For 2022-23, IMF expects economic growth of 8.5 per cent, higher than the 6.9 per cent it had projected in April. "The economy of Bengal is also connected with the country. If the country's economy does not improve, Bengal alone will not be able to do anything. If the economy of the whole country is active, it will have an impact. "Many Bengalis work in other states. A lot of income comes from migrants. We cannot solve this problem alone. When the country's economy opens, that will pull us. The state government is certainly trying to help, but the problem will be solved only when the country's economy recovers," Banerjee said. The noted economist that the Centre should be more into free-spending policies like other economies of Europe and the US rather than being more concerned about balancing the deficit and the budget. "The (union) government has a fiscal problem, and it may have more faith in balancing the budget than free-spending policies. The government is trying to use the one instrument it has as other forms of tax collection are not necessarily keeping pace, given the economy is slow. It is using this to balance the budget," he said when asked to react to the Centre's decision to increase cess on various items, including fuel, from time to time in the last year. But this is not the direction the government should not have taken, Banerjee said. "I think the government should have been more open-handed with the spending. I have said this many, many times. I think the central government is too unwilling to do what US or European economies are doing - printing money and spending. And I think that would have been a better policy in the present context," the economist said. Banerjee, however, praised the Centre for now moving in that direction. "The inflation is already up due to the high fuel prices. I think there is a good case for being more open-handed. But to be fair, the central government has now moved towards that direction and have announced several relaxations. I think being less mindful of the deficit might be the right strategy," the Nobel laureate said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
05-08-2021||India||Yashwant Sinha joins push for Pegasus probe in Supreme Court||Former Union Minister Yashwant Sinha on Thursday joined the league of petitioners who have approached the Supreme Court for an investigation into the Pegasus snooping scandal, as the top court started hearing the case, noting that the allegations were “serious if newspaper reports are correct”, reports NDTV. Seeking a court-monitored probe into allegations that an Israeli spyware - sold only to governments - was used in India to target opposition leaders, journalists and others, Sinha also called for directions for the creation of an oversight mechanism to deal with any surveillance-related request made by and to any ministry or government agency. Besides Sinha, a batch of petitions, including by the Editors Guild of India and senior journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar, have sought a special probe into the scandal. Asking the petitioners whether they have tried filing a criminal complaint on the matter and taking exception that one of the pleas named Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah as parties, the court took up the cases on Thursday. The court, which asked the petitioners to serve the copies of the pleas to the centre so that somebody from the government is present before it on August 10 to accept the notice, also questioned why the matter has suddenly cropped up now when it had come to light way back in 2019. The judges told senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who was appearing for N Ram and Sashi Kumar, that petitioners in the matter are "educated and knowledgeable" and they should have made efforts to put more material together. However, they said, “No doubt the allegations are serious in nature if the reports in the newspapers are correct.” An investigation by 17 global media organisations have found that the Israeli spyware Pegasus had been used in attempted or successful hacks of smartphones using malware that enables the extraction of messages, records calls and secretly activates microphones. According to The Wire, the Indian media outlet part of the international media consortium, phones of opposition leaders like Rahul Gandhi, Supreme Court judges, ministers and journalists were among potential targets. The controversy has fuelled abrasive attacks on the government by the opposition and brought parliament to gridlock over demands for a credible probe. The government has dismissed this demand, saying a statement read out in parliament by IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnav - one of the potential targets of the hacking - was sufficient. For days, the BJP has laboured to label the snooping of the phones a “non-issue”. The NSO Group, which owns Pegasus, admits this is spyware and is used to hack phones, but says it does business only with governments and government agencies. The Israeli company says it does not corroborate the list of potential targets reported by media companies around the world. The Indian government has said there is "no substance" to the reports of Pegasus being used by it against opposition leaders, journalists and others. NDTV cannot independently verify the authenticity of the list of those who were supposedly targeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
05-08-2021||India||Twitter has not designated nodal contact person, matter is sub-judice: MoS IT||Twitter appointed a chief compliance officer and a resident grievance officer as a contingent arrangement, but has not designated a nodal contact person, Parliament was informed on Thursday. On May 26, 2021 (the day when new rules for social media were enforced), Twitter was non-compliant as it failed to appoint a chief compliance officer, a nodal contact person and a resident grievance officer as mandated in the norms, Minister of State for Electronics and IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar said in a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha. "Subsequently, they appointed a chief compliance officer and a resident grievance officer as a contingent arrangement. Twitter has also not designated a nodal contact person and the matter is sub-judice," he added. Social media platforms like Twitter are intermediaries as defined in the Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000. In order to ensure accountability of social media platforms to users and enhanced user safety, the government has notified the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, which came into effect from May 26, 2021, the minister said. He added that in case of non-compliance, the intermediaries are liable to lose their exemption under Section 79 of the IT Act, 2000. Chandrasekhar said 'Police' and 'Public Order' are state subjects, and complaints reported against Twitter are dealt by the respective law enforcement authorities of states/ Union territories. "MeitY is not involved in filing of any FIR against Twitter," he added. Responding to a question on phishing attacks, Chandrasekhar said activities of fraudulent e-mails, SMSs, phishing websites and campaigns through WhatsApp pretending to be from legitimate services lure users to divulge credentials to conduct financial frauds. "As per the information reported to and tracked by the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In), a total of 454, 472, 280 and 138 phishing incidents were observed during the year 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021 (up to June) respectively," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
05-08-2021||India||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar requests appointment with PM Modi to discuss caste census||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday said that he has sought an appointment with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the tricky issue of caste-based census which the Centre has proposed to hold only for SCs and STs, triggering protests in the state.  The Union government had informed the Parliament last month that a headcount of only the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes was proposed. This has led to renewed demands that the population of all castes be ascertained afresh in course of the census.  "My letter to the PM has been dispatched. Once he gives an appointment we will take the matter forward", the chief minister told reporters here.  Notably, the state legislature has on two occasions passed unanimous resolutions favouring a caste-based census. Moreover, leader of the opposition Tejashwi Yadav had met the chief minister last week with the suggestion that since unanimity prevailed among all political parties in Bihar over the issue of caste-based census, Kumar consider meeting the PM heading an all-party delegation.  The chief minister has also said that in the event of the Centre not agreeing to the request for covering all castes in the census, his government will "keep the option open" of conducting a state-specific exercise.  Kumar is the de facto leader of the JD(U), which has been alliance partner of the BJP for close to three decades. He holds the view that a caste-based census will help better formulation and implementation of schemes aimed at targeted welfare of different social groups.  The last time a caste-based headcount was taken up in the country was in 1931.  The Bihar CM, who had recently caused a flutter by advocating an investigation into the Pegasus controversy, expressed satisfaction over the fact that the Supreme Court was seized of the matter and making needful intervention.  "Nobody should have a problem with this. If some people feel their privacy has been violated, what better thing than to have the Apex Court looking into the matter", said Kumar when asked about the phone-tapping with the help of Pegasus spyware.  The chief minister, who was talking to journalists upon returning to the city after conducting aerial survey for flood of four districts, laughed off a query about his arch rival Lalu Prasad, who is away in Delhi, becoming "politically active".  "Let us not talk about these things. Everybody has a right to act as per his wishes", said the JD(U) leader as a parting remark.  Prasad has been recuperating in the national capital following his release from a Ranchi jail where he had been lodged upon conviction in a number of fodder scam cases.  One of the most flamboyant and colourful political personalities of his generation, Prasad has been making headlines following his recent meetings with veteran socialists like Mulayam Singh Yadav and Sharad Yadav and his advocacy of a "third front".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
05-08-2021||India||We will share our vision, perspectives on Afghanistan at UNSC meet: India||India on Thursday said it will share its vision and perspectives on Afghanistan at a meeting of the United Nations Security Council on August 6 and once again pressed for an immediate and comprehensive ceasefire in the backdrop of escalating violence by the Taliban in the country. The UN Security Council, under the Indian presidency, will hold the meeting on the situation in Afghanistan. ”During tomorrow's debate, we will share our vision and perspectives on Afghanistan, and we look forward to productive deliberations on this important issue,” External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said at a media briefing. The decision to hold the UNSC meeting came two days after Afghan Foreign Minister Mohammed Hanif Atmar spoke to his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar on the convening of an emergency session of the powerful global body to stop the Taliban's violence. India holds the presidency of the UNSC for the month of August. Bagchi said India is closely monitoring the evolving security situation in Afghanistan and that it continues to call for an immediate and comprehensive ceasefire. ”We have been supporting the government and people of Afghanistan in realising their aspirations for a peaceful, democratic and prosperous future,” he said. Bagchi also reiterated that India supports an Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled peace process. ”You are all well aware of our close relationship with Afghanistan. Our relations are broad-based, and cover various aspects, including a strong development partnership. We are also strategic partners, and are guided by Strategic Partnership Agreement signed in 2011,” he said. The Taliban has been making rapid advances across Afghanistan by resorting to widespread violence since the United States began withdrawing its troops from the country on May 1. The US has already pulled back the majority of its forces and is looking to complete the drawdown by August 31. India has been a major stakeholder in the peace and stability of Afghanistan. It has already invested nearly USD 3 billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the war-ravaged country. India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process that is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled. It has also been calling upon all sections of the political spectrum in Afghanistan to work together to meet the aspirations of all people in the country, including those from the minority communities, for a prosperous and safe future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-350
05-08-2021||India||Uniform Civil Code: Not possible to lay out rigid time frame, says govt||The government on Thursday said in Rajya Sabha that it may not be possible to lay down any "rigid time frame" on the issue of implementing uniform civil code in the country in view of the sensitivity involved and need for an in-depth study. In a written response to a question on whether the government has any plan to implement uniform civil code in the country "any time soon", Law Minister Kiren Rijiju said Article 44 of the Constitution provides that the state shall endeavour to secure for the citizens a uniform civil code throughout the territory of India. "In view of the importance of the subject matter and sensitivity involved, and it also requires in-depth study of the provisions of various personal laws governing different communities, the government requested the Law Commission of India to undertake examination of various issues relating to uniform civil code and to make recommendation thereof," the minister said. "Hence, it may not be possible to lay down any rigid time frame in the matter," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
05-08-2021||India||3.79 lakh Anganwadis don’t have toilet facility, 1.88 lakh lack drinking water||About 3.79 lakh Anganwadi centres do not have toilet facility while 1.88 lakh lack drinking water facility, the government said Thursday. Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani presented the relevant data in Rajya Sabha in response to a question. According to the information shared by her in a written reply, a total of 13,87,432 anganwadi centres (AWCs) are operational in the country. Of the 13,84,997 (AWCs) whose figures are available, 10,05,257 have toilet facilities while 11,96,458 have drinking water facilities, the data showed. Thus, a total of 3,79,740 AWCs do not have toilet facility, while 1,88,539 of them lack drinking water facility. Responding to another question, Irani said during the financial year 2019-20, a total of 2.25 lakh Severe Acute Malnourished (SAM) children received treatment at 1,072 Nutrition Rehabilitation Centres (NRCs). The respective numbers for 2020-21 were 1.04 lakh sick SAM children at 1,073 NRCs. NRCs are operational at public health facilities to exclusively cater to the under-five sick Severe Acute Malnourished (SAM) children who are admitted for clinical management of their medical complications along with nutritional management.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
05-08-2021||India||Rajya Sabha passes Essential Defence Services Bill before getting adjourned for the day||After passing a bill that seeks to prohibit strike by anyone engaged in essential defence services, Rajya Sabha was adjourned for the day amid continuous protests by opposition members over the Pegasus controversy and various other issues. The Essential Defence Services Bill, 2021 was passed in Rajya Sabha through a voice vote after the House re-assembled at 3.40 pm. The bill was cleared by Lok Sabha on August 3. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh piloted the bill in Rajya Sabha amid continuous sloganeering by the opposition members from the Well of the House. Soon after the bill was cleared, Deputy Chairman Harivansh adjourned the House till 11 AM on Friday. Rajya Sabha witnessed multiple disruptions throughout the day. The proceedings were adjourned thrice during the pre-lunch period and in the post-lunch period as well. The House was first adjourned for 15 minutes during the Zero Hour and then again soon after it met at 11.30 AM. The House which met again at 12 noon was adjourned after opposition members continued to raise slogans in the Well and disrupted the proceedings. Deputy chairman Harivansh continued with the Question Hour amid the din, but unrelenting members of the Congress, TMC and some other parties continued to create uproar. He adjourned the House for the third time till 2 PM. When the House met at 12 PM, Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge said some members were asked to withdraw from the House on Wednesday, but when they returned to collect their bags and other belongings after the House was adjourned, they were not allowed to enter. He was referring to the suspension of six TMC MPs on Wednesday for carrying placards while protesting along with other opposition MPs over the Pegasus spying issue. In the post-lunch period, the Deputy Chairman adjourned the proceedings of the House for half an hour following the protest and sloganeering by the opposition. He finally adjourned the House for the day after the passage of the Essential Defence Services Bill, 2021. The bill allows the central government to prohibit strikes, lockouts, and layoffs in units engaged in essential defence services. According to the Statements of Objects and Reasons of the Bill, Indian Ordnance Factories is the oldest and largest industrial setup which functions under the Department of Defence Production of the Ministry of Defence. The Ordnance Factories form an integrated base for indigenous production of defence hardware and equipment, with the primary objective of self-reliance in equipping the armed forces with the state-of-the-art battlefield equipment. In order to improve autonomy, accountability and efficiency in ordnance supplies, the government decided to convert the Ordnance Factory Board into one or more fully government-owned corporate entity or entities to be registered under the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. On June, 16, the government decided to convert the Ordnance Factory Board into seven Defence Public Sector Undertakings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
05-08-2021||India||BJP hits out at Congress over Parliament disruption||The BJP on Thursday hit out at the Congress over the continued disruption of Parliament proceedings due to the opposition protests on the Pegasus issue, and claimed there is no "prima facie evidence" to suggest that certain phone numbers were indeed tapped. Senior BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad likened the Congress to a private firm tied to the interests of one family and claimed at a press conference here that his party is ready for a "meaningful" debate in Parliament be it on the Pegasus issue or those concerning farmers. Prasad, however, added that the opposition could have sought clarification from IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw when he made a statement on the snooping controversy in Parliament which would have led to a debate but its members, he noted, instead tore the statement. He alleged that it is not the Congress' ethos to respect Parliament, and the opposition party would allow it to function only so long as it "subserves" the interests of its ruling family. A number of opposition parties, including Congress, TMC and DMK, have joined hands to stall Parliament demanding that the legislature debate the Pegasus issue first. Attacking the Congress, Prasad said, "Having dominated Parliament for the longest time since 1947, it is ironic that the Congress has the least respect for parliamentary ethos and proceedings." "The reason for that is the Congress functions more like a private firm compared to a political party, and its sole aim is to safeguard the interests of one dynasty," he said. Prasad claimed that people who are "hostile" to the Modi government and has an obvious anti-Modi agenda are behind the Pegasus snooping controversy, and it was timed deliberately ahead of the beginning of Parliament's Monsoon session. "Is there any prime facie evidence that (phone) numbers were indeed put under surveillance," Prasad asked, noting that Justice Arun Mishra, who retired from the Supreme Court in September 2020 and is now chairman of the National Human Rights Commission, has said a mobile number of his allegedly put under surveillance was surrendered by him way back in 2014. The latest Pegasus story had named Mishra as among those who might have been targeted by the snooping spyware. The fact is, Prasad said, the Congress has not been able to reconcile to Narendra Modi being the prime minister and that the BJP keeps winning under his leadership while the opposition party has been stumbling from one defeat to another. With opposition parties pointing out that the BJP had also stalled Parliament when the Congress-led UPA was in power, Prasad sought to draw a distinction saying that the then government denied alleged scams involving 2G spectrum allocation and auction of coal blocks. The Supreme Court had quashed the 2G allocations, he noted. The ongoing disruption of Parliament has cost over Rs 130 crore, Prasad noted. With the opposition attacking the government for getting bills passed in Parliament amid uproar, he suggested that legislations were passed in a similar manner in 2007. "It is worth noting that when in power, UPA passed dozens of bills either without debate or in the din. This includes the Competition (Amendment) Bill, 2007, Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) Amendment Bill, 2007, All-India Institute of Medical Sciences and the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research. (Amendment) Act, 2007 and more," he said. He also cited the example of Emergency, which was imposed after an adverse court ruling against the then prime minister Indira Gandhi, and said the Congress stands to subserve the interest of a dynasty, a reference to the Gandhi family. All shameful Parliamentary lows are linked to the Congress, Prasad alleged, and also cited the use of pepper spray by a Congress MP in Lok Sabha while protesting decisions taken by the Congress governments at the Centre and Andhra Pradesh. "The last few sessions during UPA-2 were always marked by disruptions by UPA members. At times, friendly parties were used to spread chaos. This was seen during the Lokpal debate," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
05-08-2021||India||PIL questions Maharashtra officials’ 2019 Israel tour||The Bombay High Court on Thursday issued a notice to the Maharashtra government on a PIL questioning a 2019 visit to Israel by officials of the state Directorate General of Information and Public Relations (DGIPR), with the petitioners' lawyer claiming that it was for acquiring a "spying software like Pegasus". The petition filed by Laxman Bura and Digamber said that there was apparently “a nexus between the phone tapping cases, which are a matter of public knowledge now, and the Israel tour”. Several rules regarding the sanctioning of such foreign tours were violated in the process, the Public Interest Litigation alleged. "Israel doesn't have any specific expertise on web media (the subject of the study tour) that the state government officials could have benefited from," said their lawyer, advocate Tejesh Dande, in the court. "They (petitioners) say the actual object of sending team to Israel was to acquire a spying software like Pegasus," he added. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni directed the state government, DGIPR and five officials, all of whom have been made party to the PIL, to file their replies, if any, within four weeks. On November 15, 2019, after the Assembly elections in Maharashtra, a delegation of five "chosen" senior officials of the DGIPR was sent to Israel for ten days to study "advance web media," the PIL said. Hectic parleys for government formation were going on in the state during this period. The tour was undertaken without taking mandatory permissions from the chief minister, Union government or the Election Commission of India, and violated a host of rules for such tours set out in a state Government Resolution of 2014, the PIL alleged. The PIL sought, among other things, a judicial inquiry into the tour. "The country of Israel has an expertise in the technology of agriculture. On the contrary, the subject of the study tour was enhancement of usage of web media. It is in this backdrop that the acceptance and sanctioning of the said tour creates a reasonable suspicion on the purpose and motivation behind it," the PIL said. As much as Rs 14 lakh were spent on the tour from the state exchequer, it claimed. Further, replies to queries under the Right To Information said even though the proposal for the tour had been drafted hurriedly and violated several rules, it was nevertheless approved by the government, the petition said. The HC asked the petitioner's lawyer if the Supreme Court was adjudicating upon a similar issue. Advocate Dande said the issues in a petition related to the Pegasus row before the apex court were different. The bench then issued notices and asked the respondents to "file affidavits in reply, if any, within four weeks."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
05-08-2021||India||J&K: BJP hoists Tricolour, celebrates 2nd anniversary of Art 370 revocation||The BJP Thursday celebrated the second anniversary of the Article 370 revocation by holding Tiranga rallies and hoisting the national flag across Jammu and Kashmir, while the PDP termed it "a day of mourning for J&K" and took out protest marches. Romasia Rafiq, the BJP's Municipal Councillor from Anantnag district's Khanabal, kicked off the party's celebrations in the valley by hoisting the Tricolour near the Degree College at Khanabal. She was accompanied by around 200 party workers. Bandipora BJP district chief Abdul Rehman Tikri was joined by a dozen party workers as he hoisted the national flag at the party office. Block Development Council (BDC) member Sushma Nehru along with 20 other people hoisted the national flag at Panzulla Panchayat Ghar in Baramulla district. BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh, who is also the party affairs in-charge for the union territories of J&K and Ladakh, said one of the more significant achievements of the 2019 decision was that it dealt a big blow to the divisive and terrorist forces. Addressing the party workers in Srinagar, Chugh said that after many decades, the Pakistan-sponsored militancy seems to be on the back foot. Anti-national feelings among people have been replaced by the ideas of inclusive development and progress, he said. Chugh came down heavily on the Gupkar alliance parties for "trying to disrupt the positive narrative in J&K". In Srinagar, wearing black bands, scores of PDP leaders and activists, led by party president Mehbooba Mufti, took out a protest march from the party's head office near the Sher-e-Kashmir Park. They shouted slogans against the Centre's August 5, 2019 decisions and in favour of a "resolution of the Kashmir issue". The protesters were, however, stopped by police near GPO and turned back. Speaking to reporters, Mehbooba said, "Today is a day of mourning for J-K. It is unfortunate that the BJP is celebrating across the country, while Kashmir is mourning," she said. "The existence of the people of J-K will remain only when we all will together restore our constitutional position and then resolve the Kashmir issue by forcing the Government of India to talk to the people of J-K to address the internal dimension and talk with Pakistan as well to address the external dimension," she said. "There is no other option. They are already talking to Pakistan resulting in the ceasefire which in turn resulted in decline in infiltration," she said. Mehbooba said her party is of the view that J-K has to become a bridge of peace between India and Pakistan. She said the BJP will have to take back the decisions taken on August 5, 2019. In the Jammu winter capital city, led by J&K Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) president Arun Dev Singh, hundreds of party activists marched carrying the Tricolour and raising patriotic slogans of Vande Mataram and Bharat Mata Ki Jai. The Shiv Sena unit of Jammu and Kashmir led by its president Manish took out a Triranga rally in the city and raised slogans of Bharat Mata Ki Jai. Led by its president Ashok Gupta, Dogra Front also took out a Triranga rally in Jammu amid beats of dholaks and dance. Bajrang Dal and Vishva Hindu Parishad and some social organisations also celebrated the second anniversary of the abrogation of articles 370 and 35-A. The Jammu and Kashmir National Panthers Party (JKNPP) batted strongly for the restoration of statehood to Jammu and Kashmir and holding of early assembly elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
05-08-2021||India||No plan at present to block any social media platform, minister tells Rajya Sabha||The government regularly interacts with social media companies on matters including accountability of such platforms and safety of users, and there are no plans at present to block any social media platform in the country, Parliament was informed on Thursday. "While some users do misuse social media platforms to create hate and ill-will among people of the country, no social media platform or any other intermediary can destroy India's democracy," Minister of State for Electronics and IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar said in a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha. "At present, the government has no plan to block any social media platform in the country," he added. The minister said the government receives various grievances from users about hate content on social media platforms and responds to them in an appropriate way. "The government regularly interacts with social media intermediaries on various issues, including issuing advisories to make these intermediaries safe and accountable to users," he added. "Indian democracy has its bedrock in its Constitution and constitutionally guaranteed fundamental rights for every citizen. No social media platform or any other intermediary can destroy our democracy," Chandrasekhar emphasised. He stated that under the provision of Section 69A of the Information Technology Act, 2000, the government blocks malicious online content, in the interest of sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of the State, friendly relations with foreign states or public order. In response to a question on whether the government proposes to regularise social media in the country, Chandrasekhar said policies are aimed at ensuring a fair, open and trusted internet. "Government policies are aimed to ensure free, fair, open and trusted Internet and intermediaries are allowed to operate in the country as long as they follow applicable laws including Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000, and Rules," he said. Chandrasekhar said the electronics and IT ministry has invoked the provisions of Section 69A of the IT Act to block certain apps following the due process specified in the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Blocking for Access of Information by Public) Rule, 2009. It has been the endeavour of the government to put in place an enabling and investor-friendly policy environment in the country, he further said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
05-08-2021||India||Opp will keep raising people’s issues including Pegasus: Cong||If attempts are made to crush and muzzle our issues by targeting us, using threats, fear or pressurising us, the Congress and a united opposition are not going to budge, says Mallikarjun Kharge New Delhi The government is trying to "muzzle" the opposition's voice, but it will not be cowed down and will keep fighting to raise people's issues, including farmers' problems and the Pegasus snooping matter, the Congress said on Thursday. Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said that Parliament proceedings are being disrupted over the Pegasus issue as the government is shying away from a discussion on it. “If attempts are made to crush and muzzle our issues by targeting us, using threats, fear or pressurising us, the Congress and a united Opposition are not going to budge and will keep fighting,” Kharge told reporters here. His remarks came after a Parliament security officer complained against a Trinamul Congress (TMC) member for creating ruckus in the House Chamber after Rajya Sabha was adjourned. The Opposition is demanding a discussion on the Pegasus issue because it impinges on national security, and citizens' freedom and privacy. Media, armed forces and judges have been named as potential targets, Kharge claimed. "Revelations are being made one after the other. Why is the government running away? They are saying the opposition is not ready and therefore, a discussion is not happening," he said. Has any notice been received from the government for a discussion or has anyone sought to reach out to the opposition over the Pegasus issue, the Congress leader asked. Kharge said that the government is saying the Opposition does not want to speak on farmers' problems and inflation, among other issues, but when 10 Bills are passed in one hour "you know well of their (government's) intentions". He also claimed that the BJP caused over 90 per cent disruption when it was in the Opposition during the UPA regime. "They are telling us, Opposition is not letting the House run and not cooperating," Kharge said. On the Pegasus spyware snooping issue, Kharge said the entire world is probing it, including France, Hungary and Bulgaria, but India is not. "Why are you afraid of discussions," he said targeting the Centre. Kharge claimed that in the last 10 years, at least 10 times Rule 267 was used to discuss issues including inflation, foreign direct investment, farmers' suicide and agrarian crisis, Kashmir and demonetisation. A notice under Rule 267 calls for setting aside of the business of the day to take up discussion on the issue being raised. The Opposition leader said the precedent is there for discussions and yet a debate on the Pegasus issue is not being allowed. He said no leader from the government has come to speak to the Opposition and the informal talks do not mean much. "We suggested (Defence Minister) Rajnath Singh should call a meeting of leaders of both houses," Kharge said. He said it is wrong to say that the government has approached the Opposition. The opposition has not received any notice, Kharge said. "It is a false propaganda by the government. Pegasus is the most important issue," he said. "Parliament was disrupted. But, we acted tolerantly. They don't have tolerance. Suspension of six TMC members is wrong as they did not do anything wrong. Placards have been used earlier also," Kharge said, pointing to the suspension of TMC members. On the action against TMC MPs, he said, "They want to run the House by sending everyone out of the House. There is a conspiracy to disallow discussion on farmers and Pegasus issues. They want to crush the Pegasus issue and wrap up the session." Congress member Pratap Singh Bajwa said farmers are sitting on the borders of Delhi and "over 500" have died in the cause, but Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said nothing about these "martyrs". Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at Delhi border points since November against three central agri laws enacted last year. "What is the job of Parliament. PM Modi has said the laws are in the benefit of farmers but they are not accepting. I had earlier told the PM I will come with him to the border. But repeal the laws if farmers don't want the laws," Bajwa said. Earlier farmers were 50 kms away, but now they are sitting at Jantar Mantar and the government must listen to them. It should go to their Kisan Sansad at Jantar Mantar and also repeal the laws, the MP said. "These laws are death warrants of farmers. The intention is to usurp farm lands and hand them to MNCs. The Congress will never allow this to happen," Bajwa said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
05-08-2021||India||Delhi HC extends interim protection of Newsclick editor till December 17||The Delhi High Court Thursday extended till December 17 the interim protection from arrest granted to Newsclick editor-in-chief Prabir Purkayastha in foreign funding case and asked Delhi Police why it needed his custodial interrogation when the RBI has given a prima facie finding in his favour. "Prima facie, there is no delay etc (as per RBI). In that case, why do you need his custodial interrogation?" asked Justice Yogesh Khanna while hearing Purkayastha's anticipatory bail application. The investigating officer, who was present before the court through video conferencing, responded that he was still verifying other transactions and the investigation was still ongoing. The allegations in the FIR, registered by the Economic Offences Wing of Delhi Police, are that the company, PPK Newsclick Studio Pvt Ltd, received Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) of Rs 9.59 crore from Worldwide Media Holdings LLC USA during the financial year 2018-19, in violation of the law. The court also extended the interim protection granted to Newsclick director Pranjal Pandey in the FIR. Additional Public Prosecutor Manjziit S Oberoi, appearing for State, stated that letters rogatory have also been sent to certain institutions abroad, whose replies were now awaited, and that other persons were also being interrogated. Investigation is the prerogative of the investigating officer, Oberoi said. The court sought a final reply from the police in the matter as it questioned, what will you do with institutions' reply. There may be 100 of institutions . Let final reply be filed. List on December 17. Interim orders to continue, the judge ordered. Senior Advocate Dayan Krishnan, representing Purkayastha, urged the court to confirm the interim protection granted to his client on the ground that as per police status report, RBI, which is the concerned body, has taken a stand that was no delay in the issuance of shares and the transaction pertaining to the foreign funding were in compliance with the law. Status report supports what we say. (That) they are RBI, FEMA complaint. There is no issue of non-compliance, Said Krishnan who appeared along with advocate Arshdeep Singh. The Delhi Police FIR alleged that the investment was made by greatly overvaluing the shares of the company to avoid the alleged cap of 26 per cent of FDI in a digital news website, and violated the FDI and other laws of the country The FIR further alleged that over 45 per cent of this investment was diverted/siphoned off for the payment of salary/consultancy, rent and other expenses, which are alleged to have been made for ulterior motives. The company, through another petition, has already sought quashing of the Delhi Police FIR on the allegations of foreign funding on the ground that it does not disclose any cognisable offences as alleged. On July 7, the court had granted interim protection from arrest to Purkayastha and Pandey while directing them to join the investigation. The high court had on June 21 directed the Enforcement Directorate not to take coercive action against the news portal and its editor-in-chief in connection with the money laundering case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
05-08-2021||India||Opposition cannot stop India from moving forward, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said the Opposition is trying to score self-goals, accusing it of stalling Parliament while the country was keen to march ahead. These parties are trying to stop the transaction of business in Parliament, he said in a no-holds-barred attack on the Opposition for stalling parliamentary proceedings over the Pegasus spyware controversy and other issues. "On one hand, our country is scoring goal after goal of victory, on the other, some people, due to political self-interests, are doing such things which make it seem that they are scoring 'self-goals'," the prime minister said. Modi was interacting with beneficiaries of the Centre's food security scheme in Uttar Pradesh through video-conferencing as the state observed the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana Day. "They are not concerned about what the country wants, what it is achieving or how it is changing. These people are hurting both the spirit and the time of the country for their selfish reasons. They are continuously insulting Parliament of India for their self interests," he added. While very citizen of the country is working hard to get out of the biggest crisis humanity has ever faced, opposition parties are competing to stop the work of the country's interests, Modi said. Targeting the Opposition, the prime minister said, "The great people of this country cannot become hostage to such selfish and anti-national politics. No matter how much these people try to stop the development of the country, this country is not going to stop. They are engaged in stopping the proceedings of Parliament but 130 crore people are engaged in not allowing them to stop the country." The sole intention of the opposition parties is to create roadblocks on the path of development, he said, terming their action "anti national". "Bharat chall padha hain (India is on the move)," the PM said as he listed the achievements of his government on various fronts. Since the start of the Monsoon session on July 19, parliamentary proceedings have witnessed disruptions due to protests by opposition parties. The session is likely to conclude next week. The prime minister accused these parties, without naming them, of "using" Uttar Pradesh for their family and political interests. "This state was not linked with the economic progress of India. Some families did progress. These people did not enrich UP but themselves. I am happy that today Uttar Pradesh is moving ahead breaking the vicious circle of such people," he said. "The path to Delhi's throne passes through UP. And the way to the country's prosperity also goes through UP. But they kept UP as their crucible of politics only," Modi said. The prime minister launched an awareness programme throughout the state on the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana. "During previous regimes, foodgrains meant for the poor were looted," he said. As Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath joined him from Ayodhya, Modi described him as "not only a yogi, but a karma yogi". The PM interacted with beneficiaries of the scheme present at select fair price shops in Varanasi, Sultanpur, Kushinagar, Saharanpur and Jhansi during the session. Almost 15 crore beneficiaries in the state have been getting free rations under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, an official statement said here. Nearly 80,000 fair price shops in UP have been distributing foodgrains to these beneficiaries, it said. District supply and marketing officers ensure availability of foodgrains at every fair price shop, the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-351
05-08-2021||India||Mansukh Mandaviya meets Dr. Reddy's lab officials on production and supply of Sputnik V||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday said he has held a meeting with Dr Reddy's Laboratories Chairman Satish Reddy regarding the production and supply of Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V. Dr Reddy's, which has tied up with Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) for Sputnik V in India, soft launched the vaccine in India in May 2021, after receiving Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) in April 2021. In September 2020, the company partnered with RDIF to conduct the clinical trials of Sputnik V and distribute the vaccine in India. The Hyderabad-based drug major has already stated that the locally manufactured Sputnik V will be available from September-October period. "Held a meeting with Dr Satish Reddy, Chairman of Dr Reddy's Lab. Had a discussion on the production of the Sputnik V #COVID19 vaccine and its supply," Mandaviya tweeted. RDIF has tied up with six Indian drug makers, including Dr Reddy's, to manufacture Sputnik V. Dr Reddy's is in a pact with RDIF to sell 250 million vials of Sputnik V in India. The first consignment of imported doses of Sputnik V landed in India on May 1, and received regulatory clearance from the Central Drugs Laboratory, Kasauli, on May 13. Sputnik V uses two different vectors for the two shots in a course of vaccination. Its efficacy was determined to be 91.6 per cent as per an article published in the medical journal Lancet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
05-08-2021||India||Congress raises issue of ministers not laying officials papers in Rajya Sabha||Senior Congress leader and former finance minister P Chidambaram on Thursday raised the issue of ministers not being present in Rajya Sabha for laying of official listed papers. Chidambaram raised the issue when Parliamentary Affairs Minister V Muraleedharan was called to lay official papers on behalf of six of his ministerial colleagues. "We can understand that the parliamentary minister occasionally laying a paper on behalf of his colleagues who are unable to attend the House for some reason. But every day we find the parliamentary affairs minister lays the papers for half a dozen ministers. "Those half a dozen ministers don't respect RS. Every day it is happening, How can you do it," he asked. Deputy Chairman Harivansh said the matter was raised even on Wednesday and Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu had stated that the parliamentary affairs minister has been allowed to lay papers mentioned against the names of other ministers because of the Covid situation. The practice started in the last session when working of the House was curtailed and MPs were seated in the lobbies as well as in Lok Sabha to allow for social distancing. However, the House has reverted to its normal functioning hours and all members and ministers are present in the House now. On Wednesday, Anand Sharma of Congress had stated that "the rules clearly say that the papers will be laid by the concerned minister. Only when specific permission is taken, another colleague or the Minister for Parliamentary Affairs shall lay the papers". He said those ministers who are present in the House should not be given this luxury of not laying the papers. "This is disrespecting the House," he had said. Naidu had responded to him saying the Chair allowed the parliamentary affairs minister to lay the papers mentioned against the names of other ministers because of the Covid situation. "That has been announced," he said. When other Congress MPs tried to object to the continuing of the practice despite House resuming normal functioning, Naidu said, "You are not supposed to comment on this. Your leader has brought it to my notice. Leave it there. Don't stretch it too much. It has been already mentioned in the bulletin also."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
05-08-2021||India||Flipkart promises to cooperate with Enforcement Directorate on notice||Walmart-owned Flipkart on Thursday said the company is in compliance with Indian laws, including FDI regulations, and will cooperate with the Enforcement Directorate on the notice sent to the e-commerce major. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has issued a show cause notice of Rs 10,600 crore to Flipkart and its promoters for alleged violation of the foreign exchange law, official sources said on Thursday.\ When contacted, Flipkart said it is in compliance with Indian laws and regulations, including FDI regulations. "We will cooperate with the authorities as they look at this issue pertaining to the period 2009-2015 as per their notice," Flipkart added. Comments could not be immediately elicited from the founders. According to sources, the notice under various sections of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) was issued to a total of 10 noticees last month that includes Flipkart, its founders Sachin Bansal and Binny Bansal among others. The notice was issued after completion of investigation and the charges include violation of foreign direct investment (FDI) rules and those that regulate multi-brand retail, they added. The case of alleged FDI rules violation against Flipkart has been under the ED scanner since 2012, and the agency, as per official sources, has found alleged violations of FEMA under various counts including an instance of transfer and issue of security to a person/entity outside India. Notably, the US-based retail giant Walmart Inc had picked 77 per cent stake in Flipkart for USD 16 billion in 2018. Its founders and many of its investors had taken a partial or complete exit at that time. Sachin Bansal had exited from Flipkart, selling his about 5.5 per cent stake. Last month, Flipkart Group had announced raising USD 3.6 billion (about Rs 26,805.6 crore) in funding led by GIC, Canada Pension Plan Investment Board (CPP Investments), SoftBank Vision Fund 2 and Walmart, valuing the e-commerce giant at USD 37.6 billion. With this deal, SoftBank re-entered Flipkart's cap table. SoftBank had sold its approximately 20 per cent share when Walmart bought a stake in Flipkart. Flipkart, which competes with companies including Amazon and Reliance JioMart in the Indian e-commerce space, has seen significant growth over the past many years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
05-08-2021||India||Manipulation of any part of woman's body amounts to rape, says Kerala HC||The Kerala High Court has held that any manipulation of the body of a woman such as penetrative sexual act between the thighs of a victim to simulate a sensation akin to penetration of an orifice is rape. The decision came in an appeal filed by a man against a trial court verdict in a matter that involved unfortunate instances of repeated sexual assault of various degrees on a minor girl by him, who is also her neighbour. "...when the body of the victim is manipulated to hold the legs together for the purpose of simulating a sensation akin to penetration of an orifice; the offence of rape is attracted. When penetration is thus made in between the thighs so held together, it would certainly amount to "rape" as defined under Section 375," ruled a bench of Justices K Vinod Chandran and Ziyad Rahman on Monday. The court said when penetration is thus made in between the thighs so held together, it would certainly amount to "rape" as defined under Section 375. "In short, considering the intention of the legislature as revealed from the above proposals, followed by the enactment of Criminal Law Amendment Act, 2013 and gradual evolution of the concept of the offence of "rape" from time to time, the irresistible conclusion is that, the definition of rape as contained in section 375 would take in, all forms of penetrative sexual assault onto vagina, urethra, anus or any other parts of the body so manipulated to get the feeling or sensation of an orifice," the court said. The court said this while deciding whether the penetration to "any part of the body of such woman" as mentioned in section 375(c) of the Indian Penal Code like sexual assaults beyond penile penetration into vagina, urethra, anus and mouth; the known orifices in the human body to which such penetration is imaginably possible is rape. "We have already found that, Section 375 as amended by Act 13 of 2013, widened the definition of "rape" by expanding its ambit beyond the penile penetrative assault into vagina. One of the consequences of such amendment is that, several penetrative sexual assaults, which would otherwise be triable under Section 377, now come within the operative field of Section 375", the court said. However, Section 377 would still be attracted in cases of penetrative sexual assaults against the order of nature, which are not falling under Section 375, the court said. In its order, the court said it is established from the evidence that, the appellant had committed the offence of rape as he had penetrative sexual act between the thighs of the victim held together; an act of manipulation of the body of the victim to obtain sexual gratification, which culminated in ejaculation. Partly allowing the appeal, the court said as the prosecution failed to provide any evidence to prove the age of the victim, the offences under the provisions of the POCSO Act and also under section 376(2)(i) of the Indian Penal Code are not attracted. "However the sexual acts committed by the appellant is sufficient to attract the offence of section 375(c) read with section 376 (1) of IPC", the court said. As he is found guilty of offence under Section 376(1) read with Section 375(c) instead of Sections 376(2) (i) and 377 by the Sessions Court, the sentence of life imprisonment with the meaning of imprisonment of remainder of natural life, is modified as life imprisonment, the high court said. "The sentences passed by the Sessions Court under Sections 354 and 354A(1)(i) are hereby confirmed. The sentences shall be undergone concurrently," the court said in the order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
05-08-2021||India||Prashant Kishor resigns as Amarinder Singh's principal advisor||Poll strategist Prashant Kishor Thursday resigned as Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh's principal advisor, saying he was taking "a temporary break from active role in public life". Kishor's move comes with assembly polls in Punjab less than a year away. Kishor had managed the Congress' successful campaign in the 2017 polls. He devised campaign programs such as "Punjab Da Captain" to garner support for Singh. In a letter to the chief minister Thursday, Kishor wrote, "In view of my decision to take a temporary break from active role in public life, I have not been able to take over the responsibilities as your Principal Advisor. "Since I am yet to decide on my future course of action, I write to request you to kindly relive me from this responsibility. I take this opportunity to thank you for considering me for this position," he wrote. The chief minister had in March appointed Kishor as his principal advisor and given him the rank and status of a cabinet minister. A notification issued by the General Administration Department had said Kishor would take a token honorarium of Re 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
05-08-2021||India||Gupkar Alliance leaders hold talks on 2nd anniversary of Article 370 abrogation||On the second anniversary of the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir's special status, the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) Thursday expressed concern over the situation in J&K and resolved to continue the struggle for the restoration the "legitimate rights" of its people. The alliance held a meeting of its constituents at its chairman and National Conference president Farooq Abdullah's residence in Gupkar area here. The meeting was attended by the PAGD's vice chairperson and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, its spokesperson and CPI(M) leader M Y Tarigami and senior vice president of Awami national Conference Muzaffar Shah. Speaking to reporters outside Abdullah's residence after the meeting, Tarigami said the alliance "reiterated our resolve to continue our struggle for restoration of our legitimate rights". He said the meeting expressed concern over the situation in Jammu and Kashmir. "Despite tall claims of the government, the situation since August 5, 2019 is worsening day by day. They claimed that normalcy will be restored and violence will end, but look what they have said on the floor of the Parliament recently in response to a question about statehood. The minister said that statehood will be restored only at an appropriate time when normalcy is restored," Tarigami said. "It meant that the situation continues to be abnormal and the claim of restoring peace in the region has not been achieved by the measures initiated on that 'unfortunate day of August 5, 2019". The alliance spokesperson asked where was the investment and employment opportunities the Centre claimed the revocation of J-K's special status will bring. "If you move around whether it is Kashmir or Jammu, or even in fact in Ladakh region as well, whatever development was initiated by the previous governments even that is not yet being completed. "They claimed that lot of investment will be made here that will generate employment, that will generate hope for the youngsters, just tell me, where are those projects, where is that investment taking place? Forget about Kashmir, what about Jammu? Ask the chamber there, ask the chamber here and ask the people in Leh," he said. Tarigami said none of the promises made by the Centre has been fulfilled. "Rather, implementing such laws which restrict the freedom of the press, of the people, have become an order of the day. While there have been two lockdowns (in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic) elsewhere (in the country), our Kashmir has continuously passed through crackdowns since August 5, 2019," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
05-08-2021||India||Pegasus: Snooping allegations serious if true, says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday said allegations of snooping are serious if the reports regarding it are correct as it commenced hearing on a batch of pleas seeking an independent probe into the alleged Pegasus snooping matter. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justice Surya Kant asked some questions at the outset from senior counsel Kapil Sibal appearing for the Editors Guild of India and senior journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar. "Before going into all that, we have certain questions. No doubt, the allegations are serious, if the reports are true," the CJI observed and raised the issue of delay, saying the matter had come to light way back in 2019. "Reports of snooping came to light in 2019. I do not know whether any efforts were made to get more information," the CJI observed, adding that he did not want to say that it was an impediment. The top court said that it was not going into the facts of each case and if some people claimed that their phones were intercepted then there is the Telegraph Act under which complaints can be filed. "I can explain. We do not have the access to many materials. The petitions have information about 10 cases of direct infiltration into phones," Sibal said. The apex court asked the counsel appearing for the petitioners to serve the copy of the pleas to the Centre. "Let them serve copies of the petition to the government. Somebody should appear for the government to take notice," the bench said while posting the matter for hearing on August 10. "We do not know in which matter we will issue notice. Let them come before us to accept the notices and then we will see," the bench said. The hearing on as many as nine petitions, including those filed by the Editors Guild of India and senior journalists seeking an independent probe into the alleged Pegasus snooping matter is presently on. The Guild and veteran journalist Mrinal Pande have challenged the constitutional validity of Section 5 of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885, Rule 419A of the Indian Telegraph Rules, 1951, Section 69 of the Information Technology Act, 2000, and the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Interception, Monitoring and Decryption of Information) Rules, 2009. These provisions permit the government to intercept the electronic devices of citizens subject to various safeguards. The petitions are related to reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Israeli firm NSO's spyware Pegasus. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware. An old phone number of former Supreme Court judge Arun Mishra and the numbers of two officers of the Supreme Court registry are on the list that featured potential targets for surveillance using the Pegasus spyware, The Wire news portal reported on Wednesday. Other new names disclosed by the portal include that of a lawyer for Christian Michel, the British “middleman” extradited to India in 2018 in the Agusta Westland helicopter deal case. The Centre had hoped to use Michel’s testimony to implicate the Nehru-Gandhi family in the scam. The Narendra Modi government has so far resisted the Opposition’s demand to discuss the issue in Parliament and refused to acknowledge or deny whether it had bought the Pegasus software which can only be accessed by governments or government-run agencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
05-08-2021||India||India logs over 42,000 fresh Covid cases, 533 casualties in a day||India added 42,982 new coronavirus infections in a single day taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,18,12,114, while the active cases increased to 4,11,076, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll climbed to 4,26,290 with 533 fresh fatalities. The active cases comprise 1.29 per cent of the total infections and the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.37 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. An increase of 723 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. As many as 16,64,030 tests were conducted on Wednesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 47,48,93,363. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.58 per cent and the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.37 per cent, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,09,74,748, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 48.93 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. The 533 new fatalities include 195 from Maharashtra and 108 from Kerala. A total of 4,26,290 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,33,410 from Maharashtra, 36,680 from Karnataka, 34,197 from Tamil Nadu, 25,058 from Delhi, 22,767 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,180 from West Bengal and 17,211 from Kerala. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
05-08-2021||India||Chhattisgarh: 1 dead, 11 injured as Naxals blow up SUV in Dantewada||Twelve people were injured, three of them seriously, after Naxals blew up a sports utility vehicle (SUV) in which they were travelling using an improvised explosive device in Chhattisgarh's Dantewada district on Thursday, a police official said. The incident took place at around 7.30 am near Ghotiya village under Malewadhi police station limits, located around 400 km from the state capital Raipur, on an under-construction route that connects Narayanpur to Dantewada, the district's Superintendent of Police, Abhishek Pallava, told PTI. The vehicle, a Bolero, came under the impact of the IED blast, causing injuries to all 12 occupants, including a woman. Three of them received critical injuries," he said. After being alerted, a team of security personnel from a nearby camp rushed to the spot. The injured people were being shifted to the district hospital, Pallava said. The official further said they suspect the rebels might have planned to target security forces, but mistakenly attacked the civilian vehicle. He also said police never use four-wheelers while moving on that route.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
05-08-2021||India||Chances of light rain in Delhi today||The Meteorological (MeT) Department has forecast generally cloudy sky with light rain in Delhi on Thursday. While the minimum temperature was recorded at 26.5 degrees Celsius, the maximum temperature is expected to settle around 35 degrees Celsius, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The relative humidity at 8.30 am was 78 per cent. The weather department has predicted light to heavy rainfall in Delhi over the next three to four days. It had earlier said that Delhi is likely to receive normal rainfall -- 95 to 106 per cent of the long-period average -- in August. Notably, the national capital had witnessed uncharacteristically heavy rainfall and an irregular weather pattern in July. The air quality in the city was recorded in the "satisfactory" category. The air quality index (AQI) was 93 at 8.05 am, real-time data of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". The maximum and minimum temperature recorded on Wednesday was 35.2 and 25.4 degrees Celsius, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-352
05-08-2021||India||Opposition accuses Modi govt of conspiring to break their unity||The Opposition parties on Wednesday accused the Narendra Modi government of conspiring to break their unity but asserted they would not waver from their demand for a discussion on the Pegasus snooping controversy in Parliament, followed by a debate on the farmers’ protests. To stamp out any misgivings or confusion about the stand of the Opposition, the parties issued a joint statement iterating their demand for discussion and condemning the government’s stubborn denial of any debate on pressing issues. At least two leaders publicly accused the government of trying to create divisions while another said on the condition of anonymity that “pressure was being exerted to move on and not stick to Pegasus”. The Opposition also spoke about efforts to malign its protest by criticising the disruption of Parliament. The joint statement by the Opposition parties, which included the Aam Aadmi Party that had not been present at Rahul Gandhi’s breakfast meeting on Tuesday, said: “The Opposition parties stand firm and united on their demand for a discussion on the Pegasus issue in both Houses, replied to by the home minister, as this has national security dimensions. The Opposition has also unequivocally conveyed that the discussion on the farmers’ issues and agitations arising from the three anti-farmer and black agriculture laws should follow the discussion on Pegasus.” The statement was signed by Mallikarjun Kharge and Anand Sharma of the Congress, Sharad Pawar of the NCP, T.R. Baalu and Tiruchi Siva of the DMK, Ram Gopal Yadav of the Samajwadi Party, Derek O’Brien and Kalyan Banerjee of the Trinamul Congress, Sanjay Raut and Vinayak Raut of the Shiv Sena, Manoj Jha of the RJD, Elamaram Kareem of the CPM, Sushil Gupta of the AAP, Mohd Basheer of the Indian Union Muslim League, Hasnain Masoodi of the National Conference, Binoy Viswam of the CPI, N.K. Premachandran of the RSP and M.V. Shreyams Kumar of the Loktantrik Janata Dal. Jairam Ramesh, the Congress chief whip in the Rajya Sabha, tweeted: “Opposition is united in spite of Modi Government’s efforts to break the unity.” Trinamul MP O’Brien said on social media: “Desperate BJP trying to divide Opposition in Parliament. Good try. But you failed. All Opposition parties want Parliament to run….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
05-08-2021||India||Pegasus: Phone number of ex-judge, SC officials on spyware list||An old phone number of former Supreme Court judge Arun Mishra and the numbers of two officers of the Supreme Court registry are on the list that featured potential targets for surveillance using the Pegasus spyware, The Wire news portal reported on Wednesday. On Thursday, the Supreme Court is scheduled to hear several petitions seeking directives to the Narendra Modi government to clear the air on the Pegasus controversy. Other new names disclosed by the portal include that of a lawyer for Christian Michel, the British “middleman” extradited to India in 2018 in the Agusta Westland helicopter deal case. The Centre had hoped to use Michel’s testimony to implicate the Nehru-Gandhi family in the scam. The numbers of a lawyer for Nirav Modi and an aide to former attorney-general Mukul Rohatgi also figure on the leaked list of potential targets. The Wire report on Wednesday evening said: “The presence on the list of a number associated with a sitting judge was mentioned…. Having now spoken to him on the record, we can confirm that a Rajasthan mobile number formerly registered in the name of Justice Arun Mishra, who retired from the Supreme Court in September 2020, was added to the database in 2019.” A source told the portal that the number was registered in the name of Justice Mishra from September 18, 2010, to September 19, 2018. Justice Mishra had heard several important cases and played a key role in the apex court’s handling of the sexual harassment case against then Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi in April 2019. Justice Mishra, now chairman of the National Human Rights Commission, told the portal that the number “is not with me since 2013-2014. I don’t use this number”. “He subsequently noted that he had ‘surrendered the number on April 21, 2014’. Why this number was added to the database in 2019 by an India-based Pegasus operator is not clear,” The Wire said. The presence of the numbers of the officers of the Supreme Court registry is also significant. “It is the registry which helps determine when, where — and even if — new cases, especially ‘sensitive’ ones, move, or languish,” the portal said. N.K. Gandhi and T.I. Rajput both worked in the crucial “writ” section of the Supreme Court’s registry when their numbers were added. More than 1,000 writ petitions are filed directly in the apex court in any given year, and these are of direct concern to the Union government. Some of them are considered politically sensitive. Earlier, in 2019, two junior court employees had been dismissed from service by then Chief Justice Gogoi “for tampering with an order” in a contempt of court case against Anil Ambani of the Reliance ADAG Group but, according to The Wire, there is nothing to suggest that the inclusion of Gandhi and Rajput in the list had anything to do with the Ambani case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
05-08-2021||India||Home ministry recommends action against  Alok Verma||The Union home ministry has recommended disciplinary action against former CBI director Alok Verma who had taken the Narendra Modi government to court after being benched and had allegedly considered probing the Rafale deal, sources said. “The home ministry has recommended disciplinary action against (the now retired) Verma for violating service rules by refusing to take up the charge he was assigned after being removed as CBI chief,” a ministry official said. Such disciplinary action — if approved by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) — can include a temporary or permanent stoppage of pension and other retirement benefits. The move comes at a time the Pegasus controversy has rekindled interest in Verma’s sudden removal as CBI chief in a midnight purge in October 2018, which had prompted speculation that he had started enquiring about possible corruption in the Rafale deal and paid the price. Last week, news website The Wire reported that shortly after Verma’s benching, an unknown Indian agency had put his phones and those of his family members on the list of potential targets of Pegasus-enabled snooping. An IPS officer posted in the Union home ministry said the government’s latest action was “nothing but vendetta”. “Verma had taken the government on and moved the Supreme Court. The government wants to teach him a lesson and send out a message to others,” the officer told The Telegraph requesting anonymity. Verma had in 2018 challenged his benching in the apex court, which had held his ouster to have been hasty and reinstated him with certain riders on January 8, 2019. But on January 10, the government transferred him as director-general of fire services, civil defence and the home guard, and said he would occupy the post till January 31, 2019 — the day he would have retired as CBI chief. But the 1979-batch IPS officer — who had reached retirement age on July 31, 2017, and was continuing in service because he had a fixed two-year term as CBI director till January 31, 2019 — had declined the new assignment on the ground that he had already crossed the superannuation age for the director-general.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
05-08-2021||India||Six members of the TMC suspended from the Rajya Sabha for a day||Six members of the Trinamul Congress have been suspended from the Rajya Sabha for a day for holding up placards in the House and demanding a discussion on the Pegasus snooping allegations. Wednesday’s suspension, however, did not deter the rest of the Opposition from returning to the Upper House with placards when the proceedings resumed in the afternoon. The six MPs who were suspended under Rule 255 of the Rajya Sabha were Dola Sen, Md Nadimul Haque, Abir Ranjan Biswas, Shanta Chhetri, Arpita Ghosh and Mausam Noor. Soon after ordering their suspension for repeatedly entering the Rajya Sabha with placards, Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu adjourned the House till 2pm. While the six suspended Trinamul MPs were not allowed to return to the House when proceedings resumed, videos from the Rajya Sabha lobby showed them shouting slogans at the door to the chamber with the watch and ward staff surrounding them to prevent them from entering. Inside, their colleagues in the Opposition picked up the cudgels for them and continued with the slogan shouting in an attempt to drown the discussion on the bills that were taken up in quick succession. Since the television cameras always focus on the Chair or the designated speaker of the moment whenever there is pandemonium in the House, the Opposition members could be seen trying to use their placards to block off the MPs addressing the Rajya Sabha to get some airtime for their issues. Many of the Opposition members had also got themselves listed to speak on the three bills the government had slated for the afternoon in the hope of using the opportunity to raise the farmers’ protests. However, deputy Chairman Harivansh refused to allow this, warning that nothing would go on record if they spoke on anything other than the bills under consideration. When CPM member John Brittas stood up to say that he opposed the Limited Liability Partnership (Amendment) Bill, the Chair said: “Please speak on the subject, only then it will go on record.” CPM leader Elamaram Kareem later told The Telegraph that this was undemocratic. “We are well within our rights to oppose any bill as per our party line. Why should the Chair be interrupting a member just because he said ‘Sir, I stand to oppose the bill’. Why was the member interrupted even before he had said anything unrelated to the bill? In any case, it is undemocratic to dictate to members how they shall speak on a bill.” Member after member from the Opposition used the same strategy to draw attention to the farmers’ movement but they were cut short and nothing was included in the records. Later, when finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman tried to find fault with the Opposition’s actions during her reply to the discussion on a bill, the DMK’s Tiruchi Siva objected, saying that after dictating to MPs that they should not speak beyond the bill under consideration, the minister was levelling accusations against them beyond the matter at hand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
05-08-2021||India||Cabinet approves bill to restore states' right to own OBC lists||The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved a bill to amend the Constitution to restore the rights of the states to maintain their own lists of Other Backward Classes (OBCs). “The cabinet has approved the bill to amend the Constitution to ensure states get back their power to maintain their list of OBCs,” said a senior government functionary, who did not wish to be named. In May, the Supreme Court had struck down the Maharashtra government’s inclusion of Marathas under the OBC quota in 2018 as “unconstitutional”. It analysed Article 342A and said the Centre alone can maintain the OBC list. The apex court had ruled that under the 102nd constitutional amendment by which Article 342A was engrafted, only the National Commission for Backward Classes can have the final say on the preparation of the list of backward classes. Article 342A states: “The President may with respect to any State or Union Territory, and where it is a State, after consultation with the Governor thereof, by public notification, specify the socially and educationally backward classes which shall for the purposes of this Constitution be deemed to be socially and educationally backward classes in relation to that State or Union Territory, as the case may be.” The Centre has an overall OBC list, which is the basis for the 27 per cent quota in central government jobs and higher education seats. But earlier the states too had their own OBC lists — which tended to include additional castes — and their own OBC quotas for state-level jobs and college and university seats. After the apex court ruling, OBC groups had criticised the Centre for ambiguity in the law. “When the government brought the (102nd constitutional amendment) bill in 2017, this lacuna was pointed out. But the government ignored it. This (new) bill is not anything extra but a corrective measure for its own mistakes,” said G. Karunanidhi, national general secretary of the All India OBC Federation. Shashank Ratnoo, a Supreme Court lawyer and a researcher on OBC issues, welcomed the government decision. “Whatever apprehensions and ambiguities had arisen post the Supreme Court judgment in the Maratha case has been taken care of by the restoration of states’ powers to identify OBCs. It’s a welcome and proactive move by the Centre which will again restore the powers of state governments in the interests of OBCs as well as in the spirit of federalism,” Ratnoo said. When the bill was referred to a select committee of Parliament in 2017, the matter of states losing their right was raised. Trinamul MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy had submitted a note of dissent. “The proposed amendments to the Constitution of India through the present bill appear to be against the spirit of cooperative federalism. The proposed amendment to the Constitution through this Bill undermines the role of state governments and state commission for backward classes,” Roy had said. However, the committee had overruled the objections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
05-08-2021||India||Death of Dalit girl triggers protest against BJP-led central govt||The alleged rape and murder of a nine-year-old Dalit girl on Sunday, followed by Dalit demonstrations at a village near Delhi Cantonment, has triggered protests against the BJP-led central government that supervises Delhi police. Under public pressure, the police have arrested four men — a crematorium priest and three others — on charges that include rape and murder. The girl’s parents have alleged she was cremated without their consent. The BJP has attacked Rahul Gandhi for meeting the girl’s parents, and the National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has asked Twitter to remove a tweet by Rahul showing him with the parents as it violates the norm against revelation of the victim’s identity. However, photographs of the parents of the December 2012 gang rape and murder victim meeting political leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and others from the BJP, have frequently been published in the past. Trinamul MPs Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Shanta Chhetri and Mausam Noor have visited the spot where the nine-year-old was allegedly murdered, and the Left parties and their mass organisations protested in the capital. The Congress held candlelight marches in each of Delhi’s 70 Assembly constituencies on Wednesday. DCP (Southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh has said the girl went to the crematorium around 5.30pm on Sunday to get cold water from the cooler. “At 1800 hrs the priest of crematorium Pandit Radhey Shyam and two-three other persons known to the mother... called her to crematorium and showed dead body of girl stating that she got electrocuted while having water from water cooler, and that there were burn marks between left wrist and elbow of girl, also her lips were blue. This was seen by the mother,” Singh said. Singh said Shyam and the co-accused told the mother that if she called the police, “in post-mortem doctors will steal all organs of the girl and so it’s better to cremate her. The girl was cremated”. After the parents protested, the police stopped the cremation and detained Shyam, but only the child’s legs could be retrieved. On Tuesday, Bhim Army leader Chandrashekhar Azad and AAP legislator Rakhi Birla led a sit-in at the village. The girl’s mother claimed she and her husband had been held at Delhi Cantonment police station for several hours on Sunday, and that the police did not protect her husband from being assaulted there by an unidentified man who was not wearing a uniform. The police have denied the charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
05-08-2021||India||Rahul calls attention to rape and murder of Dalit minor girl in Delhi||Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday flagged the rape and murder of a nine-year-old Dalit girl in Delhi, trying to jolt the nation’s conscience at a time its women’s successes in the Olympics have encouraged a self-congratulatory narrative about women’s empowerment. The rag-picker’s daughter who had gone to a crematorium near her home to fetch drinking water was allegedly raped by the facility’s priest along with three of his friends on Sunday evening. She was then allegedly murdered and her body burnt, but the police are accused of trying to hush up the atrocity that the intervention of activists and local Congress functionaries brought to light. Delhi, which had erupted over the death of the December 2012 bus gang-rape victim nine years ago, has largely remained indifferent. Central and state government authorities did not express even the customary condolences till chief minister Arvind Kejriwal woke up on Tuesday and tweeted his shock at the crime after the Delhi Congress chief visited the girl’s family. Kejriwal paid the family a visit on Wednesday after Rahul’s drew national attention. Rahul, who had on Tuesday tweeted that “A Dalit’s daughter too is a daughter of the nation”, arrived at her village, Nangal, on Wednesday morning to console her parents. After Rahul spoke to them in the presence of activists and local people, the mother said she would not be able to narrate everything in front of the crowd. Rahul took the parents into his car and heard them in private. Asked about the incident later, he told reporters: “I only know that my job is to help them.” Rahul and Priyanka had last year visited Hathras in Uttar Pradesh despite stiff resistance from the administration to express solidarity with the family of another Dalit rape-and-murder victim whose body the police had burnt without the parents’ consent. “The Delhi incident is painful and condemnable. Imagine what her family must be going through,” Priyanka has tweeted. “The home minister (Amit Shah), who is responsible for law and order in Delhi, had gone to distribute certificates (of good governance) in Uttar Pradesh. But he can’t fulfil his own responsibilities. From Hathras to Nangal: There is jungle raj.” While Prime Minister Narendra Modi has tweeted on Indian sportswomen winning medals at the Olympics, neither he nor any other Union minister had commented on the Nangal atrocity till Wednesday evening. Even women and child development minister Smriti Irani, who attended an event on Sunday to celebrate the second anniversary of the enactment of the triple talaq law — a milestone in the RSS-BJP’s perception of women’s empowerment — has remained mum on the Dalit girl’s rape and murder. Shaktisinh Gohil, the Congress’s minder for Delhi, said: “Crime against women has become routine. After killing this girl, the culprits tried to hush up the matter, offered money to the mother. The police took the mother into custody. The FIR was filed only when some local Congress leaders and activists created pressure.” Delhi Congress chief Anil Chowdhary said: “They tried to pass the murder off as an accidental death from an electrical shock. There are allegations against the priest of similar crimes but the police didn’t act.” He added: “The Prime Minister gave us hollow slogans but did nothing about crimes against women. There have been 15,000 rapes in Delhi since 2014. We want adequate financial assistance to the family.” Kejriwal has now announced an assistance of Rs 10 lakh to the family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
05-08-2021||India||'Second assassination': Eminent people write to PM on Sabarmati redevelopment ||Over 100 eminent people on Wednesday said the Narendra Modi government’s plans to redevelop the Gandhi Ashram in Sabarmati could end up becoming a “second assassination” as “the most authentic monument (to) Gandhi and our freedom struggle will be lost forever to vanity and commercialisation”. In a letter, they echoed sentiments held by many who are closely associated with the ashram, where considerable effort has been made in the past seven decades to preserve a simplicity reminiscent of the time the complex was home to the Mahatma. “The proposed plan at best envisions a ‘Gandhi theme park’ and at worst ‘a second assassination’,” says the letter, whose signatories include the Mahatma’s grandson, Rajmohan Gandhi. Writer G.N. Devy, filmmaker Anand Patwardhan, freedom fighter G.G. Parikh, writer and Jawaharlal Nehru’s niece Nayantara Sahgal, historian Ramachandra Guha, retired high court judge A.P. Shah and musician T.M. Krishna are also among the signatories. The letter voices fear at the government’s attempts to control Gandhian institutions, especially the archives, citing how Gandhi was murdered by people whose ideology still inspires some of those in power in the country. It queries the plans to reclaim “the visual wholesomeness, tranquillity and uncluttered environment of 1949” and turn the ashram into a tourist destination with an amphitheatre, a VIP lounge, shops and food courts. “Lakhs of Indians, especially schoolchildren, as well as foreign visitors come to Sabarmati Ashram every year. The place has never needed a ‘world-class’ makeover to attract tourists. The charisma of Gandhi along with the authenticity and simplicity of the place has been enough,” the letter says. Aware of media reports on the “Gandhi Ashram Memorial and Precinct Development Project”, the signatories have expressed fear that the proposal “severely compromises and trivialises the sanctity and importance of the present-day ashram, mainly Hriday Kunj, surrounding buildings, and the museum”. Hriday Kunj served as the residence of Gandhi and his wife Kasturba from 1917 to 1930, till the Mahatma left the ashram pledging not to return till the country had attained independence. “The simplicity of the ashram will be completely lost in a Rs 1,200 crore project,” the letter says. The redevelopment plan has been drawn up by HCP Design, Planning and Management Pvt. Ltd, which is developing the Central Vista Project in Delhi. The protest letter follows reports that work has started with the Gujarat government beginning the process of getting ashram residents to vacate by paying them a lump sum. The residents are descendents of people whom Gandhi had settled in the ashram over a century ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
05-08-2021||India||Six shot dead over land dispute  in Bihar||At least six persons were shot dead and two others were seriously injured in Bihar’s Nalanda district on Wednesday allegedly over a land dispute. Nalanda also happens to be the native district of chief minister Nitish Kumar and the incident reflects poorly on the continuously deteriorating law and order situation in the state. The massacre happened at Lodipur village under Chhabilapur police station in the historic Rajgir area following a clash between two groups of people affiliated to Parshuram Yadav and Nitish Yadav. Parshuram and Nitish are distant relatives and had a running feud between them over a piece of land. “So far six persons have been found to have been killed while two others are injured in the incident. We are conducting raids to arrest the culprits. All the deceased belong to one group of people,” Rajgir SDPO Somnath Prasad told The Telegraph. Senior officials were camping in the area where the killings occurred in broad daylight somewhere between 10am and 12pm. The bodies were being sent to the government hospital for post-mortem. Police officials said that Parshuram and a few members of his family were tilling a piece of land when Nitish arrived with dozens of armed persons and started firing indiscriminately at them. Panic prevailed in the village and all adult men residing there fled out of fear. The attackers also escaped. The chief minister has constantly expressed worry that the majority of violence in Bihar occurred over land disputes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-353
