07-08-2021||India||NBA board members meet I&B minister Anurag Thakur||Board members of the News Broadcasters Association (NBA) called on Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Anurag Thakur on Saturday and discussed with him the impact of Covid-19 pandemic on the industry. The association suggested that a strong policy roadmap should be drawn up for the recovery of the broadcasting sector. "The board members of the News Broadcasters Association (NBA) met with Anurag Thakur today, the newly appointed Minister for Information and Broadcasting, to felicitate him on his appointment," the association said in a statement after the meeting. "NBA discussed with him the impact of Covid-19 on the broadcast industry and apprised the minister about its concerns and suggested that a strong policy roadmap be drawn up for the recovery of the broadcasting sector," it added. The NBA delegation, led by its president Rajat Sharma, included Avinash Pandey, Kalli Purie Bhandel, Sudhir Chaudhry, Anuradha Prasad and Sonia Singh. "The NBA Board celebrated the historic occasion of Neeraj Chopra winning the gold medal at the Tokyo Olympic Games with Anurag Thakur and cheered with him as history was created at the Tokyo Olympic Games, 2021," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
07-08-2021||India||Maharashtra logs 6,061 Covid-19 cases, 128 deaths, 9,356 recoveries||Maharashtra reported 6,061 new coronavirus cases and 128 fatalities on Saturday which took the state's infection tally to 63,47,820 and death toll to 1,33,845, a health department official said.  As many as 9,356 patients were discharged from hospitals, pushing the number of recoveries to 61,39,493.  Maharashtra has 71,050 active coronavirus cases now.  As many as 4,31,539 people are in home quarantine and 2,761 are in institutional quarantine.  The state's case recovery rate is 96.72 per cent, while the fatality rate is 2.1 per cent.  The number of coronavirus tests conducted in the state climbed to 4,93,72,212 with 1,99,681 samples being tested since Friday evening.  The Pune region reported the highest 2,304 new infections on Saturday, followed by 1,652 cases in the Kolhapur region.  The Mumbai region reported 851 new cases, Nashik region 905, Latur region 219, Aurangabad region 66, Akola 42 and the Nagpur region recorded 22 new infections.  Of 128 fatalities recorded during the day, the highest 45 deaths were reported from the Pune region, followed by 39 from the Kolhapur region and 21 from Nashik region. The Mumbai region reported 12 fatalities, Aurangabad four, Latur five while Nagpur region reported two deaths. The Akola region did not report any fresh fatality.  Mumbai city reported 851 new COVID-19 cases and 12 deaths during the day.  Coronavirus figures of Maharashtra are as follows: Total cases 63,47,820; New cases 6,061; Total deaths 1,33,845; Total recoveries 61,39,493; Active cases 71,050; Tests conducted so far 4,93,72,212.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
07-08-2021||India||Over 50.62 crore jabs administered in India till date, says Health Ministry||The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 50.62 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. Over 50 lakh doses have been administered on Saturday, according to the 7 pm provisional report. The ministry said that on Saturday in the age group of 18-44 years, 27,55,447 vaccine doses were administered as the first jabs and 5,08,616 as the second one. Cumulatively, 17,54,73,103 people in the age group of 18-44 years across all states and Union Territories have received their first dose and 1,18,08,368 their second dose since the start of phase three of the vaccination drive. Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than over crore doses of COVID-19 Vaccine in the same age group. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have provided the first dose of vaccine to more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years, the ministry said. As on day 204 of the vaccination drive, a total of 50,00,384 vaccine doses was given of which 36,88,660 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 13,11,724 received the second dose of vaccine according to the provisional report. The final reports would be completed for the day by late night. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from COVID-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry underlined.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
07-08-2021||India||All weekly markets in Delhi to reopen from August 9: Kejriwal||All weekly markets in the national capital will reopen from August 9, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday urging people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour there.  The weekly markets were closed after a lockdown was imposed in Delhi on April 19 due to a surge in cases during the second Covid wave.  Later, in mid June one weekly market in each municipal zone was allowed to open with strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour and official guidelines.  The chief minister said his government is concerned about the livelihoods of poor associated with these markets and urged people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.  "Weekly markets are being opened from Monday. These are poor people. Govt is quite concerned about their livelihoods. However, everyone's health and lives are also important. I urge everyone to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour after these markets are opened," he tweeted.  According to rough estimates, there are around 2,700 weekly markets that open on designated days in a week in 12 of the municipal zones, Delhi Cantonment and the New Delhi Municipal Council. Around four lakh people are associated with them for livelihood, vendors claim. A detailed order by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority(DDMA) on reopening of weekly markets and guidelines to be followed by the stakeholders concerned is awaited. The existing prohibited and restricted activities and services in Delhi as per the DDMA are scheduled to continue till 5 am on Monday. Currently, only 50 per cent of the allowed vendors in a weekly market per zone are permitted to transact business there. Strict compliance of standard operating procedures (SOPs) and all instructions, guidelines issued by the government of India and the Delhi government are ensured by officials. No weekly market is allowed to function on roadsides. Officials have been instructed to permit any weekly market in neighbourhood or school grounds. Random Covid tests and enforcement activities are also conducted there. The decision to reopen all weekly markets in the city comes amid an improved Covid situation with positivity rate remaining below 0.12 per cent for the past many days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
07-08-2021||India||Rahul's Twitter account temporarily suspended: Congress||Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi's Twitter account has been temporarily suspended and due process is being followed to restore it, the party said Saturday. This comes a day after Twitter removed a controversial post of Gandhi with a picture of him meeting the family of a nine-year-old Dalit girl who died here following an alleged sexual assault. A message from Twitter read that the tweet had violated its rules. "Shri @RahulGandhi's Twitter account has been temporarily suspended & due process is being followed for its restoration," the Congress tweeted from its official Twitter handle. "Until then, he will stay connected with you all through his other SM platforms & continue to raise his voice for our people & fight for their cause. Jai Hind!" the party said. Posting a picture of his meeting with the girl's family on Wednesday, Gandhi had tweeted in Hindi: "Parents' tears are saying only one thing -- their daughter, the daughter of this country, deserves justice. And I am with them on this path to justice." The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) had asked the Delhi Police and Twitter on Wednesday to take action over Gandhi posting the photo of the girl's family on the microblogging website, saying it violates the Juvenile Justice Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Gandhi met the girl's family members on Wednesday and asserted that he is with them on the path to justice and "will not back down even an inch".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
07-08-2021||India||School closure weakened fundamental knowledge of students: parliamentary panel||The learning loss of more than one year due to prolonged school closure in wake of Covid-19 pandemic would necessarily have weakened the foundational knowledge of students, especially in the subjects of mathematics, sciences and languages, at school level, a Parliamentary panel has noted. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Education, Women, Children, Youth and Sports in its report "Plans to bridge the learning gap caused due to school lockdown as well as review of online and offline instructions and exams and plans for reopening of schools" has noted that the learning loss is likely to impair cognitive capabilities of students. "The learning loss of more than one year would necessarily have weakened the foundational knowledge of the students especially in the subjects of mathematics, sciences and languages at school level. This learning loss is a big deficit and is likely to impair the cognitive capabilities of students," the panel said in its report tabled in Parliament on Friday. "This might have a debilitating effect on vulnerable sections of the society like poor and rural students, marginalized sections of society and young women who might have been unable to connect to any form of digital education during the pandemic. This needs to be addressed and immediate remedial steps required to be taken," the report said. The panel stated that school closures have put children's learning, nutrition, mental health, and overall development at risk and some students, particularly girls, are at risk of never returning to school. "In fact long closure of schools will lead to children not returning to schools and potential for children getting engaged in labour and early marriage. Therefore, the immediate need is to bring children back to school," the report said. The committee also recommended that since the digital and online mode of education is going to be the new normal even after the pandemic subsides, efforts to technologically empower every school and students across the country may be aggressively pursued and additional funds allocated for the purpose, as per requirement. "The committee recommends that a comprehensive assessment to collect data of the post-COVID situation leading to the learning loss due to school lockdown may be under taken by the Department of School Education and Literacy to cover the areas of concern," it said. The panel headed by Vinay P Sahasrabuddhe advocated that a credible, fair and transparent system of continuous assessment throughout the year may be developed and put in place even when normal functioning of schools re-commences, so as to meet any future emergent scenarios. "This system should be over and above the final board examinations and would aid in helping students and teachers get a correct perspective of their learning curve and course correct wherever required. "Guidelines for internal assessment, practicals, project work, particularly for classes 10 and 12, be formulated and circulated for strict implementation in every school at the Centre and in States and UTs, be it government, government-aided or private, in order to ensure objective and uniform standard of assessment across the country," the panel report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
07-08-2021||India||Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai allocates cabinet portfolios||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday allocated portfolios to Ministers in his new cabinet, with most of them retaining the Ministries they had in the previous B S Yediyurappa government. In a surprising move, debutant ministers have got plum portfolios like Araga Jnanendra- Home and V Sunil Kumar- Energy, along with Kannada and Culture. The Chief Minister, who had on Wednesday expanded his new cabinet by inducting 29 Ministers, had played it safe by and large retaining old faces, as 23 of them were Ministers in the previous Yediyurappa cabinet, while six were new. Seventeen Ministers have retained the portfolios that they had served in the previous government. Out of them, eight are those who had joined the BJP after quitting the Congress-JD(S) coalition in 2019, and helped the saffron party come to power. At least six Ministers, who are either long-time BJP loyalists or with RSS background, including Araga Jnanendra and Sunil Kumar, have got plum portfolios. Others are K S Eshwarappa- Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, R Ashoka-Revenue, Kota Srinivas Poojari- Social Welfare and Backward Classes, and B C Nagesh- Primary and Secondary education, Sakala department. The portfolio allocation has given rise to some amount of disgruntlement, with two Ministers- Anand Singh and M T B Nagaraj- openly expressing displeasure about their portfolios. Downplaying the disgruntlement among his cabinet colleagues, the Chief Minister said he will speak to them personally and sort out the issue, as every one can't get the portfolio they ask for. Bommai has retained the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (DAPR), Finance, Intelligence, Cabinet Affairs, Bengaluru Development and all unallocated portfolios, with himself. With Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike elections round the corner, it was widely expected that Bengaluru Development would be allocated to a senior Minister from the city, but the CM has retained it with himself, keeping in view the number of aspirants for the plum portfolio. While most ministers have retained the portfolios held in the previous government, those with major changes include Govind Karjol- water resources, C C Patil- public works, B Sriramulu- transport and ST welfare, Murugesh Nirani- Industries. K Sudhakar has retained the all important health and medical education department, amid the raging COVID-19 pandemic. Lone woman minister in the Cabinet Shashikala Jolle has been made in-charge of Muzrai, Wakf & Haj. She was women & child development minister in the Yediyurappa cabinet and had faced corruption allegations. New face Halappa Achar is now the women & child development minister, along with the Mines and Geology portfolio. Other Ministers and their portfolios are- V Sommana - Housing; Umesh Katti- Forest, food and civil supplies; S Angara- Fisheries, ports and inland transport; J C Madhuswamy- Minor Irrigation, Law and Parliamentary Affairs; C N Ashwath Narayan Higher Education, IT, BT, Science and Technology and Skill Development; Anand Singh- Environment, Ecology and Tourism. Prabhu Chauhan- Animal Husbandry; Shivaram Hebbar- Labour; S T Somashekar- Cooperation, B C Patil- Agriculture; B A Basavaraj- Urban Development; K Gopalaiah- Excise; MTB Nagaraj- Municipal Administration and Small Scale Industries; Narayana Gowda- Sericulture, Youth Empowerment and Sports; Shankar Patil Munenakoppa-Handloom and Textiles; Munirathna- Horticulture and Planning departments. Ministers- MTB Nagaraj and Anand Singh, who openly expressed displeasure about their portfolios, had quit the Congress-JD(S) coalition and had joined the BJP in 2019. "Previous CM BSY (Yediyurappa) ji and present CM Basavaraj Bommai ji have not kept their word. I am not happy with allotted portfolio.Will take a call in this regard in 2 -3 days," Nagaraj tweeted. He has retained the Municipal Administration portfolio that he had in the previous government, and has been given the additional charge of Small Scale Industries and Public Sector Industries. Expressing dissatisfaction about the portfolio allocated to him, Anand Singh, who has been made in-charge of Environment, Ecology and Tourism departments, said he will meet the Chief Minister regarding the matter, but will not take any step that would cause embarrassment to the party. "I had not asked for this, I had requested the party leadership.I can only say that my request has not been considered, but cannot make any comments or criticism against it.I'm planning to meet the Chief Minister and make a request to him again," he said, but did not specify about the department he wants. Reacting to Singh's statement, Bommai said, "I will call and talk to him. He is my good friend." Later speaking to reporters in Hubballi, in response to a question on the portfolio Singh desired, the CM said, "naturally everyone will have desire (for certain Ministries), it cannot be made public...everyone can't get the portfolio they ask for.I will talk to him." Responding to a question on debutant ministers getting plum portfolios, Bommai said, it is with an intention to bring in new changes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
07-08-2021||India||Twitter explodes as Neeraj Chopra wins India its first Tokyo Olympics Gold||Congratulatory messages dropped in from everywhere as 23-year-old javelin star Neeraj Chopra scripted history by bringing India its first Gold medal in athletics to end India's 100-year wait for a track and field medal in the Olympics. A farmer's son from Khandra village near Panipat in Haryana, Neeraj produced a second round throw of 87.58m in the finals to stun the athletics world. Expressing happiness over the feat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted, "History has been scripted at Tokyo! What  @Neeraj_chopra1 has achieved today will be remembered forever. The young Neeraj has done exceptionally well. He played with remarkable passion and showed unparalleled grit. Congratulations to him for winning the Gold." President Ram Nath Kovind also joined in to extend his greetings to the star javelin thrower. "Unprecedented win by Neeraj Chopra!Your javelin gold breaks barriers and creates history. You bring home first ever track and field medal to India in your first Olympics. Your feat will inspire our youth. India is elated!   Heartiest congratulations," he wrote on Twitter. "What an incredible achievement! @Neeraj_chopra1 scripted history & brought glory to India by winning the Gold medal in the Javelin throw at Tokyo Olympics," Vice President Venkaiah Naidu tweeted from his handle. "His outstanding feat has ended a long wait by India for an Olympic medal in track & field events," he added. Sports minister Anurag Thakur said the "Golden Boy's" feat deserves a billion cheers. "India’s Golden Boy! India’s Olympic History has been scripted! Your superbly soaring throw deserves a Billion Cheers! Your name will be etched in the history books with golden letters," he wrote on Twitter and posted a video of the Games.    Law Minister Kiren Rijiju, who earlier handled the sports portfolio, remembered late sprinter Milkha Singh. With his fifth career best throw, Chopra has done what the likes of late Milkha Singh and P T Usha could not do in 1960 and 1984 editions. "Today is truly a momentous day for Indian athletics and for the country. Nothing is bigger than an Olympic medal, that too a gold. We have waited for long but finally achieved our goal," Athletics Federation of India President Adille Sumariwalla. "I hope Neeraj's gold will change the landscape and profile of athletics in the country and our standing in the world." No Indian has won a medal in athletics since the country started taking part in the Games in 1920 in Antwerp, Belgium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
07-08-2021||India||Delhi Police erect makeshift wall at Red Fort ahead of Independence Day||Delhi Police have erected a wall of shipping containers at the main gate of Red Fort for security reasons ahead of Independence Day celebrations, officials said on Saturday. The containers have been placed in such a way that no one is able to see inside the premises of the Mughal-era fort, from where the Prime Minister addresses the nation on Independence Day, a senior police officer said. Nobody would be able to peek inside the fort from the Chandani Chowk area. This is the first time that police have put up such a high wall, officials said, adding the containers would be decorated with graffiti. On Republic Day this year, a large number of protesters demanding the repeal of the three farm laws had forced their way into Red Fort. They even hoisted flags from the ramparts of the fort where the PM unfurls the Tricolour on Independence Day. On January 26, the national capital witnessed clashes between protesters and police during the tractor parade by farmers. A total of 394 police personnel were injured while 30 police vehicles were damaged in the violence. In July, Balaji Srivastava, the then Delhi Police Commissioner, had issued orders, prohibiting the flying of aerial objects like drones, paragliders, and hot air balloons. The order shall remain in force in the national capital for a period of 32 days till August 16. The Delhi Police has seized a drone that was flying near Vijay Ghat, the backside of the Red Fort. The Jaguar highway patrolling team of north district was patrolling in the area on Monday when it saw a drone near Vijay Ghat. A web series was being shot in the area, police said, adding permission was granted to shoot the show but no sanction was given to fly a drone. A case was registered in this regard under relevant sections at Kotwali police station and the device seized.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
07-08-2021||India||Johnson & Johnson single-dose vaccine gets India nod for emergency use||Johnson & Johnson's single-dose Covid-19 vaccine has been given Emergency Use approval in India, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Saturday. He said this will further boost the country's collective fight against the coronavirus infection. "India expands its vaccine basket! Johnson and Johnson's single-dose Covid-19 vaccine is given approval for Emergency Use in India. Now India has five EUA vaccines. This will further boost our nation's collective fight against #COVID19," the minister tweeted. "The US-based pharmaceutical company had applied for Emergency Use Authorisation for its jab on Friday and was granted the approval the same day by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI)," a senior official said. In a statement, Johnson & Johnson India said this was an important step forward in accelerating the availability of its Covid-19 vaccine to help end the pandemic. "We are pleased to announce that on 7th August 2021, the government of India issued Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) for the Johnson & Johnson Covid-19 single-dose vaccine in India, to prevent Covid-19 in individuals 18 years of age and older," a company spokesperson said. "This decision was based on topline efficacy and safety data from the Phase 3 ENSEMBLE clinical trial, which demonstrated our single-shot vaccine was 85 per cent effective in preventing severe disease across all regions studied, and showed protection against Covid-19-related hospitalisation and death, beginning 28 days after vaccination," the spokesperson added. The five vaccines granted Emergency Use Authorisation in India are Serum Institute's Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, Russia's Sputnik V, Moderna and now Johnson & Johnson (J&J). J&J earlier had sought approval to conduct phase-3 clinical trial of its vaccine on approximately 600 participants in two age groups---those aged 18 and below 60 years and those aged 60 years and above---to evaluate the safety, reactogenicity and immunogenicity of the jab in healthy Indian adults. However, on July 29, the firm withdrew its proposal. A health ministry official at a recent press conference had clarified that J&J earlier applied for conducting phase-3 clinical trial of its vaccine. "The application was to undertake clinical trial and when we issued relaxed guidelines in which we said if you had approval from other regulatory bodies of other countries, then exemption would be given from clinical trials, and emergency use authorisation would be granted and trial could be continued later on, so now since they did not need it they withdrew that application," the official had said. Novavax, produced by the Pune-based vaccine maker Serum Institute, is next in line to get the approval. Health experts who had expressed doubts over whether India could access the expected 1,350 million doses needed to vaccinate an estimated 943 million adults across India by December say the Novavax and J&J applications promise additional sources. “But how many doses of these vaccines will actually be available for domestic use remains unclear,” a public health expert said. In a bid to fast-track emergency approvals for all foreign-produced coronavirus jabs, the central government had announced that Covid-19 vaccines which were approved for restricted use by regulators in the US, UK, Europe and Japan, or which were on the World Health Organisation's Emergency Use Listing, would not have to conduct bridging clinical trials in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
07-08-2021||India||Maharashtra likely to resume local train services, says Uddhav||The Maharashtra government is planning to relax more Covid-19 curbs in the coming days but with utmost caution and will also take a call regarding the local train travel, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Saturday. Speaking at a function organised by the BEST (Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport) undertaking to induct more electric buses into its fleet, the chief minister also said he met with the representatives of hotels and restaurants, who demanded further relaxations in timings beyond 4 pm, and explained to them that the curbs will be eased step by step. "The Maharashtra government is going to grant more relaxations, but we are taking every step cautiously. A decision will be taken for local train passengers as well. We need to ensure that these relaxations do not trigger another wave of Covid-19," Thackeray said. The state government recently introduced several relaxations in 25 districts, which have reported a low Covid-19 positivity rate, by allowing all shops to remain open till 8 pm. The government also allowed the resumption of schools for certain classes in urban and rural areas from August 17 onwards. Currently, common people are not allowed to board Mumbai suburban trains which are being operated only for the people employed in essential sectors. Many quarters are demanding that common people, who are fully vaccinated against Covid-19, be allowed to board the local trains, called the lifeline of Mumbai. Maharashtra on Friday reported 5,539 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 187 deaths, which took its tally of infections to 63,41,759 and the toll to 1,33,717. The state is now left with 74,483 active cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-344
07-08-2021||India||Death toll in Madhya Pradesh flood rises to 24||The fatality count in rain-related incidents in flood-ravaged Gwalior and Chambal divisions of Madhya Pradesh increased to 24, officials said on Saturday. The authorities said that the flood situation is slowly improving and at present "no life-threatening" scenario exists in the region, where rescue and relief work is currently on. The death toll in the rain-related incidents in the flood-hit parts of the state has risen to 24. These fatalities were recorded between August 1 and 7, Revenue Secretary Gyaneshwar Patil said. Till Friday, officials pegged the number of deceased at 12. The flood situation in north Madhya Pradesh had turned grim earlier this week, where more than 1,250 villages were affected by the deluge following heavy rains. Gwalior, Shivpuri, Sheopur, Datia, Ashok Nagar, Guna, Bhind and Morena districts were affected as the region was being pounded by rains since Sunday. However, from Thursday, the intensity of rainfall in the two divisions started going down. "No life threatening situation due to flooding exists in Gwalior and Chambal divisions at present, Divisional Commissioner Ashish Saxena said. Addressing 'Anna Utsav' programme earlier in the day, state Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that 8,832 people were rescued from the flood-affected parts of the state, while 29,280 others have been shifted to safer places from these areas so far. Saxena said that around 50 people, who were stuck in flooded areas of Ashok Nagar district in Gwalior division, have been moved to safety. Teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and Indian Air Force (IAF) have reached Ashok Nagar for the rescue operation, he said, adding that Army columns are also scheduled to reach the affected areas. "The rescue operation in the affected areas is almost over and relief work is gathering steam," the official said. Meanwhile, P K Saha, senior meteorologist with the India Meteorological Department's (IMD) Bhopal office said that Ashok Nagar and Guna districts in Gwalior division received 32.0 mm and 164.1 mm rainfall, respectively, in 24 hours ending 8.30 am on Saturday. "The low pressure area is lying over northern parts of east Madhya Pradesh and its neighbourhood now. It was over central parts of north Madhya Pradesh and neighbourhood on Friday," he said. With its shift to east MP, the flood situation in Gwalior and Chambal is likely to improve as rain activity is likely to lessen from Saturday. In a series of tweets in the morning, the chief minister said, I took a stock of the flood situation and the ongoing rescue operation this morning in Guna, Ashoknagar, Vidisha districts. Rescue operation of IAF resumed this morning. The teams of SDRF and NDRF are also working since night to rescue the people trapped in villages. He said that during the rescue operations carried out using helicopters, 15 persons each were rescued from Barri and Sirsora villages of flood hit Ashok Nagar district on Saturday morning. Six more persons were rescued from Vasunia Ghat village from the same district and shifted to a safer place. From Vidisha district, the teams rescued six persons, who were trapped on a tree at Riniya village of Vidisha district, he said. Meanwhile, state Congress chief Kamal Nath visited the flood-affected people in the region on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
07-08-2021||India||Akali Dal leader shot dead in broad daylight at Punjab's Mohali||Youth Akali Dal leader Vicky Middukhera was shot dead in broad daylight in Punjab's Mohali on Saturday, police said. Two armed miscreants opened fire at Middukhera in a market area and fled the spot, Mohali Superintendent of Police (Headquarters) Akashdeep Singh Aulakh told PTI over phone. A case has been registered, and further investigations are underway, he said, adding that police are trying to identify the accused, four in total, and are hopeful of nabbing them soon. Footage from CCTV cameras in the area showed the miscreants open fire at Middukhera as he was getting into his parked car. The police said he had gone to meet a real estate dealer in the area. The miscreants, all wearing caps and face masks, can be seen chasing Middukhera and firing shots as he attempted to run for cover. The police said eight to nine rounds were fired, after which the miscreants escaped in a car. After the attack, Middukhera, who was a former president of the SAD's student wing, Student Organisation of India, was rushed to a nearby hospital, where he was declared brought dead, the police added. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) senior leader and party spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema said the incident has once again exposed the state's deteriorating law and order situation . No one feels safe because the law and order situation in Punjab has broken down, he said. Cheema said the incident also raises questions as there is heightened security across the state ahead of the Independence Day celebrations. This shows there is no fear of law as the incident took place in broad daylight, he said, and demanded a high-level probe. Cheema described Middukhera as a bright and talented youth leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
07-08-2021||India||Covid vaccination rapidly increasing in India,  13.45 crore doses administered in July||The coronavirus vaccine administration is rapidly increasing in the country every month, with a total of 13.45 crore doses administered in July which also saw a remarkable daily average of 43.41 lakh doses, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Saturday. The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed the 50 crore-mark on Friday. "India is going strong in the fight against #COVID19. Charting a path to #SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine, vaccine administration is rapidly increasing every month. July saw a remarkable daily average of 43.41 lakh doses and a total of 13.45 crore doses," Mandaviya tweeted. Meanwhile, Johnson & Johnson's single-dose Covid-19 vaccine got Emergency Use approval in India, Union Health Mandaviya said on the day. He said this will further boost the country's collective fight against the novel coronavirus infection. India now has five vaccines for emergency use. The five vaccines granted Emergency Use Authorisation in India are Serum Institute's Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, Russia's Sputnik V, Moderna and now Johnson & Johnson. In India, a total of 50,10,09,609 vaccine doses have been administered through 58,08,344 sessions, according to the provisional report till 7 am on Saturday. According to the health ministry, 49,55,138 vaccine doses were administered in the last 24 hours. The Union government is committed to accelerating the pace and expanding the scope of Covid-19 vaccination throughout the country, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
07-08-2021||India||Covaxin data under active review in Canada, says Ocugen||Ocugen, the US and Canada partner of Bharat Biotech for Covaxin, has said it has submitted all data to the Canadian government and it is under active review of the health regulator there. In June, Ocugen entered into an agreement with Bharat Biotech to develop, manufacture and commercialise the Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin in Canada in addition to the existing rights in the United States. Ocugen has already approached Health Canada and submitted the Phase 3 clinical trial data of Covaxin seeking authorization to sell the jab in that country. "We have submitted all the data, what is needed for the submission -- for Canadian submission. And again, on the specific timeline and the approval clock, we can't give you that at this stage,"Shankar Musunuri--Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Ocugen said on Friday in an Earnings call. "All I can say is it's under active review by Health Canada. As we get questions, we're ready to respond to them very promptly and provide any information they need," he said. Replying to a query he said Bharat Biotech is capable of supplying required quantities of Covaxin to USA and Canada as the Indian vaccine maker is ramping up production, targeting to produce more than half a billion doses per year. Ocugen in a release said discussions with the US Food and Drug Administration are underway, and the company is still proceeding with a strategy focused on the agencys requested Biologics License Application pathway. In a move that could potentially delay the launch of Covaxin in the US market, the FDA had earlier "recommended" Ocugen, to go for Biologics LicenseApplication (BLA) route with additional data, nixing hopes of emergency Use Authorisation for the jab. "We have most of the data from Phase III clinical trial, including all the manufacturing. We are still discussing the regulatory path for the BLA, what is required, if any, additional studies," Musunuri said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
07-08-2021||India||Over 2.29 crore Covid vaccines still available with states, UTs||More than 2.29 crore balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and union territories and private hospitals to be administered, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. Over 51.66 crore (51,66,13,680) vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far, through all sources and a further 55,52,070 doses are in the pipeline, it said. Of this, the total consumption, including wastages, is 49,74,90,815 doses (as per data available at am on Saturday), the ministry said. More than 2.29 crore (2,29,36,394) balance and unutilised COVID-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs and private hospitals to be administered, it said. The Union government is committed to accelerate the pace and expand the scope of COVID-19 vaccination throughout the country, the ministry said. The new phase of universalisation of COVID-19 vaccination had commenced on June 21. The vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and UTs for enabling better planning by them, and streamlining the vaccine supply chain, the ministry said. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the government of India has been supporting the states and UTs by providing them COVID-19 vaccines free of cost, it said. In the new phase of the universalisation of the COVID-19 vaccination drive, the Union government will procure and supply (free of cost) 75 percent of the vaccines being produced by the vaccine manufacturers in the country to states and UTs, according to the ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
07-08-2021||India||Modi: 80 crore Indians got free rations during pandemic||As many as 80 crore Indians got free ration during the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday. These include five crore people from Madhya Pradesh, Modi said, during a video interaction with Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana beneficiaries from the state. Describing the coronavirus pandemic as the biggest disaster faced by humanity in the last 100 years, Modi also said people should continue to wear masks, sanitize hands and maintain social distancing to check the spread of the virus. "India gave the first priority to the poor, in its strategy to combat the crisis due to coronavirus. Be it Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana or Pradhan Mantri Rozgar Yojana, we thought about food and employment of the poor from day one itself," he said. Stressing his government's vocal for local' initiative, Modi said Indians should buy handicraft items during the festival season to encourage those working in this sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
07-08-2021||India||Delhi receives rainfall, IMD predicts more over next few hours||Rains lashed parts of the national capital and adjoining states on Saturday morning, bringing the mercury down. The city recorded a minimum temperature of 27.3 degrees Celsius, normal for this time of the year, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said. It said thunderstorms with moderate to heavy intensity rainfall would occur over most places in Delhi, and Greater Noida, Noida, Ghaziabad, Khekra, Daurala, Barut, Meerut, Modinagar, Hapur, Khurza, Kasganj, Jattari, Narora, Raya, Nandgaon and Barsana of Uttar Pradesh during the next two hours. Taking to Twitter, the IMD predicted similar conditions for Bhiwani, Gurgaon, Manesar, Kosli, Gannaur, Gohana, Sonipat, Kaithal, Faridabad and Sohana of Haryana, and Bhiwari, Tizara, Nadbai, Nagar, Deeg and Laxmangarh of Rajasthan. Meanwhile, Delhi's relative humidity was recorded at 81 per cent, and the maximum temperature in the city is expected to settle around 35 degrees Celsius, it said. The air quality in the national capital was recorded in the "moderate" category. The air quality index (AQI) was 106 at 9.05 am, real-time data by the Central Pollution Control Board showed. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
07-08-2021||India||HC rejects pleas filed by Raj Kundra, aide, challenging their arrest, remand ||The Bombay High Court on Saturday rejected the pleas filed by businessman Raj Kundra and his associate Ryan Thorpe challenging their arrest and subsequent remand orders against them in a case of alleged production and streaming of pornographic content on apps. A single bench presided over by Justice A S Gadkari rejected their applications, saying that the duo's remand by a magistrate to police custody and the subsequent judicial custody was within the conformity of law and did not require interference. In their petitions, Kundra, husband of actor Shilpa Shetty, and Thorpe had termed their arrest as illegal as the mandatory provision of issuing notice under section 41A of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) was not followed. The duo, in their plea, sought the high court to order for their immediate release and quash two orders passed by a magistrate after their arrest remanding them in police custody. While Kundra was arrested on July 19, Thorpe, who was employed as the IT head in Kundra's firm, was arrested on July 20. They are currently in judicial custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
07-08-2021||India||Man dies after his Bluetooth headphones explode in Rajasthan||A 28-year-old man died when his Bluetooth headphone device exploded here, police said on Saturday. The incident occurred in Udaipuria village of Chomu town in Jaipur district on Friday when Rakesh Kumar Nagar was preparing for a competitive examination at his residence, they said. He was using the Bluetooth headphone device while it was plugged into an electrical outlet, police said. The device exploded all of a sudden leaving Nagar unconscious. He was rushed to a private hospital where he succumbed during treatment, they said, adding both his ears had suffered injuries. Dr L N Rundla of Siddhivinayak Hospital said the man was brought to the facility in an unconscious condition. He died during treatment at the hospital, Rundla said. The man probably died of cardiac arrest, he added. According to police, Rakesh was married in February this year and was the eldest of siblings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
07-08-2021||India||Bomb scare at 3 Mumbai railway stations, Amitabh Bachchan's bungalow||Three persons were arrested on Saturday after a hoax call claiming that bombs had been planted at three railway stations and actor Amitabh Bachchan's residence in the city led to hours-long futile searches, an official said. No suspicious material was found at any of the four locations, the police spokesperson said. Our main control room received the call around 9.45 pm on Friday. The caller claimed that bombs had been placed at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Byculla and Dadar railway stations and also at Amitabh Bachchan's bungalow in Juhu, the official said. "Teams of the Government Railway Police, Railway Protection Force, Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad, dog squads and local police personnel rushed to these locations and carried out searches," he said. Officials of the Anti Terrorism Squad and Quick Response Team were also involved in the searches, the official added. After several hours, it was confirmed that the call was a hoax. The police traced the caller from the mobile number to Shil Phata area in neighbouring Thane. The caller turned out to be a truck driver from the Marathwada region, the official said. Along with him, two other men, his drinking buddies, were also held. It is suspected that they were drinking together when the hoax call was made. A First Information Report was registered at the Azad Maidan police station under IPC sections 505(1) (circulating a rumor with an intent to cause alarm to public), 506(2) (criminal intimidation) and 182 (giving false information to public servant). Further investigation is going on, said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-345
07-08-2021||India||India logs over 38,000 fresh Covid cases, 617 casualties in a day||India saw a single-day rise of 38,628 new coronavirus cases, taking the infection tally to 3,18,95,385, while the death toll climbed to 4,27,371 with 617 fresh fatalities, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Saturday. The active cases have declined to 4,12,153 and comprise 1.29 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.37 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A decrease of 2,006 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 17,50,081 tests were conducted on Friday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 47,83,16,964, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.21 per cent . It has been less than 3 per cent for the last 12 days. Weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.39 per cent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,10, 55,861, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 50.10 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4 and 3 crore on June 23. India recorded a single-day rise of 38,628 new coronavirus cases, taking the infection tally to 3,18,95,385, while the death toll climbed to 4,27,371 with 617 fresh fatalities, the Union health ministry said on Saturday. The active cases in the country have declined to 4,12,153 and comprises 1.29 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.37 per cent, the ministry data updated at 8 am showed. A decrease of 2,006 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, it said. The ministry also said that 17,50,081 tests were conducted on Friday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 to 47,83,16,964. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.21 per cent. It has been less than 3 per cent for the last 12 days. Weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.39 per cent, according to the health ministry. Meanwhile, the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,10,55,861, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 50.10 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7 last, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4 and 3 crore on June 23 this year. According to the ministry data, the 617 latest fatalities include 187 each from Maharashtra and Kerala. A total of 4,27,371 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,33,717 from Maharashtra, 36,741 from Karnataka, 34,260 from Tamil Nadu, 25,065 from Delhi, 22,771 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,202 from West Bengal and 17,515 from Kerala. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
07-08-2021||India||India and China disengage troops in eastern Ladakh: Govt||Indian and Chinese troops have completed disengagement from one of the friction points known as Patrolling Point 17A, also called the Gogra Post, along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh, the Indian defence ministry said in a statement on Friday. Sources said the latest disengagement agreement was completed after creating a demilitarised “buffer zone” within India-claimed territory similar to the ones at the Pangong Lake and the Galwan Valley. The defence ministry statement, however, does not mention any buffer zone. This is the third stated disengagement along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh, after the Galwan Valley last year and Pangong Tso in February this year. The standoff at Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains continues. The Chinese are said to be entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines at the Depsang Plains. On Friday, the defence ministry said in a media release: “As per the agreement, both sides have ceased forward deployments in this area in a phased, coordinated and verified manner.” The defence ministry said: “The disengagement process was carried out over two days i.e. 04 and 05 August 2021. The troops of both sides are now in their respective permanent bases. “All temporary structures and other allied infrastructure created in the area by both sides have been dismantled and mutually verified. The landform in the area has been restored by both sides to pre-stand off period.” The defence ministry’s statement said the two sides, during the military talks on July 31, had a candid and in-depth exchange of views. “As an outcome of the meeting, both sides agreed on disengagement in the area of Gogra. The troops in this area have been in a face-off situation since May last year,” it added. A joint statement released by the defence ministry on Monday almost 44 hours after the 12th round of corps-commander-level had talks ended, did not say anything on the disengagement agreement reached between the two sides on Gogra. Military veterans had earlier questioned the government’s purported concessions in agreeing to create a buffer zone within India-claimed territory as part of the agreement with China to disengage troops from the Pangong Lake’s north and south banks and the Galwan Valley. They said the creation of buffer zones within India-claimed lines meant territory loss for the Indian Army. Indian and Chinese armies had been locked in standoff at PP17A since May last year. In August last year, the Chinese People’s Liberation Army had agreed to disengage from Gogra and Hot Springs (PP-15) but they later went back on their word. “This agreement ensures that the LAC in this area will be strictly observed and respected by both sides, and that there is no unilateral change in status quo,” said the India media statement. “With this, one more sensitive area of face-off has been resolved. Both sides have expressed commitment to take the talks forward and resolve the remaining issues along the LAC in the Western Sector.” The sources in the security establishment said under the disengagement agreement, both sides would return to their permanent base at the Gogra post. Neither side will patrol the buffer zone till all the modalities are worked out at operational and diplomatic levels. “Disengagement is a long-drawn process. Creating a buffer zone is a temporary measure to prevent any flare-up between the two sides as troops were earlier eyeball to eyeball,” said a retired lieutenant general. A retired colonel said the Chinese had stepped back a few kilometres while still remaining within India-claimed lines following partial disengagement from the Galwan Valley and the Pangong Lake and India retreated by the same distance and ceding more territory. “The government should come clean on the specifics of the disengagement agreement agreed upon by both sides,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
07-08-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi joins farmers’ protest at Jantar Mantar, iterates demand for repeal of three farm laws||An Opposition delegation led by Rahul Gandhi on Friday joined the farmers’ protest at Jantar Mantar in an expression of solidarity and iterated the demand for the repeal of the three controversial farm laws. This was the first time a joint Opposition team had visited the protesting farmers, who have through their eight-month-old agitation at Delhi’s borders scrupulously avoided seeking political support. Not allowed to speak from the protest platform, the Opposition members sat at the venue for some time, expressed support and returned. While the farmers are agitating at three places on Delhi’s borders, 200 of them are allowed to come to Jantar Mantar daily to hold a symbolic protest. “We came here to extend our support to the demand for the repeal of three black laws,” Rahul told the media after the visit. “You know what is happening in Parliament. We want to discuss Pegasus but the government is not allowing it. Modi has entered every Indian’s phone,” Rahul said. The Opposition has been demanding a debate in Parliament on the Pegasus snooping allegations, followed by a discussion on the farmers’ movement and issues such as the price rise. Rahul expressed his sentiments by tweeting a tweaked version of a Hindi poem. The tweeted version went: “Chulha mitti ka/ Mitti taalab ki/ Taalab hamare do ka/ Hal hamare do ka/ Hal ki mooth par hatheli kisan ki/ Fasal hamare do ki/ Kuaan hamare do ka/ Khet-khalihaan hamare do ke/ PM hamare do ke/ Phir kisan ka kya/ Kisan ke liye hum.” While the original poem portrayed how the farmer did all the work but the harvest, field, bullocks, plough, pond and well belonged to the “Thakur” or landowner, Rahul’s version replaced the Thakur with “hamare do”. Rahul has been taunting the government with the “hum do, hamare do” slogan, suggesting that the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah duopoly is serving solely the interests of Adani and Ambani. The agitating farmers too have targeted Adani and Ambani, saying the new farm laws have been enacted to favour the two corporate groups. They have boycotted Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Jio telecom service and cited the construction of massive silos in Punjab and Haryana as evidence of Adani’s foray into the agricultural trade. Rahul has repeatedly accused the Modi government of conspiring to hand over agriculture trade worth Rs 25 lakh crore to Adani and Ambani. Friday’s Jantar Mantar visit was a follow-up to two recent events: one, Rahul calling a meeting of all Opposition MPs and two, the former Congress president driving a tractor to Parliament to draw attention to the almost forgotten farmers’ movement. Inside Parliament, some Opposition members have tried to raise the farmers’ agitation amid the din only to have their microphones switched off. The farmers too have adopted innovative measures to attract attention. They are holding a mock Parliament at Jantar Mantar, where Friday’s agenda was a no-confidence motion against the Modi government. While the farmers have taken a public stand not to allow politicians to hijack the agitation, they feel the Opposition could have done more to put pressure on the government through an independent action plan. The Congress has supported the farmers from the beginning, with Rahul holding a tractor rally in Punjab, party MPs from Punjab sitting on a dharna at Jantar Mantar in Delhi, and party workers demonstrating in every state capital. Friday’s programme, however, also flagged the strains and conflicts within the Opposition. At a meeting of all the Opposition parties, the Aam Aadmi Party had already expressed inability to accompany the Congress to the farmers’ protest, implicitly pointing to the electoral compulsions in Punjab. The AAP is the main challenger to the Congress in Punjab, which goes to the polls early next year. Even Trinamul didn’t accompany the Opposition delegation to Jantar Mantar, triggering a few murmurs of disapproval. However, Trinamul sources blamed a communication gap and asserted their party was fully with the Opposition in the struggle against the Modi government. A Trinamul leader said the party had as far back as Tuesday decided a programme to visit the farmers’ protest at Jantar Mantar. “So we went today at 10am. We came to know about the Congress plan to go there at noon only after our MPs had already gone there,” the source said. The members of the delegation were from the Congress, DMK, Nationalist Congress Party, Shiv Sena, Rashtriya Janata Dal, Samajwadi Party, CPM, CPI, Indian Union Muslim League, RSP, National Conference and the Loktantrik Janata Dal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
07-08-2021||India||Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award will be called Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award: Prime Minister||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced on Twitter that the country’s highest sporting honour, the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award, “will hereby be called Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award” after the hockey legend. While many welcomed the renaming, several of them asked whether the Narendra Modi Stadium in Ahmedabad and the Arun Jaitley Stadium in Delhi would now be renamed after sportspersons too. Some questioned the way Modi’s image dominated a congratulatory graphic put out by the BJP with Dhyan Chand pushed to a corner. “Puzzle of the day: Find #MajorDhyanChand in the picture below,” a Twitter user posted. Social media influencer Dhruv Rathee, who lauded the renaming of the award, tweeted: “Now I hope they can rename Narendra Modi Stadium and Jaitley Stadium also. Remove all politician names.” While the renaming decision is in line with the Modi administration’s knack for erasing the names of Nehru-Gandhi family Prime Ministers from government showpieces, its timing appears to have been carefully chosen. The move comes a day after the Indian men’s hockey team won bronze at Tokyo — the country’s first Olympic hockey medal in 41 years — refocusing national spotlight on the game. Modi said the decision had come under public pressure. “I have been getting many requests from citizens across India to name the Khel Ratna Award after Major Dhyan Chand. I thank them for their views,” he tweeted in the afternoon, without naming Rajiv Gandhi. “Respecting their sentiment, the Khel Ratna Award will hereby be called Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award! Jai Hind!” Dhyan Chand (1905-79), known as the “wizard of hockey”, was part of India’s gold-winning teams at the 1928, 1932 and 1936 Olympics. Union ministers and BJP politicians rushed to laud the decision, with cricketer turned parliamentarian Gautam Gambhir telling reporters: “Awards for sportspersons should be named after sportspersons.” Fact-checking portal Boomlive reported that some ministers and news outlets shared the image of the Param Vir Chakra, the highest wartime gallantry award, as that of the Khel Ratna Award. Modi had come under fire when the world’s largest cricket stadium, in Gujarat, was renamed as the Narendra Modi Stadium last February after a refurbishment. The stadium was originally named after the country’s first home minister, Vallabhbhai Patel. The BJP had justified the renaming on the ground that the Modi stadium was only a part of the larger Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Sports Enclave. In 2019, Delhi’s Feroz Shah Kotla Stadium was renamed after the late Union minister Arun Jaitley, who had been Delhi cricket chief — a decision opposed by former sportspersons like Bishan Singh Bedi. With Friday’s government decision, the country now has two national sporting awards in Dhyan Chand’s name, the other being the Dhyan Chand Award for Lifetime Achievement in Sports and Games. The Khel Ratna is handed out for outstanding performance over the four years immediately preceding the award. The Congress said it welcomed any attempt to honour Dhyan Chand but advised the government not to use his name for petty “politicking” and suggested the renaming decision was a ploy to divert attention from the Pegasus snooping allegations and the farmers’ agitation. “Dhyan Chand was a magician of hockey.... We welcome any attempt to honour him, but Prime Minister Narendra Modi should not have used his name in politicking, to serve his petty political interests,” party communications chief Randeep Surjewala said. In June 2017, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor had questioned the Modi’s administration’s systematic renaming — mostly after Sangh parivar icons — of government schemes that bore the names of former Congress Prime Ministers. Tharoor had in a tweet listed 23 of the Modi government’s schemes and contended they were merely renamed versions of programmes launched by previous Congress or Congress-led governments. “Why we in @INCIndia insist this is a name-changing government, not a game-changing one!” Tharoor had said. For instance, the Rajiv Gandhi Vidyutikaran Yojana was renamed as Deen Dayal Upadhyay Gram Jyoti Yojana and the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission as Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
07-08-2021||India||Centre denies RTI activist official records relating to O2 management by govt panel during pandemic||The Centre on Friday denied a Right to Information (RTI) activist the official records relating to the management of medical oxygen by a government panel during the pandemic, saying no such panel had been set up in April 2020. In June this year, the government had denied Saurav Das the information sought by mentioning another reason. It had then cited sections of the RTI Act that allow officials to withhold information that could adversely affect India’s national interests. Das, the transparency activist and investigative journalist, had sought from the Union commerce ministry’s department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) the dates, agendas, presentations and the minutes of the meetings of an empowered group of officials tasked with managing medical oxygen. Das had mentioned in his query that the committee was set up in April 2020. The Centre had in March last year constituted an inter-ministerial empowered group, chaired by the DPIIT secretary Guruprasad Mohapatra and with officers from other ministries, to ensure the supply of essential medical equipment including medical oxygen to the states, according to the Union health ministry. “Whether it was set up in March or April 2020 is irrelevant. I’ve asked for its official records,” Das told The Telegraph. After the DPIIT denied Das the information in June, the Central Information Commission had on August 1 directed the Centre to release the information Das had sought within 10 days. The commission had said the DPIIT’s claims that information on Covid-19 preparations would threaten national security seemed “far-fetched” and “not justified”. Now the DPIIT has said the panel was not set up in April 2020. “No such committee was set up in the month of April 20, under the chairmanship of secretary DPIIT Guruprasad Mohapatra, to ensure adequate availability of medical oxygen in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic,” the DPIIT said on Friday. Hence, it said, the information Das had sought “does not arise”. “This appears like mala-fide denial of information,” said the Puducherry-based Das who had earlier been denied official records relating to other aspects of the Centre’s Covid-19 responses. “What they had earlier claimed they could not share on grounds of national interest, they now claim does not exist at all.” The Union health ministry had on April 15 this year listed measures taken by the empowered group, saying the empowered group had over the past year continuously monitored and facilitated the smooth supply of essential medical equipment, including medical oxygen, to the states. The ministry had added that the empowered group’s activities had helped increase oxygen production, utilise surplus stocks, map the requirements of top states with oxygen sources, and organise oxygen movement across states. The empowered group is “monitoring the situation of demand and supply of medical oxygen” to take all steps to support “uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen”, the health ministry had said. “Was all of that done with no official records at all? This is unbelievable,” Das said, after posting a series of tweets on the latest reply from the DPIIT. CPM leader Sitaram Yechury, responding to Das on Twitter, wrote: “This is indeed a ‘new India’. Never seen a govt that lies with such impunity. No data govt. Outright deception. Shamelessly following the precept ‘lies, damned lies and statistics’.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
07-08-2021||India||Two US Covid-19 vaccines seek India nod||India’s drug regulatory agency has received applications for emergency use authorisation for the Covid-19 vaccines from Novavax and Johnson & Johnson that are both licensed for domestic production and could bolster India’s chances of inoculating all adults by December 2021. Novavax and J&J, in independent announcements on Thursday and Friday, said they had sought emergency use authorisations (EUA) from India’s Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). The Novavax vaccine will be produced by the Pune-based vaccine maker Serum Institute and the J&J vaccine by the Hyderabad-based Biological E. The single-dose J&J vaccine had earlier this year received EUAs from regulatory authorities in the US and the European Union and other countries, which would make it eligible for a rapid and near-automatic approval in India. The Novavax application is expected to be scrutinizsd in greater detail by a CDSCO expert panel. The Union health ministry had not included the J&J and Novavax vaccines among Covid-19 jabs it had listed in an affidavit to the Supreme Court earlier this year, outlining its expected inventory of 1,350 million doses between August and December. The list had included Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V, and two other candidate vaccines — one from Zydus Cadila and another from Biological E — that are yet to be approved by the CDSCO. Health experts who had expressed doubts over whether India could access the expected 1,350 million doses needed to vaccinate an estimated 943 million adults across India by December say the Novavax and J&J applications promise additional sources. “But how many doses of these vaccines will actually be available for domestic use remains unclear,” a public health expert said. J&J’s application to the CDSCO made on Thursday is “an important milestone that paves the way to bringing our single-dose Covid-19 vaccine to the people of India and the rest of the world” through the collaboration with Biological E, J&J said on Friday. The EUA submission is based on data from a clinical trial that demonstrated the single-shot vaccine as 85 per cent effective in preventing severe disease and showed protection against Covid-19-linked hospitalisation and death beginning 28 days after vaccination. J&J declined to specify timelines for production in India or the number of doses that would be available for use for the country up to December 2021. Biological E would need to apply for a manufacturing licence after the CDSCO approves the EUA. The Novavax statement said the Serum Institute was manufacturing and developing the vaccine in India and the two companies had cumulative commitments to provide more than 1.1 billion doses to Covax, an international facility to make available vaccines to low- and middle-income countries. Clinical trials of the Novavax vaccine have shown around 90 per cent efficacy against Covid-19 infection and 100 per cent efficacy against moderate and severe disease, the company had said in mid-June. The Serum Institute and Novavax have submitted all modules required by regulatory agencies in India, Indonesia and the Philippines for the review of the vaccine, including pre-clinical, clinical and chemistry, manufacturing and controls data, Novavax said. The CDSCO had successfully completed a good manufacturing practice site inspection of Serum Institute this May. India had by Friday administered over 500 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines, with about 110 million people (11 per cent of the estimated 943 million eligible adults) having received the two doses required for full vaccination. The CDSCO had last month approved the Covid-19 vaccine from the US-based Moderna, but the company has not yet announced supplies in India yet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
07-08-2021||India||Pandemic and school closure cause regression in learning, affect mental health of children||The pandemic and prolonged school closure have caused regression in learning, affected the mental health of children and hurt their social and communication skills, a parliamentary committee has said. The parliamentary standing committee on education in its report on “Plans for Bridging the Learning Gaps” presented in Parliament on Friday recommended prioritising vaccination for students, teachers and other employees to reopen schools. The committee headed by BJP parliamentarian Vinay Sahasrabuddhe also said that the pandemic has widened the learning chasm, affecting the weaker sections the most. Appearing before the committee, the school education department secretary said according to a survey by the Central Board of School Education (CBSE), 85 per cent children are studying online while the rest are being reached personally. These 15 per cent students are receiving study materials from their teachers and can contact the teachers if they face difficulties. The CBSE is the country’s largest school board. “The last-minute postponement of examinations coupled with the news appearing in newspapers and the media about the pandemic has affected the mental and physical well-being of the children,” the report said. Learning among peers not only addresses the academic needs of children but also helps develop their social abilities, it said. “The closure of schools has impacted the social fabric of the family in a negative manner, leading to early/child marriage and increased involvement of children in household chores,” the report said. The representative of the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir told the committee that children in many places in the Valley were not being able to participate in online classes because of feeble Internet connectivity. Community classes with small groups of students are being held in some places. Learning loss The committee cited a January 2021 study by a research group of Azim Premji University in 44 districts of Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand, covering 16,067 children of Classes II to VI at 1,137 schools. The study found that 92 per cent of the children had decreased prowess in at least one language and 82 per cent had forgotten at least one mathematical lesson from the previous class. It recorded a “widespread phenomenon of regression (forgetting) by students of learning from the previous class. This includes loss of foundational learning abilities such as reading with understanding and performing addition and multiplication, which they had learnt earlier and had become proficient in”. This regression will impact “conceptual understanding across subjects” and affect future learning in school and college, the report said. Another study by the department of school education at the Kendriya Vidyalayas found that 26.4 per cent students, 15.7 per cent teachers and 25 per cent parents considered distance learning difficult while 33.8 per cent students, 29.6 per cent teachers and 27.2 per cent parents found the experience joyful. The committee said non-availability of digital devices and technical infrastructure with students, teachers and schools, patchy Internet, power outages, limited awareness on online education and lack of adaptation had contributed to learning loss among students. Recommendations The committee recommended intensive bridge courses to make up for the learning loss when schools reopen. It also suggested a credible system of continuous assessment throughout the year. The committee recommended accentuated vaccine programmes for all students, teachers and allied staff so that schools may start functioning normally at the earliest. It suggested holding classes on alternate days or in two shifts to thin out students, besides thermal screening, maintaining physical distancing and compulsory wearing of face masks. The committee proposed that the government set up at least one school in every district and tehsil, and adopt a learning method that blends online and offline. Prof. Anita Rampal, former dean of the faculty of education of Delhi University, said girls had been badly affected, with many of them possibly dropping out of the education system. They will become more vulnerable to the regressive demands of patriarchy and often lose their ability to resist early marriage or other unjust burdens, she said. “When girls go to school, they get confidence. They get to understand the world outside, to feel inspired by others, to resist early marriage and even domestic violence. Their friends offer social support and reassurance in their resistance,” Rampal said. “Thus going to school enhances their agency against unjust treatment and expands their horizon to aspire for a purpose in life, which they are often denied. They will lose these aspirations when they drop out. Due to Covid and school closure, many children have suffered physically and emotionally. All such children should be identified with special care, given emotional support and brought back into formal education,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
07-08-2021||India||I urge govt to talk to Opposition: Adhir Chowdhury||The Opposition on Friday warned the government in the Lok Sabha to shun the “intoxication of power” and demanded talks to break the parliamentary deadlock. The government replied by urging the Opposition to allow discussion in the House on Covid management, ignoring the demand for discussing the Pegasus snooping charges first. “I urge the government to talk to the Opposition,” Congress House leader Adhir Chowdhury said during Zero Hour, when Lok Sabha members can raise issues they want to with the presiding officer’s permission. “I want to warn the government that intoxication of power is not good...” Adhir succeeded in adding over the din before his mike was muted. The senior and junior parliamentary affairs ministers, Pralhad Joshi and Arjun Ram Meghwal, had kept interrupting Adhir, accusing the Opposition of obstructing Parliament. Afterwards, the ministers reacted angrily to Adhir’s remarks. “The government is not preventing discussion. Covid management is listed for discussion as asked by the Opposition,” Joshi said. Through the three-week-old monsoon session, the Opposition has pressed relentlessly for a discussion on the Pegasus controversy first and then other important issues such as Covid, the new farm laws and the price rise. The government has rejected the proposal, calling Pegasus a “non-issue”. The Centre appears unperturbed by the stalemate because it has managed to pass the listed bills over the din by voice vote. On Friday too, the government passed two bills in the Lok Sabha: the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill and the Central Universities (Amendment) Bill. Using the opportunity to speak on the two bills, Adhir tried to flag the Opposition’s position but each time his mike was switched off after he had spoken a line or two. The presiding officer said Adhir should restrict himself to speaking on the bills. “With all humility, must say the NDA government has passed this bill at the behest of the Supreme Court and due to international case. The same Supreme Court has yesterday...” Adhir managed to say while the taxation bill was being passed before his mike was muted. Adhir was arguing that the Supreme Court’s observations on Thursday — that the Pegasus snooping allegations, if true, were “serious” and that the “truth has to come out” — should prompt the government to order a probe. He was also making the point that the bill amending the tax law was being passed because of an apex court verdict against retrospective tax. Adhir tried to speak a third time, when the varsities bill was being passed, saying the new farm laws should be repealed. He was muted again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
07-08-2021||India||Allahabad High Court slams UP police’s ‘falling standard’||Allahabad High Court has castigated Uttar Pradesh police for “falling standard” over a “careless” affidavit filed by a senior officer in a case relating to an FIR against a journalist. Freelance journalist Vineet Narain and two others had been booked under 14 penal code sections on June 20 after Narain wrote a social media post accusing a brother of a senior VHP leader of land-grabbing in Bijnore. The June 19 post said Sanjay Bansal, brother of VHP vice-president and Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust general secretary Champat Rai, had grabbed 20,000sqm from a cowshed run by social worker Alka Lahoti. Bansal complained to the police, dubbing the social media post a “conspiracy” and “a lie”. The police gave a clean chit to Bansal and booked Narain, Lahoti and Rajnish — a friend of the journalist who had allegedly visited the cowshed with him — for offences such as creating hatred on the basis of religion, cooking evidence, cheating and trespassing. While hearing Narain’s petition seeking quashing of the case on July 28, the bench of Justices Surya Prakash Kesarwani and Piyush Agrawal issued a notice to Bijnore SP Dharmveer Singh, asking him to file an affidavit saying whether the charges against Narain were justifiable. On reading the affidavit, the bench said on Thursday: “A notarised affidavit of superintendent of police, respondent No. 2, alleging it to be a counter affidavit, without disclosing even name of the deponent (SP) and without any swearing clause, in a most careless manner, has been filed today, which, prima facie, indicates falling standard in police department, particularly amongst its higher officers.” It added: “The conduct of respondent No. 2 is, prima facie, condemnable.” The observations were uploaded on the high court website on Friday. The hearing will continue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
07-08-2021||India||CBI not helping targeted judges, says CJI Ramana||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Friday expressed disapproval of a “new trend” of judges being attacked or threatened, regretted that the CBI and other law-enforcement agencies were “not helping the judiciary at all” and reminded the government of its responsibility of protecting judges. “It’s a new trend in this country, unfortunately. There’s no freedom for judges to complain. Even though judges complain to police or the CBI, they don’t respond. The IB, the CBI aren’t helping the judiciary at all. I’m making this statement with a sense of responsibility,” CJI Ramana, sitting in a bench with Justice Surya Kant, told the attorney-general, the highest law officer of the land. “It’s a new trend in this country. If an adverse order is passed, then the judiciary is maligned. Even though judges complain, the CBI, the IB and other officers don’t help the judiciary at all,” Justice Ramana added. The CJI told attorney-general K.K. Venugopal that the Centre and the states had the responsibility of providing security to judges, who have been facing constant threats from gangsters and influential persons for adverse orders passed against them. The Supreme Court was dealing with the suo motu case of the death of Jharkhand additional district judge Uttam Anand at Dhanbad on July 28. Judge Anand’s family has lodged a murder FIR after video footage showed an auto-rickshaw swerving sharply from the middle of the lane and hitting him while he was on a morning walk. The judge had denied bail to two gangsters days earlier. The Supreme Court last week took suo motu cognisance of the case as it “concerns the larger issue of safety and security of judicial officers in the country”. The CBI has taken over the probe into Judge Anand’s death. As soon as the proceedings began on Friday, CJI Ramana told attorney-general Venugopal: “We sought your assistance in the matter, the way incidents are happening in this country, attacks on judges of trial courts and high courts. “There are several cases in the country which involve gangsters and where high-profile people are accused. Some judges are threatened mentally also (through) messages on WhatsApp and SMSes. Complaints were made but the CBI has done nothing. No change in the CBI’s attitude, sorry to observe.” Venugopal agreed with Justice Ramana’s observation that judges were now among the most vulnerable of people and officials who were facing threats. Justice Ramana told Venugopal: “At one or two places, courts ordered CBI inquiries. It is sad to say the CBI has done nothing. We had expected some change in the CBI’s attitude (but) there has been no change. We are sorry to observe that.” Venugopal agreed with the court that there have been instances of judges hearing cases involving gangsters and high-profile people having received threat calls with the caller saying he knew which car the judge was in. CJI Ramana told the attorney-general that an application had been filed by some petitioners alleging that anti-social elements were entering courts in several states and seeking security measures to ensure that judges could work independently. The apex court asked the Centre, states and the Union Territories to file counter-affidavits on the steps being taken to protect judges from goons and criminals. The bench was not satisfied with the submission of Rajiv Ranjan, the advocate-general of Jharkhand, mentioning that the state had transfer the case of judge Anand to the CBI. “So you washed your hands off (the case)?” Justice Ramana said. The court directed the CBI to file a status report on the investigation. Vacancy rap The Supreme Court pulled up the Centre for failing to fill 241 vacancies in various tribunals and told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta that it would summon the officials concerned for not making appointments despite the names being cleared. “You want to continue the tribunals or close them down?” CJI Ramana, sitting on a bench with Justice Surya Kant, asked Mehta. The court was dealing with a petition seeking filling up vacant posts of chairpersons and members of various organisations such as the Debt Recovery Tribunal, Debt Recovery Appellate Tribunal, Armed Forces Tribunal, National Company Law Tribunal, National Company Law Appellate Tribunal, Income Tax Tribunal and the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal. The names of chairpersons and members of these tribunals are recommended by the CJI or another senior judge of the Supreme Court. The court noted that recommendations for filling the posts had been made, some of them more than a year ago. “The impression we are getting is that the bureaucracy does not want the tribunals. You have also changed the qualifications and tenures. This is unending,” the bench told the solicitor-general. “You cannot in this manner make the tribunals defunct. If you don’t want the tribunals, we will restore the jurisdiction of the high courts. We cannot keep people without remedy. If you want it to continue, then fill the vacancies,” Justice Ramana told the Centre. There has been friction between the judiciary and the Centre since 2014, when the Narendra Modi government came to power. On April 20 this year, the Supreme Court issued directions to the Centre for expediting the appointment of judges, besides exercising its extraordinary powers to permit selection of retired judges as ad hoc judges of high courts to clear the massive backlog of 57 lakh cases. The apex court had taken suo motu cognisance of the 40 per cent vacancies in high courts across the country. Against the sanctioned strength of 1,080 high court judges, there are presently 664.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-346
07-08-2021||India||Karnataka builds mud wall as Kerala sees surge in Covid cases||The Karnataka government has barricaded all roads bordering Kerala by dumping mud in a repeat of what it did last year as part of its controversial effort to stop a spike in Covid cases. The decision to limit entry from Kerala to only those with recent RT-PCR negative certificates, has already witnessed protests on the Kerala side of the inter-state border. Kerala has reported a sharp rise in Covid cases, counting over 20,000 daily cases for a week and making up half the country’s caseload. On Thursday night, the Dakshina Kannada administration blocked with mud all roads, even those in villages, that serve as links with Kerala, replicating a preventive measure it had taken during the first wave in February 2020. More than 20 critically ill non-Covid patients from Kerala had died during that time since Karnataka refused entry to even ambulances ferrying them to Mangalore hospitals. Many north Kerala residents, especially from the sprawling Kasaragod district, travel to Mangalore for better medical treatment. People on both sides have close family connections too. The main trigger for the latest roadblocks in violation of court orders is the surge in Covid cases in Kerala. Karnataka, on the other hand, has been reporting less than 2,000 cases a day. All non-BJP political parties in Kerala have staged protests and taken retaliatory action by stopping vehicles from Karnataka trying to cross the border via the national highway in Thalapady, Dakshina Kannada, over the past few days. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday told the Assembly that the restrictions imposed by neighbouring Karnataka was in violation of the Union government’s guidelines that clearly say that inter-state movements should not be stopped. He made the statement in response to a submission by Kasaragod MLA A.K.M. Ashraf who highlighted how interconnected the two states were. “Half of the birth and death certificates of residents of my constituency are issued in Mangalore,” Ashraf said, highlighting the dependency of bordering regions of Kerala on Mangalore. Kasaragod district CPM committee member K.R. Jayananda, who has been spearheading a campaign against the roadblocks, termed the action by Karnataka a violation of court orders. “This is against a Kerala High Court directive and hence an act of contempt. We are going to file a fresh petition on Monday since Karnataka has either dumped mud or barricaded all the 24 roads that connect Kasaragod district to Dakshina Kannada,” Jayananda told The Telegraph on Friday. The Kerala government had moved the high court last year against Karnataka’s decision to block roads. The court had termed the roadblocks illegal. Jayananda also questioned the Karnataka government’s decision to restrict entry to only those with RT-PCR negative certificate not older than seven days. “Two doses of vaccines are enough to travel abroad. But Karnataka, which is a state in our country, requires an RT-PCR report. What kind of logic is this?” he asked. Jayananda noted that more than 90 per cent of the residents of Kasaragod villages depend on Mangalore for various needs. “We have families in Mangalore (the headquarters of Dakshina Kannada district) and our children pursue higher education there,” he said. A Dakshina Kannada district administration official justified the move to barricade roads. “We don’t want to take any chance by allowing people from Kerala since the test positivity rate is over 13 per cent there. But we have no issues in letting in people who meet the conditions,” said the official who declined to be named. According to him, a large number of people from Kasaragod have been entering Dakshina Kannada through mud roads, which is why even they have been blocked. “What else can we do? We have orders to ensure cases do not spike in our district,” the official said. Dakshina Kannada has been recording over 300 daily Covid cases over the past couple of weeks, up from around 100 prior to that. This is being seen as a failure to keep a tab on people entering from Kerala. The Karnataka government has officially not issued a clarification since it has been busy forming the council of ministers after Basavaraj Bommai took over as chief minister from B.S. Yediyurappa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
07-08-2021||India||Centre for Public Interest Litigation moves Supreme Court challenging appointment of Rakesh Asthana ||An NGO, Centre for Public Interest Litigation, on Friday moved the Supreme Court challenging the appointment of IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as the police commissioner of Delhi just four days before his retirement in alleged violation of the apex court directions and various central government rules. In its petition filed through advocate Prashant Bhushan, the NGO has sought quashing of the Centre’s July 27 order appointing Asthana, who was to retire on July 31, as the Delhi police commissioner by shifting him from the Gujarat to the AGMUT (Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram and Union Territory) cadre. The NGO has further sought a directive to the Centre to initiate steps to appoint a new Delhi police commissioner, in accordance with the directions issued by the court in the Prakash Singh vs Union of India case, under which no officer with less than six months of service left can be appointed a director-general of police. The Delhi police commissioner’s rank is equivalent to that of a DGP. The NGO has submitted that the order is illegal for the following reasons: ⚫ Violation of the directions issued by the apex court in the Prakash Singh case. ⚫ Violation of Fundamental Rule 56(d), which stipulates that “no Government servant shall be granted extension in service beyond the age of retirement of sixty years”. ⚫ The Centre did not have the power under Rule 3 of All India Services (Conditions of Service-Residuary Matters) Rules, 1960, to relax Rule 16(1) of the All India Services (Death-Cum-Retirement Benefits) Rules, 1958, to give extension of service to Asthana. ⚫ Violation of policy on inter-cadre deputation of All India Services officers as prescribed under the department of personnel and training’s office memorandum dated 08.11.2004. ⚫ No UPSC panel was formed for appointment of the Delhi police commissioner; and the criteria of a minimum tenure of two years was ignored. This is the second petition challenging Asthana’s appointment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
07-08-2021||India||Bihar govt asks officials to respect MPs and MLAs||The Bihar government has instructed its officers to show respect towards public representatives after several legislators and even MPs complained that they were being allegedly treated badly by officials. Bihar chief secretary Tripurari Sharan has written to all IAS and IPS officers pointing out that MPs, MLAs and MLCs bear an important place in the democratic system as representatives of the people and therefore, proper respect should be shown while dealing with them. Several legislators and even MPs, belonging to the Opposition and the ruling parties, have been complaining about the alleged lack of respect and proper behaviour shown by the government officers when they went to meet them for work related to their constituencies or voters. Many of them had claimed that they were either made to wait for a long time by the officers or were not even offered a chair to sit while visiting the offices. The applications and requests for various work were also not entertained. Sharan has referred to the various rules formulated by different departments and the Lok Sabha with regard to the procedure that needs to be adopted if the public representatives approach the officers with regard to government-related work. “Violation of the directives shall be taken seriously. Their implementation should be reviewed in a time-bound manner,” the chief secretary said. The chief secretary has also instructed the officers to show full respect to the public representatives, listen to them properly, receive and see them off during their visits, and invite them to government functions. The matter came to a head recently when animal husbandry and fisheries resources minister Madan Sahni threatened to resign after alleging that the officers in his department were not listening to him. Though Sahni, the  Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP) chief, relented afterwards, several other legislators from the ruling NDA came out in his support. They too alleged disrespect by top administrative officials in their day-to-day dealings. The issue was raised at an NDA meeting last month. All these allegations left the Nitish Kumar-led government in an awkward situation. However, Rashtriya Janata Dal MLA and spokesperson Bhai Virendra termed the letter by the chief secretary an “eyewash”. “There is no democracy, just bureaucracy in the rule of chief minister Nitish Kumar. Officers are constantly insulting the legislators belonging to the ruling and Opposition parties because they have no fear of any reprimand or punishment. On the other hand, Nitish keeps getting such instructions issued from time to time without any impact on the situation. These are just eyewash,” Virendra told The Telegraph. Virendra said he also served as the chairman of the heritage committee of the Legislative Assembly, but principal secretaries of various departments would never come to the meetings when called and asked to attend. “The principal secretaries of different departments would always make excuse that they were in the high court. It needs to be checked that if they are always in the court then what work are they doing,” he said. A legislator belonging to Nitish’s Janata Dal United (JDU) said on the condition of anonymity that such a situation has happened because the chief minister reposed blind faith in the bureaucrats and neglected the public representatives belonging to even his own party. “Years ago public representatives kept tab on the actions of government officers and would report to the ministers or the chief minister. Nitish Kumar did away with this system and gave a free hand to the bureaucrats, who now behave in an unchecked and untamed manner. This has eroded our authority. If we cannot get genuine grievances of our voters resolved, why would they vote for us?” the JDU legislator told this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
07-08-2021||Jharkhand||Chhattisgarh receives 10 national awards for excellent performance in procurement of forest products ||Chhattisgarh on Friday received 10 national awards for excellent performance in procurement, processing and marketing of forest products and also for new products and innovations. The state topped in eight categories in procurement, processing and marketing of minor forest products and implementation of the Van Dhan Yojana and was conferred two awards for new products and innovations by the Tribal Cooperative Marketing Federation of India. Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda presented the awards to Chhattisgarh during a virtual function in New Delhi organised on the 34th foundation day of the federation. Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel congratulated forest minister Mohammad Akbar and all the officials and employees of forest department as well as the self-help groups engaged in collection and processing of forest produces for the achievement. Baghel said that Chhattisgarh has set a new record by purchasing maximum forest produce in the country. “The procurement of minor forest produce from tribals at maximum support price has played an important role in providing employment to tribals and forest dwellers and improving their economic condition during the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. The Chhattisgarh State Minor Forest Produce Association is engaged in collection of forest produces. Chhattisgarh bagged the first positions for inclusion of maximum number of forest products under the minimum support price scheme for minor forest produce in 2020-21, for procurement of minor forest produce at the highest price using state as well as central government funds, maximum utilisation of the funds sanctioned in 2020-21, completion of maximum survey under the Van Dhan Yojana, for maximum training for forest development centre clusters, for manufacturing maximum products through value addition and for maximum sale of products after value addition. Under the “new product and innovation” category, Chhattisgarh was awarded for the innovative manufacturing of sanitiser from mahua tree and for producing new products from tamarind. Fifty-two types of minor forest produces have been included under the MSP scheme of Chhattisgarh, followed by Maharashtra, which has 21 products included under its scheme. Chhattisgarh procured minor forest produce at maximum value worth Rs 180.51 crore utilising central funds, followed by Andhra Pradesh, which came second by procuring products worth Rs 4.51 crore. Similarly, for procurement of minor forest produce from central and state government funds, Chhattisgarh bagged top spot by buying products worth Rs 1,173 crore, while Odisha stood second by procuring produces worth Rs 30.32 crore. In the category of maximum utilisation of funds in 2020-21, Chhattisgarh had utilised Rs 127.09 crore and second place Odisha Rs 30.32 crore. For completing the maximum survey under the Van Dhan Yojana, Chhattisgarh bagged the first place followed by Nagaland. In the category of providing maximum training to Van Dhan Vikas Kendra clusters, Chhattisgarh got the first place, followed by Nagaland. In the category of manufacturing maximum products through value addition, Chhattisgarh got top spot for manufacturing 121 products while Maharashtra came second with 120 products. Similarly, under the category of maximum sale of products after value addition, Chhattisgarh got top spot for selling products worth Rs 4.24 crore and Manipur came second with sale of products worth Rs 1.98 crore. Under the category of new products and innovations, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra were jointly awarded for production of sanitisers from mahua. Besides, Chhattisgarh was awarded for the innovative product called Tamarind Chaska. Around 44 per cent of the area in Chhattisgarh is covered by forests and the major source of livelihood for the forest dwellers is the collection of forest produce. More than six lakh forest produce collectors have benefited from the minimum support price scheme of the state government which buys 52 minor forest produces instead of the earlier seven. For the last two years, Chhattisgarh has maintained the top rank among states in procurement of forest produce. The forest produces are being procured through 4,785 women self-help groups in the state. More than 13 lakh poor and tribal people engaged in minor forest produce collection are earning an additional income of Rs 501.70 crore per annum, sources said. As many as 139 Van Dhan Vikas Kendras have been established in the state for primary processing of minor forest produce and nearly 17,424 beneficiaries are getting the benefit, they said. Around 70 Van Dhan Vikas Kendra are engaged in processing minor forest produce as herbal products and these products are being sold under Chhattisgarh Herbals on e-commerce platforms like Amazon. Chhattisgarh Herbals, which was established as a nationwide brand in 2021-22, has set a target to sell products worth Rs 10 crore in 2021-22, officials said. The sale will benefit about 5,000 members of women self-help groups engaged in the processing work, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
07-08-2021||India||Tokyo Olympics: Naveen Patnaik congratulates women’s hockey team for putting up a good show ||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday talked to Indian women’s hockey team that lost to Great Britain putting an end to the country’s bronze medal hope in the event. A great lover and patron of the game Naveen praised the efforts of the team and congratulated it for putting up a good show. He said the team might have lost the game but it won hearts. He assured full support to the team in future. “Ladkeine apne bahut mehnat kiya…. Bahut accha khela tha. Apne game haare geya par hammara dil jeet liya. Appa sabko badhai hoo kyunki apne eekdam mehnat kiyee. Aap 17th ko a rahein hain, phir milenga. Badhai detaa hu. (Girls you worked really hard. You played well and lost. But you won our hearts. Congratulations to all of you as you worked hard. All of you are coming on August 17. We will meet then. Congratulation to all of you,” Naveen said while speaking to the team during a video-aided interaction from his residence in Bhubaneswar. Later Naveen tweeted, “Congratulation Indian Women’s Hockey Team for putting up a brave fight against Great Britain at Tokyo 2020 Olympics. Keep your fighting spirit up and keep inspiring. Wish you all the very best for future.” Speaking on behalf of the team its captain Rani Rampal said that the players were grateful to the chief minister and the Odisha government for their support to Indian hockey. “Odisha government has helped us a lot in this journey. Odisha has turned into a sports hub- so many international games you have hosted…. Odisha government is sponsoring our team… you have a great role in this journey of ours. You have encouraged and motivated the team,” said Rampal. Odisha is the official sponsor of both the men’s and women’s team, the five-year sponsorship contract having been signed in 2018. Odisha is planning a grand welcome for the women’s hockey team when the players arrive here on August 17, said official sources. Dilip Tirkey, former Indian hockey team captain, also turned emotional. “The women’s hockey team put up an excellent show in all the matches at the Tokyo Olympics. They also played well today. There was a lot of improvement in their game but we missed some open field goals today. It was heartbreak for the team as a yellow and a green card shown by the referee in the second half meant India played at least for seven minutes with only 10 players. That gave Great Britain an edge. The most heartbreaking was the sight of  women players breaking down on the ground with disappointment writ large on their faces,” said Dilip. The budding hockey players watching the game at the Kalinga Stadium here were also crestfallen and so were the coaches. Lucela Ekka, who had coached Deep Grace Ekka, the Odia player in the Indian team, appeared to be lost for words. “There is an emotional bonding between players and coaches. Deep Grace was under my tutelage for five years from 2007 to 2012. At that time, she was only 13. I considered her as my daughter. I haven’t had a sip of water after India women lost today’s game. Luck did not favour us,” said Ekka. Ekka, who played hockey at the national level in the 1990s, said: “I was unable before the match as everyone was tense. We desperately wanted India to win a medal but luck was not in our favour today. I can imagine the state of mind of the players. Such opportunities don’t come again and again. I am thinking of sending a WhatsApp message to Deep Grace advising her not to lose heart.” “We were almost certain that India will win. They played well in the first half but lost the momentum later on. It’s a game and it has to be decided within the allotted time. But we are proud that our team played well,” said one of the inmates of the Kalinga Stadium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-347
