08-08-2021||India||Delhi implements Covid curbs and relaxations under GRAP stipulation||Restrictions or relaxations for any activity in Delhi in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic will from now on be implemented as stipulated by the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP), said the Delhi Disaster Management Authority in an order on Sunday.  It directed all district administrations that GRAP recommendations shall be implemented with immediate effect. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) will send daily alerts to all districts under a colour-coded system mentioned in the GRAP to help them take decisions.  GRAP was approved by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on July 9.  The Graded Response Action Plan takes into account three parameters -- positivity rate, cumulative new positive cases and average oxygenated bed occupancy in Delhi. Following a detailed analysis of these parameters, four colour-coded levels of alert -- yellow, amber, orange and red -- and their criteria have been recommended in the plan.  "Permitted/prohibited/restricted activities shall be as per the level of alerts specified in the Graded Response Action Plan with immediate effect and till further orders.  "As soon as any parameter (out of three) reaches the specified level of alert, 'the order of alert' shall be issued and permitted/prohibited/restricted activities prescribed at such level shall become operational automatically," the DDMA order said.  Once GRAP is activated, the additional chief secretary (health) will issue daily morning and evening bulletin regarding the level of alert. Appropriate orders would be issued separately as and when the situation warrants for imposing restrictions in respect of inter-state travel, it added.  The 'yellow' (level-1) alert will be sounded when the positivity rate crosses 0.5 per cent for two consecutive days or daily new cases increase to 1,500 or oxygenated bed occupancy reaches 500.  The next level of alert coded with amber colour (level-2) will come into force if the positivity rate rises above one per cent or new cases number 3,500 or oxygenated bed occupancy reaching 700.  The 'Orange' or level-3 alert will be the next stage which will kick in if the positivity rate crosses two per cent or new cases number 9,000 or oxygenated bed occupancy becomes 1,000.  While the 'red' alert, which is of the highest level will come into force if the positivity rate crosses five per cent or new cases rise to 16,000 or oxygenated bed occupancy reaches 3,000.  The DDMA directed all district magistrates, civic officials, DCPs and other authorities to "extensively disseminate" information regarding alerts for proper compliance and execution of the GRAP.  "All district magistrates shall interact and have a dialogue with resident welfare associations, market associations, mall associations, bar associations and other such bodies in their districts to circulate information in this regard.  "Principal secretary (education) and secretary (higher education) shall ensure that the guidelines regarding level of alerts are disseminated among students," the order stated.  It said all authorities concerned such as district magistrates, DCPs, zonal deputy commissioners of municipalities among others shall take necessary actions to ensure compliance of the GRAP in their areas.  The DDMA said it may make modifications in respect of GRAP or any other activities according to the situation assessed from time to time to meet exigencies in the interest of management of the COVID-19 situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
08-08-2021||India||Maharashtra reports 45 cases of delta plus variant so far: Govt||A total of 45 cases of the Delta plus variant of coronavirus have been reported in Maharashtra during genome sequencing, the state health department said on Sunday, adding one patient had died.  At 13, the maximum number of these patients hailed from Jalgaon in north Maharashtra followed by Ratnagiri (11) in the coastal Konkan region.  "80 per cent of the samples sent for genome sequencing had tested positive for the Delta Plus variant (of coronavirus). The 45 patients are from Jalgaon (13), Ratnagiri (11), Mumbai (6), Thane (5), Pune (3), and one each from Palghar, Sindhudurg, Sangli. Nandurbar, Aurangabad, Kolhapur, and Beed," the department said in a statement.  Of these 45 samples, information about 35 patients have been taken by the health department. One death was reported while the rest of the patients reported mild to medium type symptoms, it said.  The exact number of samples sent for genome sequencing and the period during which they were analysed is not mentioned.  Union Minister of State for Health Bharati Pawar informed Lok Sabha in a written reply on Friday that analysis of the genomic data is a continuous and ongoing process. Periodic updates are shared with experts and states and are also regularly made available in the public domain through the media bulletin of INSACOG (Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortium). States are regularly advised to send samples for genome sequencing and provide clinical data of positive persons to enable greater epidemiological insights to identify the link between the surge in cases at various places to the variants, the minister stated.  Elaborating on the steps being taken to check the spread of the Delta variant, Pawar had said to monitor the variants of SARS-CoV-2 virus, initially, genomic sequencing was conducted through the National Institute of Virology, Pune.  Subsequently, the Union government established the INSACOG in December 2020 as a consortium of 10 laboratories of the Ministry of Health, Department of Biotechnology, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). The network of INSACOG laboratories has since been increased to 28, Pawar stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
08-08-2021||India||Mumbai local trains open from August 15 for fully vaccinated citizens, announces Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday announced that fully vaccinated citizens of Mumbai can travel in local trains from August 15.  Speaking in a live webcast, he said that those who have completed 14 days after their second dose of COVID-19 vaccine, can apply on a specially-created app for the railway pass and they can collect the same from their respective local ward offices.  "As of now 19 lakh people in Mumbai are fully vaccinated," Thackeray said, adding that those who do not have smartphones, can obtain the pass offline.  Currently, common people are not allowed to board Mumbai suburban trains, which are being operated only for the people employed in essential sectors and government services.  The chief minister also said that his government was considering to grant relaxations to shops, malls, restaurants and places of religious worship and a decision would be taken after a meeting of the task force on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
08-08-2021||India||Delhi Police intensifies patrolling, anti-sabotage checks||Ahead of Independence Day, the Delhi Police has tightened security across the capital by intensifying patrolling, conducting anti-sabotage checks and deploying extra pickets at the border areas to thwart any untoward incident, officials said on Sunday. As part of the anti-terror measures, enhanced police presence, intensive checking at vulnerable points, checking of hotels and guest houses, SIM card and second hand car dealers, sensitisation of cyber cafe owners and verification of tenant and servant drives are being intensively carried out by all the police stations, they said. At his first crime review meeting held on Saturday ahead of Independence Day, Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana directed officials to draft the cooperation of street vendors, small shop keepers and auto drivers in a "big way" for them to act as "eyes and ears" against terrorist or criminal designs. "These common people on ground can be vigilant to act as our 'force multipliers' and form a part of our community policing to keep the city safe and secure with greater public cooperation and participation," he had said. Officials said police said legal action have been initiated against those house owners who did not get the verification of their tenant or servant done. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said, "Security at malls and vital installations have been increased. There is constant foot and motorcycle patrolling being done by senior officers. "Network of CCTV cameras are being strengthened. Those CCTVs which are found non-operational are being repaired and new CCTV cameras are also being installed in vital areas. Anti-sabotage checks are being carried out in malls and markets." The police said vehicles are being thoroughly checked and strict vigil is being maintained while meetings are also being conducted with members of MWAs and RWAs. In the southeast district, around 500 police personnel have been deployed to carry out verification drives and anti-sabotage checks at vital locations and heavy footfall areas, including market areas of Nehru Place and Lajpat Nagar, officials said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southeast) R P Meena said, "Along with PCR vans, extra staffs are also being deployed at iconic places, including places of worship. "Patrolling has been intensified in heavy footfall areas where dog squad as well as bomb disposal squads are being used to conduct anti-sabotage checks." In north district alone, 3,060 guest houses cum hotels have been checked, 2,224 parking lots checked, 13,198 tenant verifications done, 26,986 servant and 3,356 private security guards verified so far as part of its verification drive, the police said. According to data, in north district, 302 cases have been registered against parking lots for their lapses in maintaining records, 323 cases have been filed against owners for not conducting verification of their tenants, 473 cases have been filed against owners for not carrying out verification of servants. In outer Delhi, about 6,80 cases have been registered so far against landlords for not conducting verification of their tenants and around 50 cases have been filed against those for not conducting verification of their servants, according to police. Security has also been tightened at the border areas in coordination with our counterparts as thousands of farmers are on a sit-in for over six months demanding to repeal the Centre's three agri laws, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer) Parvinder Singh said, "At border areas, we have deployed 24X7 pickets who are conducting thorough checking of cars, two-wheelers and trucks. The by-lanes inside the villages adjoining the borders are also being checked. "Armed police personnel are also being deployed at market areas as part of anti-terror measures besides carrying out an extensive verification drive across the district."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
08-08-2021||India||Assam milkmen donate part of income to help fund-starved school||In a noble gesture, nearly 2,000 milkmen of a cooperative society in Assam have decided to donate 15 paise per litre of milk sold to run the higher secondary section of a school, which has not received any government funding so far. With the funds collected through this initiative, the Sitajakhala Milk Cooperative Society, one of the oldest and largest dairy cooperatives of the state located in Morigaon district, two days ago handed over a cheque of Rs 1 lakh to Sitajakhala Higher Secondary School to run classes 11 and 12. "Children of our milkmen are students of this school. The lower level of the school was provincialised (taken over by the government) in 1986. "However, the higher secondary level is still operating in venture mode, facing acute financial hardship. The condition of the school moved the parents, who are engaged with us as milkmen, to donate a portion of their income," Sitajakhala Milk Cooperative Society chairman Ranjib Sarma told PTI. After some discussions, more than 2,000 milkmen agreed to donate 15 paise per litre of milk sold to the school to fund their children's education, he added. "With the support of the milkmen, the Sitajakhala Milk Cooperative Society has declared a financial aid of Rs 1 lakh every year to the higher secondary section of the school till it is pprovincialised by the government," Sarma said. He also said that guardians of the students are urging the government to open vocational courses on basic agriculture in the school. Headmaster of the educational institute Uttam Deka appealed to the government to come forward and support it in its endeavour to impart quality education to children of the Gobha tribal belt in Morigaon. "We are thankful to Sitajakhala Milk Cooperative Society for helping us with the financial aid. This initiative will go a long way in sustaining the school," he added. Talking about the dairy business, Sarma said the society faced tremendous hardship during the pandemic, but the situation is gradually improving now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
08-08-2021||India||Get Covid jab certificate on WhatsApp ‘within seconds’||Covid-19 jab seekers will no longer need to log on to CoWin portal to download their vaccination certificate. Thanks to the Union Health Ministry’s move Covid vaccination certificate can now be obtained using WhatsApp within seconds. The significant move comes at a time many states have been demanding for a jab certificate for inter-state travel. Similar proof for vaccination is also sought as by people hosting events. The move will thereby make it easier for individuals to get certificates from CoWIN vaccination portal, which often suffers from technical glitches. According to a NDTV report, Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, maintained that those keen on downloading the certificate would need to send a WhatsApp message to a number, following which it would receive it. “Revolutionising common man's life using technology! Now get #COVID19 vaccination certificate through MyGov Corona Helpdesk in 3 easy steps. Save contact number: +91 9013151515. Type & send ‘covid certificate’ on WhatsApp. Enter OTP. Get your certificate in seconds,” the Health Minister’s office tweeted. According to the report, many who have tried using the procedure got incorrect results. Few complained that the date mentioned for both the doses were the same. While a few were informed that they were yet to be vaccinated despite having received both doses. The ministry’s latest move as been appreciated by all, across the political aisle. Thiruvananthapuram MP and senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor described the process as ‘simple and fast’ mentioned the report. “I've always acknowledged & praised the Government when it merits it. As a critic of #Cowin, let me say they've done something terrific. Send a @WhatsApp message "download certificate" to 90131 51515, receive OTP & get your vaccination certificate back by @WhatsApp. Simple&fast!,” tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
08-08-2021||India||Narendra Modi to chair UNSC meeting on maritime security tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a high-level open debate on "Enhancing Maritime Security A Case for International Cooperation" on Monday via video conferencing. His office said on Sunday the meeting is expected to be attended by several heads of state and government of member states of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC), and high-level briefers from the UN system and key regional organisations. "Modi would be the first Indian prime minister to preside over a UN Security Council Open Debate," the Prime Minister's Office said. The open debate will focus on ways to effectively counter maritime crime and insecurity, and strengthen coordination in the maritime domain. The UN Security Council has discussed and passed resolutions on different aspects of maritime security and maritime crime, the PMO noted. However, this will be the first time that maritime security will be discussed in a holistic manner as an exclusive agenda item in such a high level open debate, it added. "Given that no country alone can address the diverse aspects of maritime security, it is important to consider this subject in a holistic manner in the United Nations Security Council. A comprehensive approach to maritime security should protect and support legitimate maritime activities, while countering traditional and non-traditional threats in the maritime domain," it said. The oceans have played an important part in India's history right from the time of the Indus Valley civilisation, it noted, adding that based on the country's civilisational ethos that see the seas as an enabler of shared peace and prosperity, Modi had put forward the vision of SAGAR - an acronym for "Security and Growth for all in the Region" in 2015. This vision focuses on cooperative measures for sustainable use of the oceans, and provides a framework for a safe, secure, and stable maritime domain in the region. In 2019, at the East Asia Summit, this initiative was further elaborated through the Indo-Pacific Oceans' Initiative (IPOI) with a focus on seven pillars of maritime security including Maritime Ecology; Maritime Resources; Capacity Building and Resource Sharing; Disaster Risk Reduction and Management; Science, Technology and Academic Cooperation; and Trade Connectivity and Maritime Transport, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
08-08-2021||India||MHA asks states to stop usage of plastic tricolour for I-Day Celebration||Ahead of the Independence Day celebration, the Centre has asked states to ensure people don't use plastic national flags as ensuring appropriate disposal of the tricolour made of non-biodegradable item is a practical problem. In a communication to all states and union territories, the Union Home Ministry said the national flag represents hopes and aspirations of the people of the country and hence should occupy a position of honour. “There is universal affection and respect for, and loyalty to, the national flag. Yet, a perceptible lack of awareness is often noticed amongst people as well as organisations/agencies of the government, in regard to laws, practices and conventions that apply to display of the national flag,” it said. It told the states and UTs that on the occasions of important national, cultural and sports events, the national flags made of plastic are also being used in place of national flags made of paper. Since, plastic flags are not biodegradable like paper flags, these do not get decomposed for a long time and ensuring appropriate disposal of national flags made of plastic commensurate with the dignity of the flag is a practical problem, it said. "You are, therefore, requested to ensure that on the occasions of important national, cultural and sports events, flags made of paper only are used by the public in terms of the provisions of the 'Flag Code of India, 2002' and such paper flags are not discarded or thrown on the ground after the event," the Home Ministry said. Such flags are to be disposed of, in private, consistent with the dignity of the flag, it said. A copy each of 'The Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971' and the 'Flag Code of India, 2002', which govern the display of national flag, was also enclosed along with the home ministry letter. Such communications were issued previously also.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
08-08-2021||India|| Indo-Tibetan Border Police inducts first women officers in combat||The India-China LAC guarding the Indo-Tibetan Border Police force on Sunday commissioned its first two women officers in combat after they completed their training in Mussourie. A total of 53 officers graduated from the ITBP officers' training academy located in Mussoorie after a passing out parade was held, with Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami officiating as the chief guest. A first-ever 'History of ITBP' book with 680-pages containing many unknown facts and photographs of the border guarding force was also released by Dhami along with ITBP director general S S Deswal. Dhami and Deswal put the ranks of Assistant Commandant, the entry-level officer rank in the paramilitary, on the shoulders of the two women officers--Prakriti and Diksha--after the passing out parade and attestation ceremony where they took oath to serve the country. While Prakriti's father has retired from the Indian Air Force (IAF), Deeksha's father Kamlesh Kumar is an Inspector in the ITBP. Kumar, in his Khaki uniform, saluted his daughter after the parade and got a crisp salute in return following which they hugged each other. "My father is my role model. He never considered me lesser than anyone," Deeksha said. Prakriti, who holds a bachelors degree in electrical engineering, said the life in the force is "very tough but it is also challenging and exciting". The ITBP started recruiting women combat officers in its cadre from 2016 through an all-India examination conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). Before this, it only had combat women in the constabulary ranks. Out of the total 53 officers, 42 officers are in the general duty combat cadre, while 11 are in the engineering cadre of the about 90,000 personnel strong mountain warfare trained force. These officers will now be posted across ITBP formations in the country, including the LAC with China and the anti-Naxal operations theatre in Chhattisgarh. The force was raised in the aftermath of the 1962 Chinese aggression and its primary role is to guard the 3,488 km long India-China Line of Actual Control (LAC) apart from rendering a variety of roles in the internal security domain. Addressing the young officers who trained for 50 weeks (general duty cadre) and 11 weeks (engineering cadre) in various subjects of combat and strategy, Dhami said the commanders should "give their best" while performing their duties. He said the country was safe due to the valour of its armed forces and the sacrifices made by the personnel in uniform. "I am the son of a soldier and I have seen the Army closely. I have seen the struggles of their families," he said while congratulating the young officers who he said were taking their "first step for serving the nation". The CM also lauded the force for bringing out its first-ever history book, that has some 1,000 unseen operational photographs starting from the period when the Union government was planning to raise it. "The book has been published in view of making a reference volume for factual history and knowledge of the force to the officers and jawans. It will also be useful for the administrative and training purposes and for gaining in-depth details and is the official history of the force," ITBP spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey said. Pandey has himself been instrumental in bringing out the book after years of research and talking to serving and retired officers and others who were closely involved with the creation of the force that specialises in mountain warfare. "There was no such book on the ITBP available till this publication. It contains historical achievements of the force since its inception," Pandey, a second-in-command rank officer, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
08-08-2021||India||Increase Covid vaccine quota for Bengal: Adhir writes to PM||Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his intervention to increase the quota of Covid-19 vaccine for West Bengal. He also said there is a lurking danger of Covid explosion in the state given its dense population. “I am given to understand that up to August 2, approximately 3,00,65,845 persons have been vaccinated (in the state),” Chowdhury said in the letter. The state Congress president mentioned that seventy per cent of West Bengal's 10 crore population is ‘still waiting for protection from the virus’. Chowdhury requested the prime minister to ‘do the needful to increase the quota of Covid vaccine’ for the state. The Mamata Banerjee government has repeatedly accused the central government of providing an inadequate number of Covid vaccines to West Bengal than some BJP-ruled states with comparatively less population.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
08-08-2021||India||Cabinet Secretary warns officers of action if they fail to attend I-Day event at Red Fort||Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba has warned officers invited for the Independence Day function at the Red Fort that a "serious view" will be taken if they fail to attend the event. In a communication to the secretaries of all Union ministries and departments, Gauba said the Independence Day flag hoisting ceremony at the Red Fort, from where Prime Minister Narendra Modi will also address the nation, has its own significance and the officers invited for the function are expected to attend. "It has been observed that some of the invited officers fail to attend the ceremony. This is inappropriate considering that the occasion is of great national importance. There is clearly a need to remind the officers that it is their duty to attend the Independence Day ceremony," he said. In his letter, Gauba also said that in view of social distancing requirements due to the Covid-19 pandemic, officers of only joint secretary level and above have been invited for the ceremony this year. "You may suitably advice all officers of your ministry/department, who are invited to the independence day ceremony, to attend the function. You may also like to caution them that a serious view can be taken of their absence on this occasion," Gauba told the secretaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
08-08-2021||India||Delhi: Weekly markets set to reopen amid confusion among traders||Confusion and uncertainty prevail among trade associations in Delhi as they prepare to reopen weekly markets from Monday. The weekly markets were closed after a lockdown was imposed in Delhi on April 19 due to a surge in cases during the second Covid wave. Later, in mid-June one weekly market in each municipal zone was allowed to open within government school grounds or other such open areas. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Saturday that the weekly markets have been allowed to reopen from August 9. Even though the decision was welcomed, vendors and market associations were still uncertain about the location of the weekly markets for the lack of clear guidelines from the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). No weekly market is allowed to function on roadsides, according to the current guidelines. Sanjay Sachdeva, secretary of Delhi State Weekly Market Association, said they have not received any guidelines from the DDMA so far, however, they will prepare to reopen according to the guidelines in effect. "We only know what we have read in news today about reopening, we don't even know where we are going to set up the market. In any case, we have asked shopkeepers to put sanitiser bottles and extra masks at their stalls for customers," Sachdeva, who represents Moti Nagar weekly market zone, told PTI. According to rough estimates, there are around 2,700 weekly markets that open on designated days in a week in 12 of the municipal zones, Delhi Cantonment and the New Delhi Municipal Council. Around four lakh people are associated with them for livelihood, vendors claim. A detailed order by the DDMA on reopening of weekly markets and guidelines to be followed by the stakeholders is awaited. Currently, only 50 per cent of the allowed vendors in a weekly market per zone are permitted to transact business there. Strict compliance of standard operating procedures (SOPs) and all instructions, guidelines issued by the Government of India and the Delhi government are ensured by officials. Rajkumar Kataria, general secretary of South Delhi Weekly Bazaar Association, said the vendors have been asked to maintain social distancing among themselves and the customers. "Since the tables are 6-ft wide, there's enough distance between two vendors. And customers are anyway on the other side. Additionally, we will hang banners for social distancing, deploy our volunteer in the crowd who will distribute masks to those not wearing," Kataria said. A senior police officer said with the weekly markets set to reopen, a team led by an inspector rank officer will be deployed to ensure shopkeepers, as well as buyers, follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. The security at the markets has also been tightened in view of upcoming Independence Day. "We will also be using a public address system requesting the public to follow Covid appropriate behaviour. Foot patrolling will also be intensified in the market areas and strict action will be taken against those found violating Covid-19 guidelines," the officer said. Sandeep Bhardwaj, vice chairman of Chamber of Trade and Industry, said, "The Delhi government should deploy civil defence volunteers and the civic bodies should come up with a plan for crowd control and monitoring at the markets".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-341
08-08-2021||India||Custodial torture still prevails, says Chief Justice of India N V Ramana||Custodial torture and other police atrocities still prevail in India and even the "privileged are not spared third-degree treatment", Chief Justice of India N V Ramana said on Sunday and asked the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) to carry out nationwide sensitisation of police officers. Terming the project Access to Justice as an unending mission, the CJI also said that for becoming a society governed by the rule of law, it was necessary to bridge the gap of accessibility to justice between the highly privileged and the most vulnerable. If, as an institution, the judiciary wants to garner the faith of the citizens, we have to make everyone feel assured that we exist for them. For the longest time, the vulnerable population has lived outside the system of justice, he said. The past should not determine the future and all should work to bring equality, Justice Ramana stressed at the launch of a legal service mobile application and the vision and mission statement of NALSA at Vigyan Bhawan here. The mobile App will help poor and needy people in applying for legal aid and seek victim compensation. NALSA was constituted under the Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987 to provide free legal services to the weaker sections of the society and to organise Lok Adalats for amicable settlement of disputes. The threat to human rights and bodily integrity are the highest in police stations. Custodial torture and other police atrocities are problems that still prevail in our society. In spite of constitutional declarations and guarantees, the lack of effective legal representation at the police stations is a huge detriment to arrested/detained persons. The decisions taken in these early hours will later determine the ability of the accused to defend himself. Going by the recent reports even the privileged are not spared third-degree treatment, the CJI said. The CJI, who is also the Patron-in-Chief of NALSA, said that to keep police excesses in check dissemination of information about the constitutional right to legal aid and availability of free legal aid services is necessary. The installation of display boards and outdoor hoardings in every police station/prison is a step in this direction, he said, adding that the NALSA must also actively carry out nationwide sensitisation of police officers. Stressing the need for bridging the gap of accessibility to justice between the highly privileged and the most vulnerable, the CJI said for all times to come, we must remember that, the realities of socio-economic diversity which prevail in our nation, cannot ever be a reason for denial of rights". Let our past not determine our future. Let us dream of a future based on legal mobility, a future where equality is a reality. That is why the project 'Access to Justice' is an unending mission, he said. Furthermore, he stated that dissemination of information about the constitutional right to legal aid and availability of free legal aid services is necessary to keep police excesses in check. Besides this, he said that the prevailing obstacles like internet connectivity and lengthy, painstaking and expensive justice processes add to the woes of realising the goals of access to justice in India. Majority of those who do not have access to justice are from rural and remote areas which suffer from lack of connectivity. I have already written to the government emphasising the need to bridge the digital divide on a priority basis, the CJI said, referring to the digital divide between the rural and the urban populace. He suggested that the postal network can be utilised to spread awareness regarding the availability of free legal aid services and to increase the outreach of legal services to persons residing in far-flung areas of the country. The CJI asked lawyers, especially seniors, to help those needing legal assistance and urged the media to use its unparalleled capacity to spread the message of service of NALSA. Concurring with Ramana, Justice U U Lalit said that besides spreading awareness about legal services through post offices and police stations, Bar Councils and law colleges can also be roped in. We are impressing upon Bar Councils and law colleges and they must adopt one or two talukas around them so that students can be given practical training to be part of a large contingent of para-volunteers, Justice Lalit added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
08-08-2021||India||Tharoor hopeful of IT panel taking up Pegasus issue||Chairman of the parliamentary panel on information technology Shashi Tharoor on Sunday said members "disrupted" the committee's meeting on July 28 as they did not want the Pegasus allegations to be discussed and the officials who were to testify "appear to have been instructed not to attend", but expressed hope the snooping issue would be taken up by the panel going forward. Tharoor, who has written to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to take action over ministry officials not attending the panel meet, also asserted that the actions of the three officials making "last-minute excuses" to skip the meeting were a "grievous assault" on such panels' prerogatives to summon witnesses. In an interview with PTI, the Congress leader hit back at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his remarks that the Opposition was insulting Parliament, saying the government's refusal to be answerable in any way, shape, or form on an issue of national and international importance, has made a "mockery of democracy and of the ordinary Indians the government claims to represent". Avoiding discussion and accountability is the real insult to Parliament, the former Union minister and Thiruvananthapuram MP asserted. Asked if going forward the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology will be able to take up the Pegasus snooping issue, Tharoor said for two years now the IT committee has been conducting discussions on "Citizens' data privacy and security and "cyber security, topics that also featured in its agenda under the previous chairman, Anurag Thakur. The Pegasus issue therefore clearly falls under the purview of the IT committee and so it is only expected that its members will ask questions about it when these topics arise, he said. "It is no secret that the Committee's meeting on its established agenda was disrupted by members who did not want Pegasus to be discussed. It was unprecedented for 10 members to attend and to refuse to sign the register in order to deny the Committee a quorum," Tharoor said. The panel was to hold a meeting on July 28 during which several issues including the Pegasus snooping allegations were expected to be discussed. It had also summoned officials from the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Communications (Department of Telecommunications) on the subject ''Citizens data security and privacy''. However, the meeting could not take place as the members of the panel did not sign the attendance register, even though they were present in the meeting room, leading to a lack of quorum. E-mail communications were received by the committee branch of the secretariat on July 28 afternoon from the three ministries/department that their representatives would not be able to appear before the committee due to Parliament-related work. "For good measure the three officials who were to testify that day appear to have been instructed not to attend, making last-minute excuses, which is a grievous assault on the prerogatives of parliamentary committees to summon witnesses," Tharoor said. Asserting that accountability to Parliament is a cornerstone of democracy, Tharoor alleged that it is increasingly being tossed aside in the current regime's "headlong rush to autocracy". "Despite this disappointing approach, I am hopeful that we will be able to take up the question going forward, he said. Asked if a joint parliamentary committee would be more suited to take up the Pegasus matter, Tharoor said, "I am not sure what a JPC can do that the IT Committee cannot. Nonetheless, I proposed from the start that what we really need is a Supreme Court-monitored inquiry headed by a serving or recently-retired judge to conduct a fair, impartial, and thorough investigation of the Pegasus issue." The judiciary has powers, and a degree of immunity from politics, that would make it better suited than a committee of MPs to explore all aspects of the Pegasus question, Tharoor argued. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers, including that of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, union ministers Prahlad Singh Patel and Ashwini Vaishnaw, businessman Anil Ambani, and at least 40 journalists, were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Israeli firm NSO Group's Pegasus spyware. On comparisons of the Pegasus snooping row with the Watergate scandal that rocked Richard Nixon's US presidency in the 1970s, Tharoor said though the parallels between the two episodes are many, the significant difference is precisely in the consequences it has had for the respective regimes that were in power when these events unfolded. "Whereas the US Congress' investigation of Watergate led to the resignation of President Nixon himself, our Parliament has been denied even a discussion of the issue, barring the tepid statement by the new IT Minister who was himself on the list of those who were potentially targeted using Pegasus on the floor of the House," Tharoor said. He said Pegasus is an issue that, given its grave implications for the country's internal security and individual liberties, should have been addressed by either the Home Minister or the PM himself. Tharoor said the Opposition's hopes rest with the Supreme Court, which is to hear the matter on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
08-08-2021||India||RJD MP Manoj Kumar Jha asks Narendra Modi to intervene to extend Parliament session||Accusing the government of "closing the door" on negotiations to break the logjam over the Pegasus issue in Parliament, RJD leader Manoj Kumar Jha on Sunday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi must intervene to end the impasse, and called for extending the Monsoon session to make up for the lost time. The Rajya Sabha member, who is an influential voice of the Opposition, also slammed the government for repeatedly stressing that it was "reaching out" to the Opposition parties, saying the phrase does not mean that "with hands in your pockets and a stiff face, you say 'this is what I have to offer, nothing else'". "Under the garb of reaching out they have been closing the door on negotiations. Many times I have noted that the so-called people entrusted with the idea of reaching out, probably lack the mandate in offering anything tangible to the Opposition," Jha told PTI in an interview. Since the start of the Monsoon session on July 19, parliamentary proceedings have been continuously witnessing disruptions due to protests by Opposition parties and a logjam has persisted over their demand for a discussion on the Pegasus snooping row. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers, including that of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, union ministers Prahlad Singh Patel and Ashwini Vaishnaw, businessman Anil Ambani, and at least 40 journalists, were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Israeli firm NSO Group's Pegasus spyware. The government has been denying all Opposition allegations in the matter. Asked about the Opposition's demand for a discussion on the Pegasus issue and the logjam in Parliament over it, Jha said the government says in the media that it is reaching out but such efforts should mean "listening and not just hearing". Jha alleged that the government was using the "language of enmity" which had taken away the possibility of "breaking the ice". "But if Mr. Prime Minister himself intervenes and tells his people to break the ice and say 'we are ready to discuss everything', it is still possible to discuss. If possible, extend the session to make up for the time we have lost. We can sit after August 15," the senior Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader said. Asked if extension of the Monsoon session, which is scheduled to end on August 13, was the way forward, Jha answered in the affirmative and pointed to his speech in Rajya Sabha on Covid, which has been widely appreciated and has gone viral on social media, to stress the importance of discussing critical issues in Parliament. On Parliament being unable to discuss the devastating second wave of Covid at length, he accused the government of being in "brazen denial" of facts. "The day I made that speech, a response from the government said that nobody died on account of unavailability of oxygen. When you fight a pandemic, you should be able to acknowledge failures as well as take credit for the success," he asserted. "I don't only blame the central government, many state governments were also in a brazen denial mode," Jha said. Asked if the Opposition could have focused more on issues such as price rise, farmers' protest and unemployment in the Monsoon session than Pegasus, he said all those issues were crucial and the Opposition was continuously raising them but the Pegasus matter had acquired an important dimension due to the level of snooping being reported by the media. "I won't say Pegasus was No.1 for us but it acquired an important dimension due to the level of snooping which is being reported in the media with several countries in the world ordering probes, but in our case, there is not even acceptance (for debate)," Jha said. Slamming the government for saying that the snooping allegations were a non-issue, he said if after a detailed discussion it is proved so, the opposition will accept it, but denying discussion goes against the very idea of parliamentary democracy. "Have we forgotten that there was a discussion after Bofors (came to light). Same was with the Mundhra case during the Jawaharlal Nehru government but discussion was allowed even though the opposition was practically non-existent at the time," he said. Jha also hit out at the government for passing the bills amid din, saying the legislations were being passed in roughly eight minutes and warned that if it becomes the new normal even future governments may take this route, making debate and discussion a thing of the past. On Opposition unity being witnessed during the current Parliament session and if seeds of a grand alliance had been sown for the 2024 general elections, Jha said when floor leaders are coordinating in Parliament, 2024 is not on their minds and the major concern is issues such as repeal of farm laws, inflation and unemployment. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
08-08-2021||India||Delhi launches food programme for homeless living in shelter homes||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday launched a food distribution programme for the homeless living in government shelter homes across the city. The programme to distribute free food was launched from a shelter home complex at Sarai Kale Khan in association with the Akshaya Patra Foundation a non-government organisation. Under the programme, the Delhi government along with Akshaya Patra Foundation will distribute free cooked meals to the homeless at all of its shelter homes across the city. Addressing the gathering, Kejriwal said the Delhi government runs 209 night shelters across the city and free cooked meals will be provided to nearly 6,000 people here. This number will go up to 12,000 as more people live in shelter homes during winters. "The poorest of the poor live in these shelters homes. They are not the vote bank of any party so no government paid attention to them. This is the first work of any responsible government to pay attention towards the poor. "The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government is a responsible government and we have worked a lot for the poor. I am happy to start this initiative (free food distribution), Kejriwal said. He added that earlier governments used to get scolded from the High Court for dismal condition of shelter homes but the AAP government worked a lot on this front to improve the situation of these homes. "In the last six years, we have improved the condition of shelter homes. I personally conducted inspections to improve the situation of toilets and potable water in shelter homes. And today, the condition is good," he said. The CM said Akshaya Patra will provide cooked meals to the poor living in such shelter homes. "The real dharma is feeding the poor which Akshay Patra is doing. We are happy that free cooked meals will be distributed permanently at all Delhi shelter homes in association with Akshay Patra Foundation," Kejriwal said. The Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) runs 209 shelter homes across the city that caters to nearly 12,000 people. The government has been providing free food to the homeless since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in March 2020. The event was presided by Madhu Pandit Dasa, Chairman, The Akshaya Patra Foundation, and Chanchalapathi Dasa, Vice-Chairman of the organisation. Delhi Urban Development Minister Satyendar Jain was also present on the occasion. Dasa said, Akshaya Patra is conscious of its responsibility towards society. We have always strived to assist the government's efforts to bring relief to people during emergencies. We will continue with this as long as we can. The event was followed by a ceremonial serving of meals to poor children at the shelter home complex.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
08-08-2021||India||CBI arrests five people for posting  defamatory content against judges||The CBI has arrested five people for allegedly posting defamatory content against judges of the Andhra Pradesh High Court and the Supreme Court on social media, officials said on Sunday. The role of a Lok Sabha member, Nandigam Suresh, and Amanchi Krishna Mohan, both of the YSR Congress, are under scanner in the case, and both have been examined by the agency in its effort to unearth a larger conspiracy, they said. "To investigate the larger conspiracy, the CBI has also examined certain persons, including an MP and an ex-MLA, and also continued investigation into the role of other persons who were not mentioned in the FIR," CBI spokesperson R C Joshi said. The agency had on Saturday arrested two people -- Pattapu Aadarsh and Lavanuru Samba Siva Reddy -- from Andhra Pradesh. Earlier, the CBI had arrested Dhami Reddy Konda Reddy and Pamula Sudheer on July 28, while Lingareddy Rajasekhar Reddy, who was residing in Kuwait, was arrested on July 9 when he landed in India, the officials said. "The agency was monitoring his movements. The moment he landed in India, the officers took him into their custody", an official said. The arrests were made by the CBI in the case in which it had booked 16 individuals for allegedly posting defamatory content against the judges. The Andhra Pradesh High Court had directed the agency to probe the case and submit a report to it in a sealed cover. "It was alleged that the accused, by intentionally targeting the judiciary, made derogatory posts on social media platforms against judges and judiciary, following some court verdicts delivered by the judges of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh," Joshi said. After registration of the case, the CBI traced 13 of the 16 accused named in the FIR on various digital platforms, he said. "Three out of them were found to be abroad. The CBI has so far examined 11 out of the above 13 accused persons and arrested five out of them. Evidence against the remaining six accused persons is being evaluated for further necessary legal action. CBI is pursuing to secure the presence of two other accused said to be abroad for their examination," Joshi said. The agency carried out searches at the premises of the accused persons that led to the information that one of them was allegedly using a passport in a different name, he said. During the searches, incriminating documents were found, the CBI spokesperson added. "Action was also initiated by CBI, after it had registered this case to get objectionable posts removed from the social media platforms, public domains and a lot of such posts or accounts were removed from the internet," Joshi said. The investigation is underway, including through the channels of MLAT and Interpol, to collect evidence from abroad, he said. Taking cognisance of the alleged defamatory posts, the high court had directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to probe the role of prominent persons in the southern state who were intentionally targeting Supreme Court and high court judges. "...the postings were made to bring hatred, contempt, incite disaffection and ill-will against the high court and honourable judges," the court had noted. The arrests came two days after Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana expressed disapproval of a “new trend” of judges being attacked or threatened, regretted that the CBI and other law-enforcement agencies were “not helping the judiciary at all” and reminded the government of its responsibility of protecting judges. “It’s a new trend in this country, unfortunately. There’s no freedom for judges to complain. Even though judges complain to police or the CBI, they don’t respond. The IB, the CBI aren’t helping the judiciary at all. I’m making this statement with a sense of responsibility,” CJI Ramana, sitting in a bench with Justice Surya Kant, told the attorney-general, the highest law officer of the land. “It’s a new trend in this country. If an adverse order is passed, then the judiciary is maligned. Even though judges complain, the CBI, the IB and other officers don’t help the judiciary at all,” Justice Ramana added. The Supreme Court was dealing with the suo motu case of the death of Jharkhand additional district judge Uttam Anand at Dhanbad on July 28. The judge had denied bail to two gangsters days earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
08-08-2021||India||Covishield, Covaxin mix produces better immunogenicity than two doses of same jab, says study||A study by ICMR involving 98 people, 18 of whom had inadvertently received Covishield as first dose and Covaxin as the second in Uttar Pradesh, showed that combining these two Covid-19 vaccines elicited better immunogenicity than two doses of the same vaccine. The study also found that immunisation with a combination of Covishield and Covaxin was safe and the adverse effects were also found to be similar when compared to the same dose regimen. The study titled Serendipitous Covid-19 Vaccine-Mix in Uttar Pradesh, India: Safety and Immunogenicity Assessment of a Heterologous Regime' has been uploaded on medRxiv, a preprint server and is yet to be peer-reviewed. "To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study which reports the effects of heterologous prime-boost vaccination with an adenovirus vectored vaccine followed by an inactivated whole virus vaccine," the researchers said. The immunisation program against Covid-19 in India started with two vaccines--adenovirus vector platform-based vaccine Covishield and inactivated whole virion BBV152 -Covaxin--and homologous prime-boost approach was followed. However, 18 individuals, under the national program, in Siddarthnagar, Uttar Pradesh inadvertently received Covishield as the first jab and Covaxin as the second. The nationwide vaccination program at this time had entered in its fourth month of its existence and the event of mixed dosing raised considerable anxiety in public domain with a potential to contributing to vaccine hesitancy. The study was conducted against this backdrop. So, including these 18 individuals who had received one dose of Covishield and second dose of Covaxin, 40 recipients of two doses of Covishield and 40 recipients of two doses of Covaxin, were recruited in the study. The study duration was from May to June 2021. "We compared the safety and immunogenicity profile of them (18 individuals) against that of those receiving either Covishield or Covaxin. Lower and similar adverse events following immunisation in all three groups underlined the safety of the combination vaccine-regime. "Immunogenicity profile against Alpha, Beta and Delta variants in the heterologous group was superior and IgG antibody and neutralising antibody response of the participants was also significantly higher compared to that in the homologous groups," the study stated. "The findings suggest that immunisation with a combination of an adenovirus vector platform-based vaccine followed by an inactivated whole virus vaccine was not only safe but also elicited better immunogenicity," it said. The reactogenicity analysis was carried out based on solicited local and systemic AEFIs reported in the three groups within seven days of immunisation. None of the participants enrolled in the study had any serious AEFI within 30 minutes of immunisation with the first or second dose. The most common local AEFI reported after first and second dose was pain at injection site. No other local AEFI such as erythema, induration, pruritis or pustule formation was recorded by any of the participants. The most commonly reported systemic AEFI were pyrexia and malaise. No other systemic AEFIs like urticaria, nausea, vomiting, arthralgia or cough was reported. The pyrexia was of low to moderate grade and was managed by administration of paracetamol and subsided in all participants within three to four days post-vaccination, according to the study. "Despite the high median age of the participants of the heterologous group (62 years) in our study, the reactogenicity profile demonstrated that mixing of the two vaccines based on different platforms is safe," the study said. The study demonstrates that immunisation with a heterologous combination of an adenovirus vector platform-based vaccine followed by an inactivated whole virus vaccine is safe and elicits better immunogenicity than two doses of homologous vaccination, using the same vaccines. These findings have an important implication for the Covid-19 vaccination program wherein heterologous immunisation will pave the way for induction of improved and better protection against the variant strains of SARS-CoV-2. "Such mixed regimens will also help to overcome the challenges of shortfall of particular vaccines and remove hesitancy around vaccines in people's mind that could have genesis in programmatic 'errors' especially in settings where multiple Covid-19 vaccines are being used," the study highlighted. However, to conclusively prove these findings a multicentre RCT needs to be carried out, the study underlined.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
08-08-2021||India||Narendra Modi, come listen to us, says Opposition as Monsoon Session nears end||The Opposition's strategy of speaking on the Pegasus snooping row and farm laws during discussions of bills in the Rajya Sabha has now been compiled in a three-minute video in an attempt to make the government listen to their demands, leaders said on Sunday. The video, released by the TMC on Sunday morning from RS MP Derek O'Brien's handle, urges, "Mr Modi come listen to us". Opposition party sources indicated that over the last few weeks, leaders have realised that the disruptions by them in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha are not enough. It was important to say the words, "farmers", "Pegasus" and spyware on the floor of the Houses. Asked about the Opposition MPs' strategy of raising such issues while seeking to speak on bills in Parliament, O'Brien said that their "strategy was deliberate". "When the official channels are being denied, this is a new way to reach the masses," said O'Brien who is also the leader of the TMC in the Rajya Sabha. "PM @narendramodi seems to have lost his nerves. Why is he not keen on answering questions in Parliament? The Opposition parties are ready for discussions in Parliament, but @BJP4India govt is stalling the proceedings so that the truth doesn't get to the people," Congress's Mallikarjun Kharge said in a tweet posting the video. The video, which has been compiled using clips from RSTV, comprises statements made by the Opposition MPs in the Upper House, with the words "farmer" and "Pegasus" in the opening lines. "You are not allowing the discussion we have been asking for the past 14 days and the discussions we can do later. You are passing that bill now. If you have courage, begin the discussions on Pegasus now," Kharge is heard saying in the video on the floor of the House. The compilation includes Opposition speakers like Vandana Chavan of the NCP who raised the Pegasus issue, accusing the government of "not listening to the people". RJD's Manoj Jha too is seen speaking on the spyware issue. "Pegasus has reached everyone's house. We have to discuss this," says Jha. Congress's Deepinder Hooda raised the issue of farmers stating that he would talk about the matter if his "microphone is not switched off". The CPI(M) accused the government of "stealing" parliamentary democracy, while TMC's Sukhendu Shekar Roy raised the issue of "freedom of speech in Parliament". The other parties which have representation in the video include Samajwadi Party, TRS, DMK and AAP. One of the leaders in the video, Shiv Sena MP in Rajya Sabha Priyanka Chaturvedi said in a democracy if the government of the day has a responsibility, so does the Opposition. "Whether it is about farmers, about the economy, safety and security of women, just the word mentioned by the Opposition makes them silence our voices, makes them adjourn Parliament, makes them mute our microphones. "Our inability to be heard by a government which is so brazen has made us realise that the only way we can speak and make our point heard is when such bills are being discussed and passed in such a hurry," Chaturvedi said. CPI(M) leader and RS MP Elamaram Kareem said that speaking during the discussion on bills was the only way to make the government listen. "This tactic is going to be continued the coming week as well. There is no other option as the government is not admitting our motions. Everyone is seeing how the chairperson is behaving, switching off microphones even as the Pegasus word is being uttered. The entire Opposition is one on this and we will stick by it till the government relents," said Kareem, who is the leader of his party in the Upper House. Chaturvedi also hit out at the government over the alleged switching off of microphones when Opposition leaders raise certain issues, saying it shows the intolerance of the government. "By muting our mics, by trying to suppress our voices, they think they can silence us then they should be rest assured that we will raise our voice further and our voices will get louder," the Shiv Sena MP said. Senior Congress leader and party spokesperson Manish Tewari said that what is happening in the House is a "complete murder of democracy". "The institution of Parliament is being trifled with by the NDA-BJP government," said Tewari, slamming the government for getting bills passed when the House is not in order. "There is a time honoured convention that a legislation is never passed in din and it is not even discussed when the House is not in order," he said. Since the start of the Monsoon Session on July 19, parliamentary proceedings have been continuously witnessing disruptions due to protests by Opposition parties and a logjam has persisted over their demand for a discussion on the Pegasus snooping row. The Opposition has also been strongly protesting against the price rise issue and demanding the repeal of the farm laws. An international media consortium had reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers, including that of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Union ministers Prahlad Singh Patel and Ashwini Vaishnaw, businessman Anil Ambani, and at least 40 journalists, were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Israeli firm NSO Group's Pegasus spyware.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
08-08-2021||India||NIA conducts raids against Jamaat-e-Islami-linked members across Jammu and Kashmir||The National Investigation Agency on Sunday carried out multiple raids against Jamaat-e-Islami-linked members across Jammu and Kashmir, over two years after the religious group was banned by the Centre under anti-terror laws, officials said. The early morning raids were conducted at over 45 places on the houses and offices of Jamaat-e-Islami (JeI) activists in almost all districts of Kashmir and a few districts in Jammu region, including Ramban, Kishtwar, Doda and Rajouri, they said. In February 2019, the Centre banned JeI for five years under anti-terror laws on the ground that it was "in close touch" with militant outfits and was expected to "escalate secessionist movement" in the erstwhile state. A notification, banning the group under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, was issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs after a high-level meeting on security chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Hundreds of JeI activists were arrested in a major crackdown across Jammu and Kashmir following the ban which came just months ahead of the abrogation of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and its bifurcation into two Union territories in August 2019. The officials said the latest raids by National Investigation Agency (NIA) sleuths assisted by police and CRPF were conducted in connection with an ongoing investigation into a case related to terror activities of the group. The searches at multiple locations are still going on and further details are awaited, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
08-08-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh government withdraws re-inquiry against Kafeel Khan||The order for a departmental re-inquiry against suspended paediatrician Dr Kafeel Khan has been withdrawn, the Uttar Pradesh government has informed the Allahabad High Court. The order of a departmental re-inquiry was given on February 24 last year. Additional Advocate General Manish Goyal told the court on Friday, "The order of 24 February, 2020 impugned in this petition has been withdrawn subject to liberty being reserved for the respondents to proceed in the matter afresh and in light of what was noted by the court in its order of July 29, 2021". It was further submitted before the court of Justice Yashwant Varma that all endeavours shall be made to conclude the disciplinary proceedings within a period of three months. The court has listed the case for hearing on August 10 (Tuesday). In the writ petition, it was disclosed that seven persons out of nine who were suspended along with the petitioner have been reinstated pending conclusion of disciplinary proceedings. The order for suspension against Dr Khan was passed on August 22, 2017. Earlier on July 29 this year, the court noticed that although the petitioner had been suspended back in 2017, the inquiry proceedings had not yet been concluded till the filing of the petition. By an order of March 7, 2019, the petition was disposed of with a direction to the respondents (the state government) to conclude the inquiry within three months. In pursuance to that direction, the court was informed that the Enquiry Officer submitted his report on April 15, 2019. The disciplinary authority, however, chose to pass the impugned order after nearly 11 months. It is to be recalled that Dr Khan had challenged his suspension in connection with the death of several children due to alleged shortage of oxygen at a government hospital in Gorakhpur district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
08-08-2021||India||Parliamentary panel asks labour ministry to depict real picture of job loss due to Covid-19||A Parliamentary panel has asked the Ministry of Labour and Employment to use and reconcile the data and studies conducted by credible agencies with that of retirement fund body EPFO for depicting real picture of job loss in the country especially in the situation like Covid-19 pandemic. The pandemic had an impact on employment in the country as the economic activities slowed down due to lockdown restrictions imposed by central as well as states to contain the spread of deadly virus from March in 2020. "...data and studies conducted by other reputed and credible agencies be taken into consideration by the Ministry and reconciled with the data collected/maintained by EPFO so as to depict an authentic and real picture of the rate of unemployment/loss of jobs in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic for initiating requisite corrective measures as and when warranted," stated Parliamentary Standing Committee on Labour in its 25th report tabled in Parliament last week. It observed that despite Covid-19 pandemic, net EPFO payroll addition for 2020-21 was 77.08 lakh which is almost at par with 2019-20 net payroll addition of 78.58 lakh. It also noted that there is addition in net payroll in each month of financial year 2020-21, except for the months of April and May 2020 as most of the economic activities during these two months of 2020 were at halt due to complete lockdown measures put in place. "However, the Committee's attention has been drawn to a study conducted by the Azim Premji University according to which nearly half of the formal salaried workers moved into informal work either as self-employed (30 per cent), casual wage (10 per cent), informal salaried jobs (9 per cent) between late 2019 and late 2020." It also stated that the EPFO needs to play a more innovative and proactive role, especially with a huge corpus fund at its disposal in mitigating the emergent needs of not only the members registered with it but workers in the Unorganised sectors too across the Country during unprecedented crisis like Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-342
08-08-2021||India||Moderate thundershower likely in Delhi on Sunday||The national capital witnessed a clear sky on Sunday morning with the minimum temperature settling at 26.8 degrees Celsius, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) The minimum temperature at the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for Delhi, settled at 26.8 degrees Celsius while the relative humidity recorded at 8.30 am was 83 per cent. The city received seven mm rainfall in the last 24 hours, according to IMD. The weather department has predicted generally cloudy sky with moderate rain or thundershowers later in the day with the maximum temperature likely to settle around 33 degrees Celsius. According to the MeT, Delhi is likely to receive normal rainfall -- 95 to 106 per cent of the long-period average -- in August. The national capital had witnessed uncharacteristically heavy rainfall and an irregular weather pattern in July. On Saturday, the national capital recorded a maximum temperature of 33.2 degrees Celsius, a notch below the season's normal while the minimum temperature stood at 27.3 degrees Celsius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
08-08-2021||India||India records 39,070 Covid-19 cases, 491 deaths||With 39,070 people testing positive for coronavirus infection, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,19,34,455, while the death toll climbed to 4,27,862 with 491 fresh fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The active cases have declined to 4,06,822 and comprise 1.27 per cent of the total infections. The national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 97.39 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A decrease of 5,331 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,10, 99,771, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. As many as 17,22,221 tests were conducted on Saturday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 48,00,39,185. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.27 per cent . It has been less than three per cent for the last 13 days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.38 per cent. Cumulatively 50.68 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Sunday morning. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 491 new fatalities include 139 from Kerala and 128 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,27,862 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,33,845 from Maharashtra, 36,773 from Karnataka, 34,289 from Tamil Nadu, 25,066 from Delhi, 22,773 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,217 from Bengal and 17,654 from Kerala. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
08-08-2021||India||Worker killed in factory wall collapse in Palghar||A worker was killed after the wall of a factory collapsed following a boiler blast in an adjoining unit at Palghar in Maharashtra, police said on Sunday. The incident took place in Waliv area of Palghar on Saturday, an official at the Mira-Bhayander Vasai-Virar police control room said. The powerful explosion in a boiler at an engineering unit rocked the area and caused the wall of an adjoining factory to crash, he said. A worker, identified as Mehmood Mohammad Khan (18), died on the spot, he said. Local firemen and police rushed to the spot for rescue and relief work. The body was sent for postmortem, the police said. The Waliv police have registered a case under various Indian Penal Code sections, including 304A (causing death by negligence), they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
08-08-2021||India||Planting trees to be part of Delhi University curriculum from upcoming academic session||Planting a tree will be part of the Delhi University curriculum from the upcoming academic session and the students will be the varsity’s “climate warriors”, acting vice-chancellor P.C. Joshi announced on Saturday. This will be applicable at the undergraduate, postgraduate and M.Phil/PhD levels, DU officials said. The programme will be scientifically monitored and evaluated by the respective colleges, centres and departments, they said. “Planting millions of suitable trees and creating a natural ecosystem… can be achieved faster through massive student participation. Every year, DU admits lakhs of students from different parts of the country and they will be our climate warriors,” Joshi said. Plants absorb many harmful pollutants, prevent soil erosion and landslides, said botanist and professor Dinabandhu Sahoo, Director of the Centre for Himalayan Studies and the brain behind the proposal. “Today, we are facing a major biosphere crisis and there are only 28 trees per person available in India while the global average is 422 trees per person,” he said. According to a DU notification, each student should plant at least one native tree species in their place of stay. “The student should submit GPS coordinates… along with the picture of plant to the respective college /department/centre. The picture should have a placard containing details such as name of the tree, name and course of the student, location and date of plantation,” the notification said. It said the student needs to take care of the tree through periodic monitoring. “Six-monthly monitoring report and photograph with some description of growth need to be submitted by the student,” the notification said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
08-08-2021||India||Resident doctors of six medical colleges observe 'Black Day' in Gujarat  ||Resident doctors of six medical colleges in Gujarat observed “Black Day” on Saturday after the state government dismissed their strike as “illegal” and threatened to invoke the Epidemic Diseases Act against them, while two colleges in Vadodara and Jamnagar ordered striking resident doctors to immediately vacate their hostels. At least 2,000 resident doctors in the state have been on strike since Wednesday protesting over the service bond period and implementation of the 7th Pay Commission recommendations. Medical students in government colleges in Gujarat sign a bond that requires them to serve in a rural area for one year after graduation. During the Covid surge in April, the government had announced that a day of Covid duty would be considered equivalent to two days of bond duty. This meant that doctors on Covid duty would be able to serve out their bond period in six months instead of one year. But in July, by when cases had dropped, the government rolled this back. “We are the same corona warriors who continued to go on duty without worrying about food. We ensured that Covid-19 patients were treated well. The same government, which showered petals on us for being corona warriors, is now treating us like this,” a striking resident doctor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
08-08-2021||India||Out of 1,080 sanctioned posts of high court judges, 416 are vacant: Chidambaram||Congress veteran P. Chidambaram has attributed the delay in filling up judicial posts to the Narendra Modi government’s desire to pick only sympathisers of its “retrograde philosophy and ideology”. Chidambaram, a senior lawyer, tweeted on Saturday: “Out of 1,080 sanctioned posts of High Court judges, 416 are vacant. There is a huge number of vacancies in Tribunals. Posts of Chairperson of several Tribunals are vacant! They include DRT, NCLAT, TDSAT, etc. Why is Modi Government that is ensconced in office for seven years not able or willing to fill these vacancies? The country is not short of lawyers and judges qualified to fill these vacancies. The real reason is the Government is looking for persons who will sympathise with its retrograde philosophy and ideology.” The Supreme Court has time and again prodded the government to fill the large number of vacant posts in the judiciary, accusing the Centre of sitting on collegium recommendations. Former Chief Justices of India have periodically flagged the issue. On Friday, the Supreme Court had pulled up the government for the vacancies at the tribunals. The government too has acknowledged the massive vacancies in the judiciary. The Congress has often accused the RSS-BJP of packing institutions and academia with people who are close to them ideologically. However, this is the first time someone has tied judicial appointments to the government’s ideological leanings. There have been no judicial appointments to the Supreme Court and several high courts since 2020. A Supreme Court bench headed by then Chief Justice S.A. Bobde had remarked earlier this year that high courts across the country were in a “state of crisis” due to vacancies. Former Supreme Court judge Madan V. Lokur recently wrote an article expressing the fear that it could be too late to fix the problems in the judiciary if appointments were not made immediately. According to the Union law ministry website, there are eight vacant judges’ posts in the Supreme Court at the moment. Two judges are to retire soon. The sanctioned strength of the Supreme Court is 34 while the working strength is 26 now. There are 455 vacancies in the high courts, according to the ministry. The sanctioned strength of the high courts is 1,098, but there are presently 643 judges, the website says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
08-08-2021||India||Covid: Protests at Kerala govt’s vaccine dose or test rule||The Kerala government’s revised unlock guidelines that make at least one Covid vaccine dose or a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours mandatory to enter shops and other commercial establishments has been skewered from all quarters. Opposition parties, traders and common people have pointed out that more than 58 per cent of the state’s residents are yet to receive a dose of vaccine. Moreover, the cost of an RT-PCR test at private establishments ranges from Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,700, not to mention the hassles and risks involved in standing in queues amid sharply increasing Covid cases to get it done frequently. While the government yielded to sustained pressure from the Opposition and a powerful traders’ body to allow commercial establishments to open six days a week from a maximum of three, critics say the conditions laid down for shoppers have effectively negated the benefits. Anyone wanting to enter a shop, bank or other commercial establishments would now need to have taken at least one shot of vaccine or produce an RT-PCR certificate not older than 72 hours. In municipal and panchayat wards reporting at least 100 cases per 1,000 population, only emergency services are being allowed. The latest set of restrictions came in the wake of the Supreme Court pulling up the Kerala government for allowing all commercial establishments to open from June 18 to 20. The new set of Covid rules has received flak from the Congress-led United Democratic Front that walked out of the Assembly on three successive days from Wednesday seeking immediate relaxation of the norms. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan accused the Left government of failing to understand the woes of the people. “As much as 57.86 per cent of the state’s population haven’t even receive the first shot of vaccine,” he told the Assembly on Friday before staging a walkout. According to the state health department’s website, 41.72 per cent of Kerala’s three crore population have received at least one vaccine dose. Kerala has become the country’s Covid epicentre, reporting more than 20,000 daily cases for over a week and making up half of India’s caseload. Health minister Veena George justified the restrictions, saying they were required to fend off the highly contagious Delta variant of the coronavirus. “These restrictions have been suggested by the expert committee (of the state government) and we cannot offer any more relaxations at the moment,” she said. The Metropolitan of the Niranam Diocese of the Malankara Orthodox Church, Geevarghese Coorilos, questioned the “common sense” of the expert committee in a Facebook post. “Haven’t any of these expert committee members taken vaccines for common sense?” he wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
08-08-2021||India||Covid: India’s drug regulatory authority approves Johnson & Johnson’s single-dose vaccine ||India’s drug regulatory authority on Saturday approved Johnson & Johnson’s single-dose Covid-19 vaccine, raising the count in the country’s basket to five, but the quantum of doses to be available for India remains unspecified. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation has issued emergency use authorisation (EUA) for the J&J vaccine that qualified for rapid approval under new rules crafted earlier this year for vaccines already approved by regulatory authorities in Europe, the UK and the US. The J&J vaccine will be domestically produced by the Hyderabad-based vaccine maker Biological E under a pact signed last year with J&J. However, J&J indicated on Saturday it is too early to specify timelines or doses for India. “While we look forward to meeting our delivery commitments, it is premature for us to speculate on the timing of our vaccine deliveries,” a J&J India spokesperson told The Telegraph. The J&J product is the fifth Covid-19 vaccine to receive EUA in India, after approvals to AstraZeneca-Serum Institute’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin in January, Russia’s Sputnik-V in April, and Moderna’s vaccine in June. But India’s vaccination campaign is currently relying almost entirely on Covishield and Covaxin with limited stocks of Sputnik V. Covishield made up around 442 million, Covaxin around 62 million, and Sputnik V less than 600,000 among the 505 million doses administered until Saturday morning. Health experts tracking Covid-19 vaccine supplies worldwide had predicted earlier this year that India was unlikely to receive large volumes of doses from foreign vaccine manufacturers during much of 2021 because it had not invested in advance purchases as many other countries had done last year. The health ministry has said it expects India to have access to 1,350 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines between August and December this year with which it will be able to vaccinate all adults -- an estimated 943 million people by year-end.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
08-08-2021||India||Odisha needs additional 55,000 Plus-II level seats||As many as 55,000 additional seats will be required at the Plus Two level in Odisha this year after a record number of students passed the matriculation examination. Nearly 6.07 lakh students have passed the matriculation examination this year surpassing the number of seats available in government and private Plus Two colleges, Industrial Training Institutes and other polytechnic institutions in the state. The pass percentage touched 97.89 per cent in the Class X examination conducted by the Board of Secondary Education, Odisha. The students were evaluated on the basis of their performance in Class IX and the pre-board examination conducted by their respective schools because physical exams could not be held owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Some students who were not satisfied with their marks were allowed to sit for the offline examination. Their results would be declared this week. Similarly, 99.62 per cent students from Odisha passed the Class X exam of the CBSE and 99.98 per cent cleared the ICSE exam. Odisha school and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Dash told The Telegraph: “Both the government, private and residential colleges across the state have applied for increasing their seats by 55,000 this year. We will consider the proposal after thoroughly scrutinising each college’s demand. Our inspection teams will visit the colleges and give us a detailed report.” While the state government will face less hurdles to increase seats in the arts and commerce streams, its tough to increase seats in the science stream without adequate infrastructure support, sources said. “We have to consider all aspects, including creating adequate infrastructure like laboratory facilities which are needed for science stream students. We will examine the infrastructure available in the private colleges and self-financing institutes before allowing them to increase the number of seats,” Dash said. A teachers’ association leader Pabitra Mahala said: “The colleges at the Plus Two level are functioning with an acute shortage of staff. At this time, increasing the number of seats to accommodate students will mean adding to the burden of teachers. The quality of education will be compromised.” He added: “Plus Two and Plus Three colleges are functioning on a single campus with limited infrastructure. With the number of seats increasing overnight, many issues will crop up. It would now be a major challenge for the college authorities to provide necessary facilities to the students.” Social activist Basudev Bhatt, who works in the field of education, said: “We have no problem if the government colleges increase the number of seats. But we will certainly raise the issue if the state allows private colleges to increase seats. The government needs to thoroughly examine the infrastructure to be provided by them to students. No underhand transaction should be encouraged to increase seats.” The state government on Saturday said the admission process for the Plus Two level is likely to begin from the third week of August. “Last year, it commenced on August 21. But this year we are likely to start it on August 16. The exact date of admission will be notified very soon,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-343
