09-08-2021||India||Nitish Kumar hints at state-specific plan for caste census if left with no alternatives||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Monday asserted that his strong pitch for a caste-based census was driven by social, and not political, concerns. Talking to reporters on the sidelines of his weekly public interaction programme here, Kumar, who is the de facto leader of the Janata Dal (United), also disclosed that his letter seeking an appointment with Prime Minister Narendra Modi had been dispatched last week and a response to the same was awaited. I have learnt that my letter had reached the Prime Minister's Office on August 4. I am looking forward to a response, said Kumar. He had expressed agreement to suggestions that he should meet Modi heading a delegation comprising leaders of all parties in the state. It is not a political issue. It is a social issue. A reason why the demand (for caste census) has found resonance in many states. The reason why we have agreed to an all-party delegation is that in Bihar there is unanimity on the issue. Resolutions to the effect have been passed in the legislature unanimously twice, he said. He also reiterated that if left with no alternatives, his government could consider holding a state-specific survey of castes through a census, the terms of which could be decided only by the Centre, would be the most preferable option. Fresh demands for caste census have been triggered by a statement by the Centre in Parliament recently that an exercise to ascertain the population of only SCs and STs was under consideration. This has led to a churn in the politics of Bihar where most prominent political leaders, including Kumar and his arch-rival Lalu Prasad, belong to the numerically powerful OBCs. Prasad's RJD is, predictably, as much in favour of the census making a headcount of castes other than SCs and STs as Kumar. The BJP, which has, on the state level, in the past seconded the demand, now seems to be equivocal in view of a different stance adopted by its top leadership. Kumar, nonetheless, insisted, We must state before the Centre what we think and feel on the issue. It is for the Centre to decide whether to accept our contention or not. The last time a caste census was held was way back in 1931. A fresh exercise will help in bringing the fruits of good governance to the deprived sections in a more effective manner. Observing that implementation of reservations for OBCs in accordance with recommendations of the Mandal Commission has been profound in its implications, Kumar pointed out that his government has tried to follow it up with efforts to reduce gender disparity through quotas for women.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
09-08-2021||India||Ashwani Upadhyay to be interrogated over anti-Muslim slogans raised at Jantar Mantar||Supreme Court lawyer and former Delhi BJP spokesperson Ashwani Upadhyay is likely to be questioned over the anti-Muslim slogans raised at a protest he allegedly organised at Delhi's Jantar Mantar today, sources in Delhi Police have said. He is one of the four suspects identified in the case.  Sources said the Delhi Police have summoned Upadhyay. The lawyer, who was in Ghaziabad, will have to appear before the police at the Connaught Place station tonight. Sources said raids are currently on in the city to zero in on the other suspects. According to NDTV report, the videos of a group shouting violent anti-Muslim slogans at Jantar Mantar -- the landmark 18th Century observatory at the heart of the city which is now a protest site -- surfaced today. But despite their being widely circulated no social media, no arrest was made till late evening. In the clips circulating on social media, "Ram, Ram" chants are heard along with slogans threatening Muslims. "Hindustan mein rehna hoga jai shri ram kehna hoga (To stay in India, must say Jai Shri Ram)," shout people at the rally held barely a km from parliament. No policemen were present at the site. The police claim they had denied permission for the protest in view of Covid but a crowd had turned up. The slogans were shouted in the presence of Narsinghanand Saraswati, a priest notorious for communal hate speeches. TV actor and BJP leader Gajendra Chauhan was also reportedly a part of the protest. Upadhyay -- who allegedly organised the protest against colonial laws -- said he had no idea who the people shouting slogans were and that he was ready to appear before the police any time tomorrow. In a statement, Upadhyay said the program was organised by Save India Foundation. "I don't have any relation with Save India Foundation Trust. I was a guest like RVS Mani, Firoz Bakht Ahmed, Gajendra Chauhan. We reached at around 11:00 and left at 12:00. I never met these miscreants. I wish to meet you tomorrow morning to give my written statement," his statement read. Earlier Upadhyay said he was not aware of the videos.  "Neither was I there when this happened, nor am I aware nor did I invite these people. This must have happened after I left. Strict action must be taken against those we can see in the videos," he told reporters. Only five or six people were shouting slogans and that too while dispersing after the march, he said, adding that such slogans should not have been raised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
09-08-2021||India||BJP earned Rs 2,555 crore or 76% of total electoral bonds in 2019-20||The BJP has gathered a whopping 76 per cent of the electoral bonds sold in the financial year 2019-20, shows data accessed by NDTV from the Election Commission. Altogether electoral bonds worth Rs 3,355 crore were sold in 2019-20, of which the BJP income was Rs 2,555 crore. This was a 75 per cent per cent jump on the Rs 1,450 crore it received through the electoral bonds the previous year. In an NDTV exclusive it was revealed that, in the same period, the collections of the Congress dropped by 17 per cent. In 2018-19, the Congress had received Rs 383 crore from electoral bonds. In 2019-10, it received Rs 318 crore - 9 per cent of the total electoral bonds. Of the rest of the opposition, Mamata Banerjee's Trinamool Congress collected Rs 100.46 crore, Sharad Pawar's Nationalist Congress Party Rs 29.25 crore, Shiv Sena Rs 41 crore, the DMK Rs 45 crore, Lalu Yadav's Rashtriya Janata Dal Rs 2.5 crore and Arvind Kejriwal's Aam Aadmi Party Rs 18 crore. In the financial year ending in March 2019, the BJP's income was more than twice that of its five major rivals put together. The BJP alone has received 68 per cent of the electoral bonds sold since inception till March 2020. The party, though, consistently had the highest income among all political parties long before the bonds came in. Electoral bonds, which were introduced by the government in 2017-2018 in face of major political opposition, allows individuals as well as corporations -- including those partly owned by foreign entities -- to fund political parties anonymously. Altogether, political parties showed a sharp rise in income after the introduction of the anonymous donation system was introduced. Before its introduction, the Congress had argued that though the bonds, the government was making "corruption official". The government had argued that it would improve transparency as they were banking instruments and every political party will have to disclose how much money they received.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
09-08-2021||India||Saurav Soni, a verified social media influencer across many apps, talks about staying unique and upping the social media game||It is a competitive space with many rising influencers; hence, it is essential to always think out of the box as influencers, says the youngster. Amongst the many things that have turned people's heads and attracted their attention, the rise of many social media influencers and content creators have made the most headlines. Understanding the immense opportunities, the digital platforms could provide and optimizing and utilizing the same, a few youngsters have thrilled people with their successes by becoming social media influencers. The pandemic did disrupt many industries; however, on a positive side, it also helped grow many other industries and businesses by giving opportunities to them digitally. The social media craze has also doubled, especially after the pandemic, which has given birth to many talented beings in the form of content creators and influencers. One such name is Saurav Soni, a Delhi-based youngster who has given his all to achieve the staggering success he enjoys today across various short-video apps with having a verified profile. The competition was always rising in these platforms, according to Saurav Soni, but he points out that now things have become more competitive, as more and more people have realized that social media platforms are not just social platforms, but could also help them build their careers. Talking about the same, Saurav Soni says, "Budding talents must up their game in social media as influencers and content creators to create their unique space amongst much saturation." Saurav Soni, an MBA in event management and the owner of his event management agency, wants to explain to people that getting into untouched niches and consistently honing one's skills helps influencers to stand apart from others. He emphasizes that thinking out of the box, adding more innovativeness in content and being consistent with the same will help influencers achieve success. He also says that he dived deep into multiple niches like fitness, food, lifestyle and fashion, and always kept the entertainment quotient high on all the content he created across apps, which helped him create his unique niche as a social media influencer. Acing so many niches across so many short-video apps has what garnered him a massive over 17 million followers. After becoming a TikTok star, Saurav Soni (sauravsoniofficial07) created his name across apps like Roposo, Zili, Likee, Gaana Hotshots, Helo etc. and has even become a verified social media influencer on Facebook. Sourav's link: https://instagram.com/sauravsoniofficial?utm_medium=copy_link||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
09-08-2021||India||Health department employee nabbed for selling Covid-19 doses illegally in Maharashtra||A person attached to the Maharashtra health department was detained on Monday for allegedly selling Covid-19 vaccine doses illegally in Sajapur area of Aurangabad, police said. Later in the evening, state Health Minister Rajesh Tope ordered a probe. "I had received complaints that vaccines of a government centre in Aurangabad were being sold in the market. I have ordered Aurangabad district health officer to conduct an inquiry and submit a report. Strict action will be taken against those responsible," Tope told reporters in Jalna. The man was selling these doses in a room some 20-25 kilometres away from Waluj primary health centre in the Aurangabad district and he was held following a tip-off, an official said. "We have seized an empty bottle of Covishield vaccine as well as fresh and used syringes. We have found a list of 10 people to who he gave doses to. Our probe has found he would contact labour contractors in the industrial area here promising to get their people vaccinated for a sum of Rs 300 each," Inspector Madhukar Sawant of MIDC Waluj police station told PTI. The man has been detained and the process of registering a case was underway, while the probe had begun to find out from where he sourced these vials, Sawant added. Meanwhile, Tope said cases of Delta Plus variant were found in Aurangabad and Beed districts, part of the Marathwada region, besides in some other cities. "145 samples were checked in which 30 cases of Delta Plus variants were detected at one time in Maharashtra," he added. A total of 45 cases of the Delta plus variant of coronavirus were reported in the state during genome sequencing, the health department said on Sunday. One patient had died. At 13, the maximum number of these patients hailed from Jalgaon in north Maharashtra followed by Ratnagiri (11) in the coastal Konkan region. The 45 patients are from Jalgaon (13), Ratnagiri (11), Mumbai (6), Thane (5), Pune (3), and one each from Palghar, Sindhudurg, Sangli. Nandurbar, Aurangabad, Kolhapur, and Beed, the department had said in a statement. "So far 45 cases of Delta Plus variant have been reported from across Maharashtra. But there is no need to worry. Immediate measures such as taking the travel history of infected persons and the vaccination status are being taken. Contact tracing and testing are being done," Tope added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
09-08-2021||India||Foreigners are eligible for Covid vaccination in India, says govt||To ensure safety from COVID-19, the Union Health Ministry has taken a decision to allow foreign nationals residing in India to register on CoWin portal and get vaccinated against the disease. They can use their passport as identity document for the purpose of registration on CoWIN portal, the health ministry said in a statement. Once they are registered on this portal, they will get a slot for vaccination. According to the statement, a significant number of foreign nationals are living in India, especially in large metropolitan areas. In these areas, the potential of spread of COVID-19 is high due to higher population density. To counter any possibility of such occurrence, it is important to vaccinate all eligible persons. "In a landmark initiative to ensure safety from COVID-19, the Ministry of Health has taken a decision to allow foreign nationals residing in India to get registered on CoWin portal to take COVID-19 vaccine. "This initiative will ensure the safety of foreign nationals residing in India. It will also bring down the possibilities of further transfer of infection from unvaccinated persons residing in India. It will also ensure overall safety from further transmission of coronavirus," the ministry said in the statement. The national COVID-19 vaccination programme is being implemented across all states and union territories since January 16, 2021. The vaccination programme in its current phase covers all citizens aged 18 years and above. As on August 9, 2021, India has administered more than 51 crore vaccine doses across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
09-08-2021||India||Devendra Fadnavis meets Amit Shah over OBC Bill||Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis met Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday to urge him for the passage of a Constitution amendment Bill, which seeks to restore the states' power to identify backward classes, in the ongoing session of Parliament. Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Virendra Kumar later introduced the Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill, 2021, in the Lok Sabha and the government is expected to push for its passage in the House on Tuesday amid expressions of support to it from most parties, including the opposition. Fadnavis also faulted the Maharashtra government's handling of the legal challenge to the state's move to provide reservation to the Marathas, saying it was found wanting in defending the decision in the Supreme Court which had quashed the quota order for the politically and socially powerful caste in the state. "I requested (Shah) that the bill should be passed in this session. I will urge all political parties, including those who have caused the logjam in Parliament, to support this measure for the OBC welfare and pass the bill unanimously," the BJP leader told reporters in the Parliament complex. Asked about Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's reported call that the current 50 per cent ceiling on quota be removed so that Marathas can be given reservation, Fadnavis accused the Shiv Sena leader of shying away from his responsibility and said his demand and the bill are two completely unrelated issues. Once passed by Parliament, the Bill will give states the power to identify a backward community so that it can be provided with reservation benefits, he noted. The bill was necessitated after the Supreme Court had dismissed the Centre's plea seeking a review of its May 5 majority verdict that held that the 102nd Constitution amendment took away the states' power to notify socially and educationally backward classes for the grant of quota in jobs and admissions. On May 5, a five-judge Constitution bench of the Supreme Court, headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, had unanimously set aside a Maharashtra law granting quota to Marathas and refused to refer the 1992 Mandal verdict that put a 50-per cent cap on reservation to a larger bench. The Centre has insisted that it never meant to take away the power of states amid the opposition parties' charge that it had targeted the federal structure by taking away the power of the states to identify and list the OBCs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
09-08-2021||India||SC prods Centre on finalising date of counselling for NEET-MDS admissions||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre to apprise it by August 11 when it will conduct counselling for the NEET-MDS admissions for which exams were held on December 16, 2020. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said that now that the Centre has approved OBC reservation in medical seats when it will conduct the counselling. Additional Solicitor General K M Nataraj, appearing for the Centre, said that it will need two weeks to work out the modalities and issue a notification in this regard. "What is this. We have read last week that the Centre has approved the OBC quota. Now again you will take it to October or November. We will not allow this. You please tell us by Wednesday when you are going to conduct the counselling. We are listing the matter as the first item. You apprise us," the bench said. On July 29, the Centre has approved announced a 27-per cent quota for OBCs and 10 per cent reservation for the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) category in the All-India Quota (AIQ) scheme for undergraduate and postgraduate medical and dental courses from the current academic year, 2021-22. On July 12, the top court had taken strong note of delay in holding the counselling; saying the Centre and others have been dilly-dallying for a year now. It had said that these are qualified BDS students and why has Centre not held the counselling since last year. The doctors, having Bachelor in Dental Surgery (BDS) degree, had appeared in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET)-MDS conducted on December 16 last year by the National Board of Examination (NBE) for admission to the Master in Dental Surgery (MDS) course. Besides the Centre and MCC, the bench had earlier also issued the notices to the Dental Council of India and the National Board of Examination (NBE). The plea, filed through lawyer Tanvi Dubey, said that these doctors are challenging the unjust and infinite delay caused by the MCC in announcing the counselling schedule for NEET-MDS, 2021. The plea also sought a direction to the MCC to conduct a separate counselling for the NEET-MDS 2021. The results for admissions in PG courses for BDS candidates were also declared on the scheduled date, that is on December 31, 2020. However, after the declaration of the result, i.e., on 31.12.2020 until today i.e. 23.06.2021, there is no update regarding the counselling. It is most respectfully submitted that umpteen efforts were made by the Petitioners to get in touch with the Respondents in order to get an idea about the schedule of the counselling. However, there has been no update about the date of the commencement of the counselling, the plea said. It said the dentists, who are also registered with state Dental Council, have obtained provisional or permanent registration and have also undergone compulsory rotatory internship of a year in an approved or recognised dental college. That around 30,000 BDS (dental) graduates appeared for the NEET-MDS conducted for admission to over 6,500 seats in the country and till date there has been no update for admissions in PG courses, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
09-08-2021||India|| At UN, Modi highlights roadmap for maritime security  ||Chairing a high-level United Nations Security Council open debate, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday put forward five principles, including removing barriers for maritime trade and peaceful settlement of disputes, on the basis of which a global roadmap for maritime security cooperation can be prepared. In his statement while chairing the debate on "Enhancing Maritime Security - A Case for International Cooperation" via video conferencing, Modi highlighted that maritime routes were being misused for terrorism and piracy. He stressed that the oceans are the world's common heritage and sea routes the lifeline of international trade. Underlining that the countries' shared maritime heritage is facing many challenges, the prime minister put forward five principles on the basis of which, he said, a global roadmap for maritime security cooperation can be prepared. "We should remove barriers for legitimate maritime trade. Global prosperity depends on the active flow of maritime trade. Any hindrance in maritime trade can threaten the global economy," Modi said elaborating the first principle. The second principle, he said, was that the settlement of maritime disputes should be peaceful and on the basis of international law. "This is very important for mutual trust and confidence. This is the only way we can ensure global peace and stability," he said. Modi said the third key principle was that the global community should together face natural disasters and maritime threats created by non-State actors. India has taken several steps to enhance regional cooperation on this subject, he added. Preserving the maritime environment and maritime resources, and encouraging responsible maritime connectivity were the fourth and fifth principles enunciated by the prime minister. Modi is the first Indian prime minister to preside over a UN Security Council Open Debate, according to the Prime Minister's Office. The meeting was being attended by several heads of state and government of member states of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC), and high-level briefers from the UN system and key regional organisations. The open debate was focussed on ways to effectively counter maritime crime and insecurity, and strengthen coordination in the maritime domain. The UN Security Council has discussed and passed resolutions on different aspects of maritime security and maritime crime in the past. However, this is the first time that maritime security was discussed in a holistic manner as an exclusive agenda item in such a high-level open debate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
09-08-2021||India||No transaction with Pegasus maker, says Ministry of Defence to Parliament||No transaction has been made with Israeli firm NSO group Technologies stated the defence ministry while responding to a question raised by CPM MP Dr V Sivadasan at the Rajya Sabha. The Left leader had asked if any transaction had been made by the government with the Pegasus software maker and if so then he had asked for the details The written response issued by the ministry, according to an NDTV report, read. ‘has not had any transaction with NSO Group Technologies’. The statement was made by junior defence minister Ajay Bhat. The government till date has maintained that no illegal surveillance has been done. However, the Opposition has not been satisfied by this answer. They have been protesting against the Pegasus snooping issue since the news broke. They have been asking if the government had got into a contract with Israeli firm and had snooped on certain citizens. Significantly, as per Indian law, for issues related to surveillance, it is the Union Home Ministry and the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology that is involved and not the defence ministry. The Opposition has been building pressure, seeking an answer since the media reported a number of politicians, journalists, activists and other individuals being targets of Pegasus surveillance. The report mentioned about the Pegasus row reaching the Supreme Court. A number of petitions calling for independent probe into the snooping issue and the alleged contract with the firm. According to the report 14 opposition parties have demanded for a discussion in the parliament on the Pegasus issue. Stressing that the matter concerns national security they have demanded for the Home Minister Amit Shah respond on the issue. They have also demanded for PM Narendra Modi to address the issue at the parliament’s Monsoon session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
09-08-2021||India||Ashok Gehlot opposes the Sabarmati Ashram redevelopment project||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday opposed the Sabarmati Ashram redevelopment project, saying the Gujarat government's decision to construct a museum by "demolishing" the ashram is shocking and uncalled for. Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad is associated with Mahatma Gandhi, who had spent 13 years of his life at the facility from 1917 to 1930. The Gujarat government has proposed to redevelop Sabarmati Ashram under the Rs 1,200 crore Gandhi Ashram Memorial and Precinct Development Project'. Gehlot said people visit the holy site to see how Mahatma Gandhi lived a simple life and yet orchestrated an enormous freedom movement by taking along every section of society. "The decision of the Gujarat government to make a museum by demolishing Sabarmati Ashram is shocking and uncalled for," Gehlot said in a statement shared on Twitter in which he urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reconsider the project. Prime Minister Narendra Modi must intervene and reconsider the decision and protect the historical ashram, Gehlot said. Gehlot said the ashram is known for its harmony and ideas of fraternity and people from within the country and abroad don't wish to see any world class buildings over there. "Visitors admire the simplicity and the ideals of the place - that's why it is called an ashram - not a place to be called a museum," he said. The chief minister further said, "Destroying the sanity and dignity of the ashram is a disrespect to the father of the nation. It seems that the decision is driven by a political motive to change everything that is related to Gandhi ji." Gehlot said the future generations will not forgive those who try to destroy the country's rich heritage, culture, and traditions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
09-08-2021||India||Singh questions Mamata's intention in opposing Electricity Bill||Power Minister R K Singh on Monday raised doubts over the intention of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in opposing the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021, asking why she wants to protect monopoly in electricity distribution. Last week, Banerjee had reportedly wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, protesting against the government's plan to introduce the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021, in Parliament in the ongoing monsoon session despite reservations raised by the states. She had called the new amendments anti-people . When asked about the letter, Singh told reporters, Why does she (Banerjee) want to protect monopoly in the power distribution sector especially when Kolkata has one of the highest electricity tariffs in country?" Singh also said the Bill is intended to end private as well as government monopoly in the power distribution sector by de-licensing the segment. The Union minister would soon write a letter to address the concerns raised by Banerjee. He has planned to write such letter to West Bengal as well as Kerala governments to explain about the salient features of the Bill and its benefits for ordinary consumers. Once the Bill becomes a law, the power distribution would be de-licensed and consumers will have an option to choose power supply service providers just like they have in the telecom sector. The telecom consumers can port their mobile numbers with different services providers. But, such facility is not available in the power supply service, and consumers are subject to expensive and inefficient monopolies. The minister will also explain other provisions like cross-subsidies and renewable purchase obligation in his letter to the two states. Singh has also said, Licence Raj has to go, so that investors can come in this sector. If no investment comes then we are in darkness." He also assured that the fixed cost for power distribution companies would be protected, and said there would be a ceiling tariff to protect the interest of consumers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
09-08-2021||India||Opposition stages walkout as Rajya Sabha takes up taxation amendment bill||Rajya Sabha Monday took up The Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, with Opposition Congress, DMK and TMC staging a walkout, saying adequate time was not given to them to prepare for a discussion on the proposed legislation. The bill was listed in the supplementary agenda for the day. When the House assembled at 3.30 pm after a brief adjournment, Leader of Opposition and Congress MP Mallikarjun Kharge protested against the taking up of the bill, saying the supplementary agenda was circulated at 2.15 pm. He said the members of the House cannot do justice during the debate on bill which gets circulate only a few hours before being taken up. "We cannot support such wrong practice. We are walking out, Kharge said. Responding to this, Leader of the House and Union Minister Piyush Goyal said it was not the first time that a supplementary agenda was circulated. He also said the Taxation Amendment Bill as well as The Central Universities (Amendment) Bill, 2021 (listed in supplementary agenda) were in national interest. Sukhendu Sekhar Ray of the TMC and Tiruchi Siva of the DMK too joined the issue with Kharge, and their parties staged a walkout. In the meanwhile, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman moved The Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill for consideration and return. The money bill was passed by Lok Sabha last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
09-08-2021||India||Congress accuses Twitter of violating freedom of expression||After Rahul Gandhi's account was temporarily suspended and a tweet deleted, the Congress on Monday accused Twitter of adopting "double standards" and violating the freedom of expression "under the diktat of the Modi Government". The action by Twitter was condemned at a meeting of party general secretaries on Sunday evening, where the leaders decided to take up this matter at all levels. Congress general secretary, Organisation, K C Venugopal said the issue of temporary suspension of Rahul Gandhi's Twitter account was discussed at the meeting of general secretaries, in-charges and PCC presidents. The party also claimed that the Twitter handle of INC-TV was also suspended this morning. "The atrocious stance is nothing but another instance of anti-SC and anti-women mindset and inherent prejudice of the Modi Government as also a violation of freedom of expression by the Twitter India under the diktat of Modi Government. All present universally condemned this prejudicial mindset of BJP and decided to take up this matter at all levels," he said in a statement later. The opposition party had on Sunday alleged that Twitter acted in haste due to "pressure" from the Indian government and was "selective" in removing Rahul Gandhi's tweet and "suspending" his account for putting up pictures of the nine-year-old Dalit rape victim's family after he met them in Delhi as no action was taken against some other handles which carried the similar pictures. "The double standard of Twitter is too obvious as statutory commissions, BJP leaders and those holding statutory offices had put up similar pictures on Twitter on 2nd and 3rd August, two days before Rahulji's visit," Venugopal said on Monday. The Congress leader said it was resolved that we will continue the fight undeterred until securing justice for the family. "Instead of curtailing atrocities against Dalits across the country, the prime minister and the government are up to suppress the voice of leaders like Rahul Gandhi who are in the forefront to fight for justice," he said. The Indian Youth Congress also staged a protest in the national capital against Twitter India for blocking Rahul Gandhi's account. "The double standards of Twitter India continue. Even as accounts raising a voice for justice continue getting blocked, Twitter handles related to the govt like @NCSC_GoI & @anjubalabjp face no action for posting the same images," the Congress said on its official Twitter handle. Remember, truth and justice always prevail," the party said while showing a picture of the blocked account of INC-TV. "To Twitter India, we say, 'Daro Mat'," the Congress tweeted on Sunday with an image alleging that the Modi government is "intimidating" Twitter to lock Rahul Gandhi's account "for demanding justice for Delhi rape victim".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
09-08-2021||India||Go out only when necessary till case is over, says Delhi court to Unnao rape survivor||A Delhi court on Monday directed the Unnao rape survivor, who has been provided security by the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), to step out only when necessary until the case is over and inform her personal security officers before going out. District and Sessions Judge Dharmesh Sharma issued the directions on an application filed by the rape survivor in which she alleged harassment by the personal security officers. She also told the court that they were curtailing her movements and not allowing her to enjoy her liberties. Taking note of her submissions, the judge said "inform them [security officers] before going out. They are deputed for your security. You must plan in a way that you don't have to venture out every day. Go out only when necessary. You must take precautions until the case is over." The court also noted that the survivor and her personal security officers have agreed to amicably resolve the issue. The judge added, “For now, the prosecutrix is impressed upon to ensure that whenever she or family members wish to go outside Delhi in connection with any pending case, they would communicate it to CRPF Assistant Commandant so that proper security arrangements and escorts could be made.” The court further said likewise, in case she or family members wish to meet their counsel for the pending cases, they would make sincere efforts to inform the schedule a day before. The woman was kidnapped and raped by expelled BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar in 2017 when she was a minor. On December 20, 2019, Sengar was sentenced to jail for the "remainder of his natural biological life in the rape case. In 2019, the apex court had directed that the survivor, her mother, and other members of the family be provided security by the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
09-08-2021||India||UK HC grants Nirav Modi permission to appeal on depression, suicide risk grounds||A High Court judge in London on Monday granted fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi permission to appeal against a magistrates' court order in favour of extradition to India to face charges of fraud and money laundering before the Indian courts on mental health and human rights grounds. Justice Martin Chamberlain delivered his verdict remotely under COVID-19 rules to conclude that the arguments presented by the 50-year-old diamond merchant's legal team concerning his severe depression and high risk of suicide were arguable at a substantial hearing. He also noted that the adequacy of the measures capable of preventing successful suicide attempts at Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai, where Nirav Modi is to be detained upon extradition, also fall within the arguable ambit. "At this stage, the question for me is simply whether the appellant's case on these grounds is reasonably arguable. In my judgment, it is. I will grant permission to appeal on Grounds 3 and 4," Justice Chamberlain's ruling notes. Grounds 3 and 4 relate to Article 3 of the European Convention of Human Rights (ECHR), or the right to life, liberty and security, and Section 91 of the UK's Criminal Justice Act 2003 related to fitness to plead. The judge noted that the arguments made under both grounds overlap in this case as they both rely principally on the appellant, Nirav Modi's mental ill health. "I will not restrict the basis on which those grounds can be argued, though it seems to me that there should be a particular focus on whether the judge was wrong to reach the conclusion he did, given the evidence as to the severity of the appellant's [Nirav Modi's] depression, the high risk of suicide and the adequacy of any measures capable of preventing successful suicide attempts in Arthur Road prison," the ruling notes. Permission to appeal on all other grounds was declined and the case will now proceed for a substantive hearing before the High Court in London under Grounds 3 and 4. The diamond merchant, wanted in India to face charges of fraud and money laundering in the estimated USD 2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case, meanwhile remains at Wandsworth Prison in south-west London. Nirav Modi is the subject of two sets of criminal proceedings, with the CBI case relating to a large-scale fraud upon PNB through the fraudulent obtaining of letters of undertaking (LoUs) or loan agreements, and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) case relating to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud. He also faces two additional charges of "causing the disappearance of evidence" and intimidating witnesses or criminal intimidation to cause death , which were added to the CBI case. India is a designated Part 2 country by virtue of the Extradition Act 2003, which means it is the UK Cabinet minister who has the authority to order a requested person's extradition after all legal issues are dealt with in the courts. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-338
09-08-2021||India||Farmers' Jantar Mantar protest to end on Monday evening||The anti-farm law protesters will culminate their demonstration at the Jantar Mantar on Monday evening after passing a 'no confidence motion' against the Centre and not seek permission from Delhi Police to extend the stir here any further, an office bearer of a participant peasants' union said. The 'Kisan Sansad' called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers' unions, at Jantar Mantar near Parliament will also call for the resignation of the Narendra Modi government over not repealing the contentious farm laws. However, the protests against the BJP-led Centre, which started nearly nine months ago, shall continue at Delhi's border points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, an office-bearer of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), a part of the SKM, said The farmers' unions through their 'Kisan Sansad' will pass a 'no confidence motion' for the government, demanding resignation of the BJP-led dispensation. This government no longer deserves the trust of the people, including the farmers, and has no right to continue in power, BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik told PTI. The Delhi Police had granted permission for the protest at Jantar Mantar from July 22 till August 9 with a maximum of 200 protesters at the site. A senior police officer said, "Today is the last day of the protest by farmers at Jantar Mantar here. As per permission given, they held their protest peacefully for all these days and will leave Jantar Mantar after their protest this (Monday) evening." The protestors, otherwise, have been camping at Delhi's border points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur since November 2020 with a demand that the Centre repeal the three farm laws introduced last year. On this very day (August 9) several years ago, Indians had called for the British to quit India, today we are calling for the BJP to leave (the seat of) power, Malik said, referring to the landmark 1942 episode of the national freedom movement. We are not going to seek any further permission for the protest at Jantar Mantar because the government is just not concerned. We will pass the 'no confidence motion' against it and return to the (Delhi) borders where protest will continue until our demands are met, he added. In parliamentary parlance, a government can be in power only as long as it commands a mandate in Lok Sabha. In the event of a no-confidence motion against it, the government has to prove its majority in the directly-elected house. The 'Kisan Sansad', a symbolic body created by the demonstrators at the Jantar Mantar under the banner of the SKM, was held to protest against the Centre over the contentious laws amid the ongoing monsoon session of parliament. Hundreds of farmers are encamped at Delhi's borders since November 2020 with a demand that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price (MSP) for crops. However, the government, which has held 11 rounds of formal dialogue with the protestors, has maintained that the laws are pro-farmer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
09-08-2021||India||Constitution amendment bill tabled in Lok Sabha to restore states' rights on OBC list||Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Virendra Kumar introduced the Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill, 2021 in the Lok Sabha on Monday. The bill seeks to restore the states' power to make their own OBC lists. In the statement of objects and reasons, Kumar said in order to adequately clarify that the states and Union territories are empowered to prepare and maintain their own list of SEBCs (Socially and Educationally Backward Classes) and with a view to maintain the federal structure of this country, there is a need to amend Article 342A and make consequential amendments in articles 338B and 366 of the Constitution. The 102nd Constitution Amendment Act of 2018 inserted articles 338B, which deals with the structure, duties and powers of the National Commission for Backward Classes, and 342A that deals with the powers of the president to notify a particular caste as an SEBC and the power of Parliament to change the list. Article 366 (26C) defines SEBCs. The Supreme Court has dismissed the Centre's plea seeking a review of its May 5 majority verdict that held that the 102nd Constitution amendment took away the states' power to notify SEBCs for the grant of quota in jobs and admissions. Opposition parties had accused the Centre of assaulting the federal structure by taking away the power of the states to identify and list the Other Backward Classes (OBCs). However, Kumar told the Rajya Sabha last month that the government is in consultation with legal experts and the Ministry of Law and examining ways to protect the power of the states in determining the state lists of OBCs. On May 5, a five-judge Constitution bench of the Supreme Court, headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, had unanimously set aside a Maharashtra law granting quota to Marathas and refused to refer the 1992 Mandal verdict that put a 50-per cent cap on reservation to a larger bench.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
09-08-2021||India||PM transfers about Rs 19,500 crore to over 9.75 crore farmers under PM-KISAN ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday virtually transferred about Rs 19,500 crore to over 9.75 crore beneficiaries farmers under the government's PM-KISAN scheme. With this, the government has so far transferred nine installments amounting around Rs 1.57 lakh crore to farmer families under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme. After the release of the amount, the Prime Minister interacted with beneficiaries of this scheme from across the country. An annual financial benefit of Rs 6,000 is provided to eligible beneficiary farmer families, payable in three equal four-monthly installments of Rs 2,000 each, under the PM-KISAN scheme. The scheme was announced in February 2019 in the Budget. The first installment was for December 2018-March 2019 period. The fund is transferred directly to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. Addressing the virtual event in the presence of the Prime Minister, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said that before the ninth installment, the central government had disbursed about Rs 1.37 lakh crore to around 11 crore beneficiaries under the scheme. The government has linked 2.28 crore PM-KISAN beneficiaries with Kisan Credit Card scheme, under which they have been able to avail loan up to 2.32 lakh crore so far. He also said the farmers have worked hard despite challenges of COVID-19 and ensured bumper production last year. Better output is expected in the coming days due to continued farmers' efforts. Expressing concern over shortage of edible oils and pulses, Tomar said the government is focusing on boosting the domestic production through several schemes so that the country's dependence on imports. Union Ministers of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhary and Shobha Karandlaje, as well as Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Aggarwal were among state ministers and officials present in the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
09-08-2021||India||SC refuses to entertain pleas of Amazon, Flipkart against CCI probe||The Supreme Court Monday refused to entertain pleas of e-commerce firms, Amazon and Flipkart, challenging an order permitting the Competition Commission of India to carry out a preliminary investigation into the alleged violation of the competition law. A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana said that challenging the enquiry is like wanting a notice before the registration of an FIR under the criminal law and asked the e-commerce giants to submit themselves to the probe by the CCI. "We expect big organisations like Amazon and Flipkart to offer themselves for the inquiry and you do not want that. You have to submit and enquiry has to be permitted," said the bench which also comprised justices Vineet Saran and Surya Kant. On being told by senior advocate A M Singhvi, appearing for Flipkart, that the time to respond to the CCI was expiring on August 9 itself, the bench extended the time by four more weeks which was objected to by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the CCI. Mehta said that a week should be given to these firms as in COVID times people mostly shop online through these companies. The Karnataka High Court had on July 23 junked the plea of Amazon-Flipkart against the CCI probe for alleged violations of the competition law. The high court had said that the e-commerce firms had no need to shy away from an inquiry if they were not involved in violations. "The inquiry cannot be crushed at this stage. If the appellants aren't involved in violations of any provisions of the competition law, they should not feel shy in facing an inquiry by the Competition Commission of India," the bench had observed. It had added that the appeals were devoid of merits and substance and deserved to be dismissed. The CCI's January 2020 probe order had followed a complaint by Delhi Vyapar Mahasangh, whose members comprise many traders dealing in smart phones and related accessories. Challenging the order, the two e-commerce giants had approached the Karnataka High Court but a single judge bench of Justice P S Dinesh Kumar had dismissed it saying that it would be unwise to prejudge the issues raised by the petitioners in these writ petitions at this stage and scuttle the investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
09-08-2021||India||Jharkhand HC to monitor probe in judge's death in Dhanbad, says SC||The Supreme Court on Monday said the Jharkhand High Court Chief Justice will monitor weekly the progress made in the CBI probe into the alleged mowing down of a judge by a vehicle on July 28 in Dhanbad, and observed that the sealed cover report of the central agency did not contain much details. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and justices Vineet Saran and Surya Kant asked the CBI to file its report weekly with the high court where the bench headed by the Chief Justice would monitor it. The Supreme Court on July 30 took suo motu cognisance of the alleged murder of Jharkhand judge Uttam Anand and said the case “concerns the larger issue of safety and security of judicial officers in the country”. The top court had noted that it had come across several instances of attacks on judicial officers and lawyers inside and outside court premises in different parts of the country. The CJI had said the court might issue notices to all states and Union Territories for framing appropriate guidelines for the safety of judicial officers. Additional district judge Anand, who had denied bail to two alleged gangsters last week, was jogging around 5am on a two-lane road near Dhanbad city’s Magistrate Colony when an auto-rickshaw hit him from behind. He died in hospital. Initially it was thought to be a hit-and-run incident but Anand’s family lodged an FIR for murder after the police showed them the CCTV footage. A video clip on social media, which officials have confirmed as leaked CCTV footage, shows a man jogging by the roadside when an auto swerves sharply from the middle of the lane, knocks him down and speeds away. The Supreme Court had said it was deeply concerned over the rising instances of assault on judicial officers and advocates. The independence of the judiciary can be maintained only when judges and lawyers function fearlessly. “An unfortunate incident happened on Wednesday where an ADJ was hit by an autorickshaw. This gruesome incident was rightly reported in newspapers and on social media, the same was taken into cognisance by the chief justice of (Jharkhand) HC,” Justice Ramana said. “Taking into consideration similar incidents all over the places for judges and some places against lawyers as well”, CJI Ramana said “the matter involves the larger issue of safety and security of judicial officers in the country”. “So we have decided to take up the matter suo motu and issue directions. We are aware that Jharkhand High Court has already taken suo motu cognisance of the incident,” Justice Ramana added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
09-08-2021||India||SC notice to Centre, others on plea seeking disclosure of data on Covid vaccine trials||The Supreme Court on Monday sought responses from the Centre and others on a plea seeking directions for disclosure of data regarding clinical trials of COVID-19 vaccines. A bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and Hrishikesh Roy issued notice on the plea, and asked the Centre and others to respond to it within four weeks. While hearing the plea, the bench referred to the problem of vaccine hesitancy in the country and asked advocate Prashant Bhushan, who was appearing for the petitioner, as to whether entertaining the petition would not create doubt in the minds of the citizens over vaccines. While making it clear that neither it is an anti-vaccine petition nor the petitioner is seeking to stop Covid vaccination in the country, Bhushan said transparency on the issue was needed and disclosure of data would rather clear all the doubts. The bench was hearing a plea seeking directions for disclosure of data on clinical trials of COVID-19 vaccines and also on post vaccination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
09-08-2021||India||Opposition lends helping hand to Centre on key OBC bill amid clash||A constitution amendment bill that gives states the right to make their own list of Other Backward Classes, got the support of the Opposition that continues to target the centre over a range of issues, including the farmers' protest and the alleged Pegasus spyware scandal. While a constitution amendment bill requires two-thirds majority to get passage in Parliament, but with the Opposition coming on board it will be not be an issue. "This is a big issue, we are going to support the centre on it. And we will also push for caste-based census," said RJD's Manoj Sinha, as reported by NDTV.com "Running Parliament is centre's responsibility. This bill will allow states the right to make their own Other Backward Classes (OBC) list," Sinha added. The cabinet decided to take up the issue after the Supreme Court, during a hearing on the Maratha quota issue in May, categorically said only the central government can prepare a single list of Other Backward Classes. A law passed in 2018, the court said, had given power only to the centre to draw up the OBC list. The states, the court said, could only ask for inclusion in the list. Once the bill becomes law, every state and Union Territory will have the power to draw up their own OBC list, which can be distinct from the central list.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
09-08-2021||India||India logs over 35,000 fresh Covid cases, 447 casualties in a day||With 35,499 more people testing positive for COVID-19, India's infection tally now stands at 3,19,69,954, while the death toll climbed to 4,28,309 with 447 fresh fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry on Monday. The number of active cases has declined to 4,02,188 which comprise 1.27 per cent of the total infections, and the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 97.39 per cent, data updated by the ministry at 8 am showed. A decrease of 4,634 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, it showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,11,39,457, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. As many as 13,71,871 COVID-19 tests were conducted in the country on Sunday, taking the total number of such examinations so far to 48,17,67,232. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.59 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 14 days, the ministry said, adding that the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.35 per cent. Cumulatively, 50.86 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Monday morning. India's COVID-19 infection tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 447 new fatalities include 151 from Maharashtra and 93 from Kerala. A total of 4,28,309 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,33,996 from Maharashtra, 36,793 from Karnataka, 34,317 from Tamil Nadu, 25,066 from Delhi, 22,773 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,229 from West Bengal and 17,747 from Kerala. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
09-08-2021||India||Eight killed, two injured as truck rams into hut in Gujarat's Amreli||Eight people were killed and two others seriously injured when a truck rammed into a hut in which they were sleeping in a village in Gujarat's Amreli district on Monday, police said. The deceased included two children aged 8 and 13 and two elderly persons, the police said, adding two other children were seriously injured in the accident that took place around 2.30 am in Badhada village under Savarkundla rural police limits. The driver of the truck, which was modified to include a crane, lost control after dozing off while driving and ploughed into the roadside hut in which 10 people were sleeping, said Amreli Superintendent of Police Nirlipt Rai. The truck was going from Rajkot to Jafrabad in Amreli district when the accident took place, he said. The two injured children, aged 3 and 7, were rushed to Amreli civil hospital for treatment. The bodies were also sent to the hospital for postmortem, the official said. The deceased were identified as Pujaben Solanki (8), Lakshmiben Solanki (30), Shukanben Solanki (13), Hemrajbhai Solanki (37), Narshibhai Sankhla (60), Navdhanbhai Sankhla (65), Virambhai Rathod (35), and Lalabhai Rathod (20), the police added. PTI COR KA PD VT GK RCJ||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
09-08-2021||India||Light to moderate rain likely in Delhi today||The national capital is likely to witness thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain on Monday, the India Meteorological Department said. The city recorded a minimum temperature of 25.1 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal, and the maximum temperature is expected to reach up to 34 degrees Celsius. Delhi received a total of 15.4 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours till 8.30 am at the IMD's Safdarjung station. Ayanagar and Ridge stations recorded heavier rainfall of about 27 mm and 30 mm, respectively. The relative humidity was 92 per cent at 8.30 am. The city recorded a maximum of 33.4 degrees Celsius and a minimum of 26.8 degrees Celsius on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-339
09-08-2021||India||Covid: India needs 1,900 million doses to vaccinate all above age of 18 twice, says professor ||India needs to administer more than 9.5 million doses of the Covid-vaccine daily to fully vaccinate its around 943 million adults by December 31. But limited supplies of doses have restricted the daily jabs to less than 5 million over the past month. Health officials have blamed production constraints. But many experts believe India’s vaccination campaign is suffering from self-inflicted blows. One of them is R. Ramakumar, professor of developmental studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai. Ramakumar tells G.S. Mudur in this interview that India’s vaccination policy makers chased self-reliance without the critical investments required to achieve it and placed politics and spectacle ahead of science. Q: You have for several weeks expressed doubts whether India will be able to vaccinate all its adults by December 31. Why? RR: To vaccinate everybody above the age of 18 twice, India needs a total of about 1,900 million doses. We have completed a little more than 500 million doses. That would mean we would need nearly 1,400 million doses between August and December, administering over 9 million doses daily to meet the target. This looks impossible because we are currently at less than 5 million per day. As we go ahead, we may also face vaccine hesitancy from some quarters and that could further slow things down. I’m unconvinced that we will be able to vaccinate all adults in India twice by the end of the year. Q: Could things have been different? Could India have had access to more doses by now? RR: Things could have been different if we had planned for vaccines and their production over the past year. In his Independence Day speech (last year), Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said we had two to three vaccines under testing in India and once they were approved, they would be produced. This was said in August 2020. We are now in August 2021. We still produce only two vaccines in India. India could have revived its public-sector vaccine-producing units for mass production of Covaxin. We have seven public-sector vaccine-making units in India. But there is a history and it tells us how we drained the capacities of our public-sector units. In 2008, we cancelled the production licences of vaccine labs in Guindy, Kunoor and Kausauli. We made no effort to revive them. We also have a vaccine complex in Tamil Nadu. The facility has been ready for production since 2016, but this too was never made use of for Covid-19 vaccines. We could have done a lot. We simply failed to make the necessary interventions to mass produce the vaccines in our country. Q: Yes, the Prime Minister had announced a universal vaccination campaign in June 2020 and again in August 2020, but India didn’t actually order doses until January 2021. Do you see a disconnect between stated intent and actions? RR: Look at what other countries did. They made huge down payments to vaccine companies to finance research and expand their production capacities. The Pfizer, AstraZeneca, BioNTech and Moderna vaccines have all received grants from governments. Across the world, governments invested in companies over the past year to ensure doses were available when the vaccines were ready. India did not make any such investment, whether in private or public companies. It was only after the April shortages that India woke up and decided to provide some assistance to three public-sector units. This was an unpardonable error. Q: What could India have done to avert the situation it is in today? RR: India even today produces only two vaccines. No company other than the Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech delivers vaccines produced in India. This is a very narrow policy framework to follow in a pandemic. We did not diversify our vaccine basket from day one. India gave permission to Covishield and Covaxin in January 2021. But in February 2021, when Sputnik V came for approval, India refused approval, citing lack of immunogenicity data. Strangely, Covishield had been approved a month earlier based on data from other countries such as the UK and Brazil. Similarly, Pfizer withdrew its application after the government insisted that a local clinical trial would be necessary. But when Covaxin was approved in January, its phase 3 protective efficacy data was not available. Why were the same yardsticks not applied to Sputnik or Pfizer? It is perplexing. Science was subordinated to politics. And the short-term gains of showcasing spectacles were given more importance. Q: Many countries secured doses between July and December 2020 through advance purchase pacts and investments in at-risk production by vaccine makers. But India appeared to focus at the time on “made in India” vaccines. Is the campaign currently suffering because of the focus on self-reliance or atma-nirbhar? RR: India’s decisions on the vaccine front were made initially on assumptions that made-in-India vaccines will be adequate to vaccinate its own population and to supply vaccines to other countries. This was a highly erroneous assumption as we realise to our great peril today. Most countries placed advanced purchase orders last year. Even Bangladesh placed an advanced order with the Serum Institute in November 2020. India placed its first order only in January. India did not make sure that advanced purchase orders were placed in time. This was a major mistake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
09-08-2021||India||Covid: Calcutta scientists offer clue to severe infections||Calcutta scientists have discovered that immune system cells calibrate their responses to inflammation by chemically “talking” to each other. Their work provides fresh insights into the possible mechanisms underlying potentially life-threatening hyperinflammation in severe Covid-19. The researchers from the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Calcutta, have detected a biological phenomenon called “quorum sensing” in macrophages, a type of immune cells that make up the body’s first line of defence against infections. Quorum sensing is a process in which cells change their behaviour in some way in response to their population density. While scientists have observed quorum sensing in bacteria for decades, the IISER-led study is the first to demonstrate it in macrophages. Quorum sensing is the outcome of a complex interplay of the so-called signalling chemicals secreted by cells and genetic mechanisms that allow the cells to calibrate — decrease or increase — their own activity depending on their population density. Macrophages respond to microbial threats by producing inflammatory molecules that kill microbes and promote tissue repair. But excess and uncontrolled macrophage activity can trigger a condition called hyperinflammation or cytokine storm, observed in many patients with severe Covid-19. “Our findings suggest that the failure of quorum sensing and the resulting uncontrolled activity of macrophages likely contributes to severe Covid-19,” said Partho Sarothi Ray, associate professor of biological sciences at the IISER who led the study. The findings have been accepted for publication in the Journal of Immunology, a peer-reviewed research publication of the American Association of Immunologists. Ray and his colleagues have shown through studies on mice macrophages that quorum sensing by macrophages depends on a secreted protein called gelsolin. When gelsolin levels are depleted, quorum sensing cannot take place efficiently. But quorum sensing can be restored by adding the human gelsolin protein, prepared in the laboratory. Independent studies by multiple research groups have over the past year found that patients with severe Covid-19 have dysregulated macrophage activity and show low levels of gelsolin in their blood samples. “What this tells us is that SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) has a way of decreasing the production of gelsolin in the body, as a result of which macrophages are unable to understand that they are present in large numbers at the site of infection,” Ray said. Under these circumstances, macrophages continue to produce inflammatory molecules leading to the cytokine storm, he said. The study’s co-authors are Reshma Sharma, Binita Goswami, Sukhen Das Mandal and Abhishek Guha from the IISER and Belinda Willard from the Cleveland Clinic in the US. “This is a landmark study that provides a mechanistic foundation to explore novel therapeutic approaches against hyperinflammatory disorders, including severe Covid-19,” said Esaki Muthu Shankar, a microbiologist and professor of life sciences at the Central University of Tamil Nadu, Thiruvarur, who was not associated with the IISER study. Amid mounting evidence linking severe Covid-19 to low levels of gelsolin, a company called BioAegis Therapeutics in the US has initiated clinical trials to evaluate gelsolin as a possible adjunct treatment, added to the standard care, for severe Covid-19. The benefit of gelsolin as a possible treatment of Covid-19 is that it does not cause immunosuppression like other anti-inflammatory drugs, such as steroids. US researchers had discovered quorum sensing in bioluminescent (light-producing) bacteria in 1970 and the phenomenon has since been recorded in multiple bacterial species. “Quorum sensing had remained unknown in mammalian systems, although mechanisms similar to quorum sensing have been described in the mammalian immune system,” Shankar said. “We now have strong evidence for the phenomenon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
09-08-2021||India||Narendra Modi cowardice on display, says Supriya Shrinate||The Congress on Sunday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s cowardice was on display as his government forced Twitter to remove the tweets of Rahul Gandhi in which he had vowed to fight for justice for the nine-year-old Dalit girl who was allegedly raped and murdered. Addressing a news conference, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “The Prime Minister is frightened by a young man who is capable of showing compassion. The entire government gets angry, ministers and the troll army starts attacking Rahul Gandhi because he stands by the victim’s family.” “The photograph of Rahul Gandhi embracing a distraught mother who was given barely half-burnt legs of her daughter leaves the RSS-BJP enraged. The government mounts pressure on Twitter through its police to take down those tweets,” she said. Shrinate added: “Modi’s cowardice is on display. A gruesome rape and murder has taken place in the national capital. Why are you silent? Why is the home minister silent? Your silence has ripped apart your hollow slogans (about women’s safety). We as women of this country are ashamed of our Prime Minister’s helplessness and insensitivity. We are proud of our leader Rahul Gandhi who spoke for Hathras, Unnao and now Delhi. It is shameful that the entire system wakes up to fight him, to derail the fight for justice.” While the photographs and tweets of Rahul meeting the parents of the girl posted by him were taken down, the Congress on Sunday argued that the action was unjust as several Twitter accounts still had the photographs and similar texts. The party produced tweets of Delhi BJP leaders and members of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes that posted four photographs of their meeting with the family. Congress leaders pointed out that the mother’s photograph was available on Twitter since August 2, a day after the incident, and Rahul posted the same on August 4. The family was protesting on the streets for justice and there was no need to hide the face as their identity was widely known and reported. Rahul’s posts were removed and account locked because identity of a rape victim is not supposed to be revealed. Vowing not to be cowed down by such tactics, the Congress launched a massive campaign on Twitter under the hashtag “Main_bhi_Rahul.” The party posted Rahul’s tweet on Sunday again, daring Twitter to take action and recalled how the young leader always stood by the oppressed and downtrodden. One message said: “I will fight against injustice. I will fight against lies. I will fight against hate. I will fight against tyranny #Main_bhi_Rahul.” Another said: “I stand with women. I stand with farmers. I stand with youth. I stand for India.” The party fielded its four  leaders — Supriya Shrinate, Ragini Nayak, Alka Lamba and Amrita Dhawan — to argue how casual and irresponsible the government has been about women’s safety. Ragini Nayak said: “People see the government as guardian, believe that the agencies will act in their defence. But the government is attacking those who extend a helping hand. The police tried to stop Rahul and Priyanka when they tried to reach Hathras where the rape victim’s body was burnt without family’s consent.” Giving details of several heinous crimes against women in the national capital in the recent past, Alka Lamba said: “We thought the 11 women ministers of the Modi government will demand a discussion in Parliament on the horrendous Delhi incident in which the rapists burnt the child’s body. But they have the time to go to Dilli Haat for shopping on Handloom Day, not to offer even a word of sympathy for the victim. Why is it that the criminals have no fear of law? Why is action invariably delayed? Amrita Dhawan said: “It is a curse to be a daughter in Modi’s India, it is a bigger curse to be a Dalit’s daughter. What is shocking is that the victim and her family tried to be maligned in most cases. Pressure is mounted on the family to hush up the case. The police tried to pass the Delhi incident as death by negligence. When the government should stand with the victim’s family, they become active in deleting tweets. We are Rahul’s army, we will fight for justice. We are not Modi’s army who will go shopping and remain silent on crimes against women.” “It is difficult to guess what is illegal in this tweet, apart from the photograph, which has now been pulled out. The tears of mother and father are saying just one thing — their daughter, the nation’s daughter, deserves justice. And in the quest for justice, I am with them. Stop distractions, give justice,” Dhawan said. The party explained the problem in another tweet: “Their problem with Rahul Gandhi is simple:  his humanity, empathy & compassion stands in stark contrast to their cruelty, ignorance & apathy.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
09-08-2021||India||Covishield, Covaxin mix produces better immune responses than two doses of same jab: Govt researchers||A Covid-19 vaccination regimen with Covishield as the first dose and Covaxin as the second appears superior to the current prescription of two doses of the same vaccine, government researchers said on Sunday after probing an accidental mix-up. The researchers with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said their findings suggested that immunisation with Covishield as the first dose and Covaxin as the second after six weeks was “safe and elicits better” immune responses than two doses of either vaccine. The ICMR team analysed post-vaccination immune responses in 11 men and 7 women in Audai Kalan, a village in eastern Uttar Pradesh, who had inadvertently been administered Covaxin six weeks after they had received Covishield. But the researchers have also cautioned that the findings from their analysis of a “serendipitous Covid-19 vaccine mix-up” need to be validated through a larger, randomised trial from sites across the country. The two vaccines use different immunisation strategies. Covishield contains a harmless adenovirus genetically engineered to produce the spike proteins of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Covaxin contains inactivated (or killed) SARS-CoV-2 particles. The ICMR study, described as the world’s first to probe a combined dosage of the adenovirus vaccine and an inactivated virus vaccine, noted significantly higher levels of neutralising antibodies in recipients of the combination. These antibodies were able to neutralise the highly contagious Alpha, Beta and Delta coronavirus variants, Pragya Yadav, a scientist at the ICMR’s National Institute of Virology, Pune, and her colleagues said in their study. If the findings are validated, the researchers said, such mixed regimens could “help overcome the challenges of shortfall of particular vaccines” and generate improved immune responses against variants. India’s currently limited vaccine supplies can translate into shortages whenever the demand for vaccination increases at any site. Health experts say that if a combination proves as good as or superior to a same-vaccine, two-dose regimen, it could help alleviate the temporary shortages of specific vaccines. Scientists in other countries are already exploring options to combine Covid-19 vaccines based on different immunisation strategies as a possible way of enhancing the immune responses. German researchers had earlier this year compared immune responses in healthcare workers who had received either two doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine or the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine as the initial dose and the AstraZeneca vaccine after 10-12 weeks. The overall antibody responses were strong and comparable in both the regimens. The researchers had also said the combination regimen might help optimise logistics, improve immune responses and mitigate the intermittent supply shortages of individual vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
09-08-2021||India||School bars Class XII student from pre-board exam and practical tests as father fails to pay tuition fees||Diya Divya has failed the CBSE Class XII boards after her school barred her from the pre-board exam and practical tests because her father had not paid her tuition fees. With the pandemic forcing the CBSE to cancel this year’s Class XII board exams, students’ marks from the internal pre-board exam received 40 per cent weightage during the calculation of their theory scores. Divya, who studied at the North-Ex Public School in Rohini, said she would now take the equivalent test of the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) next year. She is not eligible to sit the CBSE compartment exam —expected in a few weeks — because she has failed in more than one subject. “My career has been pushed back by a year. I wanted to do Delhi University’s journalism course,” she said. Her father Sanjay Pandey said he had failed to pay the school fees since April last year after losing his job in the administration of a private hospital at the beginning of the lockdown. An email and calls to the school principal, Upma Saxena, went unanswered. The principal of another school and a schoolteacher, however, alleged that many parents deliberately default on tuition fees, which are crucial to paying teacher salaries. Divya said she had written to her school, where she had studied since 2012, to let her take the pre-board exam — held online and offline in two legs late last year — and the practical assessments held around the same time. “But they did not consider (the request),” she said. Pandey said he had also failed to pay the school fees of his son Parth Pranjal — who was a Class IX student at North-Ex last year — since losing his job. “I had never before defaulted on school fees. I told the school I would pay the dues when I get a job,” he said. Pandey said the school first issued notices seeking the payment of fees and then barred his children from the online classes. Later, it stopped both from taking exams. “My son was not allowed to take the Class IX exam. Now I shall register both the children with the NIOS,” Pandey said. He said he had written to the Delhi government seeking its intervention but got no relief. The principal of another school said: “Private schools survive on the tuition fees alone. It’s an unwritten understanding that the parents will pay the fees on time.” A schoolteacher said many schools cannot pay their teachers’ salaries because of defaulting parents. “Many parents have used the plea of Covid to not pay their dues. They should try to pay in instalments or after a few months,” he said. Ashok Agrawal, president of the All India Parents’ Association, said that when parents are genuinely unable to pay school fees, the government must step in and pay the dues. “This will ensure the students are not disturbed,” he said. Agrawal said he knew about many students who had faced the same fate as Divya but could not cite statistics because no data on such students was sought by the CBSE or provided by the schools. The CBSE announced this year’s results based on students’ performances in past written exams — their Class X boards, Class XI exam and the pre-board Class XII exam — as well as the Class XII practical tests and internal assessment. After the results of 13.7 lakh students were announced on July 30, those of the remaining 65,000 students were declared on Thursday. When Divya downloaded her results on Thursday, they said: “Essential Repeat.” A CBSE official said the results of 65,000 students were delayed mainly because their schools were late in sending their marks to the board. The official said that students unhappy with the computation of their results might apply to the CBSE, which would refer their grievances to an expert committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
09-08-2021||India||A principal’s task: sell empty jute bags at Rs 10 a piece||Every morning since late July, Muhammad Tamizuddin has been setting out for the local marketplace with a stack of empty gunny sacks on his head, trying to sell them. Tamizuddin is the principal of a government primary school in Kadwa block of Bihar’s Katihar district. In a powerful voice, strengthened by years of teaching students, he calls out to people at Kadwa Bazar to buy the jute bags at Rs 10 apiece, pleading that he would otherwise not receive his salary. But there are no takers because the sacks are either torn or have gaping holes made by rats. Tamizuddin has not sold a single jute bag yet. Onlookers at the market find it strange that a school principal would be selling jute bags. But Tamizuddin and thousands of other principals and teachers from Bihar’s 80,000 primary (Classes I-V) and middle (Classes VI-VIII) schools say they are merely following a state government diktat. It’s a point Tamizuddin advertises through a placard that hangs from his neck. “I’m a teacher at a government school in Bihar,” it says. “I’m selling empty sacks on the government’s orders.” The Nitish Kumar government has asked all district programme officers (DPOs) of the school midday meal scheme to ensure that the schools in their areas sell the jute bags in which food grains (rice and dal) had been supplied to them. Satish Chandra Jha, director of the midday meal scheme, issued the letter on July 22, saying the accountant-general’s office in Patna had noticed that the empty food grain sacks were not being sold, costing the state in revenues. The letter also asked the DPOs to ensure that all the empty sacks were sold at Rs 10 a piece and the money entered into the midday meal scheme ledger. Attached with the letter were lists of the total allotment of food grains and the number of sacks in which they were sent to each of the state’s 38 districts for the midday meal scheme during financial years 2014-15 and 2015-16. The total number of sacks comes to over 1.27 crore, and the government wants Rs 12.7 crore from them. After receiving the letter, the DPOs wrote to the officers in charge of the midday meal scheme at the block level, who wrote to the principals of all government primary and middle schools. The principals were told they would be charged with embezzlement and punished if they failed to sell the jute bags and deposit the money. Many principals and teachers across Bihar are therefore out on the streets, hawking the sacks. Some have invited shopkeepers to come to their school and buy the sacks in bulk, but with little success. The market price for jute bags of comparable size is Rs 20 apiece. But these bags, lying in the school storeroom since the March 2020 lockdown, have been damaged by floods, rats and the passage of time. Teachers said the schools never sold these bags before. “Most government primary and middle schools have no benches or desks. Our students have been using these sacks to sit on the floor during classes,” Manoj Kumar, acting president of the state primary teachers’ association, told The Telegraph. He described the state government order as “objectionable and illogical”. “Rats have nibbled through a large number of the sacks. The rodent attacks have increased because the schools have remained mostly closed during the pandemic. Nobody will buy these sacks,” Kumar said. At a large number of schools in flood-prone areas, the sacks have rotted after being submerged in floodwaters, as in every monsoon. Kumar said the state government should have either sold the empty sacks itself or taken them away at the end of every financial year. Various associations of Bihar’s 4 lakh primary and middle school teachers are considering a state-wide agitation if the government fails to withdraw its directive on the jute bags. Sanjay Kumar, additional chief secretary with the Bihar education department, told this newspaper he had ordered “departmental action against the teachers (including Tamizuddin) for indiscipline and behaving against the service code”. “You cannot make a mockery of government rules. There have been audit objections about the lakhs of jute bags sent to the schools. They are an economic commodity and have to be accounted for,” he said. Told of the claims about sacks getting destroyed by rats and floods or worn out by children sitting on them in classrooms, the official said: “We shall write them off if the teachers inform us about bags having got destroyed. But all the bags in the schools cannot have been destroyed.” Under the midday meal scheme, children from Classes I to VIII were served a cooked meal at school every school day. The menu in Bihar was rice, dal, vegetables and, on certain days, eggs. With the schools closed because of the pandemic, the government has been sending 2.2kg rice to every child’s parents once a month and depositing a sum — at the rate of Rs 4.95 a day for 22 days a month — with the families’ bank accounts towards oil and fuel. The schools had opened for a few days late last year during a fall in Covid infections. In-person higher secondary classes have now resumed since August 6.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
09-08-2021||India||Why Kashmir remains indifferent to Neeraj’s javelin gold?||At the time all of India was cavorting in jubilation over Neeraj Chopra’s golden scripting of history with a fling of the javelin, this part of it — once its fabled crown — remained eerily indifferent. Kashmir couldn’t care that the Tokyo Olympics were closing and the valedictory crescendo was all India’s. They’d have sooner turned to celebrate if Fiji had beaten the Springboks at rugby. Such is the degree of integration with the Indian union that lies achieved two years after the stunning rites of reduction and dismemberment announced in Delhi and effected with elaborate pre-design on August 5, 2019. Jammu and Kashmir lost its signature, though also mostly symbolic, constitutional guarantees with the blue-pencilling of Articles 370 and 35A; it was sliced into separate regions of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh and Kargil; most of all, the state of Jammu and Kashmir remained a state no more. Satyapal Malik, then governor, found himself reduced, in the course of one spoken sentence by Amit Shah in the Rajya Sabha, from grand regent of one of India’s largest states to lieutenant governor of a truncated Union Territory. “Your government claims from high rostrums that Kashmir has never been so closely assimilated into India,” a retired bureaucrat and a high servant of successive elected state governments tells me. “The truth is we have never ever felt so removed from India and all things Indian. Your Olympic gold and young Chopra’s singular achievement is a thing to cherish and celebrate, no doubt, but we don’t feel it; it just doesn’t come. Don’t blame us for our indifference; you threw us away with that blow.” Chopra and India’s first Olympic track-and-field gold did not make the front pages of Valley newspapers on Sunday; it is unlikely anybody manning a newsroom got pulled up by the editor for missing the story of the day. In Kashmir, it is the kind of story they’d rather miss. “This is our imposed anniversary of mourning the excesses at the hands of New Delhi,” a widely respected doctor at the Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) says. “Frankly, I would have been surprised if Kashmiris even took note of what happened with that gold medal, much less chatter about it; that sort of thing evaporated a long time ago. This is not the place that New Delhi projects it to be. Yes, over the last couple of years there is more of India in Kashmir than ever before, but that is inversely proportional to how much India is in the Kashmiri today.” August has never been a favoured month for Kashmiris; it’s when they usually begin to tire of the summer’s churn of heat and the cloying scourge it becomes when it alloys with caravans of low wafting cloud. It leaves them harried, and yearning for the onset of autumn. Two Augusts ago, an additional blight descended on them, a blight that had no doors opening onto autumn. Kashmir became a confinement whose severity of scope had no parallels in our memories. It did not stop at being a curfew. It did not stop at the wrenching of barbed wire fences. It did not stop at the escalated import of men and machines, jackboots on the ground, barrels at the ready. It did not stop at a shuttering so colossal and so complete that the Valley turned into the largest prison on earth. It did not stop at imprisoning everything other than stray dogs and pigeons. It did not stop at dismantling all communication — Internet, mobile telephony, landlines. It cauterised Kashmir from the world, it cauterised Kashmiri from Kashmiri. And yet it did not stop. It went on for days, then weeks, then months. Autumn came, and then winter, but there was no relief from the blight that was August 2019. Recalling or remembering the events of August 2019 does not come easy to most Kashmiris; but forgetting them comes harder. “How is it possible to forget?” asks a senior politician who wouldn’t be named, probably for fear of being heckled behind bars yet again. “You took away our rights, our dignity; you reduced us, you deputed handpicked pawns from elsewhere to lord over us and tell us what can be done and what cannot, you are constantly changing the essential conduct of our lives and our futures, we are a principality, run like a department of the Government of India. Even the fig leaf of what we called democracy, you snatched away. How do you believe we must feel? You probably shouldn’t even come asking.” Neeraj Chopra’s javelin travelled a triumphal distance, scoring an arch of cheer across India; it fell well short of Kashmir.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
09-08-2021||India||Odisha govt ropes in Tata Coffee to promote Koraput brew ||Odisha’s own coffee brand “Koraput Coffee” is all set to woo lovers of the brew around the world. The state government has roped in Tata Coffee to promote the indigenously grown beans, the bulk of it coming from tribal-dominated Koraput. “Tata Coffee is buying coffee from Odisha, thereby promoting the beans which are exclusive, solid and rich in taste allowing to experience local flavours of Koraput,” said a press release issued by the chief minister’s office on Sunday. The 100 per cent arabica coffee is indigenous to Odisha as everything about the beans is sourced from the state itself. Across Koraput, coffee is grown in Laxmipur, Kashipur, Dasmantpur, Nandpur, Lamtaput, Koraput, Potangi and Nandpur blocks. In 2020-21, around 28,790kg of coffee cherry was procured by the Tribal Development Cooperative Corporation  of Odisha Limited (TDCCOL) with the help of  193 tribal farmers. Naveen on Sunday talked to one of the coffee cultivators, Sulochana Khar, who hails from Koraput. “Sulochana turned out to be a role model and an inspiration for others by selling more than 2000kg of coffee cherry to TDCC. In order to cater to the demands of Koraput coffee, the commitment of farmers like Sulochana is commendable,” said the chief minister. He said: “The Tata Coffee’s aid to the Odisha government would certainly help in enhancing the socio-economic condition of the coffee cultivators in the state. During this Covid-crisis, it will help immensely in safeguarding the livelihood of tribals.” In order to process the coffee, the TDCC with the support of the Coffee Board of Government of India, has opened up coffee curing units for roasting, grinding, packaging and branding this unique flavor. Managing director TDCCOL Mansi Nimbhal said: “We have sent the samples of Koraput coffee to Tata coffee, they found its quality to be very good and it has a premium taste”. Koraput coffee’s flavour has its own uniqueness. The Koraput coffee is produced at 2500 to 4200 feet above the sea level. “As the coffee beans are fatty, its flavour is aromatic, smooth and light acidic. It has a long lasting effect,” officials said. Coffee in Koraput has its own history. Coffee plantation was done in 1954 to arrest the problems caused by siltation near the Macchkund dam in Koraput district. But no one then had thought of its economic value till 1990s. Later people bordering Andhra Pradesh showed some interest and coffee plantations have now grown. Tribal people were engaged to collect the beans and sell them to the local traders. Even traders from Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu buy them. “With our initiative, the economy of the tribal people can get a boost. They will be immensely benefited. There will be no distress sale of coffee. Coffee producers will get a good price,” said an official. TDCCOL started selling Koraput coffee in 2019 through their retail outlet in Odisha. Over 1,000 tribal coffee growers are dependent on the coffee plantations for their livelihood. Market linkage with state tribal corporations has encouraged them to take care of their plantations. “This year, we can expect the produce to be more than last year as the training and capacity building of the coffee growers was started early with pre-harvest management. So far six farmer producer groups have been set up in the Coffee growing panchayats, with one all women producer group,” officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-340
