10-08-2021||India||Amarinder Singh meets Sonia Gandhi amid fresh attack by Sidhu||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday rushed to New Delhi and held a meeting with Congress president Sonia Gandhi with no end in sight in his row with Navjot Singh Sidhu. The chief minister complained Gandhi that Sidhu’s criticism of his government “does not augur well for smooth functioning”. Sonia directed that “both the state government and the Congress unit in Punjab must work together and not on cross purposes”, said Congress’s Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat after the meeting. The meeting precedes an anticipated cabinet reshuffle in Punjab and comes in the midst of strong indications that the feud between the Congress’s top two in the state is far from over. On Monday, Sidhu posted a series of tweets pointing out that he had held a press conference in 2018 asking the state government to immediately act upon the information shared by STF with the Punjab and Haryana High Court. “After 2.5 years of delay, how much more the People of Punjab should wait? What investigation had Punjab Police done? What action had Punjab government has taken? Must be brought into public domain. Since submission of reports, what further action did the state take in 2.5 years? Govt must make itself accountable to the Public with complete transparency !! Punishing culprits behind Drug trade is Congress’s priority under 18-Point Agenda... . If further delayed will bring resolution in Punjab Vidhan Sabha for making the Reports Public,” Sidhu tweeted. Weeks after Amarinder grudgingly accepted the cricketer-turned-politician’s appointment as leader of the party’s state unit, tweets by Sidhu threaten to undo the hard-won truce. Sidhu resumed his attack on his party’s government over inaction against Akali Dal leader Bikram Majithia and others, all of whom were allegedly involved in a 2018 drug trafficking case. “Punishing the culprits behind the drug trade is the Congress’s priority under the 18-Point Agenda. What is the action taken on Majithia? If further delayed, we will bring a resolution in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha for making the reports public,” he tweeted. Sidhu also lashed out at his party government’s apparent inability to tackle the drug problem; he did so without naming the chief minister. Rawat said Sonia took stock of the work done to fulfill promises of the Congress, perhaps a reference to Sidhu’s tweet. The chief minister apprised Sonia about his government’s efforts in resolving the power crisis and cracking down on the drug mafia. Singh also talked about giving more representation to Dalits in his cabinet, said the Congress leader. Constant barbs and critical comments by Sidhu aimed at Amarinder have been one of the major flashpoints in a political row that has threatened (and continues to threaten) to wreck the Congress’ attempt to win re-election in Punjab next year. After extended negotiations between Camp Sidhu, Camp Amarinder Singh and a three-man peace-making team nominated by Gandhi, a compromise was reached. This included increased representation to Dalits and promises from the chief minister to address rebel MLAs concerns; these ranged from the state’s power crisis to a 2015 case about the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib. The chief minister also demanded a greater say in the party’s state affairs ahead of the election, and a public apology from Sidhu — which the former cricketer has yet to make. The feud dates back to the 2017 election, when the former cricketer hoped to be made deputy chief minister but was reportedly denied the post by Singh. Navjot Sidhu, the Congress’s star campaigner in that election, instead became a minister in the Amarinder Singh government but quit two years later after his ministry was downgraded. After prolonged silence and detachment from party affairs, he began re-targeting the Captain in recent months, becoming a hard-to-ignore problem in the run-up to the Punjab election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
10-08-2021||India||CBSE releases date sheet for compartment examinations||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Tuesday, August 10 released the date sheet for class 10 and 12 compartment examinations 2021. Candidates can check the date sheet on the official site of CBSE at cbse.nic.in. CBSE Class 10 exams will start on August 25 and end on September 8, while class 12 examinations will start on August 25 and end on September 15. The following category of Class 10 and Class 12 regular candidates of session 2020-21 will be eligible to appear in the exam: Not satisfied with assessment: Candidates who have passed but not satisfied with their marks Compartment: Students placed in compartment category as they could not pass in one or two subjects Non-computable cases: Candidates whose results could not be prepared on the basis of tabulation policy in 2021 ie regular candidates of improvement category 6th Subject cases: Candidates who appeared in 6 subjects in 2021 and declared as pass but could not clear one subject from main 5 subjects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
10-08-2021||India||PM Modi's picture, words in Covid vaccination certificate reinforce awareness message, says govt||The photo along with the words of the prime minister in vaccination certificates reinforce the message for creating awareness about following Covid-appropriate behaviour even after inoculation, the Rajya Sabha was told on Tuesday. The formats of Covid-19 vaccination certificates being issued from CoWIN are standardised and conform to the evolving WHO guidance on verifiable inoculation certificates, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar said in a written reply. She was responding to a question on whether it is necessary and compulsory to print photographs of the prime minister on the Covid vaccination certificate. "Given the context of the pandemic, its evolving nature and the fact that following of Covid-appropriate behaviours has emerged as one of the most critical measures for preventing the spread of disease. "The photograph along with the message of the prime minister in the vaccination certificates reinforces the message for creating awareness about the importance of following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour even after vaccination, in the larger public interest," Pawar said. It is the moral and ethical responsibility of the government to ensure that such critical messages are disseminated to people in the most effective manner, she said. "The format of vaccination certificate, compliant with WHO norms for vaccination certificates, including the message and presentation about the importance of following Covid-appropriate behaviour even after vaccination, has been decided keeping all these factors in consideration. "All states and Union Territories are using CoWIN application for Covid-19 vaccination and vaccination certificates are generated through CoWIN in a standard format," the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
10-08-2021||India||LS passes key bill to restore states' power to make own OBC lists||Lok Sabha on Tuesday passed a constitutional amendment bill to restore the powers of the states to make their own OBC lists, with 385 members voting in its favour and no member opposing it. Some amendments moved by opposition members were rejected by the House. A constitutional amendment bill requires a special majority for passage in both Houses of Parliament. There should be a majority of the total membership of the House and a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members of that House present and voting. The Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty-Seventh Amendment) Bill, 2021, was brought in by the Union Cabinet to undo a categorical Supreme Court ruling in May that only the Central government can prepare an OBC list. The court's stricture came during a hearing on the Maratha quota issue and cited a law passed in August 2018 to give constitutional status to the National Commission for Backward Classes. "States have no power to add any caste to socially economically backward caste list due to the amendment made by Parliament," the Supreme Court had observed back then. Moving the bill today, Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Virendra Kumar described it as a historic legislation as 671 castes in the country would benefit from it. The Shiv Sena today brought in an amendment to the bill in the Lok Sabha but it was defeated, with 305 voting against and only 71 for it. The bill received support from the Opposition, despite the rivals targeting the Centre over a range of issues, including the farmers' protest and the alleged Pegasus spyware scandal. The protests over these other matters were suspended for the bill to be passed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
10-08-2021||India||Looking into issue of Covid vaccine booster dose: Government||The national expert committee on Covid-19 vaccination has discussed the issue of giving booster vaccine dose and it is being looked into very deeply, NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr V.K. Paul said on Tuesday. He said it must be taken as a work in progress as science is still emerging in this area. At the same time, Paul also noted that the WHO has called for a moratorium on booster doses. Responding to a question on the need for giving booster Covid-19 vaccine dose, Paul said at a press briefing that the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) held a discussion on the booster dose issue at its last meeting. "I would say we are watching the science for the need for such imperative very carefully, global work as well as you may know that certain studies in the country are being instituted and we are looking at it very deeply. "As you know, WHO has called for a moratorium for booster doses so let us watch this and see how it can be taken forward," he said. He also stressed that people should get the second dose of the vaccine for complete protection. "Those with comorbidities or who are getting treatment for cancer, they should especially make sure that they are vaccinated," he said. Health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said, "Even if we take the vaccine, we need to keep taking necessary precautions. "||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
10-08-2021||India||Centre: Only one state has reported oxygen death after government inquiry||Only one state has till now reported "suspected" death due to oxygen shortage during the second wave of Covid-19 after the Centre sought data from them on such fatalities following the raising of the issue in Parliament, a top official said on Tuesday. "When the question was raised in Parliament, states were specifically asked this question and as per reports received only one state mentioned suspected death and no state has so far said that there were deaths because of oxygen shortage," Joint Secretary in the Union Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said while replying to a query at a press conference. According to sources, 13 states and UTs including Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Odisha, Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab have responded. They said only Punjab has reported four "suspected" deaths due to oxygen shortage. Last month, Opposition parties had hit out at the government for informing Parliament that no deaths due to oxygen shortage have been specifically reported by states and Union Territories during the second Covid-19 wave. The Centre recently had sought from states and Union Territories data on deaths in connection with oxygen shortage during the second of Covid-19 earlier this year and the information was to be collated and presented in Parliament before the Monsoon session ends on August 13, official sources had said. Agarwal said the whole country faced a one of its kind challenge related to oxygen, and while the availability was 2,000-3,000 metric tonnes, it rose to 9,000 metric tonnes. It was seen how the people, states and the Centre connected at all levels to increase the medical oxygen supply, he said. "We used industrial oxygen for medical oxygen usage, we provided oxygen concentrator, progressed PSA plants and also used Railways and Navy for oxygen transportation. We faced a very big challenge," he said. Responding to a question on whether a large number of Covid-19 patients died on roads and hospitals due to acute shortage of oxygen in the second wave, Minister of State for Health Bharati Praveen Pawar on July 20 in a written reply in Rajya Sabha had said that health is a state subject. "Detailed guidelines for reporting of deaths have been issued by the Union Health Ministry to all states and UTs. Accordingly, all states and UTs report cases and deaths to the Union Health Ministry on a regular basis. However, no deaths due to lack of oxygen has been specifically reported by states and UTs," Pawar had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
10-08-2021||India||India advises its citizens in Afghanistan to return as early as possible||India on Tuesday strongly advised all its citizens residing in Afghanistan to make immediate travel arrangements to return home before commercial air services are discontinued from the country in view of massive spike in violence. In a fresh advisory, the Indian embassy in Kabul also advised the Indian companies operating in Afghanistan to immediately withdraw their Indian employees out of project sites before air travel services from the country is discontinued. The embassy asked Indian nationals working for Afghan or foreign companies in Afghanistan to immediately request their employers to facilitate their travel from project sites to India in view of the ground situation. It said the security advisory issued on June 29 and July 24 remained valid. "Further, as violence in many parts of Afghanistan has escalated, commercial air travel services to many provinces and cities are getting discontinued," the embassy said. "All Indian nationals visiting, staying and working in Afghanistan are strongly advised to keep themselves updated on the availability of commercial flights from various parts of Afghanistan and make immediate travel arrangements to return to India before commercial air services are discontinued to their place of stay/visit in Afghanistan," it added. According to government data, around 1,500 Indians are currently staying in Afghanistan. "Indian companies operating in Afghanistan are strongly advised to immediately withdraw their Indian employees out of project sites in Afghanistan before air travel services get discontinued," the embassy said. "Indian nationals working for Afghan or foreign companies in Afghanistan should immediately request their employer to facilitate their travel from project sites to India," it said. The embassy said the advisory is applicable for Indian journalists who are in Afghanistan to cover the latest development. "It is very essential that all Indian media persons arriving/staying in Afghanistan to establish contact with Public Affairs and Security Wing of the Embassy for a personalized briefing, including specific advice for the location they are traveling to," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
10-08-2021||India||Modi's apps seeks opinion on elections from people of poll-bound states||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's app has launched a survey in five poll-bound states seeking people's opinions on a number of issues that are likely to influence their choice of the party or candidates. The survey, open to people from Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur and Punjab, seeks opinion on the voter's most pressing consideration, rating of the state government on a number of metrics, view on any probable opposition unity in their constituency and take on the local MLA besides other matters. The prime minister had undertaken similar surveys on the NaMo app on demonetisation after his government invalidated Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 bills and prior to the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, and is known for the importance he attaches to the use of digital mediums to elicit people's feedback. The options the survey offers to people to a question asking them about their most important considerations for voting in the assembly polls include the government's handling of COVID-19, price rise, corruption, employment, education and law and order situation. It also lists the options of "PM Modi's leadership in the country", "state level issues" and "local issues" to the question "which of these is a bigger factor for you while voting?" "The survey allows people to give their feedback directly to the prime minister on a large number of issues," an official source said. The survey asks voters to write about the state government scheme which has benefitted them the most and seeks their take on a number of statements, including if same party governments at the Centre and in state help in development. With the Covid-19 vaccination going on across the country, it seeks voters' view about its coverage in their state. It also asks people to name three most popular BJP leaders in their state. One question gives the options of a candidate's caste, religion and development record and asks people which of these is their most important consideration while voting. The states of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur and Punjab will be facing the assembly polls early next year. The BJP is in power in four of these five states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
10-08-2021||India||Kerala reports over half of India's total Covid cases in past seven days||The central government on Tuesday said that 37 districts across nine states, including 11 districts in Kerala and seven in Tamil Nadu, are showing a rising trend in the average daily new Covid-19 cases over the last two weeks even as the corresponding nationwide figure continues to register a decline. At a press briefing on the pandemic, officials said the reproduction number or R number that indicates the speed at which Covid-19 is spreading is more than 1 in five states -- Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh -- which remains a cause for concern. Andhra Pradesh, Goa and Nagaland have their reproduction number at 1, Joint Secretary in the Union Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said. For India, it is around 1, he said. The Reproduction number or Rt refers to how many people an infected person infects on average. In other words, it can tell how efficiently a virus is spreading, Agarwal explained. He said, "37 districts across nine states -- Kerala (11 districts), Tamil Nadu (7), Himachal Pradesh (6), Karnataka (5), Andhra Pradesh (2), Maharashtra (2), West Bengal (2), Meghalaya (1) and Mizoram (1) -- are still showing rising trend in daily new Covid-19 cases during the last two weeks." The increasing trend of reproduction number in some states is cause for concern, although there is stabilisation in Covid-19 cases in the country, NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul said, adding there are significant reasons to enforce pandemic control measures. "If we look at the overall picture, we are hovering with a reproduction number of around 1 and it is more than 1 in some states. An increasing trend is a cause for concern. So a profound word of caution: Himachal has R number of 1.3 and for Punjab it has been recorded at 1.3 and showing an increasing trend. "Though there is a stabilisation in the overall number of cases we still have significant reasons to be concerned, reasons to be vigilant and significant reasons for us to enforce pandemic control measures in every possible way," he said. Agarwal further said 44 districts across 11 states and union territories, including Kerala (10), Manipur (10), Mizoram (6) and Arunachal Pradesh (5), reported a weekly positivity rate of more than 10 per cent in the week ending August 9. However,districts with more than 100 daily cases have declined from 279 in week ending on June 1 to 48 in week ending on August 8, 2021, Agarwal informed. Only one state has more than 1 lakh active cases, eight states have active cases between 10,000 and 1 lakh, and 27 states and UTs have less than 10,000 active cases currently. "I would like to emphasise once again that this is no time to lower the guard. Staying vigilant, following Covid-appropriate behaviour, compliance with masks, avoiding crowds and not creating crowds even in close rooms, avoiding unnecessary travels, all these precautions continue to be very, very important for us," Paul stated. Agarwal said Kerala reported 51.51 per cent of the total Covid-19 cases recorded in India in the past seven days. The southern state currently contributes 43.77 per cent of the total active cases in the country, followed by Maharashtra with 18.48 per cent cases. For Kerala, it is clear that containment measures must be paid more attention to. "We do not have to allow the spread and that is the policy of the government that we talk about containment not mitigation. We need to bring herd immunity with vaccines and not infection," Paul said. "One more message is that Delta variant is ruling the nation, in fact ruling the world. Everywhere you can see the spread of Delta and because of it surge across many countries have been reported," Paul stated. The government said Delta Plus variant of SARS-CoV-2 has been detected in 86 samples in India, including 34 in Maharashtra, as on August 9. On vaccination, Paul said the advantages of increasing coverage of vaccination is already being seen. "We must also see that how vaccines are helping in economic activities and bringing us towards normalcy. As the vaccination coverage is rising, we must also see how preferentially it helps the workforce and we encourage corporates in this direction. There is a clear need that our educational institutions run and taking that in mind we need to connect teachers with vaccination. Many teachers have been vaccinated and for the rest all efforts must be made," he said. On vaccine availability, Paul said all vaccines have different terms of importing under different circumstances. Sputnik is being imported from outside and it is also being made here, Moderna has a different grant. "J&J (vaccine) is being made in the country so all situations are different and there are issues that need to be sorted and when you want to access these vaccines there are certain conditions clauses, MoUs agreed upon this takes time," he said. He said that indemnity is not needed in the process followed for emergency use authorisation of the Johnson and Johnson (J&J) vaccine. Zydus Cadila, Biological E, Covavax and mRNA vaccines might appear in this sequence but it is a dynamic situation and there is continuous progress, he said. India logged 28,204 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 147 days, taking the total tally of cases to 3,19,98,158, while the active cases fell to 3,88,508, the lowest in 139 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll has climbed to 4,28,682 with 373 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
10-08-2021||India||Supreme Court fines BJP, Congress, others for not making crimes of candidates public||Maintaining that persons with criminal antecedents and involved in criminalisation of politics cannot be permitted to be lawmakers, the Supreme Court Tuesday held nine political parties including ruling BJP and Janata Dal (United) guilty of its contempt in 2020 Bihar assembly polls for disobeying an order requiring them to publish antecedents of candidates within 48 hours of selection or not less than two weeks before filing of nominations. While imposing varying fines on political parties, the top court lamented the apathy of the legislative wing of the government in not taking steps to decriminalise the political system. "The nation continues to wait and is losing patience. Cleansing the polluted stream of politics is obviously not one of the immediate pressing concerns of the legislative branch of government," a bench headed by Justice R F Nariman said. The bench, also comprising justice B R Gavai, imposed a fine of Rs 5 lakh each on two political parties, Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the Nationalist Congress Party, saying that they have not at all complied with the directions issued by this court . It also imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh each on Janata Dal (United), the Rashtriya Janata Dal, Lok Janshakti Party, Indian National Congress, Bharatiya Janata Party and the Communist Party of India and asked them to deposit the money within eight weeks with the poll panel. The Rashtriya Lok Samta Party was spared of fine. The poll panel had said that 469 candidates, having criminal antecedents, were fielded by 10 political parties in recently held Bihar Assembly polls. The bench held that the selection of candidates having criminal antecedents on the ground of mere winnability is the violation of the apex court's direction of February 13, 2020. "The Election Commission, to whom the fine will be deposited, is directed to carry out an extensive awareness campaign to make every voter aware about his right to know and the availability of information regarding criminal antecedents of all contesting candidates," the top court directed. This shall be done across various platforms, including social media, websites, TV ads, prime time debates, pamphlets, etc. A fund must be created for this purpose within a period of four weeks into which fines for contempt of Court may be directed to be paid," the verdict said. The verdict said that no one can deny that the menace of criminalisation in the Indian political system is growing day by day. "Also, no one can deny that for maintaining purity of political system, persons with criminal antecedents and who are involved in criminalisation of political system should not be permitted to be the lawmakers. The only question is, whether this Court can do so by issuing directions which do not have foundation in the statutory provisions," it said. It said though nine political parties have been found guilty of having committed contempt of the order of February 13, 2020, but a lenient view has been taken taking into consideration the fact that these were the first elections that were conducted after the issuance of the directions. "However, we warn them that they should be cautious in future and ensure that the directions issued by this Court as well as the ECI are followed in letter and spirit," Justice Nariman, writing the 71-page verdict for the bench, said. The bench modified one of the earlier directions on furnishing of details about the criminal antecedents of candidates. "We clarify that the direction in paragraph 4.4 of our Order dated 13.02.2020 be modified and it is clarified that the details which are required to be published, shall be published within 48 hours of the selection of the candidate and not prior to two weeks before the first date of filing of nominations," it said. Highlighting the separation of power, the verdict said that the top court has been appealing time and again to the lawmakers of the country to rise to the occasion and take steps for bringing out necessary amendments so that the involvement of persons with criminal antecedents in polity is prohibited. "All these appeals have fallen on the deaf ears. The political parties refuse to wake up from deep slumber. However, in view of the constitutional scheme of separation of powers, though we desire that something urgently requires to be done in the matter, our hands are tied and we cannot transgress into the area reserved for the legislative arm of the State," it said. The apex court accepted the submissions of senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for the poll panel that the ECI cannot be said to have committed any contempt of the order as the circumstances pointed out that it did bring to the notice of the court the flouting of the directions. "We must, however, caution the ECI to do so as promptly as possible in future so that prompt action may be taken by this Court, it being understood that the ECI must by itself take prompt action in accordance with the directions contained in this Order," the top court said. The bench also issued more directions in continuation of earlier ones in order to make the right of information of a voter more effective and meaningful. "Political parties are to publish information regarding criminal antecedents of candidates on the homepage of their websites, thus making it easier for the voter to get to the information that has to be supplied. It will also become necessary now to have on the homepage a caption which states 'candidates with criminal antecedents," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
10-08-2021||India||IAF focused on boosting capabilities after Balakot strikes, Galwan Valley clashes, says chief||India's air power capabilities in terms of hitting targets with precision, defending assets and use of new technologies have gone up significantly after the Balakot air strikes and rapid developments in eastern Ladakh following the Galwan Valley clashes, Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said on Tuesday. In an address at a leading think-tank, the IAF Chief said India now has an "edge" in its ability on both the Western and Northern fronts to "react fast, respond fast and hit fast", noting that induction of Rafale jets has helped in bringing the "next level" of operational transformation. About the drone strike on the Jammu airbase, he said the IAF is taking a series of initiatives including procuring next-generation jammers to deal with such challenges and added that the attack would not have been possible if it was attempted two-three months later. Referring to the 11-day conflict between Israel and Hamas in May, Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria said that Israel's use of air power in carrying out operations with surgical precision to achieve its objectives in Gaza against the militant group while ensuring minimum collateral damage was a reflection of the ability of the air assets. Explaining the role of air power, the IAF Chief also talked about the general perception to look at only its offensive role and the general tendency to say "no-no" for its use in certain situations, saying the paradigms and scenarios have shifted and there is a need to keep this in mind. "The ability of air power which was largely seen as an offensive, as a no-no in some situations particularly in the subcontinent...the paradigms have shifted, the scenarios have shifted and we need to keep this in mind as we go ahead," he said at the United Service Institution of India (USI). At a seminar last month, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, while referring to the proposed integrated theatre commands, described the Air Force as a "support arm" but Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria disagreed with him, saying airpower has a huge role to play. About the IAF's operational readiness, he said the focus was to bring in the next level of operational transformation including in the cyber-security domain after the Galwan Valley clashes and his force has been largely successful in its endeavour. Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria said the "edge" that the IAF has today came from a combination of its weapons, training status, platforms network environment and its ability to "react fast, respond fast and hit fast. "That is the edge we have today in both scenarios, be it on the western front or be it on the northern front," he said. He said the "transformation" was triggered by the developments like Balakot strikes and situation in eastern Ladakh and it now has now taken the IAF to the "next level. The IAF Chief said the induction of the Rafale aircraft has helped in lifting the overall offensive capability of the Air Force. "It is a level or a level-and-a-half above where we were. "He said the focus after the Galwan Valley clashes was to bolster the cyber security system as it was identified as an area of concern mainly because of some of the "actions", he said in an apparent reference to the ability of the adversary to the IAF's networks. He said the IAF's operational offensive capability has gone up in terms of having long-distance air-to-ground weapons, in carrying out precision strikes and possessing network-centric environment. Twenty Indian Army personnel laid down their lives in clashes with Chinese troops on June 15 last year that marked the most serious military conflicts between the two sides in decades. In February, China officially acknowledged that five Chinese military officers and soldiers were killed in the clashes though it is widely believed that the death toll was higher. The Chief of Air Staff also mentioned Balakot air strikes as an important event while talking about the transformation of the IAF in the last few years, and said it sent out a clear message about India's approach in dealing with security challenges. Indian fighter jets bombed Jaish-e-Mohammed's biggest training camp near Balakot deep inside Pakistan on February 26, 2019, 12 days after the terror outfit claimed responsibility for a suicide attack on a CRPF convoy in Kashmir, killing 40 soldiers. Pakistan retaliated by attempting to target Indian military installations the next day. However, the IAF thwarted their plans. Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria also spoke about the low cost activities of commercial drones and its use for supply of arms, drugs, money as well as use of the armed version of the unmanned aerial vehicles to launch an attack on the Jammu airbase. He referred to China's emergence at the world stage, its diplomacy, economic clout and military belligerence in Indo-Pacific.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
10-08-2021||India||Rohingya Muslims indulging in illegal activities, says Indian govt||The government has reports that Rohingya Muslim migrants are indulging in illegal activities, Lok Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai also said that all foreign nationals who enter into the country without valid travel documents are treated as illegal migrants. “There are reports about some Rohingya migrants indulging in illegal activities,” he said in a written reply. Rai said the central government has issued instructions to state governments and union territory administrations advising them to sensitise the law enforcement and intelligence agencies for taking appropriate steps for prompt identification of illegal migrants, their restriction to specified locations as per provisions of law. Instructions have also been issued to capture their biographic and biometric particulars, cancellation of fake Indian documents and for taking legal proceedings including initiation of deportation proceedings under provisions of law. Rai also said that consolidated instructions to tackle the issue of overstay and illegal migration of foreign nationals have been issued on March 30, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
10-08-2021||India||India evacuating consulate staff from Afghanistan's Mazar-e-Sharif: Officials||India is evacuating its staff from its consulate in Afghanistan's Mazar-e-Sharif in view of the rapidly escalating violence by the Taliban around the capital city of Balkh province, people familiar with the development said on Tuesday. The Indian-based staff of the consulate and a number of Indians residing in Mazar-e-Sharif are being evacuated due to the deteriorating security scenario in the city as well as areas around it, they said. It is learned that a special aircraft of the Indian Air Force will evacuate the staff as well as the Indian citizens from the fourth-largest city of Afghanistan. "A special flight is leaving from Mazar-e-Sharif to New Delhi. Any Indian nationals in and around Mazar-e-Sharif are requested to leave for India in the special flight scheduled to depart late today evening," the Indian consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif tweeted. It asked Indian citizens who want to leave by the special flight to submit the details like their full name and passport number to the consulate immediately. The US has already pulled back the majority of its forces and is looking to complete the drawdown by August 31. It is learned that the consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif will continue to operate through the local staff members. Last month India pulled out around 50 diplomats and security personnel from its consulate in Kandahar following intense clashes between Afghan forces and Taliban fighters around the city. A special aircraft of the Indian Air Force was sent to bring back the Indian diplomats, officials and other staff members including a group of Indo-Tibetan Border Police personnel. According to government data, around 1,500 Indians are currently staying in Afghanistan. Last week, the Ministry of External Affairs said in Lok Sabha that India remained vigilant and is taking all necessary measures to ensure the safety and security of Indians in the conflict-ridden country. Replying to a question, Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan had also said the India-based personnel from the Indian consulate in Kandahar were temporarily withdrawn last month as part of the security measures. "The security situation in Afghanistan has deteriorated in the recent past. In view of this, the government remains vigilant and is taking all necessary measures to ensure the safety and security of Indian nationals and ongoing projects," he said. The Taliban has been making rapid advances across Afghanistan by resorting to widespread violence since the US began withdrawing its troops on May 1. Tuesday's development comes a day after Taliban militants captured a sixth provincial Afghan capital on Monday after they ousted Afghan security forces from border towns and trade routes as US-led foreign forces pull out. On Monday, they took Aybak, the capital of the northern province of Samangan. “Right now the Taliban are fighting with Afghan forces to capture the police headquarters and compound of the provincial governor,” said Ziauddin Zia, a lawmaker in Aybak. “Several parts of the capital have fallen to the Taliban.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
10-08-2021||India||Visiting Kashmir feels like coming home, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said he feels like "coming home" when he visits the Kashmir Valley as he pitched for restoration of Jammu and Kashmir's statehood before holding assembly elections. Addressing his party workers after inaugurating a new party headquarters here, a visibly emotional Gandhi said, "My family lives in Delhi. Before that my family lived in Allahabad. And before Allahabad, my family lived here." "I can tell you that I understand you, my family must have drank water from the river Jhelum. Kashmiriyat, the culture and thought process must be in me too. When I come here, I feel like I am coming home," he said, while referring to his family ties to Kashmir and added that he had come with a message of love and respect. Gandhi, a former Congress president, said that there was an urgent need for restoration of statehood before holding the assembly elections. "Statehood should be restored and then the democratic process should be started, that is election (to state assembly)," he said. Before the event, Gandhi offered prayers at the Mata Kheer Bhawani shrine, the revered shrine of Kashmiri Pandits, in Ganderbal in central Kashmir. Reacting to the suggestion of senior party leader Ghulam Nabi Azad that a bill for restoration of statehood to J-K be brought during the current session of Parliament, Gandhi said there were several issues that he wanted to raise in Parliament, but the opposition was not allowed to speak there. He said he was told by his colleagues that J-K was not a big state with many Lok Sabha seats, but stressed upon the importance of the place. "It is not a state with many Lok Sabh seats...It is not even a state now. But the strength of J-K is the way you live. India and its foundation has Kashmiriyat. This feeling is in me too. What you can get me to do with love and affection, you will never achieve it through force and hatred. That is Kashmiriyat. If you own J-K with love and respect, you will get done whatever you want to," he said. The former Congress president said when his party was in power, it tried to unite and join the country, but the BJP believes in divisive ideology. "When we were in power, we started lots of programmes like Panchayat elections, Udaan, etc. We also brought in industrialists to invest in J-K. We were trying to unite and join. They (BJP) have attacked it," he added. He said the new office building of the party's J-K unit is a new beginning and added that the workers were the party's army. "I tried to come here earlier also, before Covid outbreak, but I was not allowed beyond the airport," he said, referring to his visit immediately after the Centre's August 2019 decisions to abrogate Jammu and Kashmir's special status and bifurcate in into union territories. "I will visit Jammu and Ladakh as well," he added. Addressing the gathering earlier, Azad urged Gandhi to raise the issue of J-K in Parliament so that a bill that restores the statehood and protects land and job rights of locals is passed in Parliament within the remaining three days of the ongoing session. "I request Rahul ji to raise this issue, bring a bill in Parliament in the ongoing session that will restore the statehood and protect the land and job rights. There is not much to debate, it will take just five minutes," Azad said. Recalling the sequence of events after August 5, 2019, Azad said it was the biggest joke played on the people of J-K and democratic India. "It was the biggest joke in democratic India that was played on J-K. The statehood was snatched and two Union territories were created. It has never happened in India, perhaps nowhere in the world. Even in Parliament's history, it has never happened," he said. The former leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha said he and his colleagues tried to visit J-K in the aftermath of the Centre's August 5, 2019 decisions, but were stopped. I had to approach the Supreme Court which gave limited access. I could only visit Baramulla, Anantnag and Jammu," he added. Azad expressed hope that the assurances given by the prime minister at an all-party meeting in June this year will be fulfilled. "At the all-party meeting, the PM gave assurances. We hope that he will fulfil those assurances including the five points raised by the Congress. They should restore statehood and then hold elections," he said. Azad said that J-K cannot be a state like Delhi where every order has to be approved by the Lieutenant Governor. "J-K is a border state and the L-G cannot govern it. We don't want a Delhi like state where L-G has to approve every order," he said. On the protection of land rights, Azad said it was not Article 370 that gave this provision to J-K. "It was not a new law. It was passed by Maharaja Hari Singh in 1927. North East has special provisions on land rights while the Himachal Pradesh assembly has also passed a law. Why snatch it from JK?" he asked. The former J-K chief minister said industrial activity in the Jammu region had suffered as 65 per cent of the 13,000 industrial units had shut down in the past two-and-a-half years. "Most of these units were manufacturing products which had a market in Kashmir," he said, referring to the economic downturn in the UT.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
10-08-2021||India||Opposition MPs raise Pegasus issue in debate on OBC bill||Opposition MPs raised the Pegasus snooping issue in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday during a debate on a Constitution amendment bill that seeks to restore the states' power to make their own OBC lists. Leader of the Congress in the House Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury claimed that countries like Israel, Hungary and France have ordered investigation into the issue of suspected snooping and asked why the Narendra Modi government is "afraid" of a debate on the matter. Speaker Om Birla repeatedly told him to speak on the bill, following which Chowdhury returned to speak on the proposed legislation. Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay also raised the issue and proposed that the Lok Sabha hold a discussion on it on Wednesday. In his brief reference to the alleged snooping of a number of people, including politicians, judges, businessmen and journalists, Chowdhury noted investigation being ordered in some countries and targeted the government. "What happened here? We are afraid of discussing a small matter, the Pegasus snooping issue, in Parliament. We are running away. Why? This was our issue," he said, defending his party against the ruling BJP's charge that it is not letting the House function by repeatedly disrupting it. The onus of ensuring transaction in Parliament is on the government, he said. Pitching for a discussion on the Pegasus issue, Opposition parties have repeatedly disrupted the proceedings in Parliament, resulting in frequent adjournments in both houses since the Monsoon Session began on July 19. Moving the Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill, 2021 for consideration and passage, Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Virendra Kumar described it as a historic legislation as 671 castes in the country would benefit from it. He said the bill will restore the states' rights to prepare their own lists of Other Backward Classes (OBCs) so that various communities can be given social and economic justice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
10-08-2021||India||No decision on nationwide NRC yet, says government||The government has not taken any decision on preparing a National Register of Indian Citizens (NRIC) for the whole country, Union minister Nityanand Rai said in Parliament on Tuesday. He, however, said the government has decided to update the National Population Register (NPR) under the Citizenship Act, 1955, along with the first phase of Census 2021. "Till now, the government has not taken any decision to prepare the National Register of Indian Citizens (NRIC) at national level," Rai said in a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha. So far, the NRC has been updated only in Assam. When the final list of the NRC was published in 2019, a total of 19.06 lakh of the 3.3 crore applicants were excluded, triggering a huge political row. Replying to another question, the minister said any person who is not satisfied with the outcome of the decisions of the claims and objections during the process of preparing the NRC in Assam may prefer an appeal before the designated Foreigners Tribunals within 120 days from the date of such order. Since those excluded from the NRC in Assam are yet to exhaust all possible legal remedies available to them, the question of their nationality verification does not arise at this stage, he added. Referring to the NPR, Rai said the government has decided to update it along with the first phase of Census 2021. He said the demographic and other particulars of each family and individual are to be updated or collected during the exercise of updating the NPR. "No document is to be collected during this exercise. However, due to the outbreak of Covid-19, the update of NPR and other related field activities have been postponed," Rai said. The objective of the NPR is to create a comprehensive identity database of every usual resident in the country. The database would contain demographic as well as biometric particulars. The NPR is a register of the usual residents of the country. It is being prepared at the local (village and sub-town), sub-district, district, state and national levels under the provisions of the Citizenship Act, 1955 and the Citizenship (Registration of Citizens and Issue of National Identity Cards) Rules, 2003.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
10-08-2021||India||Tarun Tejpal seeks 'in-camera' hearing on sexual assault case against him||Journalist Tarun Tejpal in a submission before the Bombay High Court on Tuesday sought an "in-camera" hearing of the Goa government's petition challenging his acquittal in a 2013 rape case and sought its dismissal while raising preliminary objections on its maintainability. However, Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Goa government, opposed Tejpal's request for the 'in-camera' hearing, saying the "country has the right to know how the institution dealt with the girl (victim)". On May 21, a sessions court acquitted Tejpal, the former editor-in-chief of the Tehelka magazine, in the case where he was accused of sexually assaulting his then-colleague in a lift of a five-star hotel in Goa in November 2013 when they were attending an event. Later, the Goa government filed an appeal against it in the HC. On Tuesday, Tejpal's lawyer Amit Desai requested the high court's bench at Goa comprising Justices M S Sonak and M S Jawalkar to hold the hearing in-camera , as was done in the past during the trial of the case in the lower court. He said the hearing should be held "in-camera", considering the sensitivity of the matter and the allegations. The lawyer said he has filed a formal application before the bench to consider the request. Desai also questioned the maintainability of the petition filed by the state government, and sought to dismiss it, claiming it to be defective and not in compliance" with the procedure as mentioned under Criminal Procedure Code Section 378 (appeal in case of acquittal). However, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the court that he would have to go through the application seeking 'in-camera' hearing of the case. "Normally, I would not have objected, but the way this institution has failed, leaving an inevitable impression upon all victims of sexual onslaught, that it has a deterrent effect amongst those who are potential victims," he said. "The country has the right to know how this institution has dealt with the girl who came before the court with a complaint, specific allegation, proofs and corroborative evidence, he argued. Desai said it was not right for Mehta to comment on the case until the final conclusion in the matter. "We should not make comments on the institution of judiciary just because the Goa government did not appreciate the judgement," he added. The bench fixed August 31 for the next hearing. Both Mehta and Desai requested for the hearing through video-conferencing as they are not based in Goa. The judges said their application for virtual hearing should be made to the Bombay High Court's Chief Justice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
10-08-2021||India||Delhi government hasn't received letter from Centre inquiring oxygen death, says Sisodia||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday alleged that the city government has not received any letter from the Centre inquiring if any deaths in the national capital occurred due to oxygen shortage during the second Covid wave. The minister, however, said they have decided to share all the details with the central government. "You can put out that reply in front of the Supreme Court and the public," he said in an online briefing. Sisodia accused the Centre of not showing seriousness towards the oxygen crisis which happened during the second wave. "I read in newspaper reports that the Centre is saying that it has asked state governments to share the number of oxygen-related deaths," he said. Sisodia, however, said that they have not received any communication till date on the matter. "Delhi government has not received any letter on oxygen-related deaths. When you (Centre) have not written any letter, how can you say that states are not informing you? We had formed an inquiry committee but you did not allow it (probe) to happen through Delhi LG," he said. Delhi government believes that there was an oxygen crisis and without an inquiry it is difficult to say whether any deaths happened due to it or not, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-334
10-08-2021||India||Bharat Biotech's gets govt nod to produce Covaxin in their Ankleshwar plant ||Union minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Tuesday said the government has given approval to Bharat Biotech's Ankleshwar-based manufacturing plant to produce COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin. "Govt of India approves vaccine manufacturing facility for production of @BharatBiotech's #Covaxin in Ankleshwar, Gujarat," Mandaviya tweeted. The approval would help increase availability of COVID-19 vaccines in the country, he added. "Following PM @NarendraModi ji's vision of #SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine, this will increase vaccine availability & accelerate the world's largest vaccine drive," the minister who heads both Chemicals and Fertilisers and Health ministries noted. In May this year, Bharat Biotech had announced that it plans to produce an additional 200 million doses of Covaxin at its subsidiary's Ankleshwar-based facility. The Hyderabad-based firm had noted that it would utilise the manufacturing plant of its wholly-owned unit - Chiron Behring, to add another 200 million doses of Covaxin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
10-08-2021||India||Lok Sabha debates amendment of OBC bill, first time since Monsoon session began||For the first time since the Monsoon session of Parliament began on July 19, the Lok Sabha witnessed debate in an orderly manner on Tuesday as it took up a constitutional amendment bill which seeks to restore the states' power to make their own OBC lists. Moving the bill for consideration and passage, Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Virendra Kumar described 'The Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill, 2021' as a historic legislation as 671 castes in the country would benefit from it. Kumar said the bill will restore the states' rights to prepare their own lists of OBCs so that various communities can be given social and economic justice. The minister said the bill should be considered as the 105th Constitution Amendment bill after being renumbered. The 102nd Constitution Amendment Act of 2018 inserted articles 338B, which deals with the structure, duties and powers of the National Commission for Backward Classes, and 342A that deals with the powers of the president to notify a particular caste as an SEBC and the power of Parliament to change the list. Article 366 (26C) defines SEBCs. The Supreme Court has dismissed the Centre's plea seeking a review of its May 5 majority verdict that held that the 102nd Constitution amendment took away the states' power to notify SEBCs for the grant of quota in jobs and admissions. "If this Constitution bill is not brought, 671 OBCs would not have got reservation. All of them will be benefited now," he said. Initiating the debate, Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury extended his party's wholehearted support to the bill but criticised the government for the 2018 amendment saying had the government inserted the suggestion proposed by the Opposition, today's situation would not have arisen. "You tweaked the Constitution by bringing the 102 Constitution Amendment Bill in 2018 which gave people opportunity to go to the court and finally the Supreme Court removed the states' power," he said. Chowdhury also slammed the government for allegedly running away from debate on the issue of "snooping" through the Pegasus spyware, saying the country after country like Hungary, the US and Israel have ordered probe into the controversial issue. The Constitutional amendment Bill requires a special majority for passage the two Houses of Parliament . There should be a majority of the total membership of the House and by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members of that House present and voting. Earlier, the proceedings of the House was disrupted by opposition following protests over Pegasus and other issues. When the House re-assembled at noon after one adjournment, the opposition again started protests. The sloganeering and protests continued when papers related to different ministries were laid on the table of the House. However, when Speaker Om Birla announced taking up this bill for consideration, the opposition members went to their seats and participated in the proceedings. Since the start of the Monsoon session, parliamentary proceedings have been continuously witnessing disruptions due to protests by Opposition parties and a logjam has persisted over their demand for a discussion on the Pegasus snooping row and farmers' protests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
10-08-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir must be given full statehood before polls are conducted, says Azad||Senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad on Tuesday called for restoration of Jammu and Kashmir's statehood before Assembly elections are held and batted for land and job rights for its residents. Speaking to reporters outside the Kheer Bhawani temple complex in Tullamulla area of central Kashmir's Ganderbal district, Azad said Kashmiri Pandits who left the valley in early 1990s in the wake of eruption of militancy be brought back. "The elections...should be conducted soon. But before the elections, the statehood should be restored, which is very important. Kashmiri Pandits should be brought back. "Our land and job (rights), which were taken away after Article 370 was revoked, should be secured like they were before (August 5, 2019) through a new law when the statehood is restored, he said. On August 5, 2019, the Centre announced abrogation of special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 of the Constitution and its bifurcation into union territories. The former J-K chief minister visited the temple shortly after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's visit earlier in the morning. Gandhi had left for Hazratbal shrine when Azad reached Tullamulla. "I came from Delhi today, but the flight reached late and that is why we could not meet here. But since it was in my programme, I came here and will also go to Hazratbal, he said. Asked about the BJP's charge that the Congress party had lost its credibility, Azad said, "Everyone knows who has the credibility." After the Kheer Bhawani visit, Azad went to Hazratbal shrine here to pay obeisance. Later, he joined Gandhi at the inauguration of Congress Bhawan at M A Road here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
10-08-2021||India||Twitter 'prima facie' in compliance with new IT Rules, Centre tells Delhi HC||The Centre told the Delhi High Court on Tuesday that Twitter was prima facie in compliance with the new Information Technology Rules by appointing a Chief Compliance Officer (CCO), Resident Grievance Officer (RGO) and Nodal Contact Person on permanent basis. Justice Rekha Palli, who was hearing a petition alleging non-compliance of IT Rules by the US-based microblogging site, sought an affidavit from the Centre to bring its stand on record within two weeks. "Chief Compliance Officer, Nodal Contact Person (NCP) and Resident Grievance Officer have been appointed in compliance with the law. That's the email that I've received (from the instructing authority). It's better to have an affidavit," Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma said. The court said that Twitter's affidavit on its compliance with IT Rules was finally on record . Senior advocate Sajan Poovayya, representing Twitter, iterated that the company has appointed permanent officials for the posts of CCO, RGO and NCP. Poovayya said the appointed persons will work on a full-time basis and are fully capable of performing the functions in terms of the law. "Court gave us a long rope. Finally we have rectified the situation. We have permanent people occupying the position," Poovayya submitted. On July 28, the court had expressed displeasure over Twitter appointing a contingent worker as CCO and said that the social media platform was in non-compliance with the new IT Rules. "I'm giving you a long rope but don't expect the court to do it on and on," the court had said. Centre had also claimed that Twitter was acting in abject non-compliance of the rules . The Centre said in its affidavit that Twitter failed to comply with India's new IT Rules, which could lead to its losing immunity conferred under the IT Act. The court had earlier granted time to Twitter to file an affidavit to show compliance with the IT Rules. Petitioner-lawyer Amit Acharya, represented by senior advocate G Tushar Rao, claimed that he came to know about the alleged non-compliance of IT Rules by Twitter when he tried to lodge a complaint against a couple of tweets. The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 seek to regulate dissemination and publication of content in cyber space, including social media platforms, and were notified in February by the central government. The matter would be heard next on October 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
10-08-2021||India||Narendra Modi launches Ujjwala 2.0 to provide deposit-free LPG connections||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday launched Ujjwala 2.0 -- the second phase of the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) -- by handing over LPG connections in Mahoba in Uttar Pradesh. After the formal launch, the prime minister distributed free gas connections to 10 women virtually. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Adityanath handed over the documents to the women on behalf of the PM. During Ujjwala 1.0 launched in 2016, a target was set to provide LPG connections to five crore women members of BPL households. Subsequently, the scheme was expanded in April 2018 to include women beneficiaries from seven more categories such as SC and ST communities and forest dwellers. Also, the target was revised to eight crore LPG connections. This was achieved in August 2019, seven months ahead of schedule, officials said. In the Union Budget for 2021-22, provision for an additional one crore LPG connection under the scheme was announced. These one crore additional connections under Ujjwala 2.0 aim to provide deposit-free LPG connections to those low-income families who could not be covered under the earlier phase of PMUY. Along with a deposit-free LPG connection, Ujjwala 2.0 will provide the first refill and hotplate free of cost to the beneficiaries. The enrolment procedure will require minimum paperwork and in Ujjwala 2.0, migrants will not be required to submit ration cards or address proof. A self-declaration for both 'family declaration' and as a 'proof of address' will suffice, they said. Ujjwala 2.0 will help achieve the prime minister's vision of universal access to LPG, it said. Union Petroleum and Natural Gas Minister Hardeep Singh Puri was also present on the occasion. In his address, Union minister Puri said that the use of wood and coal for cooking has adverse effects on health of women.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
10-08-2021||India||Public prosecutors cannot withdraw cases against lawmakers without HC consent, says SC||The Supreme Court Tuesday ordered that public prosecutors cannot withdraw criminal cases against lawmakers accused under the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) without sanction from high courts. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana also said that it was mulling the setting up of a special bench at the apex court to monitor the cases against politicians. The bench, which also comprised Justices Vineet Saran and Surya Kant, ordered that special courts judges, hearing cases against the MPs and MLAs, will not be transferred until further orders. It directed the Registrar Generals of all the high courts to provide information, in a particular format, about the cases decided by special courts against the lawmakers. It has also sought the details of pending cases and their stages before the trial courts. The Supreme Court also held that political parties must make criminal records of their poll candidates public within 48 hours of their selection. This comes months after a February ruling saying that candidates must upload these details either within 48 hours of their selection or at least two weeks before the first date of filing nomination papers, according to a report by ndtv.com. The order came after the top court perused the report of senior advocate Vijay Hansaria and lawyer Sneha Kalita who are assisting the bench. The bench was hearing a PIL of 2016 filed by lawyer and BJP leader Ashwini Upadhyay on fast-tracking of criminal trials against MP and MLAs besides seeking life ban on convicted politicians from contesting polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
10-08-2021||India||Why is the PM silent on Pegasus row, asks Chidambaram||A day after the defence ministry stated that it did not have any transaction with the NSO Group, which is at the centre of the Pegasus row, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Tuesday said only Prime Minister Narendra Modi can answer on behalf of all ministries and departments over the issue and asked "why is he silent". NSO Group, an Israeli surveillance software company, has been under increasing attack following allegations that its Pegasus software was used for surveillance of phones of people in several countries, including India. Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt, while replying to a question in Rajya Sabha on Monday, said, "Ministry of Defence has not had any transaction with NSO Group Technologies." Reacting to the development, Chidambaram tweeted, "MoD has 'absolved' itself of any deal with the NSO Group, Israel. Assuming, MoD is correct, that takes out one Ministry/Department.What about the remaining half a dozen usual suspects?" "Only the PM can answer on behalf of ALL ministries/departments. Why is he silent?" the former home minister said. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers, including that of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, union ministers Prahlad Singh Patel and Ashwini Vaishnaw, businessman Anil Ambani, and at least 40 journalists, were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Israeli firm NSO Group's Pegasus spyware. The government has been denying all Opposition allegations in the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
10-08-2021||India||Pegasus: Centre should probe if any foreign government snooped on Indians, says NCP||Maharashtra minister and NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik on Tuesday said if the Union government did not use the Pegasus spyware, it should probe whether any other foreign government snooped on Indian politicians, judges, bureaucrats and journalists. Malik told reporters here that the Defence Ministry has said there was no transaction with the NSO Group, an Israeli surveillance software company, regarding the Pegasus spyware. "In that case, the Union government should immediately announce an inquiry whether any foreign country snooped on Opposition leaders in India, judges of the Supreme Court, businessmen, journalists and advocates, he said. If it is the case, then it is more serious, said Malik, whose party shares power with the Shiv Sena and Congress in Maharashtra. The Centre should openly state that no government department has used the service of the NSO Group-developed Pegasus spyware. Just one department denying use of the service does not necessarily mean it is the entire Union government's clarification, the NCP leader said. The Defence Ministry on Monday said it did not have any transaction with the NSO Group, which has been under increasing attack following allegations that its Pegasus phone spyware was used for surveillance on journalists, activists and political leaders in several countries including India. The NSO has denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
10-08-2021||India||Narendra Modi asks for list of ministers absent during passing of statutory resolution in RS||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has asked the parliamentary affairs minister to submit the details of members who were not present in Rajya Sabha on Monday when voting for a statutory resolution moved by several Opposition MPs was held, sources said. The statutory resolution demanded that the Tribunals Reforms Bill be sent to the select committee of the House, however, it got negated. Speaking at the BJP parliamentary party meeting on Tuesday, Modi asked Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi to submit the details of those who were not present in the house when the voting was held, sources said. The BJP parliamentary party led by Modi also gave a standing ovation to the Olympic medal winners, sources in the party said. Modi also suggested the party MPs to encourage more people in their constituencies to participate in sports and also promote Poshan Abhiyaan and Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
10-08-2021||India||SC takes exception to parallel debates over Pegasus on social media, websites||Taking exception over parallel proceedings and debates on social media by some petitioners who have sought independent probe into the alleged Pegasus snooping issue, the Supreme Court on Tuesday said there must be some discipline and they must have some faith in the system . A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana, which said it would take a call on August 16 on whether to issue notice to the Centre on pleas seeking probe into the Pegasus row, said it is not against debate but when the matter is pending in the apex court it should be deliberated upon here. The bench, also comprising justices Vineet Saran and Surya Kant, said it expects that petitioners who are interested in the matter would answer whatever queries the court would put to them by way of proper debate in the court and not outside. . "See, once you come to this court, we expect that debate is taking place here and we expect that they will answer the questions," the bench told the counsel appearing for the petitioners, adding, They must have some faith in the system. It observed that instead of having a parallel proceeding or parallel debate, whatever the petitioners want to say, they can file affidavit in the court and the bench would go through its each and every content. The CJI told senior advocate Kapil Sibal, representing veteran journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar who have filed one of the petitions, that there must be some discipline. Sibal said, "Absolutely, I entirely agree with you. When the matter is in court, there should not be public statements of any nature. I entirely agree with you." At the outset, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, told the bench that he has received copies of the petitions, except the one possibly filed by former Union Minister Yashwant Sinha. "It is not a grievance, they can serve it. I may need some instructions," Mehta told the bench, adding,that he is in the process of going through the matter. "I need instructions from the government. Subject to your lordships convenience, if I can get time till Friday. I need two working days to get instructions." The CJI said the matter would be taken up for hearing on August 16 as he has some personal inconvenience on Friday. Senior advocate CU Singh, appearing for one of the petitioners, told the bench that notice be issued on the petitions. "Monday, I will take a call. Till Monday, wait," the bench said. Advocate Manish Tewari, appearing for Yashwant Sinha, said they have served the copy of their petition to the Centre. During the hearing, the bench referred to the adjudication process and said the courts put question to both the parties. "We asked some questions to all of you. We expect some materials, some information or something. You know the adjudication process how the courts will ask questions. Sometimes, it may be inconvenient for you, sometimes it may be encouraging to you. Whatever it is, both sides have to face this music," the bench said. Sibal said on the last date of hearing, he had appeared for Ram and there was reference about proceedings related to Pegasus in California court. He said Ram was trolled on the social media. "See this is the problem when one line is taken out of context," the bench observed, adding that it had put some questions and that was blown out of proportion. The top court said it is not correct and the debate should not cross the limit for anybody. "We are following a procedure and the system. They must have faith in the system," the bench said. Sibal said the issue involved in the matter is serious and the government or others should be given the opportunity to explain the position. The bench said it has always given opportunity to the petitioners as well as to the government. See, any of the petitioners or those interested in the matter who are saying something in newspapers or media or whatever it is, we expect that they will answer whatever queries, whatever questions, whatever things when we put it to you by way of proper debate in the court, not outside, it observed. Meanwhile, activist lawyer Prashant Bhushan, on behalf of Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms (CJAR) and National Campaign for Peoples' Right to Information, has written a letter to the CJI seeking live webcast of the hearing in the Pegasus matter. The apex court was hearing a batch of pleas, including the one filed by the Editors Guild of India, seeking independent probe into the alleged Pegasus snooping matter. They are related to reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Israeli firm NSO's spyware Pegasus. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware. During the hearing in the matter on August 5, the top court had said that allegations of Pegasus related snooping are "serious in nature" if reports on them are correct. It had also asked the petitioners whether they had made any efforts to file criminal complaint on this. The apex court, which had asked the petitioners to serve the copies of the pleas to the Centre, had also questioned why the matter has suddenly cropped up now when it had come to light way back in 2019. Editors Guild of India has sought in its plea that a special investigation team be set up to conduct probe into reported surveillance of journalists and others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-335
10-08-2021||India||India records lowest daily Covid count in 147 days||India logged 28,204 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 147 days, taking the total tally of cases to 3,19,98,158, while the active cases fell to 3,88,508, the lowest in 139 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The national COVID-19 recovery rate has increased to 97.45 per cent, which is the highest ever recovery rate achieved, the ministry said. The death toll has climbed to 4,28,682 with 373 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases comprise 1.21 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 13,680 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 15,11,313 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 48,32,78,545. The daily positivity rate has declined to 1.87 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 15 days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.36 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,11,80,968, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 51.45 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Tuesday morning. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of three crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 373 new fatalities include 105 from Kerala and 68 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,28,682 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,34,064 from Maharashtra, 36,817 from Karnataka, 34,340 from Tamil Nadu, 25,067 from Delhi, 22,774 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,240 from West Bengal and 17,852 from Kerala. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
10-08-2021||India||Anti-Muslim slogans at Jantar Mantar: Police detains BJP spokesperson, 5 others||The Delhi Police has detained six people, including advocate and former BJP spokesperson Ashwini Upadhyay, in connection with a video showing anti-Muslim slogans being raised during a protest at Jantar Mantar, officials said on Tuesday. According to a senior police officer, the six people were detained from different areas of the Delhi-National Capital Region. Their roles are being verified in connection with the incident and further action will be taken accordingly, he said. A video showing anti-Muslim slogans being raised during a protest at Jantar Mantar here was widely circulated on social media, following which the Delhi Police registered a case in connection with the matter on Monday. Hundreds of people had attended the protest organised by Bharat Jodo Aandolan at Jantar Mantar on Sunday. Shipra Srivastava, media in-charge of Bharat Jodo Aandolan, had said the protest was held under the leadership of Upadhyay. However, she denied any links to those who raised anti-Muslim slogans. The protest was held against colonial laws and demanding to abolish 222 British laws. We have seen the video, but have no idea who they are. The police should take strict action against the persons who raised the slogans, Srivastava had said. Upadhyay too denied any involvement in the anti-Muslim slogan shouting incident. "I have submitted a complaint to the Delhi Police to examine the video which went viral. If the video is authentic, then strict action should be taken against the persons who were involved in it," he had said. "I have no idea who they are. I have never seen them, never met them and neither called them there. Till the time I was there, they were not seen there. If the video is fake, then a propaganda is being circulated to defame Bharart Jodo Andolan," Upadhyay said. The video shows a group of people shouting inflammatory slogans and threatening Muslims during the protest at Jantar Mantar. Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav had said on Monday, We have received a video and we are examining it. A case has been registered under relevant sections of the law and an investigation is in progress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
10-08-2021||India||CPM admits to error in treating TMC and BJP equally in Bengal||The practice of treating the BJP and the Trinamul Congress as two sides of the same coin cost the CPM dear, the Left party’s central committee has concluded during a three-day brainstorming session to analyse its worst performance ever in the Bengal Assembly elections. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury told reporters after the meeting that although the party line from the beginning in Bengal and the rest of the nation had been that the principal political adversary was the BJP, in practice the BJP and Trinamul were treated equally in many places. “That we said was wrong. That was not the party’s understanding. These are the things that need to be corrected,” Yechury said. On the Bengal results, Yechury said: “The salutary factor has been the defeat of the BJP despite its high-profile campaign and determined bid to capture the state. The people of Bengal rose as one to defeat the communal forces and Hindutva as an ideology that was seen to be imposed on Bengal and its culture. This is a salutary factor.” But in that desire to defeat the BJP, it was Trinamul, not the combination of the Left Front, Congress and the Indian Secular Front, that benefited. Yechury said: “This combination was not seen as a viable option to defeat the BJP. And, in that polarisation, we got squeezed out. As far as the party is concerned, for the CPIM, it’s been a very disastrous result. For the first time since 1946, no communist has been elected to the Assembly in Bengal.... “We have, therefore, in a very serious, self-critical introspection, examined the reasons why this has happened, identified the problems that exist and the organisational weaknesses that need to be corrected.” The lessons drawn by the CPM’s central committee will be taken up by the state committee, which is scheduled to meet on August 12 and 13. Yechury will attend the meeting. A central committee member told The Telegraph the CPM had also failed to see that Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had succeeded in addressing the anti-incumbency factor that had helped the BJP gain seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “She (Mamata) took corrective measures. The party failed to see that the welfare programmes she took up after 2019 benefited some people. Not only did we ignore it, we dismissed these measures as ‘dole politics’. In the CC, the opinion was that it was wrong to call it dole politics when the Left is in favour of welfare programmes,” the central committee member said. Asked if the CPM would continue its alliance with the ISF, Yechury said: “In all future elections, to maximise the pooling of all anti-BJP and anti-TMC votes, we will align with all secular forces. That’s the decision of the CC.” However, a central committee member said that internally, there was acknowledgement that while the ISF was a secular force, the party had failed to communicate its secular credentials, allowing its detractors to project it as a “Muslim party”. “The ground for the alliance should have been prepared better. The tie-up with the ISF was sprung upon the people at a rally, and the narrative spun by our rivals prevailed. We failed to communicate the fact that while the ISF president may be a Muslim, its general secretary is a Hindu and so were 40 per cent of its candidates.” As for the organisational problems, sources stressed that the CPM had lost the most to Trinamul’s violence against its opponents. “As many as 780 of our leaders have been killed, 1.3 lakh of our local leaders have been forced out of their areas of influence and another lakh have been implicated in false cases. The party has tried to help out many of them but not enough was done, leaving the cadres disillusioned. This hollowed us out,” a source said. Further, because of the violence, the party workers could not be among the people. “Communists live with the people -- like fish and water. The disconnect hurt us badly. It was a case of ‘out of sight, out of mind’. And we have seen the Left vote getting eroded in every election since 2008 as a result. We failed to check this erosion,” the CPM source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
10-08-2021||India||BJP leader Ashwani Upadhyay leads anti-muslim protest in New Delhi||While most of India was savouring on Sunday the hangover of one of its finest sporting moments, a group drunk on hate, if not power, sought to mainstream an agenda that has been gathering momentum in recent years. “Jab mulle kaate jayenge, Ram-Ram chillayenge (When the Muslims are slaughtered, they will scream ‘Ram, Ram’).” “Band karo, band karo, mulle ka vyapar band karo (Shut down, shut down, shut down Muslims’ businesses).” “Hindustan mein rehna hoga, ‘Jai Shri Ram’ kehna hoga (If you want to live in India, you have to chant, ‘Jai Shri Ram’).” These slogans were ringing out not in the hinterland or a clandestine setting. Footage suggested the venue was Jantar Mantar in the heart of the national capital and literally within the earshot of the seat of power that governs the Union of India. The rally was organised by former Delhi BJP spokesperson Ashwani Upadhyay under the umbrella of the Bharat Jodo Movement, demanding the end of colonial-era laws by implementing a uniform civil code. Upadhyay on Monday sought to dissociate himself from the sloganeering. Anmol Pritam, a reporter with the YouTube channel National Dastak, was roughed up and told to chant “Jai Shri Ram”, which he refused to do under duress. “When I asked them about why issues like unemployment or food security do not elicit such public protests from them, one youth started yelling that I am from a jihadi channel that hates Modi and Yogi,” Pritam told The Telegraph on Monday. “It was scary as I was suddenly gheraoed by about 150 people. One large man put his arm around me and said, ‘Tere muh mein dahi jam gayi hai ki ‘Jai Shri Ram’ nahi bolega (Is your mouth stuffed with curd that you won’t say, ‘Jai Shri Ram’)?’” Pritam is seen in a video clip he has tweeted, saying: “I will say, ‘Jai Shri Ram’ when I like. I won’t be forced to say it. If so many of you gherao me, I won’t say it.” Pritam said policemen remained mute spectators when he was assaulted. On Monday, Delhi police, now led by the controversial former CBI officer Rakesh Asthana, stirred from the perceived stupor. The police registered an FIR against “unknown” persons. The police said the event was held without permission — in what was supposed to be one of the most secure cities in the world. No one had been arrested till Monday evening. The Delhi police report to the Union home ministry, now headed by Amit Shah. Civil rights defender Harsh Mander tweeted: “Runaway hate speech spouting venom against Indian Muslim citizens by rallyists and that too in the vicinity of Parliament. The police does nothing to detain or punish them. This is the character of the ruling establishment.” A similar outburst a year ago had culminated in the Delhi riots in which 53 people were killed. The Delhi minority panel had said in its report on the riots that the police “were complicit and abetted the attacks” and tended to arrest the victims rather than the people they accused. Last week, Hindutva groups and other organisations had held a mahapanchayat in Dwarka, a residential neighbourhood on the western fringes of Delhi, to protest against the construction of a Haj House. Purported videos from the event showed the protesters making communally charged comments and calling for violence if the building came up. Monday’s FIR, registered under Sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC, did not name any specific person even through the faces of those shouting the slogans were visible in the purported video from the rally. Delhi police deputy commissioner (New Delhi district) Deepak Yadav said: “A case has been registered under relevant sections of law and the investigation is under way.” Asked why no one had been arrested till Monday evening, Yadav said: “We are looking at the videos and identifying them. It is a process.” Upadhyay, the former Delhi BJP spokesperson who organised the Jantar Mantar programme from 11am on Sunday, filed a complaint with the police. In a letter to the Delhi police commissioner, Upadhyay said: “A video is going viral on social media in which a man is giving a frenzied speech. Some people are sharing this video on Twitter, Facebook and WhatsApp by taking my name to defame me, although I neither know the people seen in the video nor have I met any of them, nor were they invited.… I request you to direct to check the veracity of this video as well as the time and place of its making. If this video is true, then take strict action against those involved in it and if it is untrue, then take strict action against those who shared it on social media. “I request you to take necessary action to prevent this video from being shared till the completion of investigation. Kindly pass directions to file a criminal defamation case against those who have associated my name with this video.” He added that the “small” programme was organised “to commemorate the anniversary of this historic day” (the launch of the Quit India movement on August 8 in 1942) and to demand that “a new law be made by abolishing all English laws”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
10-08-2021||India||Covid: SC seeks disclosure of clinical trial data on vaccines||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notices to the Centre and others on a petition that seeks disclosure of the clinical trial data on Covid-19 vaccines, cleared under “emergency use authorisation”, and informed consent from citizens for inoculation. However, the apex court declined to stay the vaccination process to avoid any panic or misgivings among the public. The petition from Dr Jacob Puliyel, former member of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), claims that some people were coerced to take the jab. It argues that the government cannot resort to arm-twisting without a public disclosure of the clinical data relating to the adverse reactions caused by the two vaccines used in India, Covishield and Covaxin. “Our apprehension is any detailed enquiry into this will cast doubts in the minds of people,” the bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose observed. “This country is fighting a vaccine shortage. Now we are on a different tangent. Let vaccination go on — we don’t want to stop this.... India already has a serious problem of vaccine hesitancy.” However, the court issued notices on the petition saying it would accept the argument that “personal autonomy” should have precedence over “public health”. Besides the Union government, the apex court has sought responses from the Indian Council of Medical Research and the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, besides the vaccine makers Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech, within four weeks. Puliyel, a Delhi-based paediatrician, has questioned the vaccines being granted emergency use authorisation — an interim approval for a drug or vaccine during a public health emergency, such as the Covid pandemic, pending final approval that can only come after the trials and data analyses are complete. Puliyel has sought a court directive to the authorities to publish the segregated data of the clinical trials for the vaccines that are being administered to Indians. “This (failure to disclose trial data) is a clear violation of the basic norms of scientific disclosure and the guidelines with respect to disclosure of clinical trial data, as laid down by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and followed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR),” the petition, filed through advocate Cheryl D’Souza, says. “The disclosure of such information is essential to ascertain whether a certain section of the population is more susceptible to adverse effects, to determine what are the adverse effects in various age groups and on differing populations, etc.” According to the petition, the Indian authorities should monitor the vaccine recipients and record all adverse events, and that such a measure in some other countries has helped identify the occurrence of blood clots and strokes in some vaccine recipients. Many countries stopped administering the vaccine till they evaluated such occurrences, and Denmark banned the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine (branded Covishield in India), the petition says. “Once we entertain this petition it should not send out a signal that we do not trust the efficacy of these vaccines,” the bench told advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the petitioner. Bhushan said the petitioner was not against vaccination but only wanted the government to make the clinical data public. He alleged that coercion was being used on people unwilling to take the jab. He referred to Gauhati and Meghalaya High Courts cautioning against the adoption of coercive measures after reports said people were being threatened with the sack or closure of their businesses if they didn’t get vaccinated. “Do you want vaccines to stop?... About 50 crore people have taken vaccines. Won’t this petition put a doubt in the mind of people who have taken vaccines already?” Justice Rao asked. Bhushan argued that according to WHO guidelines and the Helsinki Declaration, trial data of vaccines should be made public so that prospective recipients of the jab can take an informed decision. The court said that even the WHO had spoken of “vaccine hesitancy”, and entertaining the petition would only sow more doubts in the public’s mind. Bhushan argued that failure to make the data public would only increase vaccine hesitancy. Quoting the ICMR, he said two-thirds of Indians had already developed immunity from the pandemic, suggesting the urgency to take the jab had reduced. Bhushan said various studies had indicated that the vaccines may have led to the appearance of newer Covid variants and that they were hardly effective on the “Delta variant”. The bench said it had to hear the Centre out before passing any orders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
10-08-2021||India||A forgotten anniversary and festering wounds ||Few in the Valley even care to recall it now, but today is the anniversary of the first schism between Kashmir and New Delhi after Independence. Today is the day back in 1953 that Sheikh Abdullah was summarily dismissed from office and bundled into jail on suspicion of hatching what came to be called the “Kashmir conspiracy”. Since then, the relationship has never stepped off the tumultuous, and very often sinister, roller-coaster of removals and revivals, of promises made and sundered, alliances stitched and ripped apart. You have to do no more than run your eye down the tally and terms of chief ministers to understand New Delhi’s capricious hand on the turnstile to power in Kashmir. If the momentous ouster of Sheikh Abdullah by Jawaharlal Nehru more than six decades ago is no moment of significance any more, the reason is probably this: there is no power to be had in Kashmir any more, and there is no turnstile. New Delhi installed a door instead on August 5, 2019, and put a padlock on it. No state, no Assembly, no spur to revive local ambitions of reclaiming rulership. New Delhi rules, and the odds are it has no intention of handing the reins back to any effectual degree. A senior local leader, intimate with the drastically altered rules of the Kashmiri chessboard, put it bluntly to me: “What is happening here is a sustained project of disempowerment; the rest is all window-dressing and photo-ops.” He was referring pointedly to the meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi had convened with leaders of Jammu and Kashmir last month. “What continues to puzzle me is why the meeting was called at all. Did New Delhi have a plan to discuss? Clearly it did not. New Delhi does have a plan, but it is not on the discussion table, it is proceeding with it unilaterally. That plan is to erode Kashmiri aspiration to a degree that they either collaborate or fall by the wayside.” Democracy is lying comatose in Kashmir; the infirmary is a babble of contrary rowing on who will revive it, if at all, and how. The Abdullahs of the National Conference (NC) want statehood restored before they would consider an election. Mehbooba Mufti of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) is demanding the annulment of the annulments of August 5, 2019. It is an improbable ambition, but it probably sets her apart as espousing a more radical populism. Sajad Lone of the People’s Conference and Altaf Bukhari of the fledgling Apni Party are in no mean scurry, pretenders to a throne that has not been sighted in public since the sweeping abrogations of two summers ago. Their singular claim on the table, encouraged in fair measure by New Delhi, is that they would rid Kashmir of the monopoly of the Abdullahs and the Muftis, of what Narendra Modi disparaged as the reign of “baap-bete ki sarkar and baap-beti ki sarkar”. But is there a sarkar at all to be formed in Kashmir? “Does anyone really think we can go back to things as they were? That there will be a locally elected government and a chief minister who can hold their own?” asks a former MLA. “People are welcome to construct their delusions and live in them. After what happened two years ago, there is no going back to any semblance of Kashmiri politicians being allowed to run Kashmiri affairs. They have not understood the meaning of what happened in August 2019. New Delhi has always wanted to be the real sarkar in Jammu and Kashmir; now it has shed the pretence; it is the sarkar.” The prophecy of what was to come probably lay wrapped in what happened to Sheikh Abdullah this day in 1953; it’s only being read out now. PS: If it helps to grasp the prospects and consequences of elections in Kashmir as it is today, last winter’s much-bandied polls to the district development councils may hold a lesson, or a warning. Most of those elected in the Valley cannot return among those that elected them for fear they might come to grievous harm. They live herded in quarters behind high-security walls and spools of barbed-wire fencing across the districts of the Valley. Such is the fate of the elected in these parts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
10-08-2021||India||Farmers participate in the Kisan Sansad at Jantar Mantar||Farmers and their supporters participate in the Kisan Sansad at Jantar Mantar on Monday against the Centre’s three farm laws. The anti-farm law protesters decided to pass a “no confidence motion” against the Centre and close the protest at Jantar Mantar, which was timed to coincide with the monsoon session of Parliament. An office-bearer of a participant peasants’ union said they would not seek permission from Delhi police to extend any further. Around 200 farmers have been participating in the daily protest since Parliament opened. The Kisan Sansad called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions, at Jantar Mantar near Parliament decided to call for the resignation of the Narendra Modi government for not repealing the contentious farm laws. The sit-in at Delhi’s borders against the three laws, which will complete nine months soon, will continue, an office-bearer of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, a part of the Morcha, said. “The farmer unions through their ‘Kisan Sansad’ will pass a ‘no confidence motion’ for the government, demanding resignation of the BJP-led dispensation,” BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik said. Delhi police had granted permission for the protest at Jantar Mantar from July 22 till August 9 with a maximum of 200 protesters at the site. “We are not going to seek any further permission for the protest at Jantar Mantar because the government is just not concerned. We will pass the ‘no confidence motion’ against it and return to the (Delhi) borders where protest will continue until our demands are met,” Malik added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
10-08-2021||India||Pegasus: Defence ministry denies any transaction with the NSO Group||The defence ministry on Monday said it did not have any transaction with the NSO Group, the developer of military-grade spy software Pegasus that is in the eye of a huge political firestorm following the snooping controversy allegedly involving the programme. The brief written statement on the NSO Group came from Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt in response to a question in Rajya Sabha by CPI(M) member V Sivadasan. "Ministry of Defence has not had any transaction with NSO Group Technologies," the minister said. Sivadasan, as part of a number of questions on expenditure by the defence ministry, also asked whether the government had carried out any transaction with the NSO Group Technologies. NSO Group, an Israeli surveillance software company, has been under increasing attack following allegations that its Pegasus phone spyware was used for surveillance on journalists, activists and political leaders in several countries including India. NSO has denied any wrongdoing. The opposition parties have been targeting the central government over the snooping row and disrupting proceedings in Parliament since it met on July 19 for the Monsoon session. The opposition parties have been demanding a discussion on the Pegasus issue in parliament, claiming it has national security implications. IT and Communications Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw had dismissed media reports on the use of Pegasus software to snoop on Indians, saying the allegations levelled just ahead of the Monsoon session of Parliament were aimed at maligning Indian democracy. In a suo motu statement in Lok Sabha, Vaishnaw had said that with several checks and balances being in place, "any sort of illegal surveillance" by unauthorised persons is not possible in India. The controversy erupted after an investigation by a global media consortium based on leaked targeting data claimed evidence that the military-grade malware from the NSO Group was being used to spy on politicians, journalists, human rights activists and others. In his reply, Bhatt also said that an allocation of Rs 4,04,364 crore was made to the defence ministry in the budget estimate (BE) stage in 2018-19 and the expenditure made during that fiscal by the ministry was Rs 4,03,459 crore. The minister said that an outlay of Rs 4,31,010 crore was made at the BE stage in 2019-20 while expenditure against the allocation was Rs 4,51,902 crore. In 2020-21, the defence ministry incurred an expenditure of Rs 4,85,726 crore as against an allocation of Rs 4,71,378 crore at the BE stage, he said. The percentage of allocation to the defence ministry out of the total budget of the central government for 2018-19 was 16.56 percent while it was 15.47 percent in 2019-20 and 15.49 percent in 2020-21, according to the minister. Bhatt said an amount of Rs 45,705 crore was spent in 2018-19 on procurement from foreign sources while the figure for 2019-20 was 47,961.47 crore. The ministry spent Rs 53,118 crore in procurement from foreign countries in 2020-21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
10-08-2021||India||Bihar: Primary school principal suspended after media report||A primary school principal in Bihar was suspended on Sunday for “tarnishing” the state government’s image by hawking jute bags in the marketplace — which hundreds of other schoolteachers too did following an official order but without their activity drawing attention. Muhammad Tamizuddin had been visiting the local Kadwa Bazar in Katihar district every day carrying a stack of jute bags on his head and wearing a placard that spelt out he was a schoolteacher forced to sell gunny sacks on the government’s orders, The Telegraph had reported on Monday. On July 22, the state education department had ordered Bihar’s 80,000 primary and middle schools to sell — at Rs 10 apiece — the sacks in which midday meal grains had been sent to them. It said the sacks should be sold in three days, the money deposited with the treasury and a report submitted. Tamizuddin — and teacher associations — have said that no one wants to buy the sacks because they have been damaged by floods and rats or worn out by students sitting on them in classrooms bereft of benches. “Muhammad Tamizuddin did not follow the department’s directives on time, and when asked for a report, carried a bundle of empty bags on his head, shouted the slogan, ‘Bora le lo, bora le lo (Buy sacks)’, demonstrated at a public place and made viral its video on social media,” says the suspension order, issued on Sunday evening — suggesting the government treated the matter as urgent. “This behaviour by Muhammad Tamizuddin is against Section 17 of the Bihar Panchayat Primary School Service Rules 2020 pertaining to the conduct of primary schoolteachers. It is not only indicative of revenue loss to the government and financial irregularity, but has tarnished the image of the district administration and the government.” Tamizuddin denied any role in the making or circulation of the video showing him hawking sacks. He expressed surprise at the timing of the suspension, saying the officer in charge of the midday meal scheme in Kadwa block had written to him on Friday, giving him time till Monday to explain his actions. “I’m yet to get the suspension letter though I saw it when somebody in a chat group posted it on a social networking site,” he told this newspaper. “I have done no wrong and will fight for justice.” Associations of the state’s primary school teachers have threatened an agitation if Tamizuddin’s suspension is not revoked, the order to sell the sacks not cancelled, and the officials behind the order not punished. The panchayat secretary of the area where Tamizuddin’s school is located had issued the suspension order at the behest of the district education officer, who had received a letter from education department special secretary and midday meal director Satish Chandra Jha. Asked about the suspension order being issued on a Sunday, Jha said: “The matter came to our knowledge on Sunday. There’s no rule that we can’t work on a Sunday; we get the salary for Sundays too.” He added enigmatically: “Besides, a suspension is not a punishment under the service conduct rules.” Asked how the teachers were supposed to sell the sacks if not in the marketplace, he said they should have “called vendors to the schools”. Manoj Kumar, acting president of the state primary teachers’ association, said: “That the state government suspended Tamizuddin on a Sunday without giving him a chance to defend himself shows its vindictiveness towards teachers.” Another primary teachers’ association — the Parivartankari Prarambhik Shikshak Sangh — wrote to chief minister Nitish Kumar, education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary, senior government officials and the state human rights commission on the matter. “Teachers across the state are trying to sell sacks in the light of the government directive but are not getting buyers,” its president Vanshidhar Brajvasi wrote. He added that if the government didn’t want teachers to hawk the sacks in the marketplace, it “should arrange for an alternative way”. The Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal accused the state government of “torturing teachers on various pretexts”. The July 22 order was issued after the office of the comptroller and auditor general raised a spectre of revenue loss in its reports relating to financial years 2014-15 and 2015-16. Around 1.27 crore jute bags had reached the schools under the midday meal scheme in those two years, the July 22 letter said, implying the government was expecting to earn Rs 12.7 crore from their sale.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
10-08-2021||India||Nitish Kumar awaits Modi's call on caste census talks||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said on Monday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was yet to give him time for a discussion on the caste census. Nitish had written a letter to Modi on August 4 seeking a meeting on the issue. “Our letter reached the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on August 4. A delegation of the political parties in the state wants to accompany me to meet the Prime Minister. But no reply has come till now. We want a caste census. “It is one of our long-pending demands and it is for the benefit of the country,” Nitish said. He said a delegation of MPs of his Janata Dal United had also sought a meeting with the Prime Minister, but they were instead asked to meet Union home minister Amit Shah. “The delegation met the Union home minister and also submitted a memorandum on the demand for caste census,” Nitish said. Speaking on the sidelines of his Janata Darbar, the chief minister asserted that a caste census will make clear everything, including the position of a particular caste across the country, and will help in formulating development schemes. “It is for the Centre to take a decision on the caste census. It is not a political but a social issue,” Nitish said. However, Nitish remained non-committal when asked whether the state government will conduct a caste census on its own if the Centre does not do so. The state legislature had passed unanimous resolutions demanding caste census in 2019 and 2020 and forwarded them to the Centre. The last caste census was conducted in 1931 during the British rule. It had put the backward caste population of the country at around 52 per cent. The data later became the backbone of the quota policies brought by the central and state governments. A socio-economic caste survey was conducted in 2011 by the UPA–II government at the Centre, but the data on castes was not published after allegations of various discrepancies. The BJP-led central government had said in the Lok Sabha last month that there were no plans for caste-wise enumeration of the population, other than the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Nitish also dismissed questions about a rift in the JDU, especially between the present national president Rajiv Ranjan Singh and his predecessor, Union steel minister R.C.P. Singh. Asked about the issue, Nitish said: “All are together and united.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-336
10-08-2021||India||Odisha government to set up 89 multi-purpose indoor stadiums||The Odisha cabinet chaired by chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday decided that the state  government would set up 89 multi-purpose indoor stadiums in all urban areas with the objective of producing more Olympians in the coming days. The plan is to promote a range of sports and games, including badminton, table tennis and weight lifting. Indoor stadiums will also have facilities to train students in yoga and other physical exercises. Professional coaching at the grassroot level will be given. As per the decision of the state government, the indoor stadiums will come up under Sports Infrastructure Development Projects with an investment of Rs 693.35 crore within a period of 18 months. The multi-purpose stadiums will also be used as cyclone centres during the time of natural calamities such as cyclones. During pandemics such as Covid-19 pandemic the stadiums will be used as temporary hospitals. In the urban areas, 100 beds will be arranged in the stadium-turned-hospitals and  Notified Area Council (NAC) the stadium will  have facilities for 50 bedded hospitals. The stadiums will be named after former chief minister Biju Patnaik (father of Naveen Patnaik). “Creation of good infrastructure can be utilised for multi purposes like  training,, meetings and examination centres,” officials said. The cabinet also appreciated the Indian hockey teams  for their spectacular performance at the Tokyo Olympics and lauded the efforts of the medal winners. It is pertinent to mention that Odisha is the official sponsor of the men’s and women’s hockey teams of the country. When Sahara India had backed out of sponsorship in 2018 the future of Indian hockey was in jeopardy. At that time the cash strapped Odisha signed an MoU to revive the hockey with a deal worth more than Rs 100 crore. Hockey was revived due to this and men’s team was able to clinch a bronze medal after a long 41 years wait at Tokyo. Similarly, the women’s team made a spectacular show in the Tokyo Olympics though it was defeated by Britain in the decider for the bronze medal. “Once all the indoor facilities are available in blocks, semi-urban and urban areas, there will be a sea change in the approach towards sports. More and more youths will take up sports and the state will be able to produce Olympians,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
10-08-2021||India||Centre introduces three bills in Lok Sabha despite Opposition protest||Several Opposition leaders on Monday protested the government’s rush to introduce and pass bills without discussion during the last week of the monsoon session of Parliament, but the Centre justified the push and accused the Opposition of obstruction. The Lok Sabha had to be adjourned thrice following uproar by the Opposition demanding a discussion on the Pegasus snooping row and other issues, but the government managed to complete the day’s business by introducing three bills and passing three others with voice vote in a matter of minutes. The Congress protested most vociferously but others too joined when The Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Amendment Bill was taken up for passage, coinciding with the International Day of the World’s Indigenous Peoples. “International tribals day is being celebrated today and we wanted to speak a lot, but due to the arrogance of this government no discussion is taking place,” leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Chowdhury, said when the ST bill was being taken up. Adhir sought to emphasise that the Congress supported the bill, but was forced to protest in the House because the government was not accepting the Opposition’s demand for a discussion on the Pegasus snooping row first. “On behalf of the Trinamul Congress, we also support the bill... but the bill should be withheld for a detailed discussion later. We are not being allowed to discuss many issues like Pegasus,” TMC’s leader in the Lok Sabha, Sudip Bandopadhyay, said. Shiv Sena’s Vinayak Raut said: “We should have had a detailed discussion... but unfortunately this important bill is being passed without any discussion.” “It’s quite unfortunate the manner in which the bill is being passed,” Revolutionary Socialist Party MP N.K. Premchandran said. “Passing 3 bills in 10 minutes is against the rules.” DMK’s T.R. Baalu, NCP’s Supriya Sule and BSP’s Ritesh Mishra also slammed the manner in which the bills were being passed. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi stood up to counter the Opposition allegations and said the government was ready for discussion. “The government is ready for a long discussion. I appeal to the Opposition members to retreat from the well of the House and go back to their seats and allow a discussion,” Joshi, who had termed Pegasus a “non-issue”, said. Finally, the bill to modify the list of Scheduled Tribes by adding new communities from Arunachal Pradesh was passed with a voice vote without discussion. The constitutional amendment bill to give rights to states to have their own OBC list was introduced on Monday and will be taken up for passage on Tuesday. The Opposition has decided to support the bill, claiming it was because of protests by them and the OBC groups that the government had to come up with the amendment. The Opposition could use the discussion over the bill to raise the Pegasus issue on which the government is reluctant to have a discussion in Parliament. A discussion on Covid management was also listed on Monday, but couldn’t be taken up as the House was adjourned for the day at 2pm. The monsoon session is scheduled to conclude on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
10-08-2021||India||Civil society, Opposition leaders condemn anti-Muslim slogans||Many civil society members have condemned the sloganeering for the killing of Muslims that was heard in Delhi on Sunday. Many also came out in support of a YouTube channel reporter who had published videos of the Jantar Mantar crowd trying unsuccessfully to compel him to chant “Jai Shri Ram” after he questioned the sloganeers. On Sunday, a gathering at Jantar Mantar ostensibly protesting against colonial laws shouted slogans calling for violence against Muslims. Annie Raja, general secretary of the CPI-backed National Federation of Indian Women; activists Shabnam Hashmi, Mohini Giri, Nivedita Jha and Leena Dabiru; former Planning Commission member Syeda Hameed and journalist Sukhprit Kahlon have lodged a complaint with Parliament Street police station listing the incendiary slogans heard in videos of the gathering. “It is extremely distressing that despite heavy police presence, no steps were taken by the police to immediately stop such sloganeering, nor were any coercive steps taken after the slogans were made. It is clear the programme was organised to spread hate against Muslims and incite violence against them,” the complaint said. An FIR has been registered under Indian Penal Code sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups) and 188 (disobeying public servant’s order). The complainants have demanded that the men seen in the video and the organisers be also booked under Section 295A (outraging religious sentiments). The National Commission for Minorities has sought information on the action taken, permissions for such events, and steps to prevent them in future. It has summoned the deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) on Tuesday. Besides condemning the police, several people tweeted with the hashtag #ISupportAnmol in solidarity with YouTube channel National Dastak’s reporter Anmol Pritam, who was surrounded by the crowd after Sunday’s Jantar Mantar event. Pritam told The Telegraph he had questioned members of the crowd about their motives. “I tried to strike up a conversation with them as the slogans they were raising clearly had nothing to do with colonial laws but were targeted at a particular community,” he said. “When I asked them why issues like unemployment or food security do not elicit such public protests from them, they were triggered. One youth started yelling that I was from a jihadi channel that hates (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi and (Uttar Pradesh chief minister) Yogi (Adityanath).” Pritam added: “It was scary as I was suddenly gheraoed by about 150 people. One large man put his arm around me and said, ‘Tere muh mein dahi jam gayi hai ki ‘Jai Shri Ram’ nahi bolega (Has curd set in your mouth that you won’t say ‘Jai Shri Ram’)?” Pritam is seen a video he has tweeted saying: “I will say ‘Jai Shri Ram’ when I like. I won’t be forced to say it. If so many of you gherao me, I won’t say it.” He told this newspaper: “At that moment, I felt like just saying it and escaping. But I also felt that physical injuries will heal but the wound to my principles and soul won’t; so somehow I just stood my ground. Soon, they pushed me out. Luckily I don’t have any injuries that require medical treatment.” Lyricist Hussain Haidry tweeted on Sunday: “Arvind Kejriwal must speak and take action against the brazen displays of hate speech against Muslims in Delhi today.” Delhi Congress chief Anil Chaudhary tweeted: “Under the leadership of Aam Aadmi Party’s founder member and BJP leader Ashwini Upadhyay, there is a conspiracy by the rioters to throw the capital Delhi into riots again. Why is Delhi chief minister who ordered FIR in Markaz’s case @ArvindKejriwal silent?” Chaudhary was referring to how pilgrims from a Tablighi Jamaat congregation in March last year were booked for allegedly spreading Covid. They were later acquitted. However, Kejriwal, who is usually vocal against the police, was silent on Monday — as he has been on communal issues since last year’s riots in Delhi that claimed 53 lives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
10-08-2021||India||Cong to hold year-long celebrations for India’s 75th Independence year||The Congress has decided to hold yearlong celebrations to commemorate India’s 75th year of Independence, stressing the need to protect the country from “despotic and autocratic individuals and organisations” that are undermining the constitutional scheme. “Despotic and autocratic individuals and organisations, majority of whom then had sided with the British and opposed the freedom movement, continue to challenge the very foundation of our polity and democracy,” a statement from Congress general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal said on Monday. “Undermining individual freedoms, perpetuating social injustice, subverting institutional autonomy, creating caste and religious divides and compromising the very fundamentals of our Constitution and nationhood are their overt and covert agenda. Today, the onus lies upon each one of us to preserve and protect this freedom.” With India completing 75 years of Independence on August 15 next year, the Congress has decided to form committees in every state to conduct celebratory events. The plan for the celebrations was discussed at a meeting on Sunday. Next Saturday, August 14, the party will honour freedom fighters and their families, and all the district Congress committees will organise a “freedom march”. All the state units have been asked to prepare a two-minute video for a social media campaign highlighting the milestones of the freedom movement relating to their state. The Narendra Modi government too plans yearlong celebrations, titled “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav”. While Prime Minister Modi heads the national committee that is planning the celebrations, home minister Amit Shah heads the implementation committee. A few Congress members too are part of these committees but it has proved almost impossible to draw up a collective plan because of conflicting perceptions about the freedom movement as well as nationalism. The Congress, which regularly castigates the RSS for not taking part in the independence movement, believes the values that evolved through the freedom struggle and were manifested in the Constitution are being violated wantonly by the Modi government. The Congress has used the anniversary of the Quit India call — sounded on August 9, 1942 — to target the Modi government, asking “hate, intolerance and injustice” to quit India. One of the many messages posted by the party on Twitter said: “The hate that is plaguing our nation is causing irrevocable change to the fabric of our society. It is the duty of every citizen to fight this hate with love.” While milestones of the freedom movement have never been part of the BJP’s consciousness and its official Twitter handle made no mention of August Kranti Day, Modi did say the “Quit India” call sounded by Mahatma Gandhi had energised the youth. He also paid homage to the freedom fighters. Culture minister G. Kishan Reddy had on Sunday inaugurated an exhibition on the Quit India Movement, where he said: “This is a moment to not only recognise the contribution of a generation in freeing our nation from colonial powers but also to recognise those who played a pivotal role in preserving our civilisation heritage for more than 750 years. There are many unsung heroes who need to be recognised for the selfless services they rendered to Bharat Mata.” Such stark differences in outlook have militated against a meeting ground even on the question of how India won Independence, primarily because the RSS-BJP would not like to give credit to the Congress. While Venugopal’s statement makes it clear that the Congress’s yearlong campaign will centre on the sombre idea of diminishing democracy, Modi struck a breezy note. He asked people to use the occasion to ponder over what kind of India they want by 2047, when the country will mark a century of Independence. Another layer of this difference in perspective was manifested on Monday when Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot asked Modi to reconsider the plan to redevelop the Sabarmati Ashram. “The Gujarat government’s decision to construct a museum by demolishing the ashram is shocking and uncalled for,” Gehlot said. “People come to visit this holy site to see how Gandhi lived a simple life and yet orchestrated an enormous freedom movement by taking along every section of society, particularly at a time when society was extremely divided.” Gehlot added: “Destroying the sanity and dignity of the ashram is a disrespect to the Father of the Nation. It seems the decision is driven by a political motive to change everything that is related to Gandhi.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-337
