11-08-2021||India||Rajya Sabha lost over 76 working hours in monsoon session||Rajya Sabha was adjourned sine die on Wednesday evening, two days ahead of the scheduled end of the Monsoon session. The Rajya Sabha has lost a total of 76 hours and 26 minutes due to disruptions during the monsoon session. After the session ended the Rajya Sabha Secretariat said, the productivity has been decided as 28 per cent. The average productivity of the previous five sessions was 95 per cent. The Rajya Sabha passed 19 bills this time. The total sitting time available was 102 hours, out of which only 28 hours and 21 minutes were counted as "functional time", said the Rajya Sabha Secretariat in the statement. The department related to the Standing Committees of Rajya Sabha met 17 times, and the average attendance in each of these meetings was 54.45 per cent - the highest ever, the Rajya Sabha Secretariat said. At least 406 Zero Hour and Special Mentions were lost due to disruptions. Earlier in the day, amid continued uproar by opposition members, Rajya Sabha proceedings were adjourned for 30 minutes, till 7.04 pm, soon after the house passed a bill for privatisation of state-owned general insurance companies. It was the third adjournment of the day. Before this, the proceedings were adjourned in the morning session till 12 pm and again for 15 minutes till 6.26 pm. When the house reassembled at 6.26 pm, several slogan-shouting opposition members again trooped into the well of the house. The General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021 moved by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman was passed by a voice vote amid the uproar. However, the opposition members kept raising slogans and papers were flung in the air. Union Minister and Leader of the House Piyush Goyal, while thanking the members who participated in the debate and helped in the passage of various bills, demanded strict action against the opposition MPs who created ruckus in the Upper House. He demanded that a high-level committee be formed to look into the behaviour of members who hurt the security staff and tarnished the reputation of the august house. Opposition members continued their protests over the Pegasus snooping row, farm laws and other issues that have marred the proceedings since the beginning of the session on July 19, and later walked out of the House. "I feel strict action should be taken against the condemnable acts of some erring members.. the dignity of this august house has been lowered as security staff was attacked. Such behaviour will not be tolerated and we condemn it," Goyal said. "We feel that a special committee should be constituted by the chairman to look into all aspects, go deeply into all incidents of violence and take stern steps to avoid such actions in future, so that this house and country is not disrespected in future," the leader of the house said. He said no simple punishment can suffice, as exemplary action should be taken against them to deter members from indulging in such violent acts in the future. Goyal also thanked the members for enabling the passage of 21 bills during this session. On Tuesday, some TMC, Congress, AAP and Left MPs climbed on the House Table which is placed right below the presiding officers' chair and shouted slogans, forcing multiple adjournments. A Congress MP also threw a file towards the Chair. Goyal said that after witnessing the scenes of violent actions by opposition members in this House on Tuesday, the country would give a reply to such parties in the coming times. "The 254th session of the Rajya Sabha which commences on July 19 has now come to a close," deputy chairman Harivansh announced. "The house is adjourned sine die," he said. Rajya Sabha on Wednesday passed The Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty-Seventh Amendment) Bill, 2021 that restores the states' right to create their OBC list, General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021, the National Commission for Homoeopathy (Amendment) Bill, 2021, and the National Commission for Indian System of Medicine (Amendment) Bill, 2021. All four bills were already approved by Lok Sabha. Earlier in the day, Lok Sabha was also adjourned sine die.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
11-08-2021||India||Covid-19: Cumulative vaccine doses administered in India cross 52 crore: Health ministry||The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has surpassed the 52 crore-mark, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday. India took 85 days to touch the figure of 10 crore. It then took 45 days to cross the 20 crore-mark, and 29 days more to reach 30 crore. The country took 24 days to reach 40 crore from 30 crore and then 20 more days to cross 50 crore vaccinations on August 6. It surpassed the 51 crore-mark on August 9. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated and vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for those over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified comorbid conditions. India launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 from April 1. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 eligible to be vaccinated from May 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
11-08-2021||India||Maharashta allows fully vaccinated people to enter malls, restaurants from Sunday||Further relaxing the Covid-19 curbs, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday decided to allow malls and restaurants to remain open till 10 pm with a 50 per cent capacity from August 15 onwards, provided the entire staff and the visitors are fully vaccinated against Covid-19. Shops are also allowed to operate till 10 pm. Talking to reporters after the weekly cabinet meeting, state Health Minister Rajesh Tope said spas and gymnasiums will also be allowed to function till 10 pm at a 50 per cent capacity on the condition that the entire staff at these establishments has taken both doses of the vaccine. Indoor games will be allowed but cinema halls and places of worship will continue to remain shut until further orders, the minister said. Weddings in open spaces will be allowed with 200 people, while events can take place in closed halls with 100 people or at a 50 per cent capacity of the venue or whichever is less, he said. "Shopping malls, hotels, gyms, spas and shops will be permitted to operate till 10 pm, on the condition that the entire staff at these establishments has taken both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine," Tope said, adding these places will function at 50 per cent capacity. The state task force on Covid-19 is not in favour of opening schools and colleges from August 17. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is scheduled to meet members of the task force tonight to take a final decision.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
11-08-2021||India||Parliament passes bills on homoeopathy, National Commission for Indian System of Medicine||Parliament passed the National Commission for Homoeopathy (Amendment) Bill, 2021, and the National Commission for Indian System of Medicine (Amendment) Bill, 2021, after the Rajya Sabha gave its approval on Wednesday. The two bills were passed in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday. As the House re-assembled at 7.04 pm after a brief adjournment due to disruption by opposition parties, Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge protested the presence of marshals in the House, saying women MPs were not "safe". Amid sloganeering and protest by opposition parties, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said the NDA government had the mandate to pass legislations and it was doing so. He also condemned "manhandling" of house marshals by opposition members and criticised Tuesday's events when certain opposition party members climbed on the official table. Ayush Minister Sarbananda Sonowal had moved the two bills in the Rajya Sabha which were passed by voice votes after brief discussions. The National Commission for Homoeopathy (Amendment) Bill, 2021, proposes to amend the National Commission for Homoeopathy Act, 2020 to provide a medical education system that improves access to quality and affordable medical education. The National Commission for Indian System of Medicine (Amendment) Bill, 2021, seeks to repeal the Indian Medicine Central Council Act, 1970 and help make available the Indian system of medicine professionals across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
11-08-2021||India||Congress to raise ‘paper leak’ issue in Assembly, says Hooda||Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Wednesday alleged that a series of paper leak cases in the state has forced the youth to take to the streets and his party will raise the issue in the upcoming session of the state Assembly. The Congress has demanded a High Court-monitored CBI probe into alleged leak of question papers for police constable recruitment in Haryana last week. After the exam was cancelled on Saturday, senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala had said this was one of several paper leak incidents during the past six years. "It is the 28th paper which has leaked," he had said. Agitated over the exam cancellation, a number of aspirants took out a protest march in Rewari and Karnal on Tuesday and demanded a high-level probe and action against those responsible for it. The voice of these youth will be vigorously raised in the monsoon session of the Vidhan Sabha, which begins here on August 20, Hooda said. Hooda, who is Leader of the Opposition in the state, said the Congress Legislature Party meeting will be held on August 19 before the start of the session. "We will discuss all issues on which people of the state want answers from the government. The Congress wants the session to be long but the government's intent does not seem to run a long session," he said. Former chief minister Hooda further said the Congress will also raise the issue of unemployment prominently in the Assembly. "Today, Haryana is facing an unprecedented crisis as unemployment in our state is four times the national average," he said. "Above all, instead of giving jobs to the youth, the government is engaged in scams and cancelling recruitments," he alleged. "We will also seek answers from the government on the terrible situation that the people of the state had to face during the second wave of the Covid pandemic," he said. He alleged the government not only turned its back on the sufferings of people but also ignored deaths due to lack of oxygen, medicine and treatment. "People and media of the state are witness that thousands of people lost their lives due to the negligence and malpractices of the government but it did not help the families suffering from corona, neither in time of need nor after deaths," he said. The Congress leader said farmers have been protesting the Centre's farm laws at Delhi borders for over eight months with their legitimate demands. "Instead of acting as an advocate of the farmers with the central government, the BJP-JJP government in Haryana is engaged in filing false cases against them under the sections of sedition," he said. Hooda said the youth of the country have performed brilliantly in the Olympics and raised the honour of the Tricolor all over the world. "All players who have brought glory to the country should be honoured with appropriate rewards and positions," he said. Javelin thrower gold medallist Neeraj Chopra should be given the rank of Honorary Colonel in the Army, he demanded. "Ravi Dahiya, Bajrang Punia, hockey players should be given DSP post and all participating players of the state should also be given the highest rank and honour according to their achievements," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
11-08-2021||India||Amarinder Singh meets Modi, asks to revoke farm laws||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh on Wednesday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and urged him to immediately initiate steps for the repeal of the controversial farm laws. He also sought amendment to the relevant law for including farmers in free legal aid category, the chief minister's office said. The Punjab CM, who called on the prime minister here late this evening, submitted two separate letters, called for the immediate review and revocation of the three farm laws that have triggered widespread resentment among farmers of Punjab and other states. Farmers have been protesting at Delhi borders since November 26 last year against the agriculture legislations and have demanded their immediate withdrawal. The chief minister said the farmers' agitation had the potential of posing security threats to Punjab and the country with Pakistan-backed anti-India forces looking to exploit the farmers' discontent with the government, an official statement said. He called for the prime minister's intervention for the expeditious redress of the concerns of farmers. He said the Government of India should explore an enduring solution to end the continued agitation as it was not only impacting economic activities in Punjab but also had the potential to affect the social fabric, especially when political parties and groups take strong positions. Amarinder Singh noted that he had earlier too sought the prime minister's appointment for a meeting with an all-party delegation from Punjab, his office said. He also called for the need to compensate farmers for the management of paddy straw at the rate of Rs 100 per quintal and also to address the fears of DAP shortage, which could aggravate the farmers' problems and the crisis triggered by the farm laws. In another letter, the chief minister stressed that due to the fragmentation of landholdings and persistent disputes with lessees and various market operators and agents, farmers are facing heightened litigation these days that has caused stress on their meagre financial resources. Stressing the need to reduce the farmers' financial burden as a result of such litigation, he noted that the Central Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987 provides free legal aid to certain categories of persons, who are perceived to be the vulnerable sections of society. Pointing out that the country's farmers are also very vulnerable, he said they are, at times, compelled to commit suicide due to financial problems, even though they remain proud and prefer to till their land even at the cost of their lives. "It is, thus, the need of the hour to amend Section 12 of the Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987, to include farmers and farm workers in the category of persons entitled to free legal services to pursue and defend themselves in the courts to secure their livelihood, Singh was quoted as saying in the statement. He felt this step would help reduce cases of farmer suicides and ensure better protection of their legal and financial rights. The chief minister urged the prime minister to advise the central ministries dealing with farmer welfare and laws to carry out necessary amendments to the Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987, in the larger interest of farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
11-08-2021||India||Don't raise hopes, when you can't fulfil aspirations: SC to Centre||The Supreme Court Wednesday expressed displeasure against the Centre for not filling up the vacancies in National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) despite making a commitment, saying you should not raise hopes, when you cannot fulfil the aspirations. The top court also directed the states and Union Territories to fill all the vacancies within eight weeks. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy also gave eight weeks to Centre to fill up the remaining three vacancies after noting that the government has filled only four vacancies. It also directed the Centre to do legislative impact study of Consumer Protection Act, 2019 in four weeks saying that the government is always rushing to make the laws but does not do its impact study on the people. The top court was hearing a suo motu case on inaction of the Governments in appointing President and Members/Staff of Districts and State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission and inadequate infrastructure across India. Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi, appearing for Centre, said that terms of appointment will be as per the recently passed law Tribunal Reforms Act, 2021. The bench said, “If you can appoint four out of six then why not three more as one more vacancy has arisen due to retirement of one of the members in NCDRC. When one has the will to do something, then there is no confusion as such.” Lekhi said that he will use his office to persuade the concerned authority to ensure speedy filling of vacancies. The bench said, “Earlier also you told us that all the vacancies at NCDRC will be filled up but you did not fill it up. Don't raise hopes when you cannot fulfil the aspirations. Consumers are getting no redressal of their grievances due to cases piling up owing to the vacancies at the forum.” We are informed that out of six vacancies stated to be still lying vacant at NCDRC, four vacancies have been filled. Now, three vacancies are three due to the retirement of one of the members. We see no reason why the central government should get more time than given to the states to fill the vacancies. The schedule given to states equally applies to the central government, the top court said. On legislative impact study, the bench told Lekhi, “You can say it is not done. I have full sympathy with you as we have experience that extracting information from the government is a very difficult task. Legislative impact study must be carried out to analyse the impact of law on litigation and people. This is the irony of all the legislation. You never do legislative impact study. It is mostly a post facto analysis.” At the outset, the top court had pulled up the state governments for not filling the status report and affidavits on time about the vacancies in consumer forums and warned that it will summon the chief secretaries of the respective states. It said as per the report of senior advocate Gopal Shankarnarayanan, who is assisting the court as amicus curiae, some of the states have not notified the rules under the Consumer Protection Act. States are still dilly-dallying to notify the Rules. If Rules are not notified in two weeks, then model Rules made by Centre will automatically apply for the respective States, the bench said. It said that in view of the large number of vacancies in consumer forums, it is directing all the states and UTs to advertise all the existing and potential vacancies, if not done, within two weeks. The top court also directed that states and UTs which have not set up selection committees to form such committees within four weeks. The top court had in January said that Consumer rights are "important rights" and non-manning of posts and inadequate infrastructure in district and state consumer commissions across the country would deprive the citizens of redressal of their grievances. The top court had appointed senior advocate Gopal Shankaranarayan and lawyer Aaditya Narain as amicus curiae to assist it in the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
11-08-2021||India||BJP member arrested for anti-Muslim slogans at Jantar Mantar gets bail||A Delhi court on Wednesday granted bail to former BJP spokesperson Ashwini Upadhyay, arrested in connection with the communal slogans allegedly raised during a protest at the Jantar Mantar here. Metropolitan Magistrate Udbhav Kumar Jain granted relief to Upadhyay, who is an advocate, on a bond of Rs 50,000. The accused was sent to the judicial custody yesterday by a court here, considering that his bail application was pending. A video showing anti-Muslim slogans being raised during a protest at Jantar Mantar here was widely circulated on social media, following which Delhi Police registered a case in connection with the matter on Monday. Hundreds of people had attended the protest organised by Bharat Jodo Aandolan' at Jantar Mantar on Sunday. Shipra Srivastava, media in-charge of Bharat Jodo Aandolan, had said the protest was held under the leadership of Upadhyay. However, she denied any links to those who raised anti-Muslim slogans. Upadhyay too denied any involvement in the anti-Muslim slogan shouting incident. The video shows a group of people shouting inflammatory slogans and threatening Muslims during the protest at Jantar Mantar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
11-08-2021||India||Rajya Sabha passes Constitutional amendment bill on OBC list||A constitutional amendment bill to restore the powers of the states to make their own OBC lists was passed by Parliament on Wednesday. The Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty-Seventh Amendment) Bill, 2021 was passed by the Rajya Sabha as 187 members voted in its favour. The bill was passed by the Lok Sabha a day before. Some amendments moved by the Opposition were negated by the Upper House. The bill was passed after a division vote with 187 members voting in favour. No member voted against it. Earlier in the day, Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Virendra Kumar who moved the bill said the legislation will help restore the powers of states to have their own lists of OBCs which was negated by the Supreme Court. The Rajya Sabha, which has been witnessing a logjam over issues such as Pegasus and farm laws, on Wednesday discussed the bill for about five hours as members from both treasury as well as opposition benches participated in it. As per Article 368 of the Constitution, a constitution amendment bill requires a special majority for passage in both Houses of Parliament. There should be a majority of the total membership of the House and a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members of that House present and voting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
11-08-2021||India||Free vaccination likely to revive economy: Report||The free vaccination drive rolled out by the government is likely to create a positive impact on the job market and on the overall economy as most respondents believed that it will help them in providing a safe work ecosystem to their employees with steady work opportunities, according to a report. Over 87 per cent of respondents believe that the free vaccination drive can prevent a second reverse migration for these workers as they will also be eligible to get vaccines, according to a report by human resource solutions provider Genius Consultants. Moreover, the report stated that this will help them provide a safe work ecosystem where the inflow of work opportunities is steady. When respondents were asked their opinion on whether the vaccination campaign would improve the unemployment scenario or revive the markets, close to 85 per cent of individuals were hopeful that this would help in bringing promising results. The in-house survey is done online from July 1-31, among 550 business leaders of VP, President, CXO, CEO, CHRO levels and above across industries, including auto and auto ancillary, banking and finance, construction and engineering, education/teaching/training, FMCG, Hospitality, HR Solutions, IT, ITES and BPO, Logistics among others. The survey was conducted in 14 cities across India including Kolkata, Chennai, Mumbai, Bangalore, New Delhi, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Coimbatore, Chandigarh, Jamshedpur Guwahati, Bhubaneswar, and Pune. The report further noted that the pandemic has made individuals hesitant to commute to work with curbs on the movement on public transportation and the fear of catching the virus. Over 82 per cent of the respondents believed that vaccinating the population would significantly reduce this hesitance and would give individuals the confidence of commuting to work carefree, it added. The pandemic has been an extremely challenging time for us as a nation. The government is putting all hands on deck to curb the spread of the virus. Vaccination drives continue to remain the only viable solution to revive the disturbed economies and bring livelihoods back to normalcy," Genius Consultants CMD R P Yadav added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
11-08-2021||India||Wasting food equivalent to stealing from poor: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday slammed the government over media reports that India lost Rs 406 crore worth grains due to damage during storage in state-run granaries in the last three years, saying "wasting food is equivalent to stealing from the poor". In a post on Instagram, the former Congress chief shared a screen shot of a media report which stated that data cited in a parliamentary standing committee report has revealed that India lost Rs 406 crore worth of grains procured by the government due to damage during storage in state-run granaries in the past three years. "Wasting food is equivalent to stealing from the poor," Gandhi said in his post, using the hashtag 'GOIwastes'. In a report, the Standing Committee on Food, Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution stated that the government should ensure that food grains do not get damaged/spoiled by taking adequate scientific storage measures and fixing responsibilities on officials/officers for accrual of damaged food grains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
11-08-2021||India||Sushil Modi accuses Congress of not doing enough for SCs, STs and OBCs||The ruling BJP tried to corner the Congress in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday for allegedly not doing enough for the SCs, STs and OBCs despite ruling the country for decades, and claimed that it was only the governments of which the Jan Sangh or the Bharatiya Janata Party was a part that actually worked for the uplift of the deprived sections of the society. The Upper House of Parliament was debating the Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill, 2021 that seeks to restore the states' power to prepare their own OBC lists. It has already been cleared by the Lok Sabha. As on the other days of the Monsoon Session of Parliament, the House proceedings were disrupted in the opening hour due to an Opposition uproar over various issues, including the Pegasus snooping row and farm laws. However, the logjam was ended and the House took up the key legislation. “No one else except (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi will work for the SCs, STs and OBCs,” senior BJP leader Sushil Modi said while participating in the discussion initiated by Congress member Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who blamed the government for the delay in bringing the key amendment bill in Parliament. Countering Singhvi, Sushil Modi stressed that the government was quick to bring the bill. To support his point, the BJP leader said the Centre filed a review petition in the Supreme Court on May 13, within eight days of the decision on the matter by the apex court. "How much faster can it be?" he quipped. The Supreme Court dismissed the review petition on July 1. The Centre, Sushil Modi said had made its intention clear in the Select Committee, the Lok Sabha, the Rajya Sabha, in the review petition and on other occasions as well that it does not want to deprive the states of the right to prepare their own OBC lists. “Can any central government deprive the state governments of their rights?” he said as he reeled out the steps taken by different BJP governments at the Centre. Sushil Modi said the Centre's intention regarding the states' powers on OBC lists was always clear, yet there was a ruling by the Supreme Court. The Constitution amendment bill has been brought to restore the states' powers to have their own lists of OBCs for providing reservation, the former deputy chief minister of Bihar said. Hitting out at the grand old party for "not doing enough" for the backward classes despite ruling the country for years, he sought to know why the Congress government did not set up a Backward Classes Commission under Article 340 of the Constitution and rejected the report of the Kaka Kalelkar Commission submitted in 1955. "If there were gaps in the Kaka Kalelkar report, why didn't you set up a new commission?" he asked. Sushil Modi said it was during Moraji Desai's government, when the Jan Sangh was a part of it, that the B P Mandal Commission was formed in 1979. But the commission submitted its report in 1980, when the Congress was in power. "You kept the Kaka Kalelkar report in the cold storage and did not even implement the Mandal Commission report for nine years," he said, adding that it was implemented during the V P Singh government of which the BJP was a part. "In this country, the backward classes have been given their rights by those governments of which the Jan Sangh or the BJP was a part," Sushil Modi said. He also criticised the Congress for not providing constitutional status to the National Commission for Scheduled Tribes (NCST) and the National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC). The NCST was accorded the constitutional status by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government and in case of the NCBC, it was the Narendra Modi government that did the needful, he pointed out. The BJP leader credited the current government for ensuring reservation for the economically weaker sections among the upper castes. He also sought to corner the Congress for not installing a portrait of B R Ambedkar in the Central Hall of Parliament and not conferring Bharat Ratna on him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
11-08-2021||India||Why ‘quiet’ on caste census, Cong asks government||The Congress asked the government on Wednesday why was it ‘quiet’ and ‘running away’ from a caste-based census, which was mooted by a woman MP of the ruling BJP in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday and even by the chief ministers of Bihar and Odisha. A caste-based census is required to assess the exact ground situation because in at least 30 states and Union territories, the reservation for backward classes has crossed the upper limit, the opposition party said. Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi raised the issue in the Rajya Sabha while initiating a debate in the Upper House on the Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill, 2021 that seeks to restore the states' power to identify and specify the Socially and Economically Backward Classes (SEBCs), which was lost after the Supreme Court's judgment in the Maratha quota case. Asserting that there is a demand for a caste-based census from all quarters, Singhvi said the exercise is needed because the quota for backward classes has exceeded the determined limits in many state. In 30 states and Union territories, it is more than 50 per cent, he said, while referring to Nagaland and Chhattisgarh in particular. Similarly, while there is a 17-per cent quota for the backward classes in jobs, in reality, their percentage is higher, the Congress leader said. “This brings us to an important issue -- a caste census. Why are you running away from a caste census? Your chief minister in Bihar, another chief minister in Odisha and your woman MP said you are going to do this. Why is the government keeping quiet today?” he asked. Singhvi also asked why the government is not saying if it would bring a caste census or not. “The reason why the government is quiet is that the reservation might increase from 22 per cent to 35 per cent,” he said. Singhvi also said the Congress-led UPA government had brought a caste census in 2011 but it had gaps. "There were gaps, I accept that. But we tried," he said. Speaking about the Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill, 2021, the Congress leader said it is important because 671 castes would have lost reservation if the amendments were not made. He said the government had several opportunities to rectify the law brought in 2018, adding, “Due to arrogance and adamancy, you did not do it.” Singhvi said even a Parliamentary Select Committee had suggested the amendments to the government to bring more clarity but it was ignored and thereafter, the apex court interpreted it wrongly. “You committed a mistake, even the apex court committed a big mistake. The court ignored the intent of Parliament,” he said. The Congress leader said the government should incorporate one more line in the amendment bill that it will be effective from 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
11-08-2021||India||Oxygen deaths: Mandaviya counters Sisodia's claims on not receiving inquiry letter||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday questioned Delhi's government's claim of not having received any letter from the Centre inquiring about deaths due to oxygen shortage during the second Covid-19 wave and tweeted the communication sent by his ministry on July 26 in this regard. Sharing a snapshot of the mail sent to the Delhi government on Twitter and addressing Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, Mandaviya said it is not too late and he can send the data by August 13 so that the health ministry can reply to Parliament on the issue. "Here is the copy of the mail sent by my ministry to the Delhi government on 26th July. It's not too late yet! By August 13 you can send the data so that we can answer the question in Parliament. After reviewing with your officers, please send the necessary data as soon as possible," Mandaviya tweeted. Sisodia had on Tuesday alleged that the city government had not received any letter from the Centre inquiring about deaths due to oxygen shortage during the second Covid-19 wave. The Delhi minister, however, said they have decided to share all the details with the central government. "I read in newspaper reports that the Centre is saying that it has asked state governments to share the number of oxygen-related deaths. "The Delhi government has not received any letter on oxygen-related deaths. When you (Centre) have not written any letter, how can you say that states are not informing you? We had formed an inquiry committee but you did not allow it (probe) to happen through the Delhi LG," he had said. The central government at a press briefing on Tuesday said only one state has till now reported "suspected" deaths due to oxygen shortage during the second wave of Covid-19 after the Centre sought the data from them on such fatalities following the raising of the issue in Parliament. "When the question was raised in Parliament, states were specifically asked this question and as per reports received only one state mentioned suspected death and no state has so far said that there were deaths because of oxygen shortage," Joint Secretary in the Union Health Ministry Lav Agarwal had said while replying to a query. Last month, opposition parties had hit out at the government for informing the Parliament that no deaths due to oxygen shortage have been specifically reported by states and Union Territories during the second Covid-19 wave. The Centre recently had sought from states and Union Territories data on deaths in connection with oxygen shortage during the second of Covid-19 earlier this year and the information was to be collated and presented in Parliament before the Monsoon session ends, official sources had said. According to the sources, 13 states and UTs including Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Odisha, Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab have responded to the query by Tuesday. They said only Punjab has reported four "suspected" deaths due to oxygen shortage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
11-08-2021||India||Kashmir: 9 properties of Kashmiri Pandits restored to original owners, says govt||The government is taking steps to restore ancestral properties of Kashmiri Hindu migrants who had to run away from Kashmir in the wake of terrorist violence there and so far nine properties have been given back to the rightful and original owners, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Wednesday. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said under the Jammu and Kashmir Migrant Immovable Property (Preservation, Protection and Restraint on Distress Sales) Act, 1997, District Magistrates (DMs) of concerned districts in Jammu and Kashmir are the legal custodians of the immovable properties of the migrants, who take suo motto action on eviction proceedings in cases of encroachment, while the migrants can also request DMs in such cases. Regarding restoration of properties to its rightful and original owner, nine properties have been restored, as per the information provided by the government of Jammu and Kashmir, he said in a written reply to a question. Rai said as per the information provided by the government of Jammu and Kashmir, after the abrogation of Article 370, a total of 520 migrants have returned to Kashmir for taking up the jobs under the Prime Minister's Development Package-2015. Replying to another question, the minister said after the abrogation of Article 370 on August 5, 2019, all provisions of the Constitution have been made applicable to the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, which necessitated changes in existing laws in J-K by Adaptation Orders so as to conform with the provisions of the Constitution. He said as per the adapted land laws of Jammu and Kashmir, the government may, by notification in the official gazette, allow transfer of land for public purposes such as education, healthcare and charitable purpose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-329
11-08-2021||India||How To Build a Data Science Portfolio in 2022 - Prepare for Your Dream Job||In recent years, data science has been applicable in every industry. From preparing data that can be analysed, to aggregating data to receive insights that can help organizations perform better - a data scientist's work is varied and in demand. Therefore, candidates looking to work in the field can opt for a data analytics course with placement. Interested individuals or even working professionals who wish to change careers can learn data science from Imarticus Learning. The institute provides online courses in data science and analytics as well as machine learning and prepares students for the professional sphere. To land a job as a data scientist, every candidate needs a portfolio. A data science portfolio documents the candidate's skills and abilities. It can be accessed by employers to understand what experience the candidate has. Build the Best Data Science Portfolio Students pursuing a data science course or a PGA in data analytics will need to put together a portfolio before interviews. This can be done in just 5 steps. Step 1: Make a List of All Available Jobs Once a student has completed the data science program or DSP, they can begin to look for jobs. Imarticus Learning is an institute that offers placements. Students need to check what the jobs require and prepare the portfolio accordingly. Step 2: Select Project Ideas The best courses in data science will train students to come up with innovative projects. Projects should showcase the candidate's problem-solving skills and the ability to formulate insights that are actionable from a volume of data. Step 3: Find Datasets To solve issues and create actionable insights, datasets are necessary. While creating the portfolio, the candidate must look for messy datasets that need to be cleaned up, especially because this is one of the primary tasks of a data scientist and most companies will require such skills. There are many data repositories available online that provide datasets for free. Step 4: Showcase and Document Skills While completing the project, candidates should remember to thoroughly document all actions taken. It is necessary to choose a project that allows one to showcase every skill, especially those that potential employers require. The focus should be on problem-solving through various approaches, researching supplemental information, and using data analytics to create actionable insights. Step 5: Expand to Include More Projects Those who learn data science will be trained in advanced skills like machine learning and data visualization. To showcase such a range, a candidate should include more than one project in their portfolio. The ability to handle complex projects will impress employers. Things to Remember While Creating A Data Science Portfolio A data science portfolio needs to be effective and comprehensive. To create such a portfolio, students and potential candidates should keep in mind the following points. Completion of a data analytics course with placement from Imarticus Learning will open many doors. Students will be able to tackle industry-level projects and provide documentation on their portfolios. A well-planned portfolio will ensure a secure job as a data scientist.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
11-08-2021||India||Hamara Hind Foundation organises All India Conference on Role of Khanqahs/Sufis in National Integration with Sufi Islamic Board||Hamara Hind Foundation along with the Sufi Islamic Board, both known for promoting nationalist sentiments among the Muslim community in India, organised an All-India Conference on "Role of Khanqahs/ Sufis in National Integration" on August 9, 2021 at the India Islamic Cultural Centre, Lodhi Road, New Delhi. H.E Arif Mohammad Khan, Hon'ble Governor of Kerala graced the occasion as Chief Guest. He spoke about the true meaning of Islam and duties of a Muslim. He added that Islam had always promoted peace. The true Muslim is the one who had love and compassion. Invaders and barbarians who committed atrocities should not be identified as “Kaum”.  He also warned the Muslims to be cautious of those elements who peddled a narrative of ‘Islam in Danger”.  He criticised and condemned in very strong words, those who killed innocents in the name of Jihad. He explained that those who recognise the true meaning of Allah will lead life of Tawhid and drew parallels with the concept of Aham Brahmasmi. Ambar Zaidi, activist and film producer, was another prominent speaker said that Sufi contribution to India was overlooked. She also spoke about the role of Muslim women during the freedom struggle and mentioned the example of Begum Hazrat Mahal, who fought the British rule valiantly during the first war of independence in 1857. She also said that there was a need to organise more sessions like the one organised by Hamara Hind to promote the nationalist and the liberal voices within the Indian Muslim community. Laila Mostafai  from Iran praised India was a multireligious, multicultural and multi-ethnic countries and extolled the values of Indian Sufi traditions. SM Khan, a senior Indian Information Service officer of Government of India, was also one of the dignitaries at the event. He said that Sufism had a great impact on India. The message of Islam and Sufism will only succeed if the other 80% makes a similar initiative.  He also said that Muslims were not represented adequately in participatory democracy and Sufism was capable of providing connectivity between religion and foster national integration. Other prominent speakers were Syed Khawaja Nazimuddin Chisti Hussain Kazmi and Riyasat Miya Sarkar who urged all the Sufi’s to understand the Islam is religion of Peace and promote only unity and nothing else. Visit - www.HamaraHindFoundation.com  #HamaraHind #Sufism||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
11-08-2021||India||Rajya Sabha debates Constitution amendment bill on OBC quota ||The Rajya Sabha on Wednesday took up a Constitution amendment bill to restore the powers of states to have their own lists of OBCs for reservation in jobs and educational institutions, ending a three-week deadlock between the government and the opposition in the House over various issues. Opposition parties disrupted proceedings in the Upper House of Parliament to press their demand for a discussion on the Pegasus snooping controversy and the farmers' agitation ever since the Monsoon session started on July 19. Moving the Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty-Seventh Amendment) Bill, 2021, Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Virendra Kumar said the bill will help restore the powers of states to have their own lists of OBCs which was negated by the Supreme Court. He thanked the prime minister and various parties and their members for evolving a consensus to take up the important bill that seeks to create history by providing reservation to other backward classes in the country. The minister said this will help 671 communities, almost one-fifth of the total OBCs in the country, get reservation in jobs and educational institutions, he said. "I want to thank the parties and members of the House for building a consensus to discuss the bill that is in the interest and welfare of OBCs. With this consensus approach, we are moving towards creation of history in the future," Kumar said. He also thanked the prime minister for taking a number of measures for the welfare of other backward classes (OBCs) and for giving constitutional status to the central list of OBCs. The minister said the Constitution amendment bill is among the series of steps taken for the welfare of OBCs and for providing them reservation. "This amendment is necessary to restore the powers of states to have their own lists of OBCs for providing reservation. This reservation was removed by the Supreme Court while ascertaining the reservation criteria and for clarifying it, this Constitution amendment bill has been brought now," he said. "If the OBC lists of states were removed, nearly 671 communities which were included in the state lists would not get the benefit of reservation in educational institutions and appointment of jobs. It would have affected one-fifth of the OBC communities," Kumar said. This will help restore the federal structure to help towards the welfare of other backward classes, he said, claiming that the government had earlier made it clear during the earlier Constitution amendment that it will not affect the reservation for OBCs in states. He said the earlier Constitution amendment bill accorded constitutional status to the National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC) and gave it powers to look into complaints against OBCs. The reservation of 20 per cent to OBCs in medial and dental colleges will help provide almost 4,000 additional seats in medial and dental colleges, the minister said. This has helped instill confidence in OBC students, he said. Earlier, Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge urged deputy chairman Harivansh to increase the time for the debate on the bill from the prescribed three hours to more and leader of the House Piyush Goyal agreed to have the discussion for four hours. However, Goyal and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi urged the opposition members to allow the House to function beyond 6 PM for taking up all the agenda items listed for the day. The legislative business of the House includes a few more bills that have already been passed by the Lok Sabha. RJD's Manoj Jha and SAD member Naresh Gujral said members of smaller parties should get more time to speak on this all-important bill and urged the chair to consider giving them more time. The Lok Sabha had on Tuesday passed the bill ending the logjam by Opposition parties, who backed the legislation but demanded the removal of the 50 per cent cap on reservation and many of them also called for a caste-based census. The Supreme Court had dismissed the Centre's plea seeking a review of its May 5 majority verdict that held that the 102nd Constitution amendment took away the states' powers to notify socially and economically backward classes (SEBCs) for the grant of quota in jobs and admissions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
11-08-2021||India||Delhi Court discharges Kejriwal, Sisodia, others in Chief Secretary assault case||A Delhi court on Wednesday discharged Kejriwal, his deputy Sisodia and nine other AAP MLAs in the case related to the alleged assault on the then chief secretary Anshu Prakash in 2018. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Sachin Gupta, however, ordered framing of charges against two AAP MLAs - Amantullah and Prakash Jarwal - in the case. Arvind Kejriwal and Manish Sisodia both echoed similar sentiments while reacting to the judgement, saying the truth has won. Sisodia also accused the BJP-led Central government of hatching a conspiracy against Kejriwal. Kejirwal took to twitter saying "Satyamev jayate " (truth has won) following the court decision. "It is a day of victory of justice and truth. The court said that all allegations were false and baseless. CM has been acquitted today in that false case. We had been saying from day one that allegations re false," Sisodia said at an online press conference. "It was a conspiracy hatched by PM Modi and Centre government led by BJP and the fake case was lodged on their instructions," he charged. "This is the first incident when an elected PM has tried to derail the government of an elected chief minister in this manner. Public has elected both governments, you should not be busy in conspiracies and spying on opposition governments. PM and BJP should apologise to the countrymen for this," he added. The criminal case relates to the alleged assault on Prakash during a meeting at Kejriwal's official residence on February 19, 2018 and besides the chief minister and his deputy, 11 AAP MLAs were also made accused in the case. Kejriwal, Sisodia and nine other AAP MLAs were granted bail in October 2018. Khan and Jarwal were granted bail earlier by the high court. The alleged assault had triggered a bitter tussle between the Delhi government and its bureaucrats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
11-08-2021||India||Ten dead, over 30 feared buried under debris as major landslide hits Himachal Pradesh||Ten people were killed, 13 rescued and several others feared buried under debris after a landslide trapped a bus and other vehicles in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district on Wednesday, officials said. Ten bodies have been recovered so far, while 13 injured have been pulled out of the rubble, Deputy Commissioner, Kinnaur, Abid Hussain Sadiq said. He said the rescue operation is underway to locate several other persons trapped under the debris. Earlier, a police officer in Bhawanagar said around 25 to 30 were trapped under the rubble. One of the deceased has been identified as Rohit Kumar of Kayao village in Rampur area of Shimla district,state Disaster Management Director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said. The landslide and shooting of stones occurred at Chaura village on national highway number five in Nigulsari of Nichar tehsil in Kinnaur district at around noon, he said. The official said among the injured is Mahinder Pal, the driver of the Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) bus, which was trapped under the debris. The identity of others is being ascertained, he added. The injured have been shifted to Bhawanagar community health centre (CHC), Mokhta said. He said the HRTC bus, which was on its way from Reckong Peo to Haridwar via Shimla, a car and a truck lie damaged near the vicinity of the landslide area. As per the information provided by a police officer in Bhawanagar, around 25 to 30 are still trapped under the debris. The rescue operation is on to locate the trapped persons, he added. The State Disaster Management Authority has requisitioned the NDRF from Nurpur for conducting the search and rescue operation, the police officer said. District administration officials, search and rescue team comprising members of local police, homeguards, NDRF, ITBP, Quick Response Team (Police) and Medical Team are at the incident site, he said. Ten ambulances, four earth removers, 52 personnel of the ITBP's 17th Battalion, 30 personnel of police and 27 NDRF personnel are carrying out the rescue operation, he added. Earlier, Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur told the state assembly that there are reports that 50-60 people are feared trapped under the debris, but the exact number was not known. He said Union Home Minister Amit Shah has talked to him and the topmost priority as of now is to rescue those trapped under the debris and provide them the best possible treatment. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also spoke to Thakur over the incident. "PM @narendramodi spoke to Himachal Pradesh CM @jairamthakurbjp regarding the situation in the wake of the landslide in Kinnaur. PM assured all possible support in the ongoing rescue operations," the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said. Union Home Minister Shah also spoke to Thakur to take stock of the situation arising due to the landslide The home minister also directed the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) to provide all assistance to the Himachal Pradesh government in rescue and relief operations. Thakur also told the assembly that an Army official called him and extended help. A helicopter is also being arranged for the rescue operation, the chief minister said. He said the landslide occurred when there was no rainfall in the area at that time. Earlier, Deputy Commissioner, Kinnaur, Abid Hussain Sadiq told PTI that several vehicles, including the HRTC bus carrying over 40 passengers, were buried under the debris. Several people have been killed in landslides in the state this monsoon season. Earlier on July 25, nine people were killed and three others injured in multiple landslides near Batseri on Sangla-Chitkul road in Kinnaur district. Similarly on July 27, at least eight people died, two were injured and two went missing in flash floods triggered by a cloudburst over the Tozing Nullah in Udaipur of Lahaul-Spiti district. Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur had informed the state assembly on August 4 that a total of 218 people have died and 12 were missing in Himachal Pradesh this monsoon season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
11-08-2021||India||Dalit girl rape: HC to hear plea on Sept 27 for FIR against Rahul Gandhi||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday said it will hear on September 27 the plea seeking registration of FIR against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for allegedly revealing the identity of a 9-year-old Dalit girl who was allegedly raped and murdered in southwest Delhi, by publishing a photograph with her parents on Twitter. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh refused to issue notice on the public interest litigation (PIL) by Makarand Suresh Mhadlekar at this stage and asked the parties to keep 1-2 pages of submissions ready on next date . Senior advocate Sajan Poovayya, representing Twitter, told the court that the tweet in question has been removed as it was found to be in violation of the platform's own policy. The account has been locked and the tweet is not available, Poovayya said. Counsel for Mhadlekar, advocate Gautam Jha, however, responded that he disputed Twitter's stand and urged the court to call for an affidavit. "If this is the attitude, we are not issuing notice," the court remarked as it proceeded to adjourn hearing. Senior advocate R S Cheema appeared for Rahul Gandhi. In his petition, Mhadlekar, a social activist, said that by posting the photograph with the parents of the child victim, Gandhi violated the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, which prohibit the disclosure of identity of minor victims of sexual offences. It is alleged that Gandhi was attempting to take political mileage out of the unfortunate incident . The plea also seeks initiation of appropriate legal action against Gandhi by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights. The minor Dalit girl died under suspicious circumstances on August 1 even as her parents alleged that she was raped, murdered and cremated by a crematorium's priest in southwest Delhi's Old Nangal village.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
11-08-2021||India||Lok Sabha speaker pained over House not running smoothly during Monsoon session||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Wednesday expressed pain that the House did not run smoothly during the Monsoon session. Addressing the media after the House was adjourned sine die (for an indefinite period), he said members holding placards, raising slogans in the Well of Lok Sabha was not in accordance with its traditions. 'Lok Sabha functioned only 21 hours during the entire Monsoon session and its productivity was at 22 per cent," Birla said. Lok Sabha was adjourned sine die on Wednesday, bringing an end to the stormy Monsoon session which was scheduled to conclude on August 13. Opposition protests over the Pegasus snooping row, farm laws and other issues had continuously marred the proceedings since the start of the session on July 19. The Question Hour witnessed disruptions on most of the days during this session, while the House managed to pass a raft of bills, including the Constitution amendment bill that will allow states to make their OBC lists. Birla also informed that the construction of new Parliament building is expected to be completed before August 15 next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
11-08-2021||India||Parliamentary panel not to push for lowering age limit of juveniles in serious cases||A key parliamentary panel has decided not to push for lowering the age limit to 16 years from 18 years for juveniles involved in serious POCSO cases after the government asserted that existing laws are adequate to deal with heinous crimes committed by those in this age group. The government's response comes based on an observation of the parliamentary standing committee on Home Affairs led by Rajya Sabha MP and Congress leader Anand Sharma which noted that there have been a large number of cases under the POCSO Act where the age of the juveniles has been below the threshold age for applicability of the law. "The Committee believes that minor sexual offenders may commit more serious and heinous crimes if left untreated/uncounselled. "Therefore, it is very important to relook at these provisions because more and more juveniles are getting involved in such crimes. The Committee, therefore, recommends that the MHA may take up with MoW&CD to review the current age limit of 18 years and see if it can be reduced to 16 years for the applicability of the POCSO Act, 2012," the panel noted. In response, the Women and Child Development Ministry informed that the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, (JJ Act), 2015 which is the primary legislation for children in need of care and protection (CNCP) and children in conflict with law. "Child accused of crime under POCSO Act is protected under the provisions of JJ Act, 2015 based on the principle of restorative justice. The JJ Act, 2015 empowers Juvenile Justice Board to decide upon matters of children in conflict with law. Further, offences committed by the children have been categorised as petty, serious and heinous offences," the WCD Ministry said in its response. "The JJ Act, 2015 also includes a procedure to decide upon cases where children above the age of 16 years have been alleged to commit a heinous offence," the WCD ministry added. The parliamentary panel said it does not wish to pursue the matter in view of the government's reply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
11-08-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi questions PM's Ujjwala scheme||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday attacked the Modi government over the issue of high prices of cooking gas and said if the government is honest about its Ujjwala scheme it should give subsidy to the poor and reduce inflation. Her attack on the government came a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched Ujjwala 2.0 -- the second phase of the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) -- by virtually presenting free LPG connections to some beneficiaries in Mahoba in Uttar Pradesh, where assembly elections are scheduled early next year. "Ninety per cent of the cylinders given under Ujjwala are lying in disuse and women are forced to cook using firewood because the BJP government has doubled the rates of a cylinder in the last seven years and reduced subsidy to a negligible amount," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "If the government is honest about Ujjwala then it should give subsidy to the poor and reduce inflation," the Congress general secretary said and tagged a media report on the problems being faced by the poor due to rising prices of cooking gas. The Congress on Tuesday had said the Ujjwala scheme has proven to be a "hollow gimmick" of the government with an domestic cooking gas cylinder costing Rs 888, and demanded that its price be halved to the level it was in 2014 during the UPA rule.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
11-08-2021||India||New system of mentioning cases put in place to ensure senior lawyers are not given priority: SC||The Supreme Court Wednesday said the new system of mentioning cases for urgent hearings before apex court officials instead of its benches directly has been put in place to ensure that senior lawyers are not given special priority over their junior colleagues. "We do not want to give any special priority to the senior lawyers and deprive the junior lawyers of their opportunities. So this system was made, where all can make the mention before the mentioning Registrar", a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana said when lawyer Prashant Bhushan raised the issue. Bhushan, who was appearing on behalf of NGO Common Cause' in connection with a PIL related to a coal scam, said matters keep languishing for months despite being mentioned before the officers for urgent listing before benches. "Even after urgent memos are filed, matters are languishing", the lawyer said. "First you go to the mentioning Registrar, and if it is disallowed, your right to mention before the bench is automatic, the bench, also comprising Justices Vineet Saran and Surya Kant, said, adding that this practice ensures that no lawyer gets the special priority. CJI Ramana has discontinued the practice of allowing direct mentioning of cases for urgent listing before the benches and has instead asked the lawyers to mention their cases before the designated official. Bhushan said the rejection was not the issue, the point was even if the mentioning is allowed, the case does not get listed before the bench for hearing. The CJI asked Bhushan to bring a specific case to his notice for necessary action. You can automatically mention it if it is rejected. Present a specific case I will look into it, the CJI said. Lawyer M L Sharma also raised the same issue of non-listing of cases despite mentioning before the designated court official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-330
11-08-2021||India||Venkaiah Naidu hits out at Opposition ruckus in Parliament, breaks down||Expressing deep anguish over some Opposition MPs climbing on the table in the House, Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday said he couldn't sleep because of the sacrilege in the "temple of democracy". Referring to Tuesday's events, Naidu said he struggled to find a provocation or reason for the low in the "august House". Parliament, the apex legislature of the country is regarded as the "temple of democracy", he said. The table area where the officers and reporters of the House, the secretary general and the presiding officer are seated is considered the holy sanctum sanctorum of the House, an emotional Naidu said as the Rajya Sabha assembled for the day. "I rise in deep anguish to place on record the way this august House is being subjected to sacrilege and that too propelled by a sense of competition among some sections of the House since the commencement of this monsoon session," the Rajya Sabha chairman said. There were ugly scenes in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday as Opposition MPs climbed on the officials' table, waved black cloth and threw files when the House began a discussion on the farmers' protest against new reform laws. Several MPs stood on the table where the parliamentary staff sits right below the chair, while others crowded around it shouting anti-government slogans. A few members squatted on the table for over one-and-half hours during which proceedings were adjourned multiple times. No sooner was a discussion on the farmers' issues called, MPs belonging to Opposition parties including the Congress and the TMC trooped into the Well shouting slogans seeking withdrawal of the controversial farm reform legislations. According to Naidu, a certain degree of sacredness is attached to the place. In temples, devotees are allowed only up to the sanctum sanctorum and not beyond, he said, adding that entering the area is itself an act of sacrilege. "I am distressed by the way this sacredness has been destroyed yesterday." While some members sat on the table, others climbed on it, perhaps to be more visible, he said. "I have no words to convey my anguish and to condemn such acts. As I spent a sleepless night last night, I struggled to find the provocation or reason for forcing this august House to hit such a low yesterday," he said. Naidu said a discussion on agricultural problems and solutions' was listed for discussion on Tuesday, further to a broad agreement in the House to discuss the plight of farmers. While the Chairman was making the remarks, several Opposition members entered the Well to raise slogans on different issues. However, Naidu continued making his observations amid the uproar. "Over the years, when Notices of Motions' of different kind are admitted by the Chair, the language to be used in the List of Business' is drafted in such a way that it is acceptable to all sections of the House without denting the thrust of the issue to be discussed. It happened yesterday too," he said. "I find it difficult to understand as to how the way the subject was listed in the List of Business for yesterday would have prevented any member to raise any issue concerning the farm sector, including the three farm Bills that some members were keen to raise in the House and even demanding their withdrawal," Naidu said. Tuesday, he added, was a golden opportunity for members to have gone on record with their positions on all issues relating to the plight of the famers. But it was not to be as the sole intention seemed to be to not allow the House to function. On Tuesday, when the Chair announced a discussion on farmers' issues, Congress chief whip Jairam Ramesh cited a ruling by the Chair in 2015 and said his notice for calling attention motion was converted into a short duration discussion without taking the sense of the House. This, he said, was a unilateral decision. Naidu also expressed his concern at some MPs shooting the "sad moments of sacrilege" in the House and posting them on social media. While doing so, they only ended up showing to the people the extent to which the House could degenerate to due to the new found competitive and aggressive disruption by some sections, he said. "It was very sad indeed. I am deeply anguished and so must be the nation and well wishers of our parliamentary democracy," Naidu observed. As chairman of the House, he said he was "scared to visualise the implications and consequences of such competitive acts of sacrilege in our temple of democracy". Naidu asked the members to seriously reflect on what happened on Tuesday and explore remedies if any. Failure to do so would certainly render our parliamentary democracy irrelevant. "I would like to remind all of you that we begin to celebrate the 75th year of our independence in a few days from now. The choice before each one of you is very clear. It is either to be the best parliamentarian or the worst disruptor," he added. Naidu also said that "some people" had complained that Rajya Sabha TV did not broadcast what happened in the House on Tuesday. "I don't know why Rajya Sabha TV not showing. This also can be shown. I have no problem," he said. As Opposition members kept raising slogans, the proceedings were adjourned till 12 noon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
11-08-2021||India||Canada extends ban on direct passenger flights from India till September 21||Canada has again extended its ban on arriving passenger flights directly from India till September 21 due to the risks posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, the federal transport ministry has said. In April, Canada banned all direct flights to and from India when the second COVID-19 wave hit India. The date of reopening has been postponed many times. "Protecting the health and safety of Canadians continues to be our top priority. After reviewing public health data, we have decided to extend the direct flight ban between Canada and India until September 21, 2021," Omar Alghabra, Minister of Transport of Canada, tweeted on Tuesday. "The Government of Canada has suspended flights from India until September 21, 2021. During that period, passengers who travel to Canada from India via an indirect route will need to obtain a pre-departure negative COVID-19 molecular test result from a third country before continuing their journey to Canada," Transport Canada said in a statement on Monday. "Travellers who have previously tested positive for COVID-19 must provide proof of a positive COVID-19 molecular test conducted between 14 and 90 days before departure, instead of a negative COVID-19 molecular test. This proof must be obtained in a third country before the continuation of the journey to Canada. You might need to seek entry and stay in a third country for at least 14 days," it said. Also, the Canadian government continues to closely monitor the epidemiological situation and will be working closely with the Government of India and aviation operators to ensure appropriate procedures are put in place to enable a safe return of direct flights as soon as conditions permit, the release said. "Based on the latest public health advice from the Public Health Agency of Canada, Transport Canada is extending the Notice to Airmen (NOTAM) that restricts all direct commercial and private passenger flights to Canada from India until September 21, 2021, at 23:59 EDT. All direct commercial and private passenger flights to Canada from India are subject to the NOTAM. Cargo-only operations, medical transfers or military flights are not included," it said. The ban, however, does not apply to cargo operations, medical transfers, or military flights. They are allowed to go directly between the two countries. All direct commercial and private passenger flights are only suspended. India saw a single day rise of 38,353 coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,20,36,511, while the active cases have declined to 3,86,351, the lowest in 140 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll has climbed to 4,29,179 with 497 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
11-08-2021||India||Opposition leaders meet to evolve strategy on Pegasus, other issues||Opposition leaders from various parties, including the Congress, the DMK and the Trinamool Congress, met on Wednesday to evolve a joint strategy on the Pegasus snooping row and other issues. About 14 parties were represented at the meeting held in the chamber of leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, Opposition sources said. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi also attended the discussions. The parties whose leaders were present at the meeting also included the Samajwadi Party, the Shiv Sena, the National Conference, the NCP, CPM, RJD, CPI, IUML, RSP, VCK,and the LJD. Besides, Punjab MPs from the Congress and the Akali Dal staged a protest in Parliament complex in support of farmers seeking a repeal of the new agri laws. The Lok Sabha functioned normally for the first time on Tuesday when members of the Opposition participated in the discussion on the Constitution Amendment bill to allow states to have their own lists of OBCs. The Opposition has been demanding a discussion in Parliament on the Pegasus snooping issue and have been disrupting the proceedings of the House for the past three weeks in support of their demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
11-08-2021||India||DCGI approves study on mixing of Covaxin and Covishield doses||India's drug regulator has given approval for a study to be conducted by the Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore, in south Indian state Tamil Nadu on mixing of COVID-19 vaccines Covaxin and Covishield, official sources said on Wednesday. An expert panel of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) on July 29 had recommended granting permission for conducting the study. The trial will involve 300 healthy volunteers. "The aim of the study is to assess the feasibility on whether a person can be given two different vaccine shots -- one each of Covishield and Covaxin -- to complete the inoculation course," a source said. Separately, a recent study by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) involving 98 people, 18 of whom had inadvertently received Covishield as the first dose and Covaxin as the second in Uttar Pradesh, showed that combining these two COVID-19 vaccines elicited better immunogenicity than two doses of the same vaccine. The study also found that immunisation with combination of Covishield and Covaxin was safe and the adverse effects were also found to be similar when compared to the same dose regimen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
11-08-2021||India||India logs over 38,000 fresh Covid cases, 497 casualties in a day||India logged 38,353 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,20,36,511, while the active cases have declined to 3,86,351, the lowest in 140 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll has climbed to 4,29,179 with 497 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases comprise 1.21 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate stands 97.45 per cent, the ministry said. A decrease of 2,157 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 17,77,962 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 48,50,56,507. The daily positivity rate was recorded 2.16 per cent.It has been less than three per cent for the last 16 days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.34 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,12, 20,981 and the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 51.90 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 497 new fatalities include 152 from Kerala and 137 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,29,179 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,34,201 from Maharashtra, 36,848 from Karnataka, 34,367 from Tamil Nadu, 25,068 from Delhi, 22,775 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,252 from West Bengal and 18,004 from Kerala. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
11-08-2021||India||Dalit man hangs himself to death in Punjab village||A 39-year-old belonging to the Dalit community allegedly hanged himself to death at a village in this district on Tuesday leaving behind a note in which he claimed that four people had forced him to take the extreme step, police said. The man, a labourer, had recently alleged that some men had kidnapped his wife. An FIR has been registered in connection with the death of the man, SHO of Lakhewali police station, Shimla Rani said. Asked about the man recently alleging that some men had kidnapped his wife, the police official said, "All of this is being investigated". His daughter had complained to the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) about "police inaction" in the alleged kidnapping. Upon receiving the complaint, the NCSC issued a notice to the Deputy Commissioner and Senior Superintendent of Police, Muktsar, seeking an action-taken report within 15 days. Following the suicide by the Dalit man on Tuesday, the commission has asked the authorities to submit an action-taken report by August 25.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
11-08-2021||India||UP's efforts to bury riot cases to come under higher legal scrutiny||The Uttar Pradesh government’s effort to get the Muzaffarnagar riot cases against two BJP ministers, a party legislator and a Hindutva leader withdrawn is expected to come under higher legal scrutiny following multiple directives issued by an exasperated Supreme Court on Tuesday. The apex court said no state or Union Territory could withdraw criminal cases against politicians without the prior consent of the high court concerned. Judges dealing with criminal cases against political leaders cannot be transferred out of their posts, the court added. A bench of Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and Justices Vineet Saran and Surya Kant asked the high courts to examine the withdrawal of cases against politicians since September 16, 2020. It also asked the registrars-general of all high courts to submit a chart of judges, cases pending and disposed-of cases pending against politicians in the special courts. The Yogi Adityanath government had petitioned a court in December 2020 seeking the withdrawal of cases against the politicians accused of involvement in or provoking the Muzaffarnagar riots of 2013 in which over 60 people were killed. The withdrawal petitions are still pending. On Tuesday, the Muzaffarnagar riot cases figured among those mentioned in the Supreme Court by senior advocate and amicus curiae Vijay Hansaria. He said the Uttar Pradesh government had sought to withdraw 76 cases against elected representatives, including the Muzaffarnagar riot cases against Sangeet Som, Kapil Dev, Suresh Rana and Sadhvi Prachi. Dev and Rana are ministers and Som a BJP MLA while Prachi is a Hindutva proponent. Since a judgment in 2017 on a PIL filed by advocate Ashwini Upadhyaya, the top court has been monitoring the completion of criminal trials against lawmakers within a year by setting up special courts. On Tuesday, the CJI expressed strong displeasure at the conduct of the Union government in taking the steps needed to comply with the directives issued by the court since 2017 to expedite such trials. Justice Ramana said: “We don’t know what’s happening. All these status reports… we only read in the newspapers. Copies are not submitted to us. We get the copies the evening before. We don’t know anything.” The CJI told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta: “When this matter started, we were assured that the government was very serious about this issue and wanted to do something. But nothing has happened. No progress. When you’re reluctant to even file status reports, what can you expect us to say?” The court made the observation after being informed by amicus curiae Hansaria that the CBI had not yet filed a status report on the trials against lawmakers and former lawmakers in which the CBI is the prosecuting agency. The Enforcement Directorate had filed the status report in money-laundering offences. The CJI pointed out that the court had asked the Centre to place the status report as early as on September 10, 2020, and issued a reminder on October 6 when the Centre had sought further time to submit a status report on behalf of the CBI and the ED. “Then further time was granted. Today also the situation is the same. You have only given the name of the accused and the case but not details like which is the oldest case, numbers etc,” Justice Ramana told Mehta. Mehta said: “I agree we are lacking. We filed a report yesterday on behalf of the ED. I emphasised the need to the CBI director to immediately place before Your Lordships.” Justice Ramana told the government’s law officer: “This does not work. Some things have to be presumed. What else can we say to express our displeasure? We were told the Centre is concerned about pending cases against MPs and MLAs.” Hansaria intervened to say that some of the criminal cases against politicians were pending for seven years. Mehta pleaded: “I bow to Your Lordships’ directions for an expeditious hearing. We will comply if Your Lordships grant us the last opportunity.” Justice Ramana told Mehta: “We are giving you two weeks. This is the last opportunity. Otherwise, we will take it that the government is not serious on the issue and we will pass appropriate orders.” The matter will be heard again on August 25.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
11-08-2021||India||SC deplores parallel narratives in media on Pegasus scandal||The Supreme Court on Tuesday deplored the practice of some petitioners in the Pegasus controversy conducting parallel narratives in the media and asked them to have faith in the judiciary which is seized of the matter. A bench of Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana and Justices Vineet Saran and Surya Kant expressed disappointment while conceding the Centre’s plea for two more days to respond to the petitions seeking a court-monitored probe into the alleged illegal surveillance using the Israeli spyware. “Please have some faith in the system. Whatever you (the petitioners) want to say, please say the same in affidavits and we will go through the contents of that, we assure you. But you cannot have a parallel debate. Not that we are against such debates, but it is not proper to have parallel proceedings when we are seized of the matter and when we are looking into it,” Justice Ramana said. As soon as the case came up for hearing, Justice Ramana told a battery of senior lawyers: “Whatever and whoever be the people who are interested in the matter, if you want to say something in the social media, Twitter, Facebook, newspapers… it is for them. “But once you come to this court, we expect the debate will take place here and we expect that they will answer the questions; the queries that we put them through a proper debate within the court and not outside. They are all represented through counsel.” Senior advocate Kapil Sibal agreed that court decorum ought to be observed. He said even his submission in the court had been misquoted in the media. The CJI said some discipline ought to be maintained by the lawyers and petitioners when the matter was being heard by the court. “Sometimes we ask questions to all of you…. Sometimes it may be inconvenient, but both sides have to face this music. We expect answers. That does not mean the proceedings have taken place fully. If the petitioners want to say something, they can say it on affidavit,” the bench said. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta sought two days to respond to the petition and suggested that the matter be taken up for hearing on Friday. However, the CJI expressed inability to hear the matter on Friday as he would not be sitting in the court. Accordingly, the bench said it would list the matter for further hearing to August 16 (Monday). The NGO Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms (CJAR) on Tuesday urged the CJI to facilitate live-streaming of the Pegasus proceedings to enable the general public also to have direct access to the crucial hearing. In a letter addressed through advocate Prashant Bhushan and CJAR’s co-founder Anjali Bhardwaj, the organisation referred to Justice Ramana’s recent remarks at the inauguration of Gujarat High Court’s live-streaming of judicial proceedings that it was high time to demystify the justice delivery system through furthering access to open courts. The CJAR said in its letter to the CJI: “Given that this case deals with matters of tremendous public interest, and its outcome will have wide ramifications for our republic, we are writing to request you to ensure live-streaming of the hearings of the case. Investigations by the media reveal that phone numbers belonging to a judge of the Supreme Court, registrars of the apex court and the woman staffer (and her family members) who had accused a former CJI of sexual harassment were potentially hacked.” The letter added: “These revelations point to a grave threat to the independence of the judiciary…. We earnestly request you to initiate live-streaming of proceedings of the Supreme Court in matters of public importance, starting with the Pegasus case.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
11-08-2021||India||BJP leader and 5 others arrested by Delhi police for anti-muslim slogans ||Delhi police on Tuesday arrested BJP leader Ashwani Upadhyay and five others mostly associated with Hindutva outfits in connection with the hate-fuelled slogans raised at a rally organised by him not too far from Parliament. The arrest followed outrage over the sloganeering, calling for the killing of Muslims, in the heart of the national capital on Sunday. The police had faced questions for not arresting those behind the event, including Upadhyay who is now a member of the Delhi BJP executive and a former spokesperson for the party’s Delhi unit. “Six persons have been arrested in connection with the FIR related to provocative sloganeering at a programme and further investigation is in progress,” a Delhi police spokesperson said. Besides Upadhyay, the other arrested persons were Preet Singh, Deepak Singh, Deepak Kumar, Vinod Sharma and Vinit Bajpai. “Upadhyay and Preet Singh, director of an outfit called the Save India Foundation, have been arrested as organisers of the event. The rest have been arrested for raising inflammatory slogans,” the police officer said. According to him, Deepak Singh is the president of an outfit named the Hindu Force and Vinod Sharma is a member of the Sudarshan Vahini. “Searches are underway to arrest Pinki Bhaiya (a member of the Hindu Raksha Dal) and an individual named Uttam Malik. They are also seen in videos shouting slogans,” the spokesperson added. The police are yet to divulge the background of Deepak Kumar and Vinit Bajpai. Sources said the six accused persons were detained late on Monday night and Upadhyay was brought to Connaught Place police station at 3am for questioning. They have been charged  under sections  that attract a maximum punishment of three years in jail. On Tuesday afternoon, supporters of Upadhyay gathered outside Connaught Place police station, shouted slogans protesting his arrest and tried in vain to barge in. When the police blocked their entry, the protesters sat on a dharna outside the police station, blocking an arterial road. The police appealed to them to lift the dharna but they did not budge and were later detained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
11-08-2021||India||Rajya Sabha: Centre's 'mischievous' discussion on agriculture foiled||The Centre on Tuesday tried to spring on the Rajya Sabha what the Opposition described as a “mischievous” discussion on agriculture, prompting a foiling operation that saw an MP clambering atop a table and another throwing a file at the presiding officer’s vacant chair. The purported ambush and the retaliation came a day ahead of the scheduled tabling of a bill to privatise the General Insurance Corporation (GIC). The Opposition, which wants to send the bill to the select committee, feels that Tuesday’s provocation was intended at dividing them ahead of the insurance bill foray. The Opposition had smelt “mischief” on Monday night itself. Late on Monday night, Congress leader Jairam Ramesh had tweeted: “Tomorrow, in a too clever-by-half move, the Modi government has scheduled a discussion on ‘The agricultural problems and solutions’ and added my name to it. The discussion has NOTHING to do with my notice given on July 23rd on the ongoing farmers’ agitation.” On Tuesday, wary that the Centre would pass this off as a debate on the months-long farmers’ agitation, the Opposition resisted the move and a furore ensued for an hour and a half. AAP’s Sanjay Singh took the lead in climbing on the table when the proceedings were on, resulting in a hasty adjournment. Congressman Pratap Singh Bajwa threw the file at the chair, which was unoccupied as the presiding officer, Bhubaneshwar Kalita, had already left the House. The government described the incident as a new low in unparliamentary behaviour. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi later told reporters that the government had accepted the Opposition’s demand for a discussion on farmers’ issue. “But the Opposition was not interested in a discussion. That is why they crossed all limits of unparliamentary behaviour. They did not even spare the Chair and heaped insult on it.” Opposition MPs said the situation was a direct consequence of a mischievous strategy of the government to thrust a general debate on agriculture on the Rajya Sabha instead of the specific issue of farmers’ protests and the repeal of the three contentious farm laws. Efforts to broker peace by deputy chairman Harivansh yielded no results. The government is now planning to again take up the insurance bill on Wednesday and possibly move for disciplinary action against some Opposition MPs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-331
11-08-2021||India||Covid: Central query about Kerala raises eyebrows||Post-vaccination Covid-19 infections in Kerala’s Pathanamthitta district appear to be a mystery to some central public health officials, but not so for state health and other medical experts. Central health officials are trying to understand the circumstances under which over 20,000 vaccinated people in Pathanamthitta developed Covid-19, a senior health official said on Tuesday, triggering surprise among other medical experts. Sujeet Singh, director of the National Centre for Disease Control, New Delhi, said a central public health team had learnt from the Pathanamthitta district administration that 14,974 people were infected after the first dose and 5,042 after the second dose. “We’re getting these things reviewed by the state — how long after the second dose did the person turn positive, what was the severity of the disease, whether the person had mild or severe disease or required hospitalisation,” Singh said. “Not only from Pathanamthitta, but from other districts as well. We are waiting for this information.” But medical experts said the numbers of post-vaccination infections by themselves told nothing unless they were placed in context with other critical information such as the total number of vaccinated people in the district and the local infection transmission patterns. “I’m surprised that post-vaccination infection numbers are cited without any context,” a senior medical researcher in a New Delhi institution who requested not to be identified told The Telegraph. “It is kind of irresponsible.” Pathanamthitta has among the highest proportions of vaccinated population in the country, a physician and member of Kerala’s Covid-19 task force said. Around 70 per cent of the population has received one dose and 33 per cent of the population has got two doses. State health records in the public domain show that more than 366,000 people in Pathanamthitta have received two doses and over 807,000 have got two doses. “True breakthrough infections are those that occur two weeks or more after the second dose,” said T.S. Anish, a community medicine specialist at Trivandrum Medical College. “Only 258 of the 20,000 or so post-vaccination infections are after 14 days after the second dose,” Anish told this newspaper. The medical researcher in Delhi said 258 breakthrough infections among over 366,000 of those vaccinated was “actually a small number”. The number of breakthrough infections depends on both what proportion of the population is fully vaccinated and what percentage is still susceptible to the infection and the level of transmission at the site. “Imagine, in one district, no one has been vaccinated, there the number of breakthrough infections will be zero,” Anish said. “If the rate of breakthrough infections is 10 in 100, the number will increase to 1,000 in a place where 10,000 people are vaccinated.” Kerala’s low seroprevalence — the proportion of people protected by antibodies — of 44 per cent implies that 56 per cent had remained susceptible to the infection up to early July. “This means the state’s public health measures during the first and second waves were strong enough to protect the majority of its people,” a public health expert said. “It also means more people are likely to be available in the population pool to cause breakthrough infections.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
11-08-2021||India||In Kashmir, Rahul vows to fight Modi’s ideology of violence||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said while the attack on India and its institutions under the BJP-led government at the Centre was indirect in the rest of the country, Jammu and Kashmir was facing a direct assault. Rahul, who is on a two-day visit to the Valley, the second after the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in 2019, said the events of the last two years have hurt ordinary Kashmiris but he wants a relation of love and respect with them. Towards that end, he said statehood should be immediately restored. Addressing a party event in Srinagar, Rahul said: “There is an assault on the whole country, Jammu and Kashmir, Tamil Nadu, Bengal. The concept of India, its democratic framework, our Constitution is facing an assault. But the assault is direct on Jammu and Kashmir and indirect on the rest of India.” He vowed to fight and defeat what he called Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ideology of violence that seeks to break India. “I fight Narendra Modi and we will continue to fight. We will fight and defeat Narendra Modi’s divisive ideology, the ideology that divides India, the ideology of hate. This is because this (fighting hate) is not just the culture of Jammu and Kashmir but the culture of India.” Rahul said the situation in country is such that they are not even allowed to speak on important issues in Parliament. “There is not an assault on Jammu and Kashmir only but on the whole of India. Ghulam Nabi Azadji asked me to raise the issue (of Kashmir) in Parliament. But we are not allowed to speak in Parliament. I cannot speak about Pegasus, corruption, Rafale and unemployment in Parliament,” the Congress MP said. “They are attacking all institutions of India, judiciary, Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha. My friends from media cannot write the truth. They are being suppressed, face threats, they live in fear that if they write anything, their jobs will go. They cannot fulfil their responsibilities,” he said. The Congress leader had made an abortive bid to visit Kashmir days after abrogation of the special status in 2019 but he and several other MPs were sent back by the administration. The administration this time put no hurdles in Rahul’s visit, allowing his party supporters to converge in numbers and install hoardings at multiple places. The Congress leader demanded restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood and the conduct of a “free and fair” Assembly elections. “Statehood should be restored and the democratic process — that is, election should be held,” he said. Rahul then turned emotional and said how his visit was a sort of homecoming. “My family lives in Delhi. Before Delhi we lived in Allahabad and before Allahabad, my family lived here (in Kashmir). I have not stayed here but I can say my family might have drank from the Jhelum. Your customs, your thoughts, what we call Kashmiriyat, a bit of it is in me also. I think I have come to my home,” he said. “This was not a big state. Today it is not a state but Jammu and Kashmir’s strength lies in brotherhood, treating others with respect and love. That is your strength and Kashmiryat is its foundation.” The Congress leader said Kashmiris could be won over with love and not hate. “I want a relationship of dignity and love with people of Jammu and Kashmir, who have faced pain and suffering,” he said. Rahul visited the Hazratbal Dargah in Srinagar and Mata Kheer Bhawani Temple in Ganderbal. He posted images of his visit on Instagram and said: “Prayed for peace and brotherhood at Hazratbal Dargah. The biggest strength of our country is our unity — there is no place for hate and fear here.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
11-08-2021||India||Modi ignores plea for help from woman during online interaction||Prime Minister Narendra Modi stuck to the script and appeared to ignore a woman’s plea for release of payments held up due to the lockdown, during an online interaction on Tuesday where moments later he would wax eloquent on how “fortunate” he was to have “got the opportunity to serve our mothers and sisters”. Speaking during a videoconference with beneficiaries of the Ujjwala Yojana under which free gas connections are given, Modi had asked Kiran Devi from Gorakhpur about her occupation and the self-help group she was part of when she broached the pandemic-induced lockdown and its economic fallout on small traders like her. Modi: Have you told the other women in your self-help group about the (Ujjwala) scheme? Have they too benefited? Kiran: Yes, I have. All of them are involved in some trade or the other and do whatever they can. Yahi lockdown lag gaya, thoda paisa phans gaya. Iske liye aapse anurodh hai ki aap nazariya unke upar… (after the lockdown, some payments got stuck. I request you to look into…)” Modi (interjecting): “Unko bhi gas connection mil gaya (they too have got gas connection)?” Kiran (completing her sentence): “Jo hamne karz liya hai (the loans that we have taken).” Kiran: Yes, yes, they too have got gas connections…. Modi: Abhi jo main gareebon ke liye anaj muft mein bhejta hun, woh bhi kya milta hai unlogo ko (The free food grain that I send to the poor, do they get that too?)” Kiran: Yes, they receive it. They receive twice a month. Earlier during the conversation, Kiran, accompanied by her daughter Sadhana, had told the Prime Minister that she made bamboo articles and also did sewing. She said she was part of a self-help group too. Kiran agreed with Modi that a lot of time could be saved by cooking on gas ovens and added that she no longer needed to dry firewood when it rained. She informed the beaming Prime Minister that her daughter now refused to cook without a gas oven. Modi claimed that before 2014 (when he came to power), people had to keep making rounds of government offices, often over minor matters. The conversations with the rest of the beneficiaries did not deviate from the congratulatory tone that is the hallmark of such interactions of Modi. At the online event where Modi launched Ujjwala Yojana-2, the Prime Minister told a gathering at Mahoba in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh: “…We have to increase capacity-building manifold. Together, we have to fulfil the commitment to a competent and capable India. Our sisters are going to play a major role in it.” Modi said he had received the blessings of women before Raksha Bandhan on August 22. “I am feeling fortunate that I got the opportunity to serve our mothers and sisters before Raksha Bandhan. Your blessings would remain with us so that we continue serving Maa Bharati with new energy,” he said. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, joining in from Mahoba, clapped.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
11-08-2021||India||Kerala rolls out bio-bubble model to revive its tourism sector||Kerala has rolled out a bio-bubble model to revive its tourism sector that opened on Monday for inoculated visitors. Bio-bubbles are sanitised environments manned by fully vaccinated people, including airport staff, which came into prominence through sporting events such as the Indian Premier League, Indian Super League and even the Tokyo Olympics. According to a statement from the department of tourism of the southern state, any tourist landing in any of the four international airports in Kerala would meet fully inoculated ground staff and driven to their destinations by fully vaccinated drivers. The staff at their accommodations would also be fully vaccinated. The only requirement for tourists who have already started arriving in the state are at least the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine or an RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours. State tourism minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas said that the bio-bubble model would help in the early revival of the tourism sector. “Safety of guests is non-negotiable as far as Kerala Tourism is concerned. The bio-bubble initiative is meant to ensure that the tourists have a risk-free stay in our state. This is a critical factor for revival of tourism, which has been clobbered by the pandemic,” the press statement quoted Riyas as saying. “It was with this larger perspective that we successfully carried out the vaccination campaign covering the entire population in Vythiri (Wayanad). This initiative will tell the world that Kerala is a place where you can holiday safely,” he added. The state has so far vaccinated 43.37 per cent of its population with the first dose and 18.08 per cent with both doses. According to the statement, the initiative would enable the vacationers to move freely within safe zones, including public places such as beaches and backwaters, without any anxiety. Additional chief secretary of tourism Venu V. recalled how the state has bounced back from natural calamities in the past. “Kerala Tourism has outlived grim crises like devastating natural calamities like floods and epidemics that battered its infrastructure and economy. We have proved to be resilient by bouncing back from each crisis,” Venus was quoted as saying in the statement. Director of state tourism V.R. Krishna Teja expected “lockdown-weary” people to travel to safe destinations. “The lockdown-weary people from all corners of the world will be treading to safe and healthy places when tourism opens up globally and nationally. Going by our natural assets and advanced social milieu, Kerala has immense scope to tap the incoming rush to unpolluted and less crowded spaces,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
11-08-2021||India||Two YouTubers and 17 of their young followers in Kerala arrested||Two YouTubers and 17 of their young followers in Kerala were arrested on Monday for protesting against the motor vehicles department for seizing a vehicle owned by the vlogger siblings. The motor vehicles department in Kannur had seized the Force Traveller van of YouTubers Ebin Varghese and Libin Varghese from their home in Kiliyanthara in the district on Sunday. The brothers then posted a video on their YouTube channel and Instagram page about the action and informed their supporters that they would be going to the motor vehicles department office at a particular time on Monday. The YouTube roadie channel named E Bull Jet has 1.74 million subscribers. The department listed a series of violations, including modifying the vehicle without permission, installing an ambulance siren, making unauthorised fittings such as a set of powerful overhead lights and LED light strips, and painting over the windows to block the view into the van. The motor vehicles department’s action incensed the fans of the Varghese brothers. They vent their anger by flooding the department’s Facebook page with messages seeking “justice” for the vloggers. They also gathered outside the motor vehicles department in Kannur on Monday when the brothers went to meet officials. Things went out of control when the siblings began filming their argument while inside the motor vehicles department office and allegedly protested and destroyed office property when officials objected. Their supporters standing behind them also filmed the episode and shared videos on their social media handles. When they continued to film the action, police were called in and 19 youths were arrested. Many of the fans created a ruckus and tried to prevent the police from taking them away. The Varghese brothers were booked under IPC Sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from carrying out his duty) and 34 (common intent) and sections of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, Kerala Epidemic Diseases Act and the Kerala Epidemic Disease Coronavirus Disease Additional Regulations. A district court remanded them in 14 days’ judicial custody. A Kannur court granted the brothers bail on Tuesday on two sureties of Rs 25,000 each. The court ordered them to deposit another Rs 3,500 each to compensate for the damage to property and appear before the police every Wednesday. The 17 fans were booked for preventing police officers from carrying out their duty, calling for violence and violating Covid protocols. They were released on bail on Monday itself. Kannur police commissioner R. Ilango told a media conference on Tuesday that a special team would be formed to investigate the offences found in the videos on the YouTube channel since one of them showed the Force Traveller using a siren. “They had used a siren and even sported a ‘Press’ sticker…. We have asked YouTube to freeze the channel so that the videos can’t be deleted,” he said, adding that the states where the vehicle had travelled to and broken rules would also be told to take action. Kerala transport minister Anthony Raju said action had been taken against the Varghese brothers to rectify the illegal modifications on the van. “We cannot turn a blind eye to such gross violations. That’s why we have instructed officials to take strict action against anyone found violating the law.” Raju accused the siblings of “creating a drama to get more mileage” while they were at the police station and the motor vehicles department in Kannur. The Varghese brothers’ lawyer, Mohammed Fouz, told The Telegraph his clients were assaulted in custody. “They have told the court about the police beating them badly.” Popular YouTuber Sebin Cyriac, who shot to fame by accompanying Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to the sea on a fishing expedition in February, said the siblings could have behaved responsibly. “They could have behaved in a mature way by not creating a scene outside government offices,” Cyriac, who runs the Fishing Freaks channel, told this newspaper. “Some diehard fans often react illogically without realising the gravity of the situation. The call for violence was totally unnecessary and dangerous,” he added. With only YouTube guidelines to follow, Cyriac said vloggers must exercise caution and not fall on the wrong side of the law. “Once I had a video taken down because it had a toy pistol,” he said. Firoz Chuttipara, who runs the Village Food Channel, was of the view that vloggers should do nothing to harm anyone. “We need to remember that many of our viewers are kids who could get influenced by what we do,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
11-08-2021||India||Teenage girl strangles mother after a fight over studies in Navi Mumbai||A 15-year-old girl allegedly strangulated her mother to death with a karate belt after a fight over her studies in Navi Mumbai, police said on Tuesday.  The girl later tried to pass it off as a case of accidental death, they said.  The incident took place in Airoli area of Navi Mumbai township on July 30.  The girl and her 40-year-old mother used to have frequent quarrels as the woman wanted her daughter to pursue a medical course, but the latter refused to do so, an official at Rabale police station said.  The girl had last month also complained to police about her mother, following which the police counselled the family members.  On July 30, the girl informed the police that her mother fell and died, the official said.  The body was sent for postmortem and the report revealed that the woman was strangulated to death, he said.  During questioning, the girl told the police that she had strangled her mother with a karate belt after a tiff with her, the official said.  The teenager was detained on Monday and a case was registered under Indian Penal Code Section 302 (murder), he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
11-08-2021||India||Centre calls Caste Census of 2011 outdated and incorrect||The government on Tuesday told Parliament that the Socio-Economic Caste Census of 2011 had failed to collect data “correctly” and that it was now outdated, drawing the ire of OBC groups. In response to a question from Bahujan Samaj Party MP Haji Fazilur Rehman on whether the government had data about Other Backward Classes living below poverty line and what actions are being taken to uplift them, minister of state for social justice Pratima Bhoumik said: “No Sir. The Socio-Economic Caste Census 2011 conducted by the ministry of rural development and the ministry of housing and urban affairs could not correctly capture the caste status of households other than SCs/STs (Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes). Besides, the data is now outdated.” The OBC groups questioned the intention of the government and claimed the data was largely fine. They said the BJP-led NDA government had set up an expert panel in 2015 under then Niti Aayog vice-chairman Arvind Panagariya to classify caste names returned in the SECC since the data was largely fine. Justice Vangala Eswaraiah, former acting Chief Justice of Andhra Pradesh High Court and former chairperson of the National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC), said certain enumeration errors in the data should have been corrected. “Intentionally the government is not interested to release the caste data. They want to suppress the truth about injustice perpetuated by the dominant castes on OBCs,” Eswaraiah said. “There might have been discrepancies in data in a few cases because of the mention of certain gotra or sub-caste names by the households. Such errors could have been corrected and the data should have been released,” he said. Eswaraiah said: “Nearly 85 per cent of people who are mulnivasi of the country are poorly represented in public services and higher education.” He underlined the need for proportionate representation of every community in public services and education and that caste data is crucial for this. “When Rajnath Singh was the home minister, he had promised to include a column for collection of OBC caste data in the 2021 census. But the government backtracked later,” he said. G. Karunanidhy, national general secretary of the All India OBC Employees Federation, said the government had set up an expert panel for classification of the caste data in 2015. “If the data did not correctly capture the caste status of households other than SCs and STs, why did the government set up an expert panel for classification of the data? The government’s statement in Parliament is contrary to its earlier stand,” he said. The SECC 2011-12 collected data on caste of the households apart from assets like telephone, motorcycle, land, pucca house, landlessness and tax payment. The government in 2015 released the economic data and set up a committee to classify the caste names. The committee has never met, Eswaraiah said. “Thousands of crores of rupees have been spent for the SECC. Who is accountable for this? When the BJP was in the Opposition, (late) Gopinath Munde asked why the government was not conducting a caste census. Now the same party is forgetting its own stand because they do not want to annoy the upper castes,” Karunanidhy said. The Bihar Assembly had passed two resolutions in 2019 and 2020 demanding a caste census and sent it to the Centre. Chief minister Nitish Kumar, whose Janata Dal United is an ally of the BJP, had also written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week for a meeting to discuss the need for a caste census.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
11-08-2021||India||SC fines parties for not disclosing crimes of candidates to public||The Supreme Court on Tuesday fined eight political parties for contempt for failing to disclose the criminal antecedents of their candidates and directed that from now such details should be made public within 48 hours of selection of nominees. The court directed the Election Commission to create a mobile application so that voters of each constituency can access all details on the criminal antecedents of the candidates. The top court imposed a fine of Rs 5 lakh each on the CPM and NCP; besides Rs 1 lakh each on the JDU, RJD, Lok Janshakti Party, Congress, BJP and CPI for failing to comply with a constitution bench judgment in 2019 in the Public Interest Foundation vs Union of India case that said such disclosure was mandatory. The CPM and NCP were fined a higher amount for defying most of the directions while the other parties were fined for not fully complying with the directives. The court was dealing with a contempt petition filed by advocate Brajesh Singh after the October-November 2020 Bihar Assembly elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
11-08-2021||India||Triple talaq petitioner calls Shah to ensure communal harmony||Zakia Soman, on whose petition the Supreme Court declared instant triple talaq illegal, has urged home minister Amit Shah to ensure justice and communal harmony after slogans calling for violence against Muslims were raised near Parliament. In a statement she issued on behalf of the Bharatiya Muslim Mahila Andolan that she co-founded and runs, Zakia said on Tuesday: “The culprits must be immediately arrested and tried under various sections of the IPC for genocide calls through hate speeches and threats to disrupt social peace and harmony. “The home minister should immediately make an announcement to reassure the minorities in Delhi, many of whom are still reeling under the effect of the riots in February 2020. The viral video has spread a sense of fear and insecurity among citizens. They should be assured of security and safety by the home minister.” BJP leader Ashwini Upadhyay has since been arrested along with five others. Zakia’s statement also called for the arrest of those who delivered hate speeches preceding the communal riots in the capital last year that claimed 53 lives. In response to Delhi High Court’s direction to probe BJP activist Kapil Mishra for making a provocative speech just before the riots, police had said last year that “no actionable evidence has surfaced yet”. Mishra has encouraged people to tweet with the hashtag “IsupportAshwiniUpadhyay” on the ground that no slogan had been raised from his stage on Sunday. Mishra said in a video: “The conspiracy of communists, jehadis and Leftists should not be allowed. We oppose the arrest of Ashwini Upadhyay and support him. I feel the attempted murder of Swamiji at Yati Narsinghanand’s ashram should be the biggest issue today.” Early on Tuesday, a visiting devotee from Bihar named Swami Nareshanand was attacked by an unidentified assailant with a paper cutter at Ghaziabad’s Dasna Devi temple that is run by the preacher Narsinghanand. Nareshanand is stable and recovering in hospital. Narsinghanand had justified the slogans raised on Sunday. A Muslim boy was thrashed by staff of the Dasna Devi temple for drinking water from a tap outside in March. The police briefly detained several students and activists of the Congress, CPIML-Liberation’s All India Students Association, SFI and the Jamaat-e-Islami Hind who had come to protest at Jantar Mantar Road on Tuesday against the attempts to incite violence against Muslims. Some students also protested at Jamia Nagar police station. SFI state committee member Anil said: “It is blood curdling to see the mute complicity of Delhi police that acts with much vehemence against student protesters. The police force that brutally clamps down on students and the general public who take to the streets in defence of the Constitution has failed to curb the Sangh’s terrorist activities. This is a deliberate attempt by the BJP, the RSS and other Sangh outfits to advance their agendas for communal hatred and create divisions.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
11-08-2021||India||Lok Sabha: Opposition stalls protest to participate and support OBC bill||The Opposition on Tuesday suspended its relentless protest in the Lok Sabha to press for a discussion on Pegasus snooping charges, to participate and support a constitutional amendment bill concerning the politically and electorally significant Other Backward Classes. The Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty-seventh Amendment) Bill, 2021, aimed to restore the rights to states to maintain their own OBC lists for reservation in government jobs and educational institutions, was passed unanimously by the Lok Sabha, underscoring the political significance of the legislation. The result of the voting was 385 ayes and zero nos, meaning no member opposed or abstained. For the first time in the last week of the four-week monsoon session, the Lok Sabha saw a structured and long debate on a bill, with each side seeking to underline their commitment for the OBCs, who approximately constitute more than half of the country’s population. The Opposition protested during the Question Hour and forced one adjournment but returned to their seats when the bill was taken up post-noon. The shadow of Pegasus and the farm laws, however, couldn’t escape as some Opposition leaders while speaking over the OBC bill, sought to question the government’s bid to run away from a debate on the snooping charges. Participating in the debate, leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Chowdhury, said they had decided to participate and support the bill as a “responsible party” since it was a constitutional amendment that requires support of two-thirds members of the House. Then he went on to flag Pegasus and justify the Opposition’s protest to demand a discussion on the snooping charges, inviting protest from the ruling benches. “We are being blamed for stalling the House,” he said. “Israel, Hungary, France and other countries are probing Pegasus snooping.… What are we doing here?” he asked. “But here, we are scared to even have a discussion in the House on Pegasus. Why so?” Adhir said leading to some uproar and Speaker Om Birla asking him to stick to speaking over the bill. After Adhir, Trinamul Congress’s Sudip Bandopadhyay too raised the issue and also sought to take digs at the central government over its claim of “cooperative federalism” in the OBC bill. “I cannot get any idea why the government is scared to discuss Pegasus,” Sudip said. He pointed out that the way the Opposition had agreed to discuss and pass the OBC bill, the government should be ready to discuss Pegasus. He proposed the debate should take place on Wednesday. Amid protests by ruling BJP members, Sudip said that 30 bills have been “bulldozed” and passed in both Houses at an average of 10 minutes per bill. After being urged by the Chair to speak on the OBC bill, Sudip said it says that the amendment is being done to “save the federal structure of the country” and then took swipe at the government. “The federal structure is totally under threat today.… Our (state’s) voice shouldn’t be gagged... parliamentary democratic process should be allowed to function properly. Government of India should function on its own and state governments should be allowed to function on their own,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-332
11-08-2021||India||Ganga spills over its ghats in Patna||The Ganga spilled over its ghats in Bihar capital on Tuesday and entered several localities close to its banks posing a threat to the city of 20 lakh people. It is flowing above the danger level across the state endangering the districts located along it. The river water level at Gandhi Ghat, located at the middle of its flow along Patna city, was 49.72m, which was 112cm above the danger level of 48.60m, and the river was showing a rising trend. The Gandhi ghat was submerged and water was spilling over on its approach road. Floodwaters from the Ganga have engulfed several localities and high-rises along its banks in Patna. Many villages on the outskirts in Danapur, Maner and Fathuha areas have also been flooded. People living in the affected localities and villages have started moving to higher and safer areas with their valuables and cattle. “The level of water in the Ganga increased further and floodwaters started entering my home around 3am. We had been watching the rising river for the last few days and were alert. We have shifted furniture, food grains and other things to the first floor and sent most of the family members to stay with other relatives in the town for the time being,” said Amitesh Singh, a resident of the Rajapur Pul area along the Ganga in Patna. Water resources department (WRD) engineer-in-chief (flood control and water drainage) Rajesh Kumar pointed out to The Telegraph that the level of the Ganga at Gandhi Ghat was still 80cm below the highest flood level of 50.52m recorded in 2016. “Water in the Ganga is coming from other states increasing its level. However, we are prepared to meet any eventuality. We have placed sandbags at the 102 gates of the Patna Town Protection Wall along the river and have wooden sheets ready to block them if water level rises further,” Kumar said. Other smaller rivers surrounding Patna are also in spate worsening the situation in the rural areas that have been flooded by them for more than a week now. The discharge of water from these rivers has been adversely affected due to the high level of water in the Ganga. Incidentally, the mighty river is flowing above the danger mark at almost all the places from Buxar where it enters the state to Katihar where it exits to enter Bengal. It is showing a rising trend due to continued heavy rains in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. The river was rising at around 1cm per hour in Buxar submerging villages, roads and agricultural fields in several blocks like Buxar Sadar, Chakki, Bramhapur and Chausa. People have started shifting to safer areas. Floodwater was flowing on the important Chausa–Mohania Road and had also surrounded the thermal power plant area in Chausa However, Buxar district magistrate Aman Samir told this newspaper that there was “not much problem due to the floods and not much population has been affected.” Floods from the Ganga have also affected Barhara, Ara, Shahpur and Bihiya blocks of Bhojpur district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
11-08-2021||India||Covid: Tourists back, Puri beach comes alive ||The sea beach at Puri, which is among the most attractive beaches in the country, has come alive with tourists back in the town following lifting of restrictions the administration had imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. In the past one week since the lifting of curbs thousands of people from across Odisha and neighbouring Bengal have arrived in the seaside town for holidaying. This is good news for the state tourism department which has reported a 99 per cent drop in the arrival of foreign tourists and 84 per cent drop in the arrival of domestic tourists to the state in 2020-21 due to the Covid crisis. Hoteliers in Puri are happy and hopeful of tourism reviving in the town. “The sea beach has become clean and looks attractive as it is reopening after more than three months. People have started booking rooms in hotels. We will have to wait for a few more days for business to pick up,” said Puri Hotel Owners’ Association president Rama Krushna Dasmohapatra. Dasmohapatra said: “It has been decided to re-open the Puri Shree Jagannath Temple for devotees from August 16. On the first five days, the people of Puri will have a darshan of the deities. From August 23 people from all parts of the country are allowed to enter the shrine. We are hopeful the number of hotel bookings will increase after August 23.” “There was no business for the last three months. Now the business is limping back to normal,” said Harishankar Swain, a conch seller on the Puri beach. Similar are the sentiments of Pramod Patra, whose camel gives tourists joy ride on the beach. “The business was badly hit for the last one year. We have not been able to feed our camels. We require Rs 500 for feeding a camel every day. With the business coming to a halt for the last three months completely, we have not been able to earn a single pie. We have struggled hard to feed the camels. I know some of these animals   including horses and camels have died of hunger with owners unable to feed them.” However, the town has witnessed a series of protests over the state administration’s move to declare a part of the beach as Blue Flag beach. Hundreds of people, depending on their livelihood on the sea beach, are  opposing the Puri administration’s move to convert the beach into a Blue Flag beach with restricted entry. President, Beach Protection Council of Odisha, Jagannath Bastia said, “As the public money is being used for the development of the beach, one cannot use it for commercial purposes. Nearly 90 per cent people earn their livelihood on the sea beach. As per the law, no vendors will be allowed to enter the blue flag beach.  This will hit the livelihood of local people.” Lawyer and convenor of Jagannath Sena (an outfit working for protection of Jagannath Culture and Puri) Priyadarshana Patnaik warned of a bigger agitation in the coming days on the issue. “A part of the beach has already been converted into Blue Flag beach. We will not oppose the development of a Blue Flag beach along the Puri-Konark marine drive, away from the main Puri beach where thousands of people come to have fun.” However, Puri district administration maintains that Blue Flag beach is a concept to attract tourists from across the country and abroad. “Blue Flag concept is a step towards making the beach clean and more attractive for the tourists from other parts of the country. We will not convert the entire sea beach into blue flag beach but only a part of it,” said a senior official of the Puri district administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-333
