12-08-2021||India||Congress leader asks Twitter to stop being BJP's political platform||The Congress alleged on Thursday that its official Twitter handle as well as that of a large number of party leaders and workers have been blocked by the microblogging website, which justified the action saying it has been done for violating rules. The development comes close on the heels of the blocking of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's Twitter handle after he shared pictures of the family of a nine-year-old alleged rape-and-murder victim in Delhi last week in violation of laws. The party's youth wing chief, Srinivas BV, shared a picture with an orange version of the Twitter logo on the platform and asked it not to act in the safffron party's favour. He also pointed out the platfrom's hypocrisy on its policies as there were other existing tweets on the following content on the platfor, and no such action had been taken against them. Twitter, on its part, said the blocking of the accounts of several Congress leaders, including that of Gandhi, was done to protect individual privacy and safety after they posted images that violated its rules. The Congress accused the website of acting under pressure from the government. The chief spokesperson of the party, Randeep Surjewala, said the Narendra Modi government will not be able to suppress their voice by threatening Twitter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
12-08-2021||India||EAM calls for understanding on vaccination certificates for foreign travel||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar suggested on Thursday that going forward some kind of understanding would have to be developed among nations on Covid-19 vaccination certificates rather than on particular vaccines for foreign travel, but acknowledged it would be a challenge as some countries will push the viewpoint that their vaccines are a must. He also expressed hope that an indication about the World Health Organisation's approval to Bharat Biotech's Covaxin is likely by September. In his remarks made virtually at a plenary session of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Annual Meeting, Jaishankar asserted that the world stood by India during the second wave of Covid, especially in terms of oxygen supply, oxygenators and medicines as the country had helped others in the first wave of the pandemic. Asserting that India had "come through a test of fire" and the world had understood and appreciated its resolve in combating the pandemic, he also hailed India for helping out other smaller countries in vaccine supply, saying many of them would not have come within "sniffing distance" of vaccines if not for India. "I think, we have reputationally come out of this much stronger," Jaishankar added. Asked about the need for global vaccine passports and problems being faced by Indians in foreign travel, he said a lot of this travel impediment is speculation and not fact based. "The US does not insist on your being vaccinated to enter the US, it insists on you being RT-PCR negative before you board a plane. At the moment there is an India issue because they are not allowing people who have been in India for a certain period immediately to go to the US directly," Jaishankar pointed out. "I would say, still the general practice (for foreign travel) right now is very much testing-based rather than vaccination-based," he said. Jaishankar pointed out that the problem arose when Europe started issuing a notification that those with certain kinds of vaccinations would be exempt from quarantine. "We took up that issue bilaterally with a whole lot of European countries and made sure that initially Covishield which was excluded is included," he said. Noting that travel to Europe for those who have taken Covaxin was still a problem, he expressed optimism that this was likely to change once the WHO gives its approval to it. "Typically, the WHO takes two months plus to look at this and Covaxin filed its application on July 9, so I am hopeful that some time, maybe in September, we should get some kind of an indication (on approval for Covaxin)," Jaishankar said. He argued that the regulator has recognised only a limited set of vaccines so if countries only receive those who have been administered those jabs, very few foreigners will be able to enter any country. "So, the answer to my mind will have to be some kind of understanding on vaccination certificates, not on vaccines. There is a precedent for it in yellow fever, there were yellow fever certifications and nobody said you have to have injection 'x' or 'y'," he said. Jaishankar noted that these conversations are beginning to get traction and that the International Civil Aviation Organization has been having such discussions. The minister, however, added that he does see the issue as a challenge because some countries "will try to get across a viewpoint that their vaccines are a must". There will be a "push and pull" out here, he said and asserted that India as a country whose people look at the world as a global workplace where mobility and migration matter so much, it would be a priority as to how Indians are able to travel with least restrictions. Talking about the help provided by India to other countries during the pandemic, Jaishankar said he has received messages of gratitude from representatives of many nations for having sent out medicines, medical teams and food supplies when it was needed the most. He said that when the Covid pandemic broke out for the first time, India stood out for being decisive and largely effective in what it did, considering that Covid "caught us when our health infrastructure was very rudimentary, especially in terms of what we needed to do (to combat the situation)". "When the second wave of the pandemic hit us, it was a very different situation. The scale, intensity, seriousness of it was something which was very difficult to anticipate," he said and added that because of the delta variant of the coronavirus, it had some very specific implications in terms of oxygen demand which went up eight-nine times. The minister said that initially, the world looked at India and wondered how any country could deal with this kind of caseload and severity of pandemic. "Where we are today, I think the world understands and appreciates that we have pulled up our socks, gritted our teeth, shown national resolve, we have come through a test of fire," Jaishankar said. "The overall sense of the world is 'ok guys you have had a very rough time, but we've seen you have got a government which has pulled you through, you have a national resolve, you have reserves of strength, you have dug deep and come through it'," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
12-08-2021||India||Hindu outfit booked for assaulting ‘henna’ seller||Police here booked 25 members of a right-wing Hindu group for allegedly thrashing a vendor selling "henna", according to an official. The Kranti Sena has also been running a "campaign" against Muslims applying "mehndi" on hands of Hindu women. Police have registered a case of rioting and intimidation after the victim, identified as Perkash Chand, lodged a complaint against them, SHO Anil Kapervan said. However, it is not clear if the FIR mentions about the "campaign". Earlier, videos surfaced on social media, in which members of the group are purportedly heard talking about their "campaign" against Muslims applying "mehndi" on hands of Hindu women, accusing them of "love jihad". "Love jihad" is a term used by right-wing activists to refer to the alleged campaign of Muslims forcing Hindu girls to convert in the guise of love.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
12-08-2021||India||False narratives and misconceptions about judges need to be refuted, says CJI||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana Thursday said that false narratives and misconceptions created in minds of the people that judges supposedly lead an easy life need to be refuted by educating the public about the work put by them with limited resources. The CJI said the most obvious sacrifice to become a judge is monetary of course but one must be moved by the spirit of public duty to take such a decision. Justice Ramana, who was speaking at a farewell function of Justice R F Nariman organised by the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA), said that it is important for judges to stay in touch with society and not remained completely secluded. However, he said the undeniable fact is that "our engagement with society undergoes a drastic change when we become a judge." "I would like to flag the amount of work we put in as Judges, day in and day out. There exists a misconception in the minds of the people that Judges stay in big bungalows, work only 10 am to 4 pm and enjoy their holidays. Such a narrative is untrue," the CJI said. He said it is not easy to prepare for more than 100 cases every week, listen to novel arguments, do independent research, and author judgments, while also dealing with the various administrative duties of a Judge, particularly of a senior judge. "We either burn the midnight oil, or wake up before sunrise, or sometimes even both, to fulfil our judicial duties. We continue to work even during the Court holidays, do research and author pending judgements. Therefore, when false narratives are created about the supposed easy life led by Judges, it is difficult to swallow," CJI said. "We cannot defend ourselves. It is the duty of the Bar to refute these false narratives and to educate the public about the work put in by Judges with the limited resources given to them," Justice Ramana said. He said "there are a number of sacrifices one must make when one decides to become a Judge, the most obvious to become a judge is monetary, especially when one has a roaring practice, but one must be moved by the spirit of public duty to take such a decision." "Honestly, if Brother Nariman had continued to be a lawyer rather than becoming a Judge, he could have led a more luxurious and relaxed life. That he managed to balance all his duties and produce the quality of work he did, is a testament to his work ethic and his capabilities," the CJI said. Justice Ramana said at the tender age of 12 years, while other children were probably busy playing cricket or something else, Justice Nariman became an ordained priest of the Parsi faith. "This extraordinary grooming explains the evolution of his work ethic, commitment, focus and brilliance," he said adding that "I feel like I am losing one of the lions that guarded the institution. Our loss will be a huge gain elsewhere." Justice Nariman said he was leaving the institution with mixed feelings. "Now I won't have files waiting for me when I wake up at 6 in the morning. Although I'll still wake up but follow a routine like ordinary citizens," he said. Sharing his experience, Justice Nariman said when he was at the Bar he had no idea how it would be like at the bench. "This side (as a judge) is much more difficult than a lawyer. You have to read much much more. I enjoyed writing judgements and at the end it worked out well," he said. Attorney General K K Venugopal said Justice Nariman is a jurist par excellence, expert in constitutional law, commercial and tax law and also a religious scholar. Venugopal said Justice Nariman is one of the finest legal minds and one of the finest judges which the apex court has had. "Justice Nariman is a constitutional czar par excellence", he said. Justice Nariman, during his early years as a lawyer, had been a junior of Venugopal. "I cannot let Justice Nariman leave the Supreme Court without saying a few words. It was a great honour for me to practice before him. He was a junior in my chamber and he was a star among all my juniors," the AG said. SCBA president and senior advocate Vikas Singh said his retirement evokes mixed feelings in him. It's my privilege that I am hosting this event of his retirement but also it's our loss that we are losing a brilliant judge today. Justice Nariman's one day salary as a lawyer is more than what he earned in these seven years as a Supreme Court judge. That is what he sacrificed, he said. The senior advocate requested the Collegium that all the judges Justice Nariman wanted to be elevated to the top court should be cleared and that will be the most befitting tribute. "I urge CJI Ramana that a quota for woman judges be introduced and that is the way to have more women judges in the Supreme Court," Singh said. SCBA Vice President Pradeep Rai, secretary Ardhendumauli Kumar Prasad also spoke on the occasion. Apex court judges Justice U U Lalit, S K Kaul, V Ramasubramanian, A M Khanwilkar, B R Gawai, Navin Sinha and Solicitor General Tushar Mehta were also present on the occasion. Justice Nariman, who became the apex court judge on July 7, 2014, disposed of over 13,500 cases and delivered historic verdicts including the declaration of privacy as a fundamental right, setting aside of IT Act provision empowering arrests, decriminalising consensual gay sex and permitting women of all ages to enter Kerala's Sabarimala temple. Justice Nariman, born on August 13, 1956, became a senior lawyer in 1993 and Solicitor General of India on July 27, 2011, before being elevated as the judge of the apex court on July 7, 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
12-08-2021||India||Kanpur: Muslim man asked to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’, assaulted; daughter begs for mercy||A Muslim man was assaulted in the public and allegedly asked to chant "Jai Shri Ram" even as his minor daughter tried to save him, said police here on Thursday. A one-minute video of the incident surfaced on social media on Wednesday. The 45-year-old man is seen being assaulted by some men, who ask him to chant "Jai Shri Ram". The victim's daughter is seen trying to save her father, crying and asking the attackers not to beat him. Later, some policemen took the man to their Jeep. The footage also shows the man being hit while in police custody. Deputy Police Commissioner (South) Raveena Tyagi said the matter came to the fore at the Kacchi Basti locality near the Ram Gopal crossing in the Barra area of Kanpur on Wednesday. "On the complaint of the victim, we have lodged an FIR and legal action is under way," she said. Police, however, did not mention the name of the organisation involved in the act. The victim, an e-rickshaw driver, said around 3 pm, some people started abusing and assaulting him. They threatened to kill his family. He said he was saved by police. The man is a relative of a Muslim family, which is involved in a dispute with their Hindu neighbours in the Kanpur locality. Police statement says in July, the two families filed cases against each other at the local police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
12-08-2021||India||Centre: More than one bill per day passed in Rajya Sabha despite disruptions||On an average, more than one bill per day was passed by Rajya Sabha during the just-concluded Monsoon Session despite "highest disruption" since 2014, the government said on Thursday. The Upper House passed 19 bills, including a constitutional amendment bill on OBC reservation, which was the second highest since 2014, the government said, underlining that this reflects its "commitment , productivity and ability" to drive legislative agenda in parliament. The time lost due to interruptions or adjournments till August 11 was 76 hours and 26 minutes, and the highest average time per day lost due to interruptions/adjournments since the 231st session of Rajya Sabha in 2014 was four hours and 30 minutes. "Despite highest disruption since 2014, 1.1 bills was passed per day by Rajya Sabha. The number of bills passed per day during this session in Rajya Sabha was the second highest since 2014," the government said in a statement. "Despite all the chaos and disruption, 19 bills passed in Rajya Sabha, including constitutional amendment on OBC reservation, which are in the national interest and will benefit the poor, OBCs, workers, entrepreneurs and all sections of our society," it added. The government said it "successfully" carried out the government business during the Monsoon Session and the bills passed by the Rajya Sabha will "shape the future of our country". "This reflects the commitment, productivity and ability of the government to drive legislative agenda in the Parliament, which aims to fulfill the aspirations of its citizens," it added. During the session, the government said, 22 bills were passed by both the Houses of Parliament which include two appropriation bills relating to Supplementary Demands for Grants for 2021-22 and the Demands for Excess Grants for 2017-2018. The Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, The General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021, The National Institute of Food Technology Entrepreneurship and Management Bill, 2021, The Central Universities (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Bill were among the key bills passed during the session. Both of the Houses considered and passed four bills to replace the ordinances promulgated by the President before Monsoon Session. They were The Tribunals Reforms (Rationalisation and Conditions of Service) Ordinance, 2021, The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021, The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Ordinance, 2021 and The Essential Defence Services Ordinance, 2021. The Monsoon Session of Parliament, which commenced on July 19, was adjourned sine die on Wednesday. The session provided 17 sittings spread over a period of 24 days. "The session, which was originally scheduled to have 19 sittings from July 19 till August 13, was curtailed due to continuous disruptions in both the Houses and completion of essential government business," the government said. On opposition charge that bills were passed amid din without any debate, a government functionary cited media reports to say that the then United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government had passed 18 bills, including the Andhra Pradesh (Reorganisation) Bill, 2014 and Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation in the Posts and Services) Bill, 2008 "in a hasty manner" between 2006 and 2014. "UPA passed 17 bills in 72 minutes, one bill passed in approximately every four minutes," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
12-08-2021||India||Women struggling for representation in Parliament after 75 years of Independence: Activists||Women's rights activists and parliamentarians held a public consultation on Thursday to ensure passage of the Women's Reservation Bill in Lok Sabha, noting that even after 75 years of Independence, women have been struggling to get proper representation in Parliament. TMC MP Mahua Moitra extended her support to the Women's Reservation Bill, saying women have to be given representation at electoral politics and at organisational political level. The pending bill reserves one-third of all seats for women in Lok Sabha and the state legislative assemblies. Rajya Sabha passed the bill in 2010, but Lok Sabha never voted on the bill and it is still pending. The women rights activists held a public consultation to prepare a 'toolkit' for passage of the bill, noting that even after 75 years of Independence, women have been struggling to get proper representation in Lok Sabha and in state assemblies. TMC MP Moitra said there seems to be no political will around it. "Parties have enjoyed brute majorities but whether it is the Congress or the BJP there has been no consensus around the bill like there was in the OBC bill in Parliament recently. Actually we don't need a bill to tell us to do the right thing. So similarly TMC and BJD have not waited for any bill for doing this. We don't need a bill to give women representation," she said. "Every party has the ability to say we are going to give tickets to women. Women have to be at electoral politics but also at organisational political level and this is where all political parties have to get their act together. Reservation also means moving away from nepotism," the TMC MP said. Aruna Roy, social activist who founded the Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan, said it is "ridiculous" that despite being 50 per cent of the country's population, women have such low representation in Parliament and in state assemblies. "We have had a volatile journey and we must ensure that on the 75th anniversary we must get the reservation. We need to think what we want from the bill and that is why this toolkit needs to be made. We are very worried about why this bill has not been passed. We have so much contribution then why we are not being given recognition," she said. Mohini Giri, who has been the chairperson of the Guild of Service and the National Commission for Women, said women's voices have to be made heard. "Till we are given equal rights who will hear our voices. I believe that now time has come to not call it reservation but we should say that in 75 years, why have we not even 75 per cent in Parliament and what men achieved to have such high representation, Giri said. "Women groups must call collective meetings involving women from all walks of life. We must make a decision to make strong women groups. Thirdly, I would like to say that when we demanded reservation some people opposed we must discuss those oppositions and what has been said in Parliament we must analyse that too to answer their opposition," she added. Vimal Thorat, the national convenor of All India Dalit Mahila Adhikar Manch, said women have been struggling for years and this struggle must reach a conclusion. "Dr B R Ambedkar has said till women don't progress a country cant progress and that holds true today. The role of all women whether they are Muslim, Dalit Adivasi must be fixed and all their contribution must be acknowledged and then only the government might acknowledge it. We must have one voice," she asserted. Syeda Hameed, a social and women's rights activist, said the nomenclature of the bill must be changed so that its impact increases. "On social media, we must present how we can project the stand of the political parties," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
12-08-2021||India||Naqvi targets Opposition over Parliament ruckus||Union minister and Deputy Leader of the House in Rajya Sabha Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi Thursday accused the Congress and some other opposition parties of "spreading pollution in Parliament and political hypocrisy on the streets with their lies" over the ruckus in the legislature during the Monsoon Session. Speaking to reporters, he said the opposition was trying to brazen it out by attacking the government after stalling Parliament during the session. The opposition was determined to ensure that the session is a washout and is today preaching us about rules, principles and parliamentary traditions, he said. The Congress and some other opposition parties had demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi convene an all-party meeting to discuss efforts being made to tackle the coronavirus pandemic but they boycotted when such a meeting was called, Naqvi said. They demanded that the farmer issues be discussed but then engaged in vandalism and scuffle in Parliament, he said. "The government from the day one had made it clear that it was ready for a positive and constructive discussion on all the issues. But opposition parties continued with their competition in commotion," he alleged. "In their contest to become champion of irresponsible politics, many opposition parties have now resorted to violence in the House," Naqvi alleged. Some opposition MPs are saying that they will do such "violence" a hundred times, he said, seeking strict action against them. Leaders of several opposition parties on Thursday took out a protest march here against the government on several issues, including Pegasus and alleged manhandling of their MPs in Rajya Sabha, with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi saying the voice of people was "crushed" in the House.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
12-08-2021||India||Trinamul poses 8 questions to 8 ministers to counter government narrative||The TMC has posed eight questions to the Centre in response to a press conference by eight Union ministers on Thursday blaming the Opposition for the unruly scenes witnessed in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. Putting the blame squarely on the Opposition, the ministers said the Rajya Sabha chairman must take the strongest possible action against those who broke rules. In a tweet, Leader of the TMC in the Rajya Sabha Derek O'Brien said: "8 Ministers just addressed a press conference. To them we ask. Answer even one of these 8 questions. Try. Then talk to us about #Parliament. The United Opposition have a strong case. You are full of faff."  At a press conference, O'Brien, along with TMC's Lok Sabha MP Saugata Roy and vice-president of the party Yashwant Sinha, hit out at the government, saying it should respond to these questions regarding the "operating procedures" of the Monsoon Session of Parliament. "What option does the Opposition have in a parliamentary democracy when the government crosses all limits? Do we still sit on our seats and suck lollipops? We represent more than 60 per cent of the people of India. Remember, the BJP got 37 per cent votes in the 2019 (Lok Sabha) election," O'Brien said. The party asked where the prime minister and the home minister were while the session was underway. "Why couldn't they find time to come and be present in Parliament to listen to us? Two former prime ministers, Manmohan Singh and HD Deve Gowda, were present in the houses and actively participated in the proceedings. "The Opposition wanted a discussion on internal security, (the) Pegasus (snooping row) and the NSO connection, but the government did not allow it. We also wanted a debate on the farmers' protests, but even that did not happen. Why?" O'Brien asked. The TMC leaders said a total of 39 bills were passed in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha, without any debate. "This is not how a democratic country works. The average time of passing a bill was 10 minutes and then you say that the Opposition is disrupting the session," Roy said. The TMC leaders pointed out that even in 2014, 60-70 per cent of the bills were sent to parliamentary committees for a review and claimed that now, only 11 per cent of the bills are sent to these panels. Raising another question on the use of ordinances by the government, they said these are used for passing extremely important bills on an emergency basis. They said in the first 30 years since independence, only one ordinance was used for every 10 bills and claimed that almost four ordinances are being used for every 10 bills now. "The prime minister is avoiding Parliament. Even Manmohan Singh was never that comfortable with the parliamentary system, but he used to answer our questions on a designated day. However, ever since the BJP came to power, (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi has never answered any questions. This is hooliganism," O'Brien alleged. The TMC leaders also questioned the government over its inability to appoint a deputy speaker of the Lok Sabha. "The government says it has a huge majority in the Lok Sabha. It's been two years, where is the deputy speaker of the Lok Sabha? Why has anyone not been appointed yet?" they asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
12-08-2021||India||Mansukh Mandaviya meets WHO Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday met WHO Chief Scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan and held discussions over the global health body's approval for Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin. Held a meeting with Dr Soumya Swaminathan, Chief Scientist of @WHO. We had a productive discussion on WHO's approval of @BharatBiotech's COVAXIN. @DoctorSoumya also appreciated India's efforts for the containment of #COVID19, Mandaviya tweeted. All documents required for Emergency Use Listing (EUL) have been submitted by Bharat Biotech for COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin to the World Health Organization (WHO) as of July 9 and the review process by the global health body has commenced, the Rajya Sabha was told last month. Responding to question on whether it has come to the notice of the government that Covaxin used in India as Covid vaccine is not recognised by many countries, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar in a written reply said, The Government of India is aware that Covaxin at present is not part of WHO Emergency Use Listing (EUL). Elaborating on efforts that have been made by the government to resolve this issue, Pawar said, "All documents required for Emergency Use Listing (EUL) have been submitted by Bharat Biotech International Ltd. to WHO as of 9th July 2021. The review process by WHO has commenced. WHO usually takes up to six weeks to decide on Emergency Use Listing (EUL) submissions." Developed by Bharat Biotech in partnership with National Institute of Virology and the Indian Council of Medical Research, Covaxin was approved for emergency use on January 3. Trial results later showed the vaccine has an efficacy of 78 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
12-08-2021||India||ISRO should be allowed to work as scientific enterprise, says Congress leader Jairam Ramesh||Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Thursday said ISRO should be allowed to work as a scientific enterprise as put in place by Vikram Sarabhai shortly after the failure of a GSLV rocket to inject the EOS-03 satellite into the orbit, prompting a sharp response from the government. Union minister Jitendra Singh, in-charge of the Department of Space, said most space-related pitfalls occurred during the Congress rule including the mysterious death of senior space scientist Sarabhai. Singh, who is the Minister of State in the Prime Minister's Office, said had Congress refrained from political interference, Sarabhai could have contributed valuably for many more years. The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) launched GSLV-F10 rocket, with an earth observation satellite (EOS-03) on board from Sriharikota spaceport, however, the failure to ignite the cryogenic stage of the launch vehicle prompted the premier space agency to declare that the mission could not be achieved as intended. Earlier in the day, Singh said the first two stages went off fine, only after that there was a difficulty in cryogenic upper stage ignition. The mission can be rescheduled some time again, he said. ISRO has the resilience to bounce back. And it will. However, it should be allowed to function as a scientific and technological enterprise as put in place by Vikram Sarabhai and Satish Dhawan. There is far too much political grandstanding on it now, Ramesh, who is the Chairman of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Science and Technology, Environment, Forests and Climate Change, tweeted. Sarabhai is widely regarded as the father of the Indian Space programme. He died in 1971. Hitting back, Singh said, “Jairam ji, please don't forget, most of Space related pitfalls, including mysterious midnight death of Vikram Sarabhai, happened during Congress regime. Going by the same analogy, had Congress refrained from political interference, Sarabhai could have contributed valuably for many more years.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
12-08-2021||India||RTI activist Saket Gokhale joins Trinamool Congress||RTI activist Saket Gokhale Thursday joined the Trinamul Congress in New Delhi. He said the Mamata Banerjee-led party takes an "aggressive" stand on issues. "The TMC is the second largest Opposition party in Parliament and it has been my obvious choice. If you look at all the national parties, the TMC takes an aggressive stand. The way the chief minister of Bengal has been fighting on the front foot, that's what I'm looking for," Gokhale said after joining the party. The TMC in a staement said, "Saket Gokhale is a renowned RTI activist and began his career as a journalist. He has filed RTIs on issues of national importance for several years. Most recently, he filed queries on bank loans and budgetary allocation for Pegasus."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
12-08-2021||India||Pradhan accuses Opposition of ‘double-standards’ on OBC reservation||Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan has accused the Opposition of having "double standards" on the issue of OBC reservation and asserted that there should be no doubt and confusion about the core policy and intention of the Modi government for the welfare of backward communities. Speaking on a constitutional amendment bill that has restored the states' rights to identify OBCs, he said in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday evening that the Modi government inherited many legacy issues from the previous dispensations and rectified them to boost the rights of communities getting reservation benefits. In this context, he cited the government's decision to ensure that reserved quota do not lapse in Central Universities like IITs. In LPG distributorship, the deprived communities were given their due by the Modi dispensation, he added. Noting that the parliamentary system is supreme, he said it has the right to decide on policies for the country and frame laws for the welfare of the people. Rajya Sabha passed the Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill, 2021 that seeks to restore the states' power to prepare their own OBC lists. The bill has already been cleared by Lok Sabha and will soon become law following a notification. The Modi government is trying to give all the castes their rights, said Pradhan, the Union Minister of Education and Minister of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship. "It is, therefore, unnecessary to doubt our intention," he said. Some Lok Sabha MPs from the DMK party had recently met him and raised the issue of reservation in higher education institutions such as IITs and central universities for SC, ST and OBCs. "It was news for me," Pradhan said, adding that he enquired about the matter and found that the provision was there till 1989 that there will be reservation, but it will get lapsed if the vacancy was not filled up. "... if the desired candidate is not available, the quota will lapse the subsequent year. It was rectified by the prime minister in 2018-19, who ensured the reservation does not get lapsed," he said. The present government has implemented 27 per cent OBC reservation in NEET medical entrance examination. Besides, it has also implemented reservations for OBCs in Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya and Kendriya Vidyalaya. Pradhan, former Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas also noted that during his tenure, 8 crore LPG connections were allotted based on the SC/ST list. He also congratulated H S Puri, his successor in the ministry, for granting one crore new connections on Tuesday. "The BJP government allotted 11,262 LPG distributorships when I was the petroleum minister. In this, it not only gave rights to the scheduled castes and tribes but also gave LPG distributorship to provide employment to 2,852 OBC youth. At that time, no such demand was made from the government," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
12-08-2021||India||Over 54.04 crore Covid jab provided to states, UTs so far, says Govt||More than 54.04 crore Covid vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far, and 1,09,83,510 additional doses are in the pipeline, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. Of this, the total consumption, including the wastage, is 52,00,96,418 doses, according to data available at 8 am. A total of 2,55,54,533 Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states, Union Territories and private hospitals to be administered, the ministry said. The Union government is committed to accelerating the pace and expanding the scope of Covid-19 vaccination throughout the country. The new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from June 21, 2021. The vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and Union Territories for enabling better planning by them, and streamlining the vaccine supply chain, the ministry stated. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the Government of India has been supporting the states and Union Territories by providing them Covid vaccines free of cost. In the new phase of the universalisation of the Covid vaccination drive, the government will procure and supply (free of cost) 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced by the vaccine manufacturers in the country to states and UTs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
12-08-2021||India||Sacked DU professor seeks FIR against principal for casteist remarks||A Delhi court has sought an action taken report from the police on a complaint filed by a sacked professor of a Delhi University college seeking registration of FIR under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act against the principal for alleged casteist remarks. Additional Sessions Judge Charu Aggarwal has sought the report from the station house officer on the application. The complainant, who worked as an assistant professor, moved the court alleging that the principal along with four professors, hatched a conspiracy to terminate her from service by forging documents, creating false records, fabricating and giving false evidence. The behaviour of accused number 1 (principal) has been casteist, demeaning, discriminatory, threatening towards the complainant that the accused No.1 used to make casteist remarks so much so that on August 10, 2020, the complainant was refused her re-joining from the job, the complaint stated. The professor sought direction from the court to the police to register an FIR against the principal and others under various sections of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and Indian Penal Code and punish them in accordance with the law. The complainant said that she got selected by a meticulous selection process on a post reserved for the scheduled caste community as she belongs to the Ravidasia caste. The complainant is still regularly receiving threat on behalf of accused persons by various anti-social elements and as such she and her family life is at the hands of the accused persons and their cohorts, the plea added. Furthermore, she apprised the court that the station house officer (SHO) of the Police Station Maurice Nagar in Delhi did not register the FIR on her complaint, following which she filed a complaint with the Deputy Commissioner of Police (North district) but no action was taken. She has also requested the court to direct registration of FIR under the SC/ST Act against the erring station house officer (SHO) for dereliction of duty and against the DCP for not taking legal action against the SHO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
12-08-2021||India||Terrorists attack BSF convoy in JK's Kulgam||An encounter broke out between terrorists and security personnel on Thursday after the ultras opened fired at a Border Security Force (BSF) convoy in Jammu and Kashmir's Kulgam district, officials said. The convoy was headed for Srinagar from Jammu when it was attacked, they said." Terrorists opened fire at a BSF convoy on the Jammu-Srinagar national highway at Malpora in the Qazigund area of Kulgam district," an official said. A police spokesperson said there were no reports of any injuries in the attack but the assailants were trapped. "Terrorists fired upon BSF convey at NHW #Kulgam. No injury reported. However, terrorists trapped," the Kashmir zone police quoted IGP, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar as saying. The spokesperson said reinforcements have reached the spot and senior officers of the police, CRPF and the Army were also present there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
12-08-2021||India||Dalit girl rape case to be  heard by fast track court, announces Centre||The Ministry of Home Affairs Thursday said the Nangal rape and murder case of a minor girl as well as the Mayur Vihar rape incident will be heard in fast track special courts in Delhi. The ministry Thursday reviewed the two cases with the Delhi Police here. "As per the directions of the Union Home Minister Shri @AmitShah, Ministry of Home Affairs reviewed the rape and murder case of a girl child in Nangal area of Delhi and rape of a girl child in Mayur Vihar with @DelhiPolice," a home ministry spokesman tweeted. "The Delhi Police is committed to file the chargesheet in the court within 30 days of the registration of the case, so that the trial of these cases can start at the earliest. Both the cases will be heard in fast track special courts in Delhi," the spokesperson said in another tweet. The Delhi Police's crime branch is probing the alleged rape and murder of a nine-year-old girl in Old Nangal village of the city. The girl died under mysterious circumstances, with her parents alleging she was raped and forcibly cremated. Police had earlier said based on the statement of the victim's mother, the charge of rape was added in the FIR. Four people, including the priest, have been arrested. In the Mayur Vihar case, a six-year-old girl was allegedly sexually assaulted by a 34-year-old man in her neighbourhood, police had said. The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) Thursday issued a notice to city police seeking a detailed action taken report in the case. The panel said it has been informed that the girl was kidnapped and raped on August 11 when she was playing outside her house. The child was bleeding and has been referred to the AIIMS hospital, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-325
12-08-2021||India||Chandrayaan-2 detects presence of water molecules on moon||Chandrayaan-2, ISRO's second lunar mission, has detected the presence of water molecules on the moon, data obtained from the mission has revealed. In a paper co-authored by A S Kirankumar, former Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) chairman, said imaging infrared spectrometre (IIRS) is one of the payloads on-board Chandrayaan-2, which is placed in a 100 km polar orbit to acquire global scientific data. "The initial data analysis from IIRS, clearly demonstrates the presence of widespread lunar hydration and unambiguous detection of OH and H2O signatures on the Moon between 29 N and 62 N lat., after incorporating physics-based thermal correction to reflectance data," the paper which was published in Current Science journal said. Plagioclase-rich rocks have been found to have higher OH (hydroxyl) or possibly H2O (water) molecules when compared to the mare regions, which were found to have more dominance of OH at higher surface temperature, it said. The development also assumes significance considering that Chandrayaan-2 did not yield desired results. Planned to land on the South Pole of the moon, Chandrayaan-2 was launched on July 22. However, lander Vikram hard-landed on September 7, crashing India's dream to become the first nation to successfully land on the lunar surface in its maiden attempt. The orbiter of the mission is working fine and has been sending data to Chandrayaan-1, the first lunar mission, and showed evidence that there was water on the moon, the paper said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
12-08-2021||India||Opposition must apologise for what happened in the Parliament, demands government||Putting the blame on the Opposition for unruly scenes witnessed during the monsoon session of Parliament, a group of union ministers on Thursday said Rajya Sabha Chairman must take the strongest possible action against those who broke the rules. Addressing a joint press conference in New Delhi, they also accused the opposition leaders of manhandling marshals, while Union Minister Piyush Goyal said that the Opposition's approach of "my way or highway is highly condemnable" and the country also condemns such attitude. Goyal, also Leader of House in Rajya Sabha, said the group of ministers met Chairman and Deputy Chairman of the House and made an earnest appeal that the strongest possible action should be taken against the Opposition MPs for their deplorable behaviour and manhandling marshals. He said the Opposition was unable to digest the fact that the country has given up on them and their behaviour in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday was a new low of the parliamentary democracy. The Secretary General's table in Rajya Sabha is not meant for dancing and protesting, Union Minister Anurag Thakur said at the press conference, referring to an incident when an opposition leader was seen above a table inside the upper house of Parliament. "We demand that Rajya Sabha Chairman should take stringent action against those Opposition MPs who broke rules," Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said. He alleged that it was pre-decided by Congress and its friendly allies that they would not allow Parliament to function. Thakur alleged that "anarchy from streets to Parliament" was the Opposition's only agenda during the monsoon session. He said the Opposition should apologise to the nation for what happened in Parliament during the monsoon session. Earlier in the day, a group of union ministers, including Pralhad Joshi Piyush Goyal and Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, called on Vice President and Rajya Sabha Chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu at his official residence here. Separately, a group of Opposition leaders also met Naidu and complained against the alleged heckling of MPs including some women. The ministers, on the other hand, are believed to have complained against the alleged unruly behaviour of some opposition members in the House on Wednesday. On Wednesday, Naidu broke down over the huge ruckus in the House and equated the act of some opposition MPs to "sacrilege in the temple of democracy". Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla was also likely to meet Vice President Naidu in the evening. The tumultuous Monsoon session of Parliament was on Wednesday curtailed by two days. Leaders of several Opposition parties on Thursday marched in protest against the government on several issues, including Pegasus, farm laws, and alleged manhandling of their MPs in Rajya Sabha, with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi saying the voice of people was crushed in Parliament and democracy was "murdered". Top leaders of several Opposition parties met in the chamber of Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and then walked in protest from Parliament House to Vijay Chowk. In a joint statement, Opposition leaders condemned the "authoritarian attitude" and "undemocratic actions" of the government and said what had happened in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday was shocking and an insult to the dignity of the House and humiliation of the members. Accusing the government of stonewalling their demand for discussion, the Opposition leaders charged that was it running away from the debate on Pegasus snooping issue. "What happened in Rajya Sabha yesterday was shocking, unprecedented, sad and an insult to the very dignity of the House and humiliation of the members of the august House," they said in a joint statement. They alleged that without any provocation from the Opposition, "outsiders who were not part of Parliament security were brought in to manhandle the Opposition leaders and members, including women Parliamentarians who were only protesting against the Government's conduct, highhandedness and muzzling of the voice". "The Opposition strongly condemns the authoritarian attitude and undemocratic actions of the Government. We remain committed to continue our struggle against the assault on Parliamentary democracy and agitate the issues of national importance and people's concern," the joint statement said. Those who attended the meeting included Gandhi, Sharad Pawar, Kharge, Sanjay Raut, Tiruchi Siva, Manoj Jha and other Opposition leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
12-08-2021||India||Puri's Jagannath temple reopens after three months||The famed Jagannath temple in Odisha's Puri reopened on Thursday in the first phase after remaining shut for over three months amid the COVID-restrictions. In the first phase, only family members of the servitors are being allowed to enter the temple, an official said. The temple will open for the public in the second phase, he said. The 12th-century shrine was shut on April 24 amid the second wave of the pandemic, and remained closed during the Ratha Jatra. The family members of the servitors are being allowed darshan from Mangal Alati till Rati Pahuda, the official said. While entering the temple, they are required to produce any identity card issued by the temple authority along with a government-issued identity proof such as Aadhaar card. In the second phase, residents of Puri will be allowed to enter the temple through the Lion's Gate from August 16, the official said. The general public will be allowed entry from August 23, he said. The temple will remain closed on August 21 and 22 in view of the shutdown in Puri on Saturdays and Sundays. Devotees from outside Puri will have to produce the final COVID-vaccination certificate or COVID-negative RT-PCR report of testing done within 96 hours. They will also have to carry a government-issued identity card such as Aadhaar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
12-08-2021||India||All you need to know about the delta variant of Covid||Amid delta variant of the coronavirus wreaking havoc in the world, Dr. Mainak Malhotra, MBBS, MD (Medicine) and Visiting Consultant, Internal Medicine, AMRI hospital, Mukundapur, gives an overview of the most common questions asked regarding the strain. What is the delta variant? What are the symptoms of the delta variant? What is concerning about the COVID Delta variant? Where did the Delta variant come from? What are precautions should be taken to prevent this delta variant? Does Delta variant attack vaccinate persons? Treatment of affected persons? There are multiple articles floating on the internet that the kids are more prone to this variant. As they are unvaccinated. What is your viewpoint on this? For emergency call our 24x7 helpline number 6680 0000 For more details, please visit our website //bit.ly/2VLvSiI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
12-08-2021||India||ISRO's former chairman expresses shock over GSLV rocket launch failure||Veteran space scientist G Madhavan Nair expressed shock over the unsuccessful GSLV-F10 launch mission but said the ISRO is resilient enough to bounce back. The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) launched GSLV-F10 rocket, with an earth observation satellite (EOS-03) on board, on Thursday at 0543 hours as scheduled, from Sriharikota spaceport. "Performance of first and second stages was normal. However, Cryogenic Upper Stage ignition did not happen due to technical anomaly. The mission couldn't be accomplished as intended", the space agency tweeted. Nair, during whose tenure of six years from 2003 as ISRO Chairman 25 successful missions were accomplished, indicated that setbacks of this kind is not unusual and said ISRO should not lose heart. "This is a very complex mission. Normally, the Cryogenic stage is the most difficult one compared to all other rocket propulsions", Nair told PTI. ISRO, he said, had mastered the cryogenic technology over the years and its track record on this count is not that bad compared to European countries and Russia where failure of cryogenic stage was in the range of about 20 per cent. "This is the eighth launch of cryogenic stage. The first one was a problem (unsuccessful). Subsequently, all other launches turned in text-book performance. There is a finite possibility of failure with any such complex system. We need not be disappointed. But at the same time, we should go to the root cause (of the failure) and fix it so that we don't repeat", Nair said. And he added: "It's a shock for all of us. But we will recover from this shock soon and we will be back on track. The ISRO community is resilient enough to face such difficulties". EOS-03 was a state-of-the-art agile earth observation satellite which was to be placed in a Geosynchronous Transfer Orbit by GSLV-F10. Subsequently, the satellite was to reach the final geostationary orbit using its onboard propulsion system. The objectives of EOS-03 were to provide near real time imaging of large area region of interest at frequent intervals; for quick monitoring of natural disasters, episodic events and any short term events; and to obtain spectral signatures for agriculture, forestry, water bodies as well as for disaster warning, cyclone monitoring, and cloud burst / thunderstorm monitoring, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
12-08-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi, Congress accounts blocked for violating rules, clarifies Twitter||Twitter on Thursday reasoned blocking of several accounts of Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, for posting an image that it said violated its rules and the action was to protect individuals' privacy and safety. Twitter handles of Gandhi and several Congress leaders have been locked by the US firm for posting pictures of the family of the nine-year-old Dalit rape and murder victim last week in the national capital. The Congress party's official Twitter account has also been blocked. When contacted, a Twitter spokesperson on Thursday said the company's rules are enforced judiciously and impartially for everyone in its service. "We have taken proactive action on several hundred Tweets that posted an image that violated our Rules and may continue to do so in line with our range of enforcement options. Certain types of private information carry higher risks than others, and our aim is always to protect individuals' privacy and safety," the spokesperson said. The spokesperson added that Twitter strongly encourages everyone on the service to familiarise themselves with the Twitter Rules and report anything they believe is in violation. According to Twitter, if a tweet was found to be in violation of its rules and isn't deleted by the account holder, the microblogging platform hides it behind a notice and the account remains locked until the said tweet is removed or the appeal is successfully processed. The US-based company said it was alerted by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) about specific content on the platform that allegedly revealed the identity of an alleged sexual assault victim's (and a minor's) parents. The said content was reviewed against Twitter's rules and policies as well as the concerns expressed as a matter of Indian law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
12-08-2021||India||Supreme Court stays Gujarat HC order granting furlough to rape convict Narayan Sai||The Supreme Court Thursday stayed a Gujarat High Court order granting two-week furlough to rape convict Narayan Sai, son of self-styled godman Asaram Bapu who is also undergoing life term for another rape case in Rajasthan. The apex court said however that it needs to examine whether the rules allow the annual furlough as per the calendar year or from 12 months after the last one was granted to a prisoner. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah issued a notice to Sai on Gujarat government's plea challenging the high court's single-judge order and stayed it till further orders. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Gujarat government, said the single-judge order of June 24, 2021, granted furlough to Sai for two weeks but the division bench had stayed it till August 13 and therefore the state has moved the top court challenging the June 24 order. The bench said that under the Bombay Furlough and Parole Rules, applicable in Gujarat as well, a prisoner can be granted furlough once every year after he completes seven years in jail. The idea of furlough is that a prisoner gets away from the environment of jail and is able to meet his family members, the bench said, and asked Mehta what are grievances with the order. Mehta replied that under the rules and even in a judgement of this court, it has been held that furlough is not an absolute right and it depends on various factors. He said Sai and his father were arrested for offences under rape charges and they wield considerable influence with money and muscle power. Mehta pointed out that they had even tried to bribe police officials, mobile phones were recovered from their cell in jail and even three prime witnesses crucial to their cases were killed. The bench said that now that he is convicted, all these contentions will not hold good as he was also granted furlough in December last year, which the state government has never challenged. Mehta said that last year Sai was granted furlough for two weeks as he wanted to visit his ailing mother and it was purely on humanitarian grounds that the state government did not find it appropriate to challenge that order. The bench then asked Mehta, whether during his last furlough were there any incidents of law and order situation or was there any danger to peace and tranquillity to which he replied that it is not on record. Mehta said, Problem now is that he is seeking furlough as a matter of right that he should be released every year on furlough. The bench said the point which needs examination is that under the rules it is said that a prisoner can avail furlough once every year after he serves seven year in imprisonment. "Whether once every year means once every calendar year or once every year means since the last time he got furlough. This is the point we need to examine. We are issuing notice to the respondent (Narayan Sai), the bench said. It asked the counsel appearing for Sai to file his reply within a week and posted the matter for further hearing after two weeks. On April 26, 2019, Sai was convicted under the Indian Penal Code sections 376 (rape), 377 (unnatural offences), 323 (assault), 506-2 (criminal intimidation) and 120-B (conspiracy) by a Surat court and sentenced to life imprisonment. In 2013, after Asaram was arrested for allegedly raping a girl in Rajasthan, two Surat-based sisters had accused Asaram and his son of sexual exploitation. The elder sister had accused Asaram of sexual assaults between 1997 and 2006 when she lived at his Ahmedabad ashram. The younger sister had accused the godman's son of sexual assaults when she lived at Asaram's ashram in the Jahangirpura area of Surat between 2002 and 2005. The incidents of multiple sexual assaults and unnatural sex with the victim had taken place between 2002 and 2005, but the case against Sai had been filed only in 2013. Sai was arrested from the Delhi-Haryana border in December 2013. When Sai was in jail, Surat police had claimed to have unearthed elaborate plans to bribe police officers, doctors and even judicial officers to weaken the case against him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
12-08-2021||India||Four more bodies recovered from landslide site in Himachal's Kinnaur||Four more bodies were recovered from the landslide site in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district where the search and rescue operation resumed early on Thursday, raising the death toll to 14, officials said. Four more bodies were recovered from the spot after the rescue operation resumed, Kinnaur Deputy Commissioner Abid Hussain Sadiq said. He said 14 bodies have been recovered so far. The Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) bus, which, along with other vehicles, was buried under the debris after the landslide, has been found in a badly damaged condition, State Disaster Management Director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said. However, a Bolero car still could not be traced, he added. The HRTC bus was on its way from Reckong Peo to Haridwar via Shimla when it was hit by boulders after the landslide around Wednesday noon near Chaura village on national highway-5 in Nigulsari area of Nichar tehsil. A video of the rescue workers at the site near the mangled remains of the bus has gone viral whereby a rescuer is heard saying that the bus was found by the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) 17th Battalion personnel. Another rescuer states that gloves should be brought for further carrying the operation. The rescue operation, being carried out jointly by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), the ITBP and the members of local police and home guards, resumed at 6 am on Thursday, Mokhta said. The authorities had suspended the operation on Wednesday at around 10 pm. Ten bodies were recovered on Wednesday, while 13 others were rescued with injuries. Several others are still feared buried under the debris. However the exact number was not known. On Wednesday, the Bhawanagar station house officer (SHO) had said around 25 to 30 people were trapped under the debris. When the initial reports came, Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had told the state assembly that 50-60 people were feared trapped under the debris but the exact number was not known. The Kinnaur deputy commissioner had also told PTI that over 40 passengers were in the bus. Eight of the dead were found trapped in a Tata Sumo taxi during the search and rescue operation on Wednesday. A truck rolled down towards a riverside due to shooting stones and the driver's body has been recovered, officials said. A car had also been found in the damaged condition on Wednesday but no one was found in it, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
12-08-2021||India||At least 15 crore children out of formal education system in India, says education minister||At least 15 crore children and youths are out of the country's formal education system, and roughly about 25 crore population is below the primary definition of literacy, Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said Thursday. He was addressing a session on "Job creation and entrepreneurship" organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) during its annual meeting. "If we take into account the numbers of children and youths between the age of 3-22 years who are enrolled in government, private and charitable schools, anganwadis, Higher Education Institutions and in the entire skilling ecosystem, the cumulative figure from all the verticals is around 35 crore while (the country's) population in the particular age group is around 50 crore," Pradhan said. "This means that at least 15 crore children and youth are out of the formal education system. We want to bring them into the education system," he added. The Education Minister said that a census following the independence of the country had found that 19 per cent of the population was literate then. "After 75 years of independence day, the statistics of literate population has reached 80 per cent. Which means 20 per cent population or roughly around 25 crore are still below the primary definition of literacy," he said. Elaborating on the various provisions in the new National Education Policy (NEP), Pradhan said it is not just a document, but a roadmap for the next 25 years to achieve "certain targets by the time we complete 100 years of independence". Pradhan, who is also the Minister for Skill Development, said that for the first time the government has combined education and skill departments. "The move has created a new approach for good livelihoods," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
12-08-2021||India||TMC condemns 'blocking' of Congress' Twitter accounts||The Trinamool Congress on Thursday condemned the alleged blocking of the Congress's official Twitter account, questioning whether it was linked to opposing the politics and policies of the BJP. The Congress alleged that the party's official Twitter account and those of a large number of its leaders were blocked by the microblogging site. "What's going on @Twitter @TwitterIndia @jack What's going on? We strongly condemn the blocking of the accounts of @INCIndia and senior leaders of the Congress party," TMC Rajya Sabha party leader Derek O'Brien tweeted. The TMC's West Bengal unit general secretary Kunal Ghosh said it was a dangerous trend. "It means the BJP henceforth will control the social media platforms as well. They will control the narrative and will also decide who can tweet and who cannot. It has to be looked into whether this blocking of Congress's Twitter handle is linked with its opposition to the policies and politics of the BJP," he said. Congress social media department head Rohan Gupta said the party's official Twitter account and around 5,000 accounts of its top leaders and workers had been blocked by Twitter. The Twitter accounts of AICC general secretaries Randeep Surjewala, KC Venugopal, Ajay Maken, party's whip in Lok Sabha Manickam Tagore, Assam in-charge and former Union minister Jitendra Singh and Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev have also been locked, the party said. This comes close on the heels of the blocking of party leader Rahul Gandhi's Twitter account after he shared pictures of the family of the nine-year-old alleged rape and murder victim last week in violation of the law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-326
12-08-2021||India||Glam Up Your Home with Asian Paints Royale Glitz, the Ultra Sheen paint that will steal your spotlight!||All that glitters may not be gold, but it sure does grab the attention. Asian Paints, India’s largest paint and décor company, has launched a new luxury paint offering, Royale Glitz – a luxurious interior wall paint that is certain to up the glam quotient of your home. The Teflon(TM) surface protector in the paint ensures stains wipe off easily. The ultra-sheen of the new Royale Glitz will give the walls of your home a rich and shiny finish that will immediately make a statement and undoubtedly #StealYourSpotlight. Key Features of Royale Glitz: Royale Glitz is a luxury interior paint which gives a luxurious ULTRA SHEEN finish. It adds a distinct quotient of glamour and luxury to consumer homes. Its key features are: •             Ultra sheen – best in class luxurious shiny finish •             Stain Repellent – Strong performance against stains and offers ease of cleaning Royale Glitz is a confluence of Décor and Performance, thus inviting everyone to experience LUXURY with TEFLON™. It also offers 35 designers shades under ROYALE DESIGNER PALETTE. These shades are exclusively curated by best design minds and impact luxurious sophisticated look to the consumer homes. The shades are inspired by the heartland story of India and carry names which reflect Indian culture. Chutney green, Calcutta rains, Coromandel Indigo to name a few. It also offers a strong shade selection tool. ROYALE BOOK OF COLOURS offers more than 100 refreshing shade combinations to select from. These are segregated basis moods and showcases refreshing wall textures as well. Known for creating aesthetic and quirky television commercials, the latest TVC by Asian Paints for Royale Glitz lives up to expectations. Conceptualized by Contract, the ad features brand ambassador, Deepika Padukone in a show-stopping look posing for a fashion photo-shoot. With a modern rendition of the classic song Baar Baar Dekho playing in the background and tongue-in-cheek humour, the ad goes on to show how the new paint has stolen the spotlight from Deepika who is visibly bemused. So, what are you waiting for? Give your home a modern look with Asian Paints Royale Glitz. To know more please visit Asian Paints – Royale Glitz.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
12-08-2021||India||Opposition takes out protest march against government||Leaders of several Opposition parties on Thursday took out a protest march in New Delhi against the government on several issues, including Pegasus and alleged manhandling of their MPs in Rajya Sabha, with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi saying the voice of people was "crushed" in the House. Top leaders of several Opposition parties met in the chamber of Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and then walked in protest from Parliament House to Vijay Chowk. Those who attended the meeting included Gandhi, Sharad Pawar, Kharge, Sanjay Raut, Manoj Jha and other opposition leaders. The protesting MPs carried placards and banners against the government that read 'Stop murder of democracy' and 'we demand Repeal of anti farmers laws'. "The Parliament session is over. Frankly, as far as 60 percent of country is concerned, there was no Parliament session as the voice of 70 percent of people was crushed, humiliated," Gandhi told reporters. "On Wednesday, Rajya Sabha MPs were physically beaten," he charged. He said the Opposition was not allowed to speak inside Parliament and "this is nothing short of murder of democracy". Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi had termed as "totally false" the Opposition's allegations that marshals manhandled their MPs and said one can check facts from CCTV footage. The protest comes a day after the passage of bills in Rajya Sabha amid charges of manhandling of Opposition leaders. What turned out to be the last day of the monsoon session saw the Rajya Sabha Chair crying and revealing that he spent a “sleepless night” after “the acts of sacrilege” in the House on Tuesday. Towards the end of the day on Wednesday, while the insurance bill was being passed in the Rajya Sabha amid protests, the Opposition alleged that women members were pushed back by male marshals. Veteran MP Sharad Pawar said: “In my 55 years of parliamentary career, I never saw the way the women MPs were attacked today.” The Congress, which had marshalled around 14 parties during the session, has accused the government of bulldozing democratic norms and traditions to escape parliamentary scrutiny of the Pegasus controversy and the agitating farmers’ demands. Responding to Naidu’s description of Opposition members climbing on tables as “sacrilege”, several MPs contended that what constituted sacrilege was running the Houses in a “partisan” manner and in disregard of the rules. “What is the option left if Parliament is not allowed to do its duty? The government only wants to push its business, pass bills without discussion and crush the voice of the Opposition,” the Congress chief whip in the Lok Sabha, Kodikunnil Suresh, told The Telegraph. Rashtriya Janata Dal member Manoj Jha told this newspaper: “It’s the ruling party that has committed the greatest act of sacrilege by throttling the spirit of parliamentary democracy. Such arrogance, such disdain for parliamentary tradition, such contempt for the Opposition had never before been seen in India’s history. “The manner in which women MPs were manhandled by staff and marshals on the directions of the regime reminds us of the ‘night of long knives’ moment in Germany.” Jha asked: “Is it imaginable that the parliamentary affairs minister blames the women MPs and demands action against them for manhandling marshals?" Suresh, the Congress MP, said: “This government has bluntly told the nation through its obduracy that Parliament is not for people’s issues. Why shouldn’t Parliament discuss snooping done with a foreign spyware? Isn’t national security and illegal surveillance a concern?” He had added: “Farmers are sitting outside Delhi for nine months; Covid mismanagement has played havoc with the people; the prices of petrol and diesel have crossed Rs 100 — shouldn’t these issues be discussed in Parliament? They did everything to black out the Opposition and they are blaming the Opposition. They used presiding officers to defame the Opposition.” The Opposition believes that Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla have been partisan in condemning the Opposition for disruptions and protests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
12-08-2021||India||Congress says party's official account blocked by Twitter||The Congress on Thursday alleged that the party's official Twitter account as well as that of a large number of its leaders and workers have been blocked by the microblogging site. This comes close on the heels of the blocking of party leader Rahul Gandhi's Twitter account after he shared pictures of the family of the nine-year-old alleged rape and murder victim last week in violation of the law. Congress social media department head Rohan Gupta said the party's official Twitter account and around 5,000 accounts of its top leaders and workers have been blocked by Twitter. He alleged that Twitter is acting against Congress leaders under pressure from the government. "Twitter is clearly acting under government's pressure, as it did not remove the same pictures shared by the Twitter accounts of National Commission for Scheduled Castes for a few days," Gupta said. The Twitter accounts of AICC general secretaries Randeep Surjewala, K C Venugopal, Ajay Maken, party's whip in Lok Sabha Manickam Tagore, Assam in-charge and former Union minister Jitendra Singh and Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev have also been locked, the party said. "So! After Shri @RahulGandhi, the Lord @narendramodi Ji and Vassal @Jack & @twitter have locked @rssurjewala, @ajaymaken & @sushmitadevinc. @INCIndia registers its protest and promises to continue the fight for each and all being wronged! We shall hold on @AshwiniVaishnaw Ji," tweeted Pranav Jha, AICC secretary in-charge of party's Communications Department last night. His account was later blocked too at night. "The list goes on. @Twitter locks @JitendraSAlwar and @manickamtagore and many more. Doesn't Modi Ji understand that we @INCindia'ns have a legacy of fighting even from behind the locks of kaala paani," he had asked in another tweet. "He thinks the virtual locks of Twitter will deter us from fighting for India," Jha said. The Congress has accused Twitter of acting against Gandhi's account under pressure from the government. Gandhi had tweeted pictures with the family of a nine-year-old victim of alleged rape and murder in Delhi last week. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) took cognisance of Gandhi's tweet and directed Twitter to act against the Congress leader's account for violating the privacy of a minor victim, mandated by the laws of the land.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
12-08-2021||India||India logs over 41,000 fresh Covid cases, 490 casualties in a day||India logged 41,195 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,20,77,706, while the active cases increased to 3,87,987, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll climbed to 4,29,669 with 490 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases increased after registering a decrease for five consecutive days. They now comprise 1.21 per cent of the total infections, the ministry said, adding the national COVID-19 recovery rate stands at 97.45 per cent. An increase of 1,636 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 21,24,953 tests were conducted on Wednesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 48,73,70,196. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.94 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 17 days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.23 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,12, 60,050, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 52.36 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 490 new fatalities include 163 from Maharashtra and 116 from Kerala. A total of 4,29,669 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,34,364 from Maharashtra, 36,881 from Karnataka, 34,395 from Tamil Nadu, 25,068 from Delhi, 22,776 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,258 from West Bengal and 18,120 from Kerala. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
12-08-2021||India||ISRO's GSLV fails to place earth observation satellite into orbit||ISRO's GSLV rocket on Thursday failed to inject into the orbit, the country's latest earth observation satellite EOS-03 due to a failure to ignite the cryogenic stage of the launch vehicle, prompting the premier space agency to declare the mission could not be achieved as intended. However, the first and second stages of the rocket had performed normally, the Bengaluru-headquartered Indian Space Research Organisation said. In a notification, ISRO said, "GSLV-F10 launch took place today at 0543 hrs as scheduled. Performance of first and second stages was normal. However, Cryogenic Upper Stage ignition did not happen due to technical anomaly. The mission could not be accomplished as intended." According to ISRO, the cryogenic upper stage ignition was scheduled to take place 4.56 minutes after the lift-off. A formal announcement was also made at the Mission Control Centre by the range operations director, stating, "performance anomaly observed in the cryogenic stage. The mission could not be accomplished fully." ISRO Chairman K Sivan said, "(the mission) could not be fully accomplished mainly because there is a technical anomaly observed in the cryogenic stage. This I wanted to tell all my friends." ISRO, after facing hurdles caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, resumed its launch operations for the rocket to place the satellite with an objective to provide near real-time imaging of large areas of the country at frequent intervals and quick monitoring of natural disasters. As the 26-hour countdown concluded on Thursday, the 51.70 metre tall rocket with four stages lifted off majestically at 05.43hrs, leaving behind a trail of thick orange coloured fumes. The four-stage rocket was the first to carry a four-metre dia 'Ogive Payload Fairing' at the top of the vehicle to accommodate larger payloads. The rocket was supposed to place the EOS "an agile state-of-the-art satellite into the Geosynchronous Transfer Orbit, 19 minutes after lift-off. Thursday's unsuccessful attempt to launch the satellite came in the wake of scientists postponing the earlier planned missions earlier. The satellite, originally titled GISAT-1 weighing 2,268 kg was slated to be launched on March 5, 2020 but it was postponed a day before the lift-off due to 'technical reasons'. The Covid-induced lockdown further delayed the mission and once again it was scheduled for a March 28, 2021 launch but a 'minor issue' with the satellite forced yet another postponement. The objective of Thursday's mission was to provide near real-time imaging of large area regions at frequent intervals, for quick monitoring of natural disasters, episodic events and obtain spectral signatures for agriculture, forestry, water bodies as well as for disaster warning, cyclone monitoring, cloud burst and thunderstorm monitoring. Before Thursday's launch, ISRO had launched Brazil's earth observation satellite Amazonia-1 and 18 co-passenger satellites in February this year. Thursday's mission is the eighth flight with indigenous cryogenic engine, 14th flight of the GSLV and also marks the 79th launch vehicle mission from Sriharikota. Previous launches of GSLV rockets include the GSLV-MkIII-M1/ Chandrayaan-2 mission in July 2019 while GSLV-F11 successfully placed GSAT-7A in December 2018. An earth observation satellite -- EOS-01 -- was launched in November 2020 by polar satellite launch vehicle PSLV-C49, ISRO said. ISRO had made arrangements to watch the launch through its various social media platforms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
12-08-2021||India||Opposition to address people on Modi govt's stance on Parliament||The Opposition, which closed ranks to demonstrate its collective strength this Parliament session, has decided to address the people directly to tell them the Narendra Modi government wants to render the House irrelevant. The decision came on a day both Houses were adjourned sine die, cutting short the monsoon session by two days, and a bill to privatise general insurance companies was passed in the Rajya Sabha in controversial circumstances. All the Opposition MPs have been told to assemble in Parliament on Thursday morning. From there, they will march to Vijay Chowk and talk to the nation through the media. What turned out to be the last day of the monsoon session saw the Rajya Sabha Chair crying and revealing that he spent a “sleepless night” after “the acts of sacrilege” in the House on Tuesday. Towards the end of the day on Wednesday, while the insurance bill was being passed in the Rajya Sabha amid protests, the Opposition alleged that women members were pushed back by male marshals. Veteran MP Sharad Pawar said: “In my 55 years of parliamentary career, I never saw the way the women MPs were attacked today.” (See Page 4) The Congress, which had marshalled around 14 parties during the session, has accused the government of bulldozing democratic norms and traditions to escape parliamentary scrutiny of the Pegasus controversy and the agitating farmers’ demands. Responding to Naidu’s description of Opposition members climbing on tables as “sacrilege”, several MPs contended that what constituted sacrilege was running the Houses in a “partisan” manner and in disregard of the rules. “What is the option left if Parliament is not allowed to do its duty? The government only wants to push its business, pass bills without discussion and crush the voice of the Opposition,” the Congress chief whip in the Lok Sabha, Kodikunnil Suresh, told The Telegraph. Rashtriya Janata Dal member Manoj Jha told this newspaper: “It’s the ruling party that has committed the greatest act of sacrilege by throttling the spirit of parliamentary democracy. Such arrogance, such disdain for parliamentary tradition, such contempt for the Opposition had never before been seen in India’s history. “The manner in which women MPs were manhandled by staff and marshals on the directions of the regime reminds us of the ‘night of long knives’ moment in Germany.” Jha asked: “Is it imaginable that the parliamentary affairs minister blames the women MPs and demands action against them for manhandling marshals?" Suresh, the Congress MP, said: “This government has bluntly told the nation through its obduracy that Parliament is not for people’s issues. Why shouldn’t Parliament discuss snooping done with a foreign spyware? Isn’t national security and illegal surveillance a concern?” He added: “Farmers are sitting outside Delhi for nine months; Covid mismanagement has played havoc with the people; the prices of petrol and diesel have crossed Rs 100 — shouldn’t these issues be discussed in Parliament? They did everything to black out the Opposition and they are blaming the Opposition. They used presiding officers to defame the Opposition.” The Opposition believes that Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla have been partisan in condemning the Opposition for disruptions and protests. “Presiding officers in Parliament are supposed to be neutral umpires, not partisan players,” the Congress chief whip in the Rajya Sabha, Jairam Ramesh, tweeted. “They cannot present a totally one-sided picture of goings-on in the House and further aggravate the situation. Misplaced emotion leads to commotion.” Adhir Chowdhury, the Congress leader in the Lok Sabha, said: “The government was itching to malign the Opposition and mislead the nation. The Opposition was collectively pressing for debates on important issues but the government was determined to steamroller all our demands. “None of our demands was unreasonable. The Pegasus snooping is not only related to national security, it affects India’s prestige as a nation, as a mature democracy. So many countries are investigating (allegations of Pegasus-enabled surveillance) but the Modi government won’t allow even a debate.” Adhir said the Opposition had insisted on a reply from Prime Minister Modi or home minister Amit Shah because the various ministries were talking in different voices on the Pegasus controversy. “The defence ministry gives one reply on Pegasus, the IT ministry gives another reply, the ministry of external affairs says something else. The nation is completely perplexed,” he said. “But the Prime Minister came to the Lok Sabha today when everything was over. This government is not interested in Parliament. This government is concerned with its own business and will do that by hook or by crook. The Opposition is now not even shown on (Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha) TV. This government is becoming a huge threat to democracy.” The Congress tweeted: “The Modi government is changing India from the world’s largest democracy to the world’s largest dictatorship. We will not stand for it. Will you?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
12-08-2021||India||Covid: India to evaluate impact of booster dose and jab mix trial||India is set to begin a clinical trial to evaluate the impact of a booster third dose of Covishield or Covaxin and probe whether it is acceptable to mix the vaccines in the two-dose vaccination schedule. Doctors at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, hope to start recruiting volunteers this month for the trial, which will examine the immune responses from a third dose in vaccinated people and a mixed dose schedule in unvaccinated people. Covid-19 booster doses may be needed to address waning immunity against the infection or severe disease, reduced protection against coronavirus variants of concern, and inadequate protection from standard dosing regimens. But the World Health Organisation has cautioned that “the introduction of boosters should be evidence-driven”, amid concerns that under current global vaccine supply constraints, boosters could exacerbate inequities. It is feared that boosters could consume supply while priority populations in some countries or within countries have not yet received primary vaccines. The CMC trial, approved this week by India’s regulatory authority for drugs and vaccines, is part of efforts to generate such evidence and to determine whether Covishield and Covaxin — the two main vaccines currently used in India’s vaccination campaign — can be mixed. “Our primary aim is to examine safety and immune responses,” Winsley Rose, professor of paediatrics at the CMC and the trial’s principal investigator, said. “If we establish that a mix of Covishield and Covaxin is non-inferior or as good as the current two-dose schedule, that by itself would be significant.” Rose and his colleagues hope to recruit 500 unvaccinated volunteers, some of whom will get the standard two doses of the same vaccine, while others will get the mixed dose regimen — either Covishield first, then Covaxin, or Covaxin first, then Covishield. Another group of 600 vaccinated volunteers who have received both doses of Covaxin or Covishield will receive a third dose — the same vaccine or the other vaccine. While the full trial is expected to last over a year, the earliest results relating to immune responses from the booster doses could be expected after 12 weeks, Rose said. The two vaccines use different immunisation strategies. Covishield uses a genetically engineered, harmless adenovirus while Covaxin uses the inactivated (killed) coronavirus to generate immune responses against Covid-19. “In theory, mixing vaccines could enhance protection by widening the scope of the immune responses from two different vaccines,” Rose said. “For instance, mixing vaccines could enhance immune responses against the variants of concern — but this needs to be rigorously assessed.” Scientists with the Indian Council of Medical Research had earlier this week reported that Covishield as the first dose and Covaxin as the second dose “elicits better” immune responses than two doses of the same vaccine. But the ICMR study was based only on observations on 18 people in an eastern Uttar Pradesh town who had been mistakenly administered Covaxin as the second dose after Covishield. The scientists had said the observations needed to be validated through a clinical trial.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
12-08-2021||India||Sana Mufti: The voice that beat the gag in Jammu and Kashmir||Many may wonder, herself included, why she qualifies for newspaper space. “Quote me?” she exclaims with a touch of alarmed incredulity, “But why? What have I done?” That said, Sana Mufti, daughter of People’s Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti, isn’t shy of putting her mouth to how her mind ticks. “Quote me, but quote me to represent me as very angry and very upset and very outraged at what has happened in Kashmir and what is going on happening. Quote me to say that Kashmir is being used like a milch cow by New Delhi and its locally appointed actors. Quote me to say that it is a milch cow that is being bled to secure vote banks in the rest of the country. Say that from me, this needs to be said, someone has to say it.” This isn’t the first time Sana is getting into print or putting herself out to be heard in the public space. When she took over her mother’s official Twitter handle in the second half of 2019 — “I made sure I had written permission from her to operate the handle” — she virtually became Mehbooba Mufti herself, an appointed proxy who began to tell whoever cared to listen what the PDP boss wished to say but could not. There was a time, a fairly long time, after the abrogations of August 5, 2019, that no leader worth half a decibel’s voice in the Valley was spared the chains or the muzzle. Sana figured an innovative way of keeping the broadcast station — and the pervasive outrage in Kashmir — active. Sana says: “Maybe I should not even be saying this but I think for a long time they (the security agencies) couldn’t figure out just how Mehbooba Mufti was continuing to tweet, or even who was doing it.” It was a cheeky act, and a risk-laden one, but it “needed to be done”, Sana says. “We had been completely muffled, all of Kashmir had been brutally silenced,” she adds. “Someone needed to speak, and I was able to figure a way. I knew my mother wouldn’t want to be silenced, I decided to speak for her, for our people.” I ask her if she has progressed from playing proxy for her mother and become a political entity herself. “Oh, but why?” she chortles back, with the same tone of disbelief. “Why would I want to be in politics? Why does everyone expect me to be a politician? No, I am not, and I don’t plan to be.” But again, that said, she resumes to inhabit a very political self. “Look, in Kashmir, being a Kashmiri, you cannot help being political; everyone is political here, and perhaps they have to because of the situation here, because (of) the things that are happening. We have no choice. We are being crushed, we have to respond. Everything is political.” Sana speaks briefly of being often advised by close well-wishers that she should opt out, leave Kashmir, go away, maybe make a life for herself outside the country. “But I cannot do that, can I? This is my home, I have strong memories of my grandfather (the late Mufti Mohammed Sayeed) and of assisting him with work towards the end of his years when he was still chief minister. I have my mother here, I need to stand by her, she is struggling but she is a fighter, and I need to be with her.” But that’s already three-fourths of the way into what a politician does, isn’t it? “I am not sure if you can call it that. I am not a politician, no. My mother is one, and she is a good and hard one, and when she needs me, I am going to be there. I am not going anywhere. Everything around is so grim and so uphill, that’s where we are at the moment.” We are sitting in a large and commodious lounge overlooking a manicured lawn banked by evergreen hedges and flower beds of the kind that probably only spring in Kashmir. This is a flank of the Fairview villa on Gupkar Road where the late Mufti would often spend his working and conversing hours. And this is where the Mufti family has lived since 2005. An imperial driveway leads up to the main porch of Fairview from the main entrance, and all around the residence is an acreage liberally blessed with the natural gifts of the Valley. So it rings strange that mid-conversation Sana turns to liken it to a prison. But she’s at liberty to go and come as she wills, isn’t she, and she does go out often? “Well yes,” she says, “But I must always travel under guard, in secured vehicles, and wherever I go, they follow me. It is not as if I can go out unencumbered. We are always under guard, always being watched, and you know of course that for periods this house has also being designated a sub-jail by the government.” Fairview isn’t a place you can return from without being seduced by how gorgeous it is to behold. But in its shadows lie ogres of a past that refuse to be banished. During the peak of armed militancy in the Valley — from 1989 to 1996 — Fairview was known by another name with a ring so ominous its mention still triggers fear and foreboding: Papa II it was called, and it was a paramilitary-run interrogation and detention centre whose horror stories will not cease to be told for a while yet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
12-08-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi remains locked out of Twitter for a sixth day||Rahul Gandhi remained locked out of his Twitter account for a sixth day on Wednesday for tweeting photographs of himself with the parents of a nine-year-old Dalit girl who had died under suspicious circumstances in Delhi last week. The child’s death had triggered allegations of rape, following which police registered a rape case. No conclusive evidence from the forensic examination has emerged so far because the body of the child had been burned. Replying to questions from The Telegraph, Twitter indicated that Rahul would remain locked out until he deleted the tweet. The National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) asked Twitter to remove the tweet, saying it revealed the child’s identity in violation of two laws meant to protect children. Tweets by former BJP MP Anju Bala, a member of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes, and a tweet from the commission itself with images of the parents did not elicit a similar response from the child rights panel. Twitter hid all these tweets but did not lock out the Scheduled Castes panel or Bala. On Wednesday, Twitter locked the accounts of multiple Congress leaders, including Ajay Maken and Randeep Surjewala. Some of them had tweeted that Twitter India was “extremely fearful of the Modi government” and Rahul was singled out. In response to this newspaper’s questions on the differential treatment of Rahul and those sympathetic to the government, Twitter said in a statement: “As explained in our Help Center, if a Tweet was found to be in violation of the Twitter Rules, and has yet to be deleted by the account holder, we hide it behind a notice and the account remains locked until the Tweet is removed or the appeal is successfully processed. “We have also taken action on several other Tweets that posted the same image and will continue to do so if the content is shared. Our aim is to protect individuals from coming to physical harm as a result of their information being shared on Twitter and certain types of private information carry higher risks than others, and can pose serious safety and security threats. “Information shared by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights in their legal request submitted via the India Grievance Channel citing specific provisions of the Pocso Act, provided context and was taken into account for the assessment.” On Wednesday evening, the tweets by Bala and the SC commission could not be found on their Twitter accounts. Twitter’s response did not answer questions seeking the specific rule under which Rahul has been locked out and asking how long he would be kept out. The Congress has said that “due process” is being followed for restoration. Party spokesperson Supriya Shrinate had told reporters on Sunday: “Can you imagine how traumatising that must be and somebody who wants to stand with that family and ensure justice, you drop his tweet and block his account, so to Twitter I will say, ‘Daro mat, ye dara nahin sakte humein (Don’t be afraid, they can’t scare us).” In 2018, the Supreme Court had ruled: “…No person can print or publish the name of the (rape) victim or disclose any facts which can lead to the victim being identified.” Violation is punishable with a jail term of up to six months. In Delhi High Court on Wednesday, the bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh refused to issue a notice on a public interest petition seeking an FIR against Rahul for allegedly revealing the girl’s identity. PTI quoted Twitter counsel Sajan Poovaya as saying: “The account has been locked and the tweet is not available.” Satisfied with his response, the high court rejected petitioner Makarand Suresh Mhadlekar’s demand for an affidavit by Twitter and deferred the hearing till September 27. On August 1, the Dalit girl was hurriedly cremated by a priest and other crematorium staff who claimed she had been electrocuted while using a water cooler on their premises near Delhi Cantonment. After protests by local Dalits, the police — who face allegations of intimidating the girl’s parents — booked four men including the crematorium priest for offences including rape and murder. Rahul visited the protest site on August 4 and met the parents in his car, later tweeting photos of the meeting. The photos triggered a news conference by the BJP demanding action against him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
12-08-2021||India||Opposition demands caste census in Rajya Sabha||The Opposition demanded a caste census and laws to enable states to provide ceiling-excess reservation during a debate in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday that preceded the passing of a law to restore the right of states to maintain their own lists of Other Backward Classes. The Supreme Court had in May ruled that the states had no right to maintain their own OBC lists and that the central list would be followed for all purposes. The leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge of the Congress, and a few other members demanded during the debate that steps be taken for reservation in the private sector so that the deprived sections continue to receive quota benefits in case of disinvestment of PSUs. All the Opposition parties and some parties friendly to the government, such as the Biju Janata Dal and the TRS, demanded a caste census. Social justice minister Virendra Kumar was non-committal on both demands. He said 671 castes included in the OBC lists of the states would have been deprived of their reservation rights if the central list continued to be followed. Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi said the government had not released the caste data collected during the Socio-Economic Caste Census in 2011. He alleged that the government was doing away with the caste census. The Centre told Parliament on Tuesday that the Socio-Economic Caste Census had failed to collect data “correctly” and that it was now outdated. Kumar told the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday that there were a lot of complexities involved in conducting a Socio-Economic Caste Census. He said economic data from the 2011 exercise had been used to select beneficiaries for welfare schemes like the Ujjwala Yojana for free cooking gas connections and the PM Awas Yojana (housing scheme). The minister did not comment on the demands for a law to ease the ceiling on reservation and introducing quotas in the private sector. Singhvi said the 105th Constitutional Amendment Bill would not be beneficial as long as the 50 per cent cap on reservation, set by the Supreme Court, existed. “Now, states will maintain lists. But what will they do with the lists? So, you cannot stick to a 50 per cent figure as sacrosanct,” he said. The BJD, TRS, Samajwadi Party, JDU, RJD and the IUML made the same demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-327
12-08-2021||India||Rashtra Manch urges PM to restore statehood in Jammu and Kashmir||The Rashtra Manch, a political action group led by former Union minister and Trinamul Congress vice-president Yashwant Sinha, on Wednesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to announce in his Independence Day speech the restoration of full statehood to Jammu and Kashmir by the year-end. In a statement, the Manch said: “All the rationalisations given by the Government to justify its drastic actions (of August 5, 2019), and all the promises of ushering in a ‘Naya Jammu and Kashmir’, have proved to be hollow. Indeed, Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi himself acknowledged the failure of his decisions when, in a meeting with Kashmiri leaders on June 24, he said he wants ‘to remove both dil ki doori (the distance between hearts) and Dilli ki doori (the distance with New Delhi)’.” The Manch also wants Modi to announce on August 15 that free and fair elections will be held in Jammu and Kashmir soon after the restoration of statehood, and the delimitation exercise will be deferred in the Union Territory to be taken up with the rest of the country. This apart, the Manch urged the Supreme Court to expedite the hearing on the constitutional validity of the scrapping of Article 370 and give its verdict soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
12-08-2021||India||Bihar: Primary teachers to sell jute sacks at block headquarters ||Primary school teachers’ associations in Bihar on Wednesday decided to sell empty jute sacks at each of the state’s 534 block headquarters on August 13 and at all the 38 district headquarters on August 16. The move is a protest against the state education department’s July 22 order to primary and middle schools to sell the jute bags in which food grains for the midday meal scheme were supplied to them, as a way of raising revenues for the government. The associations have also demanded revocation of the suspension of Muhammad Tamizuddin, principal of a primary school in the Kadwa block of Katihar, whose act of hawking the sacks in the marketplace became public via a video. He was suspended on Sunday evening for “tarnishing the image of the government”. The July 22 order demeaned the state’s around 4 lakh primary and middle school teachers, and “we are planning to move court on the issue”, Bihar Rajya Prarambhik Shikshak Sangh president Pradeep Kumar Pappu told The Telegraph. Pradeep added: “We have asked the government to withdraw the order to sell empty jute bags and the suspension of Tamizuddin. If this is not done, all principals and teachers of primary schools will sell the sacks at their block headquarters on August 13, and district headquarters on August 16.” Teachers of primary and middle schools demonstrated at all the district headquarters on Tuesday by burning copies of the government order to sell jute bags and the suspension order on Tamizuddin. They chanted slogans demanding better teaching facilities. Anwar Karim, a leader of primary teachers from Purnea, said the July 22 order had forced the teachers to peddle jute bags at marketplaces because the traders were not willing to travel to schools to buy them in bulk. “In any case, everybody knows that teachers give the sacks to students who have to sit on the floor because most rural schools lack benches and desks,” Anwar said. “Most of the remaining sacks have been damaged by rats, floods and the passage of time.” The July 22 order was issued after the office of the comptroller and auditor general raised the spectre of revenue loss in its reports relating to financial years 2014-15 and 2015-16. Around 1.27 crore jute bags had reached the schools under the midday meal scheme in those two years. With the teachers asked to sell each sack at Rs 10, the government was expecting to rake in Rs 12.7 crore from the sale. Asked about the controversy, education department special secretary and midday meal director Satish Chandra Jha told this newspaper there was “no issue at all”. He said the department had twice issued similar orders in recent years. But the teachers’ associations said the government had relented both times after the teachers protested, but had this time threatened punishment. Tamizuddin has begun reporting at the Kadwa block office every working day, as directed by the suspension letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
12-08-2021||India||Parliament Houses adjourned sine die two days before schedule||The monsoon session of Parliament was on Wednesday cut short by two days without a discussion on the Pegasus controversy and after a bill to privatise general insurance companies was passed in the Rajya Sabha behind a wall of marshals. Hours after Rajya Sabha Chair Venkaiah Naidu cried and said he spent a sleepless night after the “acts of sacrilege” in the House on Tuesday when an Opposition MP clambered atop a table, the situation turned for the worse in the evening during the passage of the insurance bill. The Opposition alleged that some of the women members had been pushed back by male marshals while the government  insisted it was the other way round. NCP leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sharad Pawar later told reporters: “In my 55 years of parliamentary career, I never saw the way the women MPs were attacked today (in the Rajya Sabha). More than 40 men and women were brought into the House from outside. It is painful. It is an attack on democracy." Leader of the House Piyush Goyal demanded a special committee to look into this so that stern action can be taken against those guilty. The Parliament session had started on July 19 and was scheduled to run till Friday. No reason was cited for the early closure. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was seen in the House for the first time after the day the monsoon session had commenced. Home minister Amit Shah too was spotted. The Opposition had been demanding a discussion on Pegasus in the presence of the duo. “I saw Prime Minister Modi for the first time today. When everything is over, he shows up,” Congress’s leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Chowdhury told reporters later. “Except for the OBC bill, the government passed bills without discussion within minutes, setting a record,” he added. On Wednesday, the Lok Sabha assembled in the morning as usual and after some obituary references, Speaker Om Birla adjourned the House sine die. While the Lok Sabha called it a day in the morning without transacting any business, the Rajya Sabha followed in the evening. Birla said the four-week monsoon session had transacted business for only 21 hours, adding that he was “hurt by the obstructions”. The Rajya Sabha’s productivity was 28 per cent, down from an average of 95 per cent in the previous five sessions. Despite the uproarious protests by the Opposition seeking to stall the proceedings over the demand for a debate on Pegasus, the government succeeded in introducing and passing most of the bills it had scheduled. As in the Lok Sabha, the Opposition called a ceasefire in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday to robustly back the bill to restore the right of state governments to maintain their own OBC lists. But after the bill was passed, the Opposition was back on its feet, objecting to the government’s bid to push ahead with the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill without referring it to a parliamentary panel for greater scrutiny. After a brief adjournment found no meeting point, the government passed the bill amid protests followed by an Opposition walkout. Earlier in the day, Lok Sabha Speaker Birla had invited Modi, Congress president Sonia Gandhi and other prominent leaders of the House to his chamber and urged them to ensure more productive sessions in the future, according to sources. Modi and Sonia sat on adjoining sofas along with other BJP and Opposition leaders, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
12-08-2021||India||Patna floods: Nitish directs senior officials to take immediate steps||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday inspected the flood situation in and around Patna and directed senior officials to take urgent steps to protect the state capital and its 20 lakh population. “We must ensure that the floodwaters from the Ganga spilling into densely populated areas are contained. Barricading should be done at the ghats where excess water has come,” Nitish told officials during his visit. Water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha accompanied the chief minister. Nitish also visited Saran and Vaishali districts to inspect the flood situation. “The water level of the Ganga is increasing and our officials are saying that it is expected to rise further. A similar situation had also occurred in 2016. I have asked them to take into consideration the areas and districts affected then and prepare contingency plans to tackle the situation this time,” Nitish told journalists. The Ganga is flowing above the danger level throughout its route from Buxar to Katihar in Bihar posing a serious threat to all the districts located along the river, including Patna. Its level at Gandhi Ghat in Patna has risen to 49.90m, 1.30m above the danger level and just 62cm below the highest flood level observed in 2016. The Ganga is spilling over its banks in Patna forcing water resources department officials to place sandbags and block the drains and channels flowing into the river. They are planning to seal the openings in the Patna Town Protection (PTP) wall built in the aftermath of the devastating 1975 floods to protect the city. “Our main concern is the continuously rising level of the Ganga and the priority is to save the state capital from getting flooded. We have blocked all the drains and channels emptying into the river to stop the backflow of water. The water from the city side is being pumped out with the help of motors. We are also putting sandbags in the places where the Ganga is flowing at its brim,” a senior engineer of the water resources department told The Telegraph. At present several panchayats and blocks in Buxar, Bhojpur, Patna Bhagalpur, Munger and Khagaria districts are facing the deluge. Several localities in Patna have also been flooded. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast widespread rains across the state till August 15. Though the current high level of the Ganga is due to heavy rainfall in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand, the spells of rain in Bihar could further worsen the flood situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
12-08-2021||India||Job and cash for hockey players from Odisha government||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday handed over cash awards of Rs 2.5 crore each and an offer letter for appoint in the rank of deputy superintendent of police (DSP) to Birendra Lakra and Amit Rohidas, the two players from Odisha who were part of the Indian Hockey Team that scripted history by clinching the bronze medal ending a 41-year-long medal drought for the country in Olympic hockey. DSP posts are treated as junior class one. Naveen also handed over a cash award of Rs 50 lakh each to Deep Grace Ekka and Namita Toppo, who were part of the Indian Women’s Hockey team that narrowly missed the bronze medal. He commended fighting the spirit of the women’s team that rewrote history by reaching the semi-finals of Olympic hockey for the first time. Naveen advised them to continue their hard work and bring more laurels for the country. The chief minister also assured them of his government's full support in future. Birendra Lakra, the vice-captain of the men’s team, presented to the chief minister the team jersey with signatures of all the team members. Deep Grace Ekka, the vice-captain of the women’s team, presented to the Chief Minister the Team Jersey with the signatures of all the women team members. It may be mentioned here that the Kalinga Stadium in Bhubaneswar has turned into a global hub of hockey. It hosted the men’s Hockey World Cup in 2018 and is now all set to host the next edition of the tournament in 2023. Some of the matches will also be played at the upcoming Birsa Munda stadium at Rourkela, the steel city located in Sundergarh district which has been the cradle of hockey in the state and the country. The new stadium is coming up at a cost of Rs 120 crore. Thanking the Odisha government for its magnanimous gesture towards hockey players, Rohidas also recalled that his father, who died last year due to kidney failure, had a dream to see him winning a medal for the country in the Olympics. “He had a major contribution in my reaching where I am. He must been very happy and proud to see us return with an Olympic medal,” said the ace defender. Birendra Lakra said: “It was a tough journey and we got everyone’s support to earn the medal. We made a lot of sacrifices during the journey and remained committed and determined to achieve our goal. Odisha government’s unflinching support has helped us in realising our dreams.” Odisha has also announced to set up 89 multipurpose indoor stadiums at a cost of Rs 693.35 crore to produce Olympians in the coming days. All the stadiums will be completed within 18 months. Minister for sports and youth services Tusharkanti Behera and chairman, Odisha Hockey Promotion Council, Dilip Tirkey, private secretary to chief minister V.K. Pandian and secretary sports R. Veenil Krishna also graced the felicitation ceremony. The four hockey players from Odisha, who represented the country at the Tokyo Olympics, had been given a rousing reception on their arrival at the Biju Patnaik airport here on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-328
