13-08-2021||India||India prepared for evacuation of officials and nationals in Afghanistan amid Taliban scenario ||India is prepared for any possible eventuality including evacuation of its officials and nationals from Afghanistan in view of fast deteriorating security scenario with the Taliban wresting control of several major provincial capitals such as Kandahar and Herat, the second and third largest Afghan cities.  India is constantly monitoring the situation in Afghanistan and contingency plans are in place to deal with any situation including evacuation of officials and Indian citizens if required, people familiar with the development said.  It is learnt that a number of international organisations including media entities have approached Indian authorities to help them in the evacuation of their staff if the situation deteriorates further.  With the Taliban stepping up its onslaught across Afghanistan, the US has announced to send around 3,000 troops to Kabul to evacuate a significant number of its embassy staff.  The UK is also sending 600 troops to help British nationals leaving the country in view of the massive spike in violence.  India evacuated its staff from its consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif earlier this week in view of the rapidly escalating violence by the Taliban around the capital city of Balkh province.  "We are closely monitoring developments in this regard. We are concerned about the deteriorating security situation," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said on Thursday about the developments in Afghanistan.  The Taliban has made rapid advances in the last few days and reports said it now controls about a third of Afghanistan's provincial capitals.  A US statement on Thursday said Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Secretary of Defence Lloyd J Austin spoke with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani to stress that the US remains invested in the security and stability of Afghanistan in the face of violence by the Taliban.  The Taliban's capture of Kandahar and Herat is seen as a major setback for the Afghan forces.  The militant group has also captured the strategically located provincial capital of Ghazni on Thursday, increasing its territorial control in the country.  Meanwhile, the Afghan foreign ministry said it has raised with the international community the "grave concerns" of the government and people of Afghanistan over the Taliban's brutal attacks on cities, which have led to "war crimes and blatant human rights violations and humanitarian catastrophe". The Taliban has been making rapid advances across Afghanistan by resorting to widespread violence since the United States began withdrawing its troops from the country on May 1.  The US has already pulled back the majority of its forces and is looking to complete the drawdown by August 31.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
13-08-2021||India||Congress starts austerity drive, asks MPs to donate Rs 50,000 a year||In order to boost its kitty amid reports of a cash crunch, the Congress asked its parliamentarians to donate Rs 50,000 a year to the party's coffers. The opposition Congress party has announced a range of measures to cut costs and raise funds. Facing a lack of funds, the party has announced austerity guidelines for all party functionaries from secretaries to general secretaries. “The idea is to keep expenditure to the minimum. I am trying to save every rupee,” said Congress treasurer Pawan Bansal. Secretaries have been asked to travel by train and when not possible at the lowest airfare. General secretaries, who are members of parliament, have been asked to use their air travel benefits for travelling. “Secretaries, AICC would be reimbursed suitable train fare up to 1,400 km. For distances above 1,400 km, the Secretaries would be given the lowest airfare. The airfare will be given twice in a month only if the train fare is more than the airfare, they may choose to travel by air,” a Congress memo seen by NDTV read. “Expenses on canteen, stationery, electricity, newspapers, fuel etc. should be minimized by the AICC office-bearers themselves,” it said. Secretary and general secretary allowances of Rs 12,000 and Rs 15,000 will be cut down too, the party said. “Most of them rarely use this amount and we are trying to curtail this expenditure too,” Bansal said. Congress MPs have been asked to contribute Rs 50,000 every year and seek out Rs 4,000 a year as contributions from two sympathisers of the party. Congress funds have depleted in recent years and the party is trying to ensure the proper utilisation of its war chest. The NDTV reported earlier this month how the Congress party’s collections from electoral bonds dropped by 17 per cent in the financial year 2019-20. In 2018-19, the Congress had received Rs 383 crore from electoral bonds. In 2019-20, it received ₹ 318 crore just 9 per cent of the total electoral bonds. In the same period, the ruling BJP made a whopping 76 per cent of the electoral bonds sold in 2019-20, shows data accessed by NDTV from the Election Commission. Altogether electoral bonds worth Rs 3,355 crore were sold in 2019-20, of which the BJP income was Rs 2,555 crore. This was a 75 per cent jump on the Rs 1,450 crore it received through the electoral bonds the previous year. Electoral bonds, which were introduced by the government in 2017-2018 in face of major political opposition, allows individuals as well as corporations -- including those partly owned by foreign entities -- to fund political parties anonymously. Before its introduction, the Congress had argued that through the bonds, the government was making “corruption official”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
13-08-2021||India||Had to face harassment from bureaucrats but licence raj came down under Modi govt: Poonawalla||Recalling how the industry used to face "hardships" in securing permissions and "harassment from bureaucrats" 50 years ago, chairman of the city-based vaccine maker Serum Institute of India (SII), Dr Cyrus Poonawalla, on Friday hailed the Modi government saying that red-tapism and licence raj have come down under its rule.  He also said that in the past, he had to "fall at the feet" of bureaucrats and drug controllers in order to get permissions, and added that the situation has changed now, which resulted in quick launch of SII's COVID-19 vaccine - Covishield.  Poonawalla was speaking at the event where he received the Lokmanyat Tilak National Award instituted by the Lokmanya Tilak Trust here.  "Serum Institute was founded in 1966 the morning after my marriage with Villoo, my dear late wife, to whom I dedicate this award. Fifty years ago, the industry had to face hardships in getting basic facilities like power, water, in getting permissions from bureaucrats. It had to face harassment from bureaucrats...I was not supposed to say this," he said.  "Transport and communication were also great problems and challenges that were faced by my staff and fellow directors...It was a long journey and a very painful one, which has now become very rewarding. I had to fall at the feet of bureaucrats and drug controllers, etc, to get permissions. But I must stress that difficulties, red tape are much reduced now under the Modi government," he said.  Licence raj has also come down, which has resulted in quick launch of the coronavirus vaccine, Poonawalla said.  "Certainly, one of the major reasons why we could launch our vaccine so quickly was forthcoming grant or permission, encouragement to industries as the licence raj has come down considerably. We have got a drug controller, which responds in the evening even after the office hours. There is no need for 'maska polish' now," he said.  Taking about the award, he said that he values it a lot although he had been honoured in America, UK and various other countries in the past.  Speaking on the occasion, Deepak Tilak, president of the Lokmanya Tilak Trust, said, "In unstable and challenging conditions, SII took immense efforts to develop an indigenous vaccine, which mitigated panic associated with COVID-19. This is the result of the effort and solid support of Dr Cyrus Poonawalla to his team."  Former Union minister and senior Congress leader Sushil Kumar Shinde also lauded Poonawalla for his work and said that with the SII vaccine was saving lakhs of lives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
13-08-2021||India||Delhi records zero Covid-19 fatality, ninth time since onset of second wave with 50 cases||No death due to Covid-19 was recorded in Delhi on Friday, the third consecutive day when the daily fatality count was nil, while 50 fresh cases were reported with a positivity rate of 0.07 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. This is the ninth time, since the starting of the second wave of the pandemic in the national capital that zero fatality has been logged in a day. On July 18, July 24, July 29, August 2, August 4, August 8, August 11 and August 12, no death due to Covid-19 was recorded, as per official data. On March 2 this year, the national capital had reported zero death due to the virus. On that day, the number of single-day infections stood at 217 and the positivity rate was 0.33 per cent. The second wave swept the city during April-May period. On Friday, 50 fresh cases with a positivity rate of 0.07 per cent, according to the latest bulletin. On Thursday, the city had registered 49 cases and zero fatality, while the positivity rate stood at 0.07 per cent, according to the official figures. On Wednesday, the city recorded 37 cases and zero death, while the positivity rate stood at 0.06 per cent. The infection rate, which had reached to 36 per cent in the last week of April, had been hovering below 0.10 per cent-mark in the last several weeks. But, it reached to 0.10 per cent again on Saturday, and again dropped to 0.07 on Thursday. On February 16, ninety-four people were diagnosed Covid positive while the daily tally was 96 on January 27, according to official figures. In a major upgrade of a field hospital in Delhi, a 300-bed ICU facility and a telemedicine centre was on Thursday inaugurated by Health Minister Satyendar Jain at a Covid care centre at Burari. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal earlier had said the total number of Covid vaccine doses administered in Delhi has crossed the one crore-mark and of the eligible population in the city 50 per cent have received at least one jab. Despite fall in daily cases in the last several days, Kejriwal had recently cautioned that the chances of the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic were quite real, while he asserted that his government was preparing on a "war-footing" to combat it. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) recently had passed a colour-coded response action plan under which curbs will be implemented in accordance with the severity of the Covid-19 situation here to deal with a possible third wave of the pandemic. Delhi had been reeling under a brutal second wave of the pandemic that is sweeping the country, claiming a massive number of lives daily, with the recent oxygen supply shortage issue at various hospitals, adding to the woes. Since April 19, both daily cases and single-day deaths count had been spiralling up, with over 28,000 cases and 277 deaths recorded on April 20; rising to 306 fatalities on April 22. On May 3, the city registered a record 448 deaths, as per the official data. However, the number of cases have shown a downward trend and the positivity rate too has been shrinking in the last several days. The number of deaths per day, has also been showing a decline in the last couple of days. On May 15, Kejriwal had said, "The virus is reducing in Delhi slowly and steadily, and I hope it diminishes completely and does not rise again. However, we are not going to become negligent in anyway", while sounding a tone of caution. Following the relaxations in norms, the Delhi Metro is running with full seating capacity from July 26, with still no provision for standing travel for commuters. A total of 73,324 tests, including 49,690 RT-PCR tests and 23,634 rapid antigen tests, were conducted a day ago, according to the health bulletin issued on Friday. The number of cumulative cases on Friday stood at 14,36,988. Over 14.11 lakh patients have recovered from the virus. The number of active cases dropped to 468 on Friday from 502 a day before, according to the bulletin. The number of people under home isolation decreased to 164 from 179 on Thursday, while the number of containment zones dropped to 250 from 258 on Thursday, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
13-08-2021||India||Chidambaram accuses chair of both Houses of being biased||With a tumultuous Parliament session ending with unruly scenes, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Friday said the Chair in both Houses was "not as neutral as it should be" and asserted that the last-day pandemonium in Rajya Sabha started because the government tried to pass a legislation by "stealth" while going back on its words. Chidambaram also questioned the absence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah from debates during the session and alleged that the "two-man army" BJP government has "scant respect" for Parliament and if the "two gentlemen have their way, they will lock down Parliament". In an interview with PTI, the former Union minister also asserted that with patience, further conversations and meetings, he is absolutely certain the difficulties in forging Opposition unity to take on the BJP in 2024 general elections shall be overcome and it will be a reality well before the polls. The Monsoon session of Parliament was curtailed by two days on Wednesday. Just before the Rajya Sabha was adjourned sine die, opposition MPs jostled with marshals in the well of the House when they were trying to move towards the Chair and the treasury benches. While the government and the ruling BJP have blamed the Congress and other opposition parties for disruptions, the opposition leaders have accused the ruling dispensation of running away from debate on issues like Pegasus snooping allegations and contentious farm laws. Asked about the uproar in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday and the government fielding eight ministers to accuse the Opposition of disrupting the Monsoon session, Chidambaram said the chaos was created by the government going back on its word that after the Constitution amendment bill on the OBC reservation was passed by the House, it will be adjourned sine die. The Opposition had made it clear that it was opposed to passing the bill to amend the general insurance laws which would pave the way for privatisation of all general insurance companies and that it should be referred to a select committee of Parliament, he said. Chidambaram, a Rajya Sabha member and part of the Congress' strategy group in the House, said that since there was no agreement on that issue between the government and the Opposition, it was agreed that the bill will not be taken up in this session of Parliament. "But after the Constitution amendment bill was passed unanimously, the government tried to rush through the general insurance amendment bill and one or two other bills. This is a continuation of the BJP's practice of passing legislation by stealth," he said. Naturally, the opposition was infuriated and opposed the government vehemently, he said. "The chair, I am afraid, and I am sorry to say this, did not play a neutral role and therefore there was pandemonium in Parliament, but the starting point of the pandemonium was the government's attempt to pass legislation by stealth," Chidambaram alleged. Asked about Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu expressing disappointment with the behaviour of Opposition members during the session and the Opposition raising questions about the neutrality of the Chair, the senior Congress leader said, "We are increasingly driven to the conclusion, and I say this with a heavy heart and great regret, that the Chair is not as neutral as it should be and the Chair does not reflect the sense of the House." Chidambaram said that in this whole session, the prime minister and the home minister were "absent", did not answer a single question and did not participate in any debate. "This shows that the two-man army, which is the BJP government, has scant respect for Parliament. If these two gentlemen have their way, they will lock down Parliament," he alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
13-08-2021||India||Stop acting like opposition leader, fulfill poll promises: AAP to Sidhu||AAP leader Raghav Chadha on Friday asked Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu to deliver on poll promises and stop acting like an "opposition leader". "Otherwise, it will be clear to people that your struggle was a fight for chair and power, not a fight for Punjab's progress," he said in an apparent reference to the infighting in the Congress ahead of Sidhu's elevation to the post of the state party chief. Sidhu has in the recent past criticised his own government for not fulfilling poll promises and has been pushing for the implementation of the 18-point agenda of the party high command. Addressing the media here, the AAP leader said Sidhu should stop acting like an "opposition leader" and he has written to the Punjab Congress chief to remind him of the poll promises made by his party in a 129-page manifesto before coming to power in 2017. Chadha said he told Sidhu that he was tasked with the responsibility of driving home these promises to every household of Punjab as in the past four-and-half-years not a single promise has been fulfilled. "I want to say to Sidhu that now you are the Congress party's state unit president. You have the blessings of the party high command. You have the support of each MLA. You, for all practical purposes, are the government of Punjab," said Chadha. "It will not be incorrect to say in cricketing terms that you are the batsman and the bowler with the pitch being entirely yours. It is your responsibility to fulfill all poll promises," said Chadha, a legislator in Delhi. He further stated that Sidhu had raised several issues like ending corruption and scrapping of power purchase agreements. Chadha said he heard that Sidhu promised to give power at Rs 3 per unit if his party comes to power again. "Whose party is in power in Punjab now? Is it the DMK or the RJD running the government in Punjab? Sidhu Sahab, there is a Congress government in Punjab today, he said, asking Sidhu to fulfill all poll promises within six months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
13-08-2021||India||Pakistan's allegations against India on terror attack that killed 9 Chinese nationals 'lies': MEA||India on Friday described as "lies" Pakistan's allegations of Indian intelligence support to a deadly bus bombing in the Pakistani province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and said it is an attempt to deflect global attention from its role as the "epicenter" of regional instability and a "safe haven" for proscribed terrorists.  At least 13 people including nine Chinese engineers were killed in the suicide attack in Dasu area of Upper Kohistan district last month following which Pakistan had ordered an investigation into it.  Addressing a press conference in Islamabad on the completion of the probe, Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi accused India's Research and Analysis Wing (R&AW) and Afghanistan's National Directorate of Security (NDS) of carrying out the attack.  "We have seen reports on the absurd comments made by Foreign Minister of Pakistan on the incident in Dasu," Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs Arindam Bagchi said.  "This is yet another attempt by Pakistan to malign India, in a bid to deflect international attention from its role as the epicenter of regional instability and a safe haven for proscribed terrorists," he said.  Bagchi was replying to media queries on the allegations made by Qureshi. "India has been at the forefront of global efforts against terrorism in partnership with the international community, which is well aware of Pakistan's credentials when it comes to terrorism," Bagchi said.  "Such desperate attempts by Pakistan at peddling lies and propaganda will therefore find few takers," he said.  In its reaction, China said it firmly opposes "any force" using terrorism to seek "geopolitical gains".  In response to a question on Pakistan's updates on the probe, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said that the Pakistani side's investigation into the terrorist attack has seen "major progress within a short period of time".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
13-08-2021||India||Bombay High Court questions Centre's new  IT rules||The Bombay High Court on Friday asked the centre to explain its introduction of the new IT rules without it superseding (taking the place of) existing provisions that have been in effect since 2009. "Under 69A (1) (ii) of the IT Act, the 2009 Rules have been framed. What was the necessity for the union government to bring in subsequent rules without superseding prior rules..." the court asked Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, who was appearing for the centre. Singh said the centre wanted new laws to check the spread of fake news and offensive content. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice GS Kulkarni was hearing petitions - filed by digital news website The Leaflet and journalist Nikhil Wagle - seeking an interim stay on implementation of the recently notified Information Technology (IT) Rules, 2021. The petitions - two of several filed in courts across the country - called the new legislations "draconian" and "vague", and warned it would have a "chilling" effect on citizens' right to freedom of speech and expression, and on which. they feared, unreasonable restrictions would be imposed. Before reserving its verdict for tomorrow evening, the court said it was inclined to grant the petitioners limited relief with reference to adherence to a code of ethics. Earlier in the day, ASG Singh defended that code of ethics by saying that even the Press Council of India (PCI) had similar provisions. The court, however, was unimpressed and pointed out that PCI guidelines were advisory norms that did not carry "drastic punishment for breaches". "How can you put such an exalted status on PCI guidelines? ...not following those guidelines will (not) lead to penalties... Unless you have liberty of thought, how can you express anything? How can you restrict one's liberty of thought?" the court asked. This was also in response to the centre playing down petitioners' fears of facing charges under the new "draconian" law while multiple challenges are still being heard in courts across the country. Last month - in a big win for those challenging the IT Rules - the Supreme Court refused to stop these courts from hearing individual petitions on this matter. Also last month - and in another big win - the Kerala High Court ordered the centre not to take any coercive action, for now, against a news broadcasters group for non-compliance with the Rules Similar pleas have been filed in the Madras High Court by journalists and activists. Today the court granted the centre 10 additional days to file its reply to that plea. News publishers have alleged the Rules infringe on basic constitutional rights, including freedom of the press, and are designed to allow the government a worryingly tight grip over online content. However, the government says the Rules are required to ensure that all online news websites comply with the law, and to regulate content on social media and OTT platforms like Netflix. But included in these Rules are several contentious provisions, like requiring messaging services like WhatsApp to break end-to-end encryption to identify senders and recipients. WhatsApp has challenged this part of the new laws in court, arguing that it would mean an invasion of privacy of its users and that a law like this needs the approval of parliament. Twitter also raised concerns and was accused by the government of flouting India's laws; the company was stripped of legal protection and at least four police cases were filed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
13-08-2021||India||Centre muffling voices of those seeking justice for Dalit girl, alleges Congress||The Congress on Friday questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi's silence' on the alleged rape and murder of a 9-year-old Dalit girl in Delhi and accused the central government of suppressing the voice of those seeking justice for her. The party said its leader Rahul Gandhi has not violated Twitter's policy by sharing pictures of the victim's family which were already in public domain and that the microblogging giant was acting under pressure of the government. It also accused the social media platform of "playing with democracy in the country" by blocking the accounts of the principal opposition party and its leaders. The party alleged that Gandhi and the Congress were being punished for standing with the Dalits, but they will continue to raise their voice for justice. Speaking at a joint press conference, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate and former MP Udit Raj alleged that the Modi government was "anti-woman" and "anti-Dalit" and the same reflected in their actions. Shrinate said instead of getting justice for the victim's family, the government was busy suppressing the voice of those standing with the family, including Rahul Gandhi. "The prime minister, home minister and other ministers are silent on crime against girls in the national capital. The entire country is surprised that even after 13 days, the PM and the government are silent and have not uttered a single word on the incident, she told reporters. She further alleged that the Union government, PM Modi or Home Minister Amit Shah do not have any fear of democracy or the law and neither do they care about the constitution. "The prime minister and his government could not protect the victim, but at least they should talk about providing her justice and compensation, and punishing the perpetrators of the crime," Shrinate added. The entire debate today, the Congress spokesperson said, is on why the photograph (of victim's family) was shared and is diverting from the real issue of providing justice to the girl. She said this is the fight for morality . Taking a dig at the central dispensation, Shrinate said eight ministers can come to talk about the Monsoon Session, but will not speak a word on crime against minor girls. The issue is not about suppressing the voice of the opposition, but of suppressing the voice of poor girls and women," she said. The Congress leader was apparently referring to the Centre fielding a battery of eight ministers at a news conference to take on the opposition over the ruckus in Parliament during the Monsoon Session. Taking on Twitter, Shrinate said the microblogging site is against its own publicly prescribed policies. "We did not violate the rules. Rahul Gandhi was trying to help the family of the victim seeking justice. What Twitter is doing is being done under government pressure," she alleged. The 9-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly raped and killed in southwest Delhi's Old Nangal area. She died under suspicious circumstances on August 1 even as her parents alleged that she was raped and forcibly cremated by a crematorium's priest. Meanwhile, former MP Udit Raj alleged that under RSS and BJP's Ram Rajya , Dalits have no value and respect as no RSS or BJP supporter went to Delhi's Old Nangal village to meet the family of the nine-year-old girl. "The value of Dalits in the eyes of RSS and the BJP is even less than a cow. At least Modi ji, Amit Shah ji or Mayawati ji should have tweeted for the victim," he said. "The only fault of Rahul Gandhi is that he is standing with Dalits and its daughter, and that is why, his party is being punished," Raj, the Dalit leader, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
13-08-2021||India||Twitter transfers its India head to United States||Twitter has transferred India head Manish Maheshwari, against whom an FIR was registered in Uttar Pradesh in connection with a probe related to a video of an alleged hate crime, to the US. While the company did not specify any reason for the change, it said Maheshwari will move to the US as Senior Director (Revenue Strategy and Operations) and focus on new markets in his new role. Twitter Vice President Japan and Asia Pacific Yu Sasamoto shared the development in a tweet. "Thank you to @manishm for your leadership of our Indian business over the past 2+ years. Congrats on your new US-based role in charge of revenue strategy and operations for new markets worldwide. Excited to see you lead this important growth opportunity for Twitter," he said. When contacted, Twitter confirmed the development and said Maheshwari is "moving into a new role based in San Francisco as Senior Director, Revenue Strategy and Operations focused on New Market Entry". The company did not disclose details around the succession plan after Maheshwari moves to the US. Before joining Twitter, Maheshwari was the CEO of Network18 Digital. He has also worked with organisations including Flipkart and P&G, among others. Twitter has been facing flak over the past many months for its various actions taken on tweets and accounts of high-profile users as well as delay in compliance with the IT rules that came into effect in May this year. In June, an FIR was registered against Maheshwari and some others in connection with a probe related to a video of an alleged hate crime that went viral on social media. The US-based microblogging platform - which has an estimated 1.75 crore users in India - had courted controversy over the new social media rules, and the Indian government had confronted Twitter over deliberate defiance and failure to comply with the IT rules, despite repeated reminders. On August 10, the Centre had told the Delhi High Court that Twitter was 'prima facie' in compliance with the new IT rules by appointing a Chief Compliance Officer (CCO), Resident Grievance Officer (RGO) and Nodal Contact Person on permanent basis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
13-08-2021||India||DCGI nod for Bharat Biotech's Covid nasal jab Phase 2/3 trial||The first nasal vaccine against COVID-19, developed by Bharat Biotech, has received regulator's nod for conducting phase 2 and 3 clinical trials, the Department of Biotechnology said on Friday. Phase 1 clinical trial has been completed in age groups ranging from 18 to 60 years, it said. "Bharat Biotech's intranasal vaccine is the first nasal vaccine that has received the regulatory approval for phase 2/3 trials," the DBT said. The regulatory approval has been received for conducting "a Phase 2 randomised, multi-centric, Clinical Trial of Heterologus Prime-Boost Combination of SARS-CoV-2 Vaccines to evaluate the immunogenicity and safety of BBV152 (COVAXIN) with BBV154 (Adenoviral Intranasal COVID-19 vaccine) in healthy volunteers". This is the first of its kind COVID-19 jab to undergo human clinical trials in India, it said. BBV154 is an intranasal replication-deficient chimpanzee adenovirus SARS-CoV-2 vectored vaccine. Bharat Biotech has in-licensed technology from Washington University in St Louis, US, it said. "The company reports that the doses of the vaccine administered to healthy volunteers in the phase I clinical trial has been well tolerated. No serious adverse events reported," the DBT said. Previously, the vaccine was found to be safe, immunogenic and well tolerated in the pre-clinical toxicity studies. The vaccine was able to elicit high level of neutralising antibodies in animal studies, it added. The Mission COVID Suraksha was launched to accelerate COVID-19 vaccine development efforts as part of the third stimulus package, Atmanirbhar 3.0. The focus of this mission is to consolidate and streamline available resources towards a warpath for accelerated vaccine development in order to bring a safe, efficacious, affordable and accessible COVID-19 vaccine to the citizens at the earliest. "The Department through Mission COVID Suraksha, is committed to development of safe and efficacious COVID-19 vaccines. Bharat Biotech's BBV154 covid vaccine is the first intranasal vaccine being developed in the country entering into late-stage clinical trials," Renu Swarup, Secretary, DBT and Chairperson, BIRAC said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
13-08-2021||India||Serum Institute chairman not in favour of mixing vaccines ||Serum Institute of India (SII) chairman Dr Cyrus Poonawalla on Friday said he was not in favour of administering two different coronavirus vaccines for better efficacy. Poonawalla, whose firm makes the Covishield vaccine, was speaking to reporters after receiving the Lokmanya Tilak National Award in Pune. "I am against the mixing of two different vaccines. There is no need to mix two different vaccines," he said, when asked about a recent ICMR study that a cocktail of Covishield and Covaxin could generate better immunity. "If cocktail vaccines are administered and if the result is not good, then SII may say that another vaccine was not good, vice versa, the other company might say that since you mixed Serum's vaccine, it did not give desired results," Poonawalla said. The efficacy of this approach has not been proven in field trials involving thousands of participants, he added. A study by the Indian Council of Medical Research involving 98 people, 18 of whom had inadvertently received Covishield as first dose and Covaxin as the second in Uttar Pradesh, showed that combining vaccines elicited better immunogenicity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
13-08-2021||India||Centre bans use of single-use plastic items from July 2022||The Centre has notified amended rules prohibiting manufacture, import, stocking, distribution, sale and use of identified single-use plastic items, including plates, cups, cutlery, and packing films around boxes for sweets and cigarette packets among others. The thickness of plastic carry bags will be increased from 50 microns to 75 microns from September 30, 2021, and to 120 microns from December 31, 2022, according to the notification dated August 12. "The manufacture, import, stocking, distribution, sale and use of following single-use plastic, including polystyrene and expanded polystyrene, commodities shall be prohibited with effect from July 1, 2022: ear buds with plastic sticks, plastic sticks for balloons, plastic flags, candy sticks, ice-cream sticks, polystyrene (thermocol) for decoration; plates, cups, glasses, cutlery such as forks, spoons, knives, straw, trays; wrapping or packing films around sweet boxes, invitation cards, and cigarette packets, plastic or PVC banners less than 100 micron, stirrers," the notification read. In a statement, the Environment Ministry said plastic packaging waste not covered under the phase-out of identified single-use plastic items should be collected and managed in an environmentally sustainable way through the Extended Producer Responsibility of the producer, importer and brand owner (PIBO) as per Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016. For effective implementation of the Extended Producer Responsibility, the guidelines being brought out have been given a legal force through the amended rules, it said. Extended Producer Responsibility is a policy approach in which producers take responsibility for management of the disposal of products they produce once those products are designated as no longer useful by consumers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
13-08-2021||India||Opposition bid to bash PM has turned into conspiracy to defame democracy||Union Minister and Deputy Leader of the House in Rajya Sabha, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Friday slammed the opposition parties over the ruckus in Parliament during the Monsoon Session, saying the competition among them to bash Prime Minister Narendra Modi has turned into a conspiracy to defame democracy. Talking to reporters here, Naqvi said that some people are carrying bundle of sins and celebrating their deplorable crime of polluting the temple of democracy . The opposition parties are spreading pollution in Parliament and political hypocrisy on the streets with their lies," said Naqvi. Leaders of several opposition parties on Thursday took out a protest march in the national capital against the government on several issues, including Pegasus and alleged manhandling of their MPs in Rajya Sabha, with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi saying the voice of people was "crushed" in the House. Naqvi said the opposition was determined to ensure that the session is a washout. The Congress and some other opposition parties had demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi convene an all-party meeting to discuss efforts being made to tackle the coronavirus pandemic but they boycotted when such a meeting was called, Naqvi said. They demanded that the farmers' issues be discussed but then engaged in vandalism and scuffle in Parliament, he said. "In their contest to become champion of irresponsible politics, many opposition parties have now resorted to violence in the House," Naqvi alleged. Some opposition MPs are saying that they will do such "violence" a hundred times, he said, seeking strict action against them. Naqvi also visited some of the flood-affected areas of Allahabad and said the Yogi Adityanath government has taken effective steps to provide relief to the flood-affected people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-320
13-08-2021||India||International Climate Summit 2021 leading India’s Transition to Clean Energy||India is the world's second most populated country and the world's third largest economy. Its energy system is heavily reliant on fossil fuels, such as coal for power generation, oil for transportation and industry, and biomass for heating and cooking. India's per capita energy usage is 30% of the global average. India, being the world's third-largest oil consumer, is largely reliant on imports. By 2040, its energy demand will have doubled and its electricity demand will have tripled. The environment will suffer the most as a result of the rise. The energy sector is a major producer of pollution in the atmosphere, which contributes to climate change. In this view, International Climate Summit (ICS 2021) ICS 2021 will bring together distinguished speakers, academics, industry experts, and policymakers from around the world for sessions and discussions on hydrogen and its potential as an energy source. The summit is a timely endeavour that will send a favourable message to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Glasgow in November 2021. The eminent Summit Chair & Chairman, Environment Committee, PHDCCI, Dr. J. P. Gupta, shares his insights and objectives behind introducing such an exquisite summit. 1. Tell us briefly about the event International Climate Summit, and it's objective? The International Climate Summit 2021 is a virtual event scheduled for 3rd September, 2021 in an effort to position India as a leader in the field of renewable energy, specifically Green Hydrogen. The global summit is being organised by the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry's Environment Committee in collaboration with NITI Aayog, the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research, and the Government of India's Department of Science and Technology. Greenstat Asia Norway, Gexcon Norway, Arena H2 Cluster Norway, India Hydrogen Alliance, and TERI are supporting the event by being the knowledge partners. This Global Summit will build a dialogue for India's transition to clean energy with a special focus on 'Powering India's Hydrogen Ecosystem.' The summit sessions will focus on cooperative efforts that will help establish solutions for storing and transporting pressurised and liquefied hydrogen, to build a hydrogen economy and supply chain in India. The International Climate Summit (ICS 2021) is a precursor to the 26th Conference of Parties (COP) to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), which will be held in Glasgow in November 2021. The summit will allow worldwide collaboration in establishing sustainable routes for production, storage, transportation, distribution, and ambitious deployment of hydrogen technologies, with the goal of moving towards a cleaner, greener, and more sustainable future. Addressing these factors, the International Climate Summit 2021 aspires to move India to the forefront of renewable energy. 2. How does the International Climate Summit intend to address the climatic concerns through a consolidated approach and timely interventions, ahead of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) meeting in Glasgow in November 2021? There has been an evident increase in the global energy consumption and thus the dire need to harness alternative energy sources that are not just green, but also renewable and plentiful. One such source with a substantially higher energy output per unit mass is hydrogen. Given that hydrogen development is at its nascent stage and there remains a lot of uncertainty surrounding its safety, it is pertinent to deliberate and understand the legal and regulatory requirements, investment cases, financing structures, operational requirements, revenue stream, sharing and other elements that need to be considered to formulate an effective acceptable commercialisation model. A gradual transition with adequate policy and safety standards will help build confidence among stakeholders and provide a conducive environment for a Hydrogen based economy. India is one of the best-suited countries for producing renewable energy from solar panels and the wind, making the manufacturing of hydrogen from renewables cost-effective. India has a competitive advantage due to abundant natural resources and favourable meteorological and geographical circumstances. To accelerate the adoption of hydrogen technologies in India, a step-change in government policy and business actions is required. National Hydrogen Energy Mission under the aegis of Government of India has set up National Hydrogen Portal - www.greenhydrogen-india.com, a single information source for research, production, storage, transportation and application of hydrogen across the country. 3. Given that the Indian government has already declared the National Hydrogen Energy Mission, how do you see hydrogen energy becoming economically and technically viable in the near future? In recent years, hydrogen has received a lot of attention as part of the transition from fossil fuels to emission-free alternatives. Moreover, hydrogen investment is being boosted to become a fundamental part of India's energy system and international collaboration as a tool for sustainable development and a transition of energy centered around human beings. By implementing smart grids and announcing notable investments in R&D, technology upgrades, and capacity creation, the government has already taken a significant step in this direction. Hydrogen is used as a fuel in the production, transport and energy storage. It has the potential to play a crucial cross-cutting role in the future low carbon economy, with applications across the industrial, transport, and power sectors. There has been a growing appreciation that complete electrification of our current energy systems could be prohibitively expensive and technologically challenging, given the important storage, flexibility, chemical, and heating attributes of current fossil fuels. Based on this, the experts have predicted that the hydrogen demand could increase five-fold by 2050, with use in the industry sector being the major driver. In power, hydrogen could be a cost-effective way of providing inter-seasonal storage in a highly variable renewable electricity system from 2040. Scaling up the use of domestically produced hydrogen can significantly reduce energy imports. 4. Who are the speakers, and what will be the takeaways from the summit? The International Climate Summit 2021 will take a step ahead in the mission of the 26th CoP summit, allowing for a unified approach and timely interventions to address climate concerns. The Summit will bring together stakeholders from across the global clean energy industry, along with other world leaders, in order to reach an agreement on climate change and sustainability issues. The summit includes some eminent speakers like Prof. Vijay Raghavan, PSA to Govt. of India; Amitabh Kant, CEO NITI Aayog; Dr. Vijay Saraswat, Member (Energy), NITI Aayog; R. R. Rashmi, Former Special Secretary, MoEFCC & Distinguished fellow TERI; Sturle Harald Pederson, Chairman, Greenstat Hydrogen Asia, Bergen; Prof. Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary Department of Science & Technology; Nobuo Tanaka, Ex ED, IEA, Japan; Dr. SSV Ramakumar, Director (R&D) IOCL; Dr. Karen Landmark, Chair of the Board Greenstat Asia, Norway; Dr. Ashish Lele, Director National Laboratory Pune; and many more, all of whom would share their leadership insights on the Hydrogen economy. The summit's proceedings will be broadcast to a global audience of more than 150 countries. Hence, the meet will aim to build an India-centric and action-oriented approach for building self-reliance in the hydrogen ecosystem and solutions. 5. How India intends to position itself as the world's cheapest hydrogen hub? Within the energy transition, India is already one of the global spearheads, with the fastest growth in renewable energy and as the fastest-growing consumer of energy. However, the current energy system in India is still strongly dominated by fossil fuels (76%,IEA) and the third-largest importer of oil - correspondingly in excess of ⅘ part of the country's consumption. The establishment of an “International Hydrogen Alliance” will create greater synergies between science, technology and entrepreneurship to create a win-win situation for all, inspired by The International Solar Alliance (ISA). A tight collaboration with Norway will be a good starting point to gain momentum. With a proactive attitude towards the implementation of hydrogen value chains in India, the country will gain advantages by becoming less dependent on other countries that have technological expertise, systems and technology. By taking an early offensive position in the battle for the hydrogen economy, India will be able to become a net exporter in this sector. Due to its geographical location, climate conditions, and quantity of renewable energy sources such as solar, wind, and hydro, India is well positioned to become the world's cheapest hydrogen centre by 2050. Having introduced such an innovative summit, International Climate Summit (ICS 2021) will address all issues pertaining to clean energy together, in order to find a set of balanced, positive and beneficial solutions for the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
13-08-2021||India||TMC likely to join Sonia's virtual meet for Opposition leaders||The Trinamool Congress has received an invite to a virtual meet for Opposition leaders by Congress president Sonia Gandhi slated for August 20, a political aide of TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee confirmed. The TMC is likely to join the meeting. Gandhi has called the meet in the midst of a political row over alleged phone tapping of Opposition leaders, judges and journalists and rowdy scenes in Parliament. While the agenda of the meeting is not known, it is expected to discuss a raft of issues irking Opposition parties besides helping build bridge to forge Opposition unity. The DMK, NCP and the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha are among parties that have been invited, according to multiple sources. Banerjee too had last month, during a trip to Delhi, made a pitch for Opposition unity. The West Bengal chief minister had, besides meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other central ministers, held parleys with Congress' Sonia and Rahul Gandhi, Kamal Nath, Anand Sharma and Abishek Manu Singhvi. She also met Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and DMK leader Kanimozhi, besides making telephone calls to NCP chief Sharad Pawar and RJD supremo Lalu Prasad. More recently, on Thursday, the TMC came out against the suspension of the Congress' Twitter handles, displaying what many saw as signs of a rekindling of a spirit of Opposition unity. Banerjee's advisor and political campaign pundit Prashant Kishor has also been reaching out to various Opposition leaders, while Pawar has also held a meeting with eminent persons and Opposition leaders. Political analysts see these meetings as essential stepping stones to forging unity among political parties ahead of a raft of state assembly elections including in Uttar Pradesh, India's most populous state, in the next three years leading to national elections in 2024.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
13-08-2021||India||No evidence to suggest Dalit girl was raped, Delhi Police tells court||Delhi Police has told a court here that no evidence could be collected so far to confirm whether the nine-year-old girl was raped before allegedly being killed near Delhi Cantonment in south-west Delhi earlier this month. The investigating officer (IO) of the case told the court that the disclosure statements of the four accused have revealed that two of them -- Radhey Shyam, the 55-year-old priest of the crematorium, and it's employee Kuldeep Singh -- had raped and killed the minor victim. The remaining accused persons -- Salim Ahmad and Laxmi Narayan, both employees at the crematorium -- had helped them in trying to cremate the deceased minor, the IO told the court. The IO has further admitted that neither any statement of any eye witness nor any other evidence, including medical or scientific could be collected so far to confirm as to whether the victim child was raped or not. He has further submitted that at this stage, he cannot conclusively say as to whether the victim child was raped or not, the court noted in the order passed on August 12. Disclosure statements of the accused persons before police, unless supported by other evidence, is not admissible under law. Special Judge Ashutosh Kumar, meanwhile, awarded Rs 25 lakh as interim relief to the mother of the child for the loss of her daughter's life. The court, however, did not grant further interim relief on the additional ground of the alleged rape of the victim, in view of the submissions of the IO and in view of the fact that the investigating agency itself is not sure as to whether the victim was raped or not, the interim compensation qua the same is not allowed at this stage. The judge granted the liberty to the parties concerned to move a fresh application regarding compensation for rape, in case the investigating agency collects further material or comes to the conclusion that the victim child was raped. A per the government scheme, the maximum compensation awardable in case of loss of life is Rs 10 lakh. The court granted 25 per cent of the compensation amount as interim relief. The court, meanwhile, sent the four accused, who were all known to the girl's mother, to 14-day judicial custody. According to the FIR, the minor girl was raped, murdered and then cremated without her parents' consent. The case was recently transferred to the crime branch of Delhi Police. Delhi Police registered a case against the four accused on the basis of the statement of the minor's mother, who alleged that her daughter was raped, murdered and cremated without family's consent on August 1. The accused have been booked under Sections 302 (murder), 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, along with the relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the SC/ST Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
13-08-2021||India||DMK slashes petrol price by Rs 3 in Tamil Nadu, slams Centre on soaring prices||The DMK government in Tamil Nadu on Friday announced a tax cut of Rs three on petrol per litre and held the Centre responsible for increase in the cost of fuel and said the onus of providing relief to end consumers lay with the union government. Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan, presenting the Revised Budget for 2021-22 to the Assembly, announced the tax cut. "I am happy to inform the House that this government has decided to reduce the effective rate of tax on petrol by Rs 3 per litre and thereby provide major relief to the toiling working class people in the state. This measure will result in a loss of revenue of Rs.1,160 crore a year," the Finance Minister said. Thiaga Rajan, referring to the white paper on the state's fiscal situation he released days ago, said it listed many ways that marked a dilution of the spirit of federalism. "Nowhere is this dilution of the spirit of federalism more apparent than in the taxation of petrol and diesel at the pump," he said. The overall union levies on petrol were increased from Rs.10.39 per litre in May 2014 to Rs.32.90 per litre, now. Similarly, the levies on diesel were increased from Rs.3.57 in May 2014 to Rs.31.80. Even as the union government's cesses and surcharges were increased, the basic union excise duty was brought down sharply. Hence, in 2020-21 even as the revenue to the union government from petrol and diesel went up by 63 per cent from the revenue in 2019-20, the share of the states declined sharply, the Minister said. "Hence, the onus of providing relief to the final consumers of petrol and diesel lies with the union government." The Comptroller and Auditor General of India has pointed out that the union government cesses levied for a specific purpose have not been fully utilised for the intended purpose, and surcharges meant for a limited time have continued almost indefinitely. To address such issues comprehensively and propose a new and comprehensive approach, "this government will establish an advisory council to develop a Federal Fiscal Model with renowned experts on legislation involving revenue and taxation (including GST)," he said. Tamil Nadu has 2.63 crore two-wheelers, which has become the most popular mode of transport for the working poor and they feel the pinch of the rising cost of petrol. The union government is solely responsible for the increase in cost of the fuel and has benefitted tremendously from the increase in taxation on petroleum products at the cost of states, he said. Chief Minister M K Stalin "feels the pain of the working poor and the middle class," he said announcing the tax cut. This is the first time Thiaga Rajan, a former investment banker is tabling the annual financial statement in the House. The DMK, among other assurances, had promised in the run-up to the April 6 Assembly polls that it would reduce prices of petrol and diesel by Rs five and Rs four respectively. Pointing to such assurances, the main opposition AIADMK has been demanding the DMK to fulfil its poll promises.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
13-08-2021||India||Centre dragging feet on Bihar's concern over caste census, says Tejashwi Yadav||The opposition RJD in Bihar on Friday accused the Centre of dragging its feet over the state's "unanimous" demand for a caste-based census. The party's de facto leader Tejashwi Yadav, who addressed a press conference here, warned that if given a short shrift by the Narendra Modi government, political leaders in the state will "have no other option except to sit on a dharna at Jantar Mantar until their voices are heard". Referring to a letter sent by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over a week ago, seeking an appointment to discuss the issue, Yadav said "it is appalling that the PM has not deigned to give a reply". "This is despite the fact that the people of Bihar voted for the NDA overwhelmingly in the Lok Sabha polls when the BJP-led coalition won all but one of the 40 seats in the state," said Yadav, whose own party drew a blank in 2019 but made an impressive comeback in assembly polls two years later. By not even responding to the letter, the PM is in fact "insulting" our chief minister, said the 32 years' old leader of the opposition, in a deft attempt to fish in troubled waters between the BJP and Nitish Kumar, who controls the JD(U) and has been his father Lalu Prasad's arch rival. "The chief minister wrote to the PM after a meeting he held with all opposition leaders who suggested that the matter be taken up with the Centre since there is a unanimity on the issue in Bihar where resolutions to the effect have been twice passed in the legislature," said Yadav who had led the opposition delegation that met the CM during the Monsoon session of the assembly. The RJD leader was pointed out at the press meet that he claimed to be speaking on behalf of all parties though the BJP in the state has, of late, changed tack and started echoing the view of its top leadership which seems to be in favour of enumerating the population of just the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes. "They (BJP leaders) may say anything. But they too had supported the resolutions in the legislature.......I hope if things come to a pass and we end up sitting on a dharna, they too will join us," said the wily leader with a smirk. Political temperature in the state has been soaring ever since the Centre disclosed its stand on caste census, proposing to keep out the OBCs, who are numerically powerful and have been dominating the politics in Bihar since the Mandal churn. Yadav also brushed aside queries about recurring run-ins between his elder brother Tej Pratap Yadav and his confidant and state RJD chief Jagadanand Singh who was recently slighted by some uncharitable remarks by the maverick sibling. "All is fine. There are no problems in the party," asserted Yadav, who has been a favourite of his father and has come to overshadow all siblings who have evinced interest in politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
13-08-2021||India||Wockhardt partners with RDIF to produce, supply Sputnik vaccine||Drug maker Wockhardt on Friday said it has inked a pact with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to produce and supply COVID-19 vaccines -- Sputnik V and Sputnik Light. The agreement has been inked under the aegis of Enso Healthcare (part of Enso Group), RDIF's coordination partner for sourcing Sputnik V vaccines in India. "We are delighted to partner with RDIF to make a substantial contribution towards providing global supply of the Sputnik V and Sputnik Light vaccines which is one of the most efficacious approved vaccines commercially available," Wockhardt Group Founder Chairman Habil Khorakiwala said in a statement. The arrangement upholds the company's ongoing commitment to fight against such a pandemic of global human importance, he added. It is our privilege to partner with RDIF and Wockhardt to facilitate large scale manufacturing of Sputnik V and Sputnik Light vaccines," Enso Healthcare Chairman Vinay Maloo noted. In a regulatory filing, Wockhardt noted that subject to requisite approvals and other conditions, the company would manufacture and supply up to 620 million doses of the Sputnik V and the Sputnik Light vaccines to Enso. The term of the agreement is up to June 2023, it added. Till date, the Sputnik V vaccine has been registered in 69 countries globally with a total population of over 3.7 billion people. The data obtained by regulators of a number of countries during the vaccination of the population, including Argentina, Serbia, Bahrain, Hungary, Mexico, San Marino, UAE and others, demonstrates that Sputnik V is one of the safest and most effective vaccines against coronavirus. In particular, Sputnik V demonstrates 83.1 per cent efficacy against the Delta variant of coronavirus - higher than many other vaccines. The vaccine is based on a well-studied platform of human adenoviral vectors and uses two different vectors for the two shots in a course of vaccination, providing immunity with a longer duration than vaccines using the same delivery mechanism for both shots. Sputnik Light is the first component of Sputnik V and is based on human adenovirus serotype 26. Wockhardt shares were trading 4.92 per cent up at Rs 513.35 apiece on BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
13-08-2021||India||Kanpur: 3 arrested for thrashing Muslim man, forcing him to chant 'Jai Shree Ram'||Three people, including one having affiliation to the Vishva Hindu Parishad, have been arrested for allegedly thrashing a Muslim e-rickshaw driver in Kanpur and asking him to chant "Jai Shri Ram", police said on Friday. The incident had taken place at the Kacchi Basti locality in the Barra area of Kanpur on Wednesday. A one-minute video of the incident surfaced on social media, in which 45-year-old Asrar Ahmad is seen being thrashed by some men, who ask him to chant "Jai Shri Ram". Ahmed's daughter is seen trying to save her father, crying and asking the attackers not to beat him up. Kanpur Police Commissioner Asim Arun said the three men were arrested on Thursday night. One of the arrested, Aman Gupta, has affiliation to the Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP), police said. Besides Gupta, the two others arrested are Rajesh, alias Jay, and Rahul. The accused are aged between 25 and 30. They are residents of the Barra area. Asim Arun said the victim was saved by police, who brought him to the police station. On the basis of a complaint by the victim, a case was registered against the people seen assaulting him in the video. DCP (South) Raveena Tyagi told PTI, Once the viral video came to our notice, we took cognisance and registered an FIR under relevant sections of the IPC. Several teams were formed to identify and arrest the culprits, she added. After the arrests were made, some people associated with Hindu outfits sat on a dharna outside the DCP office on Thursday night. They left after police convinced them to end their sit-in.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
13-08-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi banned from only place where he was active, mocks BJP ||The BJP Friday took a swipe at Rahul Gandhi over Twitter temporarily locking his account for allegedly violating its rules, saying the Congress leader has been shown the door from the only place he was active and he should use the new social media rules enforced by the Modi government to restore the account. Addressing a press conference, BJP MP and the party's youth wing president Tejasvi Surya said the same Congress was crying hoarse and attacking the government when it framed the new rules to "empower" social media platform users. Now, Gandhi cannot take umbrage behind the freedom of expression argument after he tweeted a picture of a rape and murder victim's family members, Surya said, adding it was "indecent, illegal and inhuman". The law prohibits the disclosure of a rape victim's identity, including address or her family members' details, promoting the BJP and the official child rights body to hit out at the Congress leader. The Congress has argued that Gandhi is raising the family's voice for justice and that the National Commission for Scheduled Castes and a BJP MP had also posted the family's pictures. Surya said the issue now is whether it was right on Gandhi's part to publicly disclose the victim's identity as the law of the land frowns upon such acts. "The only place he was active was on Twitter. Unfortunately, even Twitter has shown him the door," he said wryly. Gandhi and the Congress should make usage of the rules and regulations made by the Modi government and attempt to get his account restored, he added. In another dig at Gandhi, BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh said, "Disney prince Rahul Gandhi should not have disclosed the victim's identity for his petty politics. He should understand this is real world, not his Disney world." Gandhi on Friday accused Twitter of being biased and interfering in the country's political process by blocking his account. In a strong attack, Gandhi said Twitter was denying his millions of followers the right to an opinion and termed it as an attack on the democratic structure of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
13-08-2021||India||Pakistani terrorist planning attack on JK highway killed in Kulgam encounter||Security forces achieved a major success as a Pakistani terrorist planning an attack along the national highway in Jammu and Kashmir was killed in an encounter in Kulgam district, officials said Friday. They said the overnight encounter began after two terrorists, who had positioned themselves in a building, started firing "indiscriminately" on a BSF convoy on the Jammu-Srinagar National Highway. Kashmir Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar said the slain ultra, identified as Usman from Pakistan, was a "dreaded terrorist" active for the past six months. "Around 3 pm (Thursday), terrorists fired upon the convoy of BSF on the Srinagar-Jammu National Highway near Malpora Mir Bazar area of Kulgam. The fire was retaliated by an ROP (road opening party) of police and security forces," a police spokesman said. There were no injuries in the initial attack. Police and Army reinforcements reached there immediately and cordoned off the area, the spokesperson said. "The force party ensured not to give any chance to the terrorists to escape. The terrorists managed to took shelter in a nearby huge building. The holed-up terrorists fired indiscriminately upon the joint party of police/security forces which was retaliated, leading to an encounter," he said. The IGP said there was a general input for the last one week that "terrorists were planning an attack on the national highway on Baramulla-Srinagar road or Qazigund-Pantha Chowk". "So, the police and security forces were ready. This shows how good the response of the security forces has been that there was retaliation and the militant was not allowed to flee," Kumar told reporters here. He said when the BSF convoy was coming, "two terrorists fired indiscriminately from a huge building, but there was no injury to us". "Security forces cordoned off the area and the encounter ensued. GoC (general officer commanding of the Army's south Kashmir-based) Victor Force and I monitored the operation during the night. We used rocket launcher and a militant was neutralised during the night. "Since it is difficult to search in the dark, in the morning, the dead body of a Pakistani terrorist identified as Usman, who had been active for the last six months, was recovered," he said. A huge cache of arms and ammunition, which includes an AK-47 rifle, magazines, grenades, RPG-7 rocket launcher, was recovered from the encounter site, he said. Kumar said it shows the "terrorists they were planning something big". "It is after a long time that RPG-7 has been recovered (in Kashmir) and the police and security forces have averted a major incident. I am proud of the police and security forces," he said, adding, "We achieved a major success by killing Usman the dreaded Pakistani terrorist." The police spokesman quoted above also said a CRPF jawan and an Army personnel and two civilians got injured in the "indiscriminate firing by the terrorists". All the injured have been taken to a hospital for treatment, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
13-08-2021||India||India joins 11 nations to not recognise any Afghan government formed by force||Twelve nations, including the US, India and China, along with representatives of the UN and EU have decided that they would not recognise any government in Afghanistan that seeks to take control through the barrel of a gun, the State Department has said, amid the continued Taliban offensive across the war-torn country. Representatives from the United States and Qatar, the UN, China, Uzbekistan, Pakistan, the UK, the EU, Germany, India, Norway, Tajikistan, Turkey and Turkmenistan joined a regional conclave on Thursday to discuss ways to contain the escalating security situation in Afghanistan. The conclave was hosted by Qatar. The participants "agreed, first and foremost, that the peace process needs to be accelerated. And they also agreed, importantly, that they will not recognise any government that is imposed through military force," State Department Spokesperson Ned Price told reporters on Thursday. His remarks came as the Taliban advanced across Afghanistan and took control over key provincial capitals. Reports say that the militant group has captured Herat and Kandahar, the country's second and third largest cities after Kabul, and a strategic provincial capital on Thursday. It comes just weeks before the end of the American military mission in Afghanistan. The US Embassy in Afghanistan issued a security alert Thursday, urging Americans to leave Afghanistan immediately using available commercial flight options. "So this is not just the United States making this point. This is not just the United States speaking with our voice. This is the international community, as you see represented in the consensus that has emerged today," Prince said. He said the consensus is on "this very simple point: any force that seeks to take control of Afghanistan with the barrel of a gun, through the barrel of a gun, will not be recognised, will not have legitimacy, will not accrue the international assistance that any such government would likely need to achieve any semblance of durability." Price said the international community came together to speak with one voice on this point over the course of weeks and months. "I've spoken just recently about the UN Security Council statement that emanated last week, where the members of the Security Council recalled Resolution 2513, reaffirmed that there is no military solution to the conflict, and declared they do not support the restoration of an Islamic emirate," Price said. J P Singh, the Joint Secretary in the Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran division in the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), represented India at the meeting in Doha, officials said in New Delhi. India on Thursday said the situation in Afghanistan is of concern and that it continues to hope for a comprehensive ceasefire to end violence in that country. Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi also said India is in touch with all the stakeholders in Afghanistan and closely monitoring the ground situation in the strife-torn country. Zalmay Khalilzad, the US envoy, travelled to Doha, Qatar, where the Taliban maintain a political office to persuade the insurgents to return to peace talks with the Afghan government as American and NATO forces finish their pullout from the country. The latest US military intelligence assessment suggests Kabul could come under insurgent pressure within 30 days and that, if current trends hold, the Taliban could gain full control of the country within a few months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-321
13-08-2021||India||India expects to get huge boost in Covid-19 vaccine doses, assures Nadda||India expects to get about 266 million COVID-19 vaccine doses in August as a simpler licensing process has helped the government secure far more than earlier expected, the president of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's party said on Friday. Late last month, a senior government official told reporters that the government could only count on getting about 150 million doses in August. Since then, India's drug regulator has approved the Johnson & Johnson (JNJ.N) vaccine - though the company has not yet committed to a delivery schedule - and commercial production of Russia's Sputnik V in India could start too. Indian drugmaker Cadila Healthcare's (CADI.NS) ZyCoV-D could also be approved soon, the health minister said this month. read more Writing in a column for the Times of India daily, Jagat Prakash Nadda, president of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, credited Modi for making it easier for vaccine makers to get approval. "Among the many significant decisions taken by the PM is simplifying compulsory licensing policy to speed up vaccine production," Nadda wrote. "It ensured clearance for manufacturing of Russia's Sputnik V in the country and just a few days back Johnson & Johnson vaccine has also been given clearance. In the coming days more vaccines will be available in India." Nadda, who was the health minister in Modi's first term, said India's vaccine supply will reach 266.5 million doses in August, 261.5 million in September, 282.5 million in October, 282.5 million in November and 285 million doses in December. The health ministry, whose end-July target of supplying 516 million doses fell short, did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Nadda's projections. India wants to vaccinate its entire adult population of 944 million by the end of this year. It has so far administered 528.6 million doses, giving at least one dose to about 44% of its adults, while 12% have had the required two doses. India is the world's biggest vaccine maker, thanks to the Serum Institute of India. The company stopped all exports of COVID-19 shots in April as the government asked it to divert supplies to the domestic inoculation drive as infections surged. India has reported 32.11 million COVID-19 infections, the most after the United States, with about 430,000 deaths, though experts say these are gross underestimates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
13-08-2021||India||HC seeks response from Centre, Delhi govt on PIL against child begging||The Delhi High Court Friday sought response from the AAP government and the Centre on a public interest litigation seeking eradication of begging by children here. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Amit Bansal issued notice on a PIL by Ajay Gautam and also sought responses from Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights and Delhi Police. In his petition, Gautam has sought directions to the authorities to rehabilitate children who are beggars and to identify and arrest the persons who are pushing women using toddlers, teenage girls and small children into begging and...crime and exploiting young girls. Gautam has alleged that in spite of the presence of beggars in every part of the city, the authorities have failed to take any remedial steps to curb the menace. "Everyone knows that begging mafia is actively behind this menace of begging by the children and they in fact they kidnap, train, force and torture innocent children for begging," the petition states. It is further said that small children are deliberately harmed and injured to get maximum sympathy of people. "It has been commonly seen in winters that young girls hold toddlers without clothes to gain maximum sympathy. It is also not out of context to mention here that in many cases these gangs I mafias and young girls intentionally give sedatives to small children to gather sympathy of people risking lives of toddlers as young as 9-12 months," reads the petition. The petition argues that the Constitution of India mandates the State to make efforts to provide best opportunities for the development of children and ensure that they are not abused. The matter would be heard next on September 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
13-08-2021||India||NCPCR targets Rahul Gandhi's Instagram profile now, asks Facebook to take action||After Twitter, apex child rights body NCPCR on Friday asked Facebook to take action against the Instagram profile of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for posting a photo of the family of the nine-year-old girl who was allegedly raped and murdered in southwest Delhi, saying it violated the law. On August 4, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) wrote to Twitter, asking it to take action against the handle of Gandhi for posting the photo of the family. The microblogging site blocked the account of Gandhi following the complaint. In a letter to Facebook, the Commission said it has come across a video posted on the Instagram profile of Gandhi wherein the identity of the victim minor girl's family has been disclosed. In this video the faces of the father and the mother of the deceased girl can be clearly seen, which is in violation of the prescribed provisions of law, it added. The NCPCR asked Facebook for taking appropriate action against the Instagram profile of Gandhi over violation of provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, and the Indian Penal Code, and demanded the removal of the video from the platform. Section 74 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, prohibits the disclosure of identity of a child in any form of media and Section 23 of the POCSO Act, 2012, also states that no information or photo of a child should be published in any form of media which could reveal the identity of the child. This information under Section 23 of the POCSO Act includes his/her name, address, photograph, family details, school, neighbourhood or any other particulars which may lead to disclosure of identity of the child. "Therefore, posting of the video of the minor victim's family on social media platform-Instagram has been observed by the Commission to be a violation of Section 74 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, Section 23 of the POCSO Act, 2012, Section 228A of the IPC and the guidelines of the Hon'ble Court as well. "In view of the same, the Commission deems it appropriate to take suo-moto cognisance under Section 13(1) and notice under Section 14 of the CPCR Act, 2005 in this matter," the NCPCR said. "Accordingly, the link to the Instagram video is being forwarded for taking appropriate action against the Instagram profile of Rahul Gandhi for violation of provisions of JJ Act, 2015, POCSO Act, 2012 and IPC and removal of the Instagram video from the platform," it added. Gandhi last week met the family of the nine-year-old girl and asserted that he is with them on the path to justice and will not back down even an inch . Later, he posted a picture of his meeting with the girl's parents on Twitter and wrote in Hindi, Parents' tears are saying only one thing their daughter, the daughter of this country, deserves justice. And I am with them on this path to justice. The girl died under mysterious circumstances when she went to get water from a cooler at a crematorium in the Old Nangal area in southwest Delhi. The girl's parents alleged that she was raped and her body forcibly cremated by a crematorium priest who had falsely claimed that she was electrocuted. Hundreds of locals, including the victim's parents, have been staging a protest near the site of the incident, demanding capital punishment for the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
13-08-2021||India||Govt raises caps on domestic airfares by 9.83-12.82 per cent||Domestic air travel is set to become costlier as the Civil Aviation Ministry has raised the lower as well as upper caps on fares by 9.83 to 12.82 percent, according to an official order. India had imposed lower and upper limits on airfares based on flight duration when services were resumed on May 25, 2020, after a two-month lockdown due to coronavirus. The lower caps were imposed to help the airlines that have been struggling financially due to coronavirus-related travel restrictions. The upper caps were imposed so that passengers are not charged huge amounts when the demand for seats is high. In an order dated August 12, 2021, the ministry increased the lower limit for flights under 40 minutes of duration from Rs 2,600 to Rs 2,900 -- an increase of 11.53 percent. The upper cap for flights under 40 minutes of duration was increased by 12.82 percent to Rs 8,800. Similarly, flights with duration between 40-60 minutes have a lower limit of Rs 3,700 instead of Rs 3,300 now, the order said. The upper cap on these flights was increased by 12.24 percent to Rs 11,000 on Thursday. The flights with duration between 60-90 minutes have a lower limit of Rs 4,500 -- an increase of 12.5 percent. The upper cap on these flights was increased by 12.82 percent to Rs 13,200 on Thursday. Now, domestic flights of duration between 90-120, 120-150, 150-180 and 180-210 minutes have lower caps of Rs Rs 5,300, Rs 6,700, Rs 8,300 and Rs 9,800, respectively, as per the ministry's order. Till date, domestic flights of duration between 90-120, 120-150, 150-180 and 180-210 minutes had the lower limits of Rs 4,700, Rs 6,100, Rs 7,400 and Rs 8,700, respectively. The lower cap on flights between 120-150 minutes duration was increased by 9.83 percent to Rs 6,700, as per the new order. On Thursday, the upper caps on domestic flights of duration between 90-120, 120-150, 150-180 and 180-210 minutes were increased by 12.3 percent, 12.42 percent, 12.74 percent and 12.39 percent, respectively, as per the order. The caps mentioned by the government in its order does not include the passenger security fee, user development fee for the airports and the GST. These charges are added on top when the ticket is being booked by the passenger. The ministry's order on Thursday stated that the government has taken this decision of increasing the lower limits as well as the upper limits keeping in mind the "prevailing situation of COVID-19" in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
13-08-2021||India||Mumbai logs first death due to Delta Plus variant of Covid-19||Mumbai has recorded its first death due to the Delta Plus variant of coronavirus with a 63-year-old fully vaccinated woman succumbing to it in July, a civic official has said. Following her death, at least two of her close contacts have also been found infected with the Delta Plus variant, which is considered highly infectious, he said. It is the second death due to this variant in the state as it had claimed the life of an 80-year-old woman from Ratnagiri district on June 13. That woman had not taken even a single dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, officials said. In the latest case, the woman, a resident of eastern Mumbai suburb of Ghatkopar died on July 27 while undergoing treatment in a hospital ICU. However, it was only on August 11 that the state government authorities came to know that she was infected with the Delta Plus variant which came to light in the genome sequencing report, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said. The woman had taken both the doses of Covishield vaccine, but tested coronavirus positive on July 21 with synonyms like dry cough, loss of taste, bodyache and headache, he said. She was put on oxygen support and given steroids and Remdesivir as part of the treatment, the official said, adding that she did not have any travel history or history of reinfection. Six close contacts of the deceased woman have also tested coronavirus positive. After their samples were sent for whole genome sequencing, two of them were found to have been infected with the Delta Plus variant, and the result of others is awaited, he said. Two days back, the Maharashtra government had said that as many as 20 new cases of the Delta Plus variant were detected in the state on Wednesday alone and seven of them were in Mumbai. With this, the number of patients found infected with this variant in the state had increased to 65, said a statement issued by the health department. Out of the newly detected cases, seven were in Mumbai, three in Pune, two each in Nanded, Gondia, Raigad, Palghar, and one each in Chandrapur and Akola districts, it had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
13-08-2021||India||I-Day: Indian diaspora in US gears up to celebrate 75 years of independence||Thousands of Indian-Americans have begun early celebrations to mark the 75th anniversary of India's Independence and the milestone in the country's history. From iconic Times Square in New York, where the Federation of Indian Associations (FIA) would unfurl the largest ever flag in the Big Apple on Sunday to the US Capitol here and mansions of several governors across the country, India's 75th Independence Day is being celebrated in a big way. The One World Trade Center, the tallest building in America that stands on the site of the 9/11 terror attacks, and two other popular New York City buildings, will also be lit in colours of the Indian flag on August 15. "This is a historic moment for all of 1.4 billion people in India and 4.5 million Indian-Americans. To celebrate the occasion, we are unfurling the largest flag on Times Square," Ankur Vaidya, FIA president told PTI. "It's a 60 square feet flag over a 25 feet high pole," he added. Several buildings in the US, including the Empire Estate, are being lightened with Indian tri-colour over the weekend, while another group of Indian-Americans are celebrating the 75th Independence Day over a ferry on the Hudson River. "India in these 75 years has emerged as a mature democracy and a pillar of global peace. This year is special for all of us. The United States has a Vice President who is of Indian origin," said Alok Kumar, an IT entrepreneur from New Jersey. In a Virginia suburb of Washington DC, hundreds of Indian-Americans are likely to gather to celebrate Independence Day with film star Anupam Kher and live performance by Sukhbir Singh on Sunday. Top politicians from Maryland and Virginia are likely to attend. "India's Independence Day is three days away, but Queens is getting the celebration started early with our Independence Day ceremony tonight at 6 pm. Join us as we honour the contributions of the thousands of Indian-Americans call Queens home," said Queens Borough President Donovan Richard. "Queens would not be the place it is without our thriving Indian-American community," he added. In Boston, Niren Chaudhary, CEO of Panera Bread will be the Chief Guest at India Day Festival organised by India Association of Greater Boston. Berklee Indian Ensemble from Berklee College of Music will stage a live concert here, organisers said. In fact, several hundred independence day celebrations are being organised across the county, with scores of them being attended by Congressmen and State Governors. The Connecticut Chapter of the Global Organisation of People of Indian Origin (GOPIO-CT) celebrated India's democracy and the unity and diversity of India and Indian Americans, in Stamford on August 8. Connecticut General Assembly has issued a citation honouring the Indian Day Celebration. In his proclamation Samford Mayor David Martin said that the Indian Independence was marked largely by non-violent resistance and civil disobedience and the Independence Day is celebrated by the Indian Diaspora worldwide. The proclamation further noted that Stamford city will honour Indian community which is an integral part of city's diversity, success and great future. Aligarh Alumni Association of Metro Washington, in association with GOPIO organised its annual Independence Day Mushaira / Kavi Sammelan program on August 8, 2021. Last week, Indian Americans living in Long Island part of New York organised India Day parade as well. The City of Cupertino and Cupertino-Bhubaneswar Sister City Initiative have announced plans to celebrate the 75th Anniversary of India Independence Day on August 17. The South Asian Engagement Foundation said it is working with The Durst Organisation to light up the One World Trade Center's 408 feet tall and 758-tonne spire as well as its podium in hues of the Indian tricolour on August 15th. As part of the celebrations, other Durst installations at One Bryant Park and One Five One in mid-town Manhattan will also be lit up in the tricolours. The lighting would turn on at sunset, New York City time, on August 15th on the spire of One World Trade Center, One Bryant Park and One Five One in mid-town and remain lit until 2:00 AM. Additionally, the Indian tricolour would be visible on the podium of the World Trade Center. Traditionally, the Empire State Building in New York is lit every year in the Indian tricolours on the occasion of the country's independence day. Mark Domino of The Durst Organisation, who oversees Spireworks, said in the statement that his company is proud to partner with the South Asian Engagement Foundation as it celebrates India entering its 75th year of Independence. Rahul Walia, the founding trustee of SAEF, described the event as a historic moment commemorating India's Independence and most importantly the expression of love between the US and India. "We hope to continue the tradition and enhance the experience for everyone with more imagery on the podium, he said. The South Asian Engagement Foundation is a non-profit organisation based in New Jersey with a mission to increase leadership potential in Indian-American communities by providing incentives using educational initiatives and civic engagements. Amongst its initiatives, SAEF supports programs like the South Asian Spelling Bee and the Cricket Bee. The Durst Organisation, founded in 1915 by Joseph Durst, is the owner, manager and builder of 13 million square feet of premiere Manhattan office towers and over three million square feet of residential rental properties with 2,500 rental apartments built, and over 3,500 in the pipeline.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
13-08-2021||India||Scrapping policy will help phase out unfit vehicles, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched the national vehicle scrappage policy, saying it will help phase out unfit and polluting vehicles and also promote a circular economy. The policy will give a new identity to India's mobility and auto sector, Modi said in a video address to the Investor Summit held to invite investment for setting up vehicle scrapping infrastructure under the Voluntary Vehicle-Fleet Modernization Programme. We are promoting a circular economy. The aim is to develop a sustainable and environment-friendly economy, he said. A circular economy is one where products are designed for durability, reuse and recyclability. The policy will give a new identity to India in the mobility and auto sector, Modi said. "This policy will play a major role in removing unfit vehicles from our roads in a scientific manner. It will modernise the vehicular population on our city roads, he said. The prime minister said that India should work for clean, congestion free and convenient mobility in the 21st century. The policy will play a key role in 'Waste to Wealth' programme, Modi said, adding it will also help in reducing pollution in our cities. The launch of Vehicle Scrappage Policy today is a significant milestone in India's development journey. The Investor Summit in Gujarat for setting up vehicle scrapping infrastructure opens a new range of possibilities. I would request our youth & start-ups to join this programme, Modi tweeted before the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
13-08-2021||India||Twitter interfering in India's political process, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday accused Twitter of being biased and interfering in the country's political process by blocking his account. In a strong attack, Gandhi said Twitter was denying his millions of followers the right to an opinion and termed it as an attack on the democratic structure of the country. The former Congress chief asked whether Indians should allow companies just because they are beholden to the Government of India to define our politics. "It's obvious now that Twitter is actually not a neutral, objective platform. It is a biased platform. It's something that listens to what the government of the day says," he charged in a video message posted on social media. "By shutting down my Twitter they are interfering in our political process. A company is making its business to define our politics. And as a politician I don't like that," he said. "This is an attack on the democratic structure of the country. This is not an attack on Rahul Gandhi. This is not you know simply shutting Rahul Gandhi down. I have 19-20 million followers. You are denying them the right to an opinion. That's what you are doing," Gandhi said in his video message. As Indians, he asked, "we have to ask the question: are we going to allow companies just because they are beholden to the Government of India to define our politics for us". "Is that what this is going to come to? Or are we going to define our politics on our own? That's the real question here," the Congress leader said. He alleged that this is not only patently unfair, this is their breaching the idea that Twitter is a neutral platform. And for the investors this is a very dangerous thing because taking sides in the political contest has repercussions for Twitter, Gandhi said. "Our democracy is under attack. We are not allowed to speak in Parliament. The media is controlled. And I thought there was a ray of light where we could put what we thought on Twitter. But obviously, that's not the case," he said. Twitter had temporarily suspended Gandhi's account after he shared pictures of the family of a nine-year-old victim of alleged rape and murder in Delhi, which is against the rules and the law. Twitter on its part has said that it has followed the due process as Gandhi's tweet on the family of the victim was against its rules and the law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
13-08-2021||India||Bombay HC flags parking problem, says families without adequate space must not own multiple vehicles||Expressing anguish over the lack of any uniform policy in Maharashtra over designated parking spaces for vehicles, the Bombay High Court has said that authorities must not allow citizens to own multiple personal vehicles if they didn't have adequate parking space. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni said on Thursday that authorities "should not allow families owning only one flat to have four or five cars if they do not have sufficient parking space" available in their respective housing societies. The bench was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by a Navi Mumbai resident and activist Sandeep Thakur, challenging a government notification that amended the Unified Development Control and Promotion Regulations Rules, permitting developers to reduce car parking space. Thakur said in his plea that developers do not provide sufficient parking spaces in new highrises, thereby forcing residents to park outside the premises of the housing society. "Reduction in the purchase of new cars is needed. You can't permit one family to have four to five vehicles just because they can afford it. You should cross-check if they have parking spaces or not," the high court said. The HC questioned the rules challenged in the PIL and said there will be "chaos if a proper policy on vehicle parking is not formulated". "All roads are flooded with vehicles and everywhere, 30 per cent space of roads is taken away by parking on both sides. It is a common phenomenon," it said. "These are genuine public concerns which have to be taken into consideration to come up with long-term measures so that we do not have a chaotic society. There has to be a policy in place." The high court directed state's counsel Manish Pable to file a reply to the PIL within two weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
13-08-2021||India||India records over 40,000 fresh Covid cases, 585 casualties in a day||India saw a single-day rise of 40,120 coronavirus infections, taking the tally of cases to 3,21,17,826, while the recovery rate rose to 97.46 per cent, the highest recorded so far, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated Friday. The death toll, meanwhile, climbed to 4,30,254 with 585 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The ministry said the number of active cases has declined to 3,85,227 or 1.20 per cent of the total cases, the lowest percentage since March 2020. A decline of 2,760 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, the data showed. The recovery rate has risen to 97.46 per cent, the country's highest since the start of the pandemic, the ministry said. Also, 19,70,495 tests were conducted Thursday, taking the cumulative tests carried out so far for the detection of COVID-19 in the country to 48,94,70,779. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.04 per cent. It has been below 3 per cent for the last 19 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.13 per cent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,13,02,345, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 52.95 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered till Tuesday morning. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 585 new fatalities include 208 from Maharashtra and 160 from Kerala. A total of 4,30,254 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,34, 572 from Maharashtra, 36,911 from Karnataka, 34,428 from Tamil Nadu, 25,068 from Delhi, 22,780 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,280 from Kerala and 18,268 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-322
13-08-2021||India||Death toll rises to 15 in landslide in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district  ||The death toll in the landslide in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district has climbed to 15 with the recovery of one more body on Friday, a senior disaster management official said. Rescue operations resumed this morning to trace the 15 others still missing in the landslide that occurred near Chaura village in the district on Wednesday. While 10 bodies were recovered on Wednesday, four were found on Thursday from the landslide site.Besides 13 people were rescued on Wednesday itself. State Disaster Management Director, Sudesh Kumar Mokhta, said search and rescue operations resumed at around 5.30 am. The authorities had suspended the search operation on Thursday night. A Bolero and its passengers feared buried under the rubble could not be traced, Mokhta said, adding that it might be possible that the vehicle rolled down with the debris. The rescue operation is being carried out jointly by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and the members of local police and home guards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
13-08-2021||India||Three-year-old injured in grenade attack on BJP leader's house dies in JK's Rajouri||A three-year-old child succumbed to injuries he sustained after terrorists lobbed a grenade on the residence of a BJP leader in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri, officials said Friday. Veer was among the seven members of BJP leader Jasbir Singh's family who were injured in the attack on his house in Khandli area of the district last night, they said. Veer succumbed to his injuries during treatment at the government medical college hospital in Rajouri around midnight, sources said. The body been handed over to the family for last rites, they said. The BJP strongly condemned the attack and appealed to the police to immediately arrest those responsible for it. The incident triggered protests by locals and the BJP leader's kin who alleged Singh was not provided enough security. Singh was also injured in the attack. Soon after the attack, police and security force conducted searches in and around the town. Terming the incident an act of cowardice, J&K BJP chief Ravinder Raina said terror attacks on BJP leaders were being orchestrated by Pakistan. "We strongly condemn the attack. Police should immediately arrest the terrorists responsible for it," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
13-08-2021||India||CJI dwells on retirement age for Supreme Court and HC judges||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Thursday appeared to throw his weight behind the growing demand for raising the retirement age for Supreme Court and high court judges. Justice Ramana’s remark came at the farewell to Justice R.F. Nariman, who retired on Thursday at the age of 65. “The retirement of luminaries such as brother Nariman who are repositories of legal acumen makes one wonder if a person’s age is the appropriate yardstick to decide the tenure and time of retirement,” the Chief Justice said. Justice Ramana’s comment comes at a time massive vacancies of judges in the country — amid a huge backlog of cases — has strained relations between the judiciary and the Centre, which is seen as delaying judges’ appointments. Earlier, attorney-general K.K. Venugopal and the Supreme Court Bar Association, including its president Vikas Singh, had demanded raising the retirement age for Supreme Court judges from the current 65 to 70 and that for high court judges from 62 to 65. About 40 per cent of judges’ posts are vacant in the high courts, which have a sanctioned strength of 1,080 judges. Justice Nariman’s retirement has reduced the Supreme Court’s strength to 24 judges against a sanctioned strength of 31. On April 20, vexed with the government’s attitude, a special apex court bench of then Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Surya Kant had issued several directives to the Centre to speed up judges’ appointments. It had also used its extraordinary powers to allow the appointment of retired judges as ad hoc judges of high courts to clear the backlog of 57 lakh high court cases. “The high courts are in a crisis situation. There are almost 40 per cent vacancies in the high courts, with many of the larger high courts working under 50 per cent of their sanctioned strength,” the bench had said. One reason for the vacancies is that the judiciary often struggles to find an immediate replacement for a retired judge because of a dearth of suitable candidates. Another is the Centre’s tendency to sit on recommendations from the collegiums of judges. There’s been constant friction between the Narendra Modi government and the judiciary on the subject since a constitution bench in 2014 struck down as “unconstitutional” the National Judicial Appointments Commission that sought to give the government a larger say in judges’ appointments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
13-08-2021||India||Congress members change Twitter DP to Rahul Gandhi's to protest locking of his account||When you open Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s Twitter handle, Rahul Gandhi’s image pops up as the profile photograph. Youth Congress president B.V. Srinivas’s Twitter account too shows Rahul’s name and photograph. Open party spokesperson Supriya Shrinate’s account, and again you see Rahul. The Congress calls it “lock-tantra”, no relation to loktantra, or democracy. Rahul’s Twitter account remains locked. Many Congress leaders have changed their profile picture to show solidarity with the former party president. Some have added Rahul’s name to their handles to send out a firm message to the social media giant. The Congress on Thursday alleged that the accounts of hundreds of its leaders, state units and frontal outfits too had been locked. The party initially claimed the number could be 5,000 but sources later said it was difficult to count every such locked handle across the country. Among the prominent accounts that have been locked are the party’s official handle as well as those of Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala; general secretaries K.C. Venugopal, Ajay Maken and Harish Rawat; office-bearers Manickam Tagore, Sushmita Dev, Jitendra Singh, Rajni Patil, Gourav Vallabh, Ripun Bora, Balasaheb Thorat, Pawan Khera and Revanth Reddy; and social media head Rohan Gupta. The party is using other social media platforms, describing Twitter’s action as an “attack on free speech”. Rahul’s Twitter account was locked after he tweeted photographs of himself with the parents of a nine-year-old Dalit girl who had died after being allegedly raped in Delhi. According to India’s child rights watchdog, the post violated the laws protecting the identity of alleged victims of sexual assault. Rahul has posted several messages on Instagram, indicating he isn’t rattled by the Twitter action. “If showing compassion and empathy is a crime — then I am guilty. If fighting for justice for a rape and murder victim is a crime — then I am guilty. They can lock us out on a platform. But they can’t lock our voice for the sake of the people. The message of compassion, love and justice is universal. 1.3 billion people will not be silenced.” Priyanka, the Congress general secretary, posted several messages on Twitter, saying: “Is Twitter following its own policy for the suspension of Congress leaders’ accounts or the Modi government’s? Why hadn’t it locked the account of SC commission that had tweeted similar photos before any of our leaders did?” She added: “By locking Congress leaders’ accounts en masse, Twitter is blatantly colluding with the stifling of democracy by the BJP government in India. While the BJP government in cahoots with Twitter locks down the voices that cry for justice, let’s not forget the real issue. “The real issue is the brutal rape and forced cremation of a 9-year-old Dalit girl in the heart of India’s national capital. The real issue is the Delhi police disallowing the lodging of an FIR for 15 hours. Narendra Modi, why have you not uttered a single word about this heinous crime against an innocent child?” Shrinate alleged that Twitter was acting under pressure from the Modi government. She underscored that Twitter’s policy says action won’t be taken if the information is already available elsewhere and the intention is not to cause harm or defame but to help someone. Srinivas put out several messages showing a post by the BJP’s IT cell head, Amit Malviya, that purportedly reveals the identity of the Hathras rape victim and her mother. Twitter response In response to this newspaper’s queries on Twitter locking out more Congress leaders, the micro-blogging site merely repeated its policy statement that it had sent on Wednesday relating to Rahul being locked out. This newspaper sent the following questions on Thursday to Twitter officials in India: Keya Madhvani Singh, head of communications in Mumbai, and Pallavi Walia, head of policy communications in Delhi. 1a) Under which specific rule of Twitter has Congress leaders’ accounts been locked? b) Kindly list the specific rule they have violated, as you have not listed any specific rule in response to a query sent by The Telegraph yesterday for the locking of member of Parliament Rahul Gandhi’s account. I am unable to find any specific rule in the “Help Centre” link you have given which prohibits any content shared by Mr Gandhi. Could you please tell me the specific rule under which Mr Gandhi has been locked out of his account for a week now? 2. The owners of the locked accounts have received a message saying that their tweets — challenging Twitter on the locking of Mr Gandhi’s handle — violated rules on posting private information. The said tweets do not contain any photograph. Could you please explain what the private information is that was revealed in their tweets and have led to the locking of their handles? 3. Has Twitter ever restricted multiple accounts of Opposition parties and their leaders simultaneously in other countries, during a session of their respective legislatures or during their participation in public campaigns? 4. Former BJP MP Anju Bala, the National Commission of Scheduled Castes (NCSC) and several other users had also tweeted photos of the same people on August 2, that Mr Gandhi did two days later. Regarding this, could you please clarify on record which specific rule was applied to the Congress leaders that does not apply to Ms Bala, the NCSC and other users who tweeted photos of the parents of a deceased girl? A Twitter spokesperson replied: “The Twitter Rules are enforced judiciously and impartially for everyone on our service. We have taken proactive action on several hundred Tweets that posted an image that violated our Rules, and may continue to do so in line with our range of enforcement options. “Certain types of private information carry higher risks than others, and our aim is always to protect individuals’ privacy and safety. We strongly encourage everyone on the service to familiarise themselves with the Twitter Rules and report anything they believe is in violation.” Additional reporting by Pheroze L. Vincent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
13-08-2021||India||Opposition not allowed to raise issues in the House: Rahul Gandhi||Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said the Opposition was not allowed to raise issues concerning the farmers, the poor, the youth and the Pegasus snooping controversy in Parliament because Prime Minister Narendra Modi was selling India to a chosen few industrialists. Leading a group of 14 political parties in a symbolic march of protest from Parliament to Vijay Chowk in the morning, the Congress MP said: “I want to tell the country why the Opposition was not allowed to speak, to raise issues about the poor, the farmers, youth. Who stopped the Opposition from speaking? The Prime Minister. Hindustan ka pradhan mantri Hindustan ko bech raha hai (India’s Prime Minister is selling India). He is selling India’s soul to a few industrialists.” Rahul and the other MPs had assembled in Parliament in protest against the move to adjourn the session two days before the scheduled closure without allowing Opposition members to speak on any of the issues they were agitated about while the government’s business was completed in the turmoil. The leaders of almost every party pointed to the peril Indian democracy was in and vowed to fight the Modi government’s authoritarianism on the streets. Rahul said: “The session is over without the participation of 60 per cent of the population. The voice of 60 per cent of India was crushed, humiliated. In the Rajya Sabha yesterday (Wednesday), MPs were physically beaten for the first time. We are speaking from here because we were not allowed to discuss the price rise, farmers’ agitation and the Pegasus snooping inside the House. This is nothing short of the murder of democracy.” Rahul flared up when a reporter asked him about the pain and anguish expressed by the Lok Sabha Speaker and Rajya Sabha Chairman over the continued disruptions, saying: “Are you a government spokesperson? You are worried about the pain felt by presiding officers. What is their responsibility? Why did they not run Parliament? Why can’t the Opposition speak in Parliament?” The Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut said: “What session if the Opposition couldn’t speak? The session hasn’t happened. What happened is murder of democracy. Last night in the Rajya Sabha, I felt I was standing at the Pakistan border. Never seen such scenes in Parliament. Marshals and private people in uniform attacked women members. But the Opposition is united and will protect democracy.” Many other leaders alleged that outsiders had come to Parliament and behaved like “goondas”. An Opposition delegation called on Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu and lodged a strong protest at the manner the House was conducted. A letter written to Naidu by the leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge of the Congress, and signed by all the parties, said: “The Opposition strongly condemns the authoritarian attitude and undemocratic actions of the government. We remain committed to continue our struggle against the assault on parliamentary democracy and agitate on issues of national importance and people’s concerns.” The Opposition parties also issued a joint statement that accused the government of deliberately derailing the session knowing full well that the Opposition wanted to discuss four issues — Pegasus snooping, the farmers’ agitation, inflation and economic situation. Arguing that the government was hell-bent on escaping parliamentary scrutiny, they said it relied on brute majority to misuse Parliament and the power of propaganda to mislead the nation. Later in the evening, Trinamul’s Derek O’Brien and the RJD’s Manoj Jha responded to the defence of the government’s conduct by eight ministers with eight questions: 1. Why was Modi not present in House during the passage of the OBC constitutional amendment bill? 2. Why were 38 bills bulldozed through without discussion and within minutes? 3. Why are bills not sent to select committees for proper parliamentary scrutiny? 4. Why the rain of ordinances? 5. Why has the PM not answered one question in the last five years? 6. Why has a Lok Sabha deputy Speaker not been elected? 7. Why were discussions not allowed on Pegasus, farmers and inflation? and 8. Whose responsibility is it to run Parliament? Rahul continued his attack on the government at a massive “Halla Bol (Raise your voice)” demonstration organised by the party’s Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes department, saying: “The Prime Minister is attacking India’s Constitution in connivance with a few industrialists. We are not allowed to raise people’s concerns in Parliament. Yesterday MPs were beaten up inside Parliament. Modi first tries to snatch farmers’ rights and then brands them terrorist. Even the media is not working for the country; they work for the RSS, Modi and the interests of some industrialists.” But he predicted: “This is a country of mature people. They are gradually understanding the game. The poor, Dalits, farmers, workers are beginning to speak in one voice. This voice will get stronger and raise a storm one day, throwing out the Modi regime. We don’t have to fear these cowards. If you stop getting frightened, they will run away. The job of the Congress is to tell the citizens that India belongs to everyone and there is no need to fear.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
13-08-2021||India||ISRO Earth observation satellite suffers mid-flight engine failure||India’s space programme encountered a setback on Thursday when its Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle, after a successful launch, suffered a mid-flight engine problem and failed to ferry an advanced Earth observation satellite into space. Space sector analysts say the failure is likely to push back the country’s GSLV-linked projects by months and might add further delays to India’s plans for human space missions, already disrupted by delays linked to Covid-19. The 15-storey tall, three-stage GSLV lifted off from the Sriharikota island spaceport on the Andhra Pradesh coast at 5.43am. All appeared to go well for nearly five minutes when something went wrong in the rocket’s third stage — the critical cryogenic engine. “(The) performance of first and second stages was normal. However, (the) cryogenic upper stage ignition did not happen due to (a) technical anomaly. The mission couldn’t be accomplished as intended,” the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) said in a statement. The rocket and its passenger — described by Isro as the country’s first state-of-the-art agile Earth Observation Satellite (EOS-3) — were at the time of the anomaly at an altitude of over 130km above the Bay of Bengal, nearly 800km from Sriharikota. The Isro statement did not specify the fate of the launch vehicle, but space sector analysts believe the rocket and the satellite would have fallen into the sea. The EOS-3 was to have been used to monitor cloudbursts, thunderstorms, crops, forests, waterbodies, and to deliver images of large areas at far frequent intervals than possible with existing satellites. While the loss of the rocket and satellite is a setback, space sector analysts said the failure analysis investigation that Isro is certain to initiate is expected to throw light on the source of the problem leading to the failure. “We’ve seen a string of successful GSLV flights — it is a proven operational launch vehicle,” said Gagan Agrawal, a space industry executive who was formerly with the Isro and Northern Sky Research, a global space market research company. The flight was the 14th GSLV launch and the eighth GSLV flight powered by a homegrown cryogenic engine. After two launch failures in April and December 2010, all the six GSLV launches since 2014 have been successful. “Given that what happened today could likely be a nuts-and-bolts or supplies or a quality control issue, I’d expect Isro to bounce back within months to a year,” Agrawal said. The anomaly occurred in what many space technology engineers consider the most complex and challenging of GSLV’s stages — the cryogenic engine, fuelled by liquid oxygen and liquid hydrogen — required for the final stages of the flight. “This is not anything unusual — liquid oxygen-hydrogen combos are known to be very temperamental,” a former top Isro official and senior space technology expert told The Telegraph. “Other space agencies have also had ignition-in-vacuum issues.” But the GSLV failure in April 2010 had also occurred due to a cryogenic stage ignition failure. “Given that this is a repeat failure, I would mandate a deep academia-based investigation on ignition issues in cryogenic engines,” said the expert who requested anonymity. “But who will mandate such an investigation? The culture of getting outside expertise in failure analysis died with Satish Dhawan.” Dhawan, the Isro chairman from 1972 to 1984, had given shape to India’s space programme and was respected for his unique management style that included drawing expertise from outside the space agency. He died in 2002. Isro plans to use an advanced version of the GSLV called Mark-III for its human space missions that were initially envisioned for 2022 but have been delayed. Isro chairman K. Sivan had told PTI in July this year that the first uncrewed mission planned for December, as part of preparations for the human space flight programme, will be delayed. “It’s delayed. It (the uncrewed mission) will shift to next year,” Sivan had told PTI. The planned three-astronaut mission will have to be preceded by two uncrewed flights. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on August 15, 2018, announced that Isro would sent an astronaut into space by or before 2022. The Centre had in December 2018 approved Rs 9,023 crore for the plan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
13-08-2021||India||Muslim man thrashed in Kanpur for alleged molestation||A Muslim man was thrashed on a Kanpur street on Wednesday by alleged supporters of the Bajrang Dal and other Hindutva outfits who accused him of molesting a woman. A video circulated on social media shows a girl, aged five or six, crying and trying to save a middle-aged man who is being punched, kicked and dragged along the road by a dozen-strong mob. Local people told reporters the girl was the victim’s daughter and that many of the attackers were associated with Sangh parivar outfits. The police have registered an FIR for “assault, rioting and threatening to kill” but not for spreading enmity among religious groups. No one has been arrested yet. When The Telegraph rang Raveena Tyagi, deputy commissioner of police for South Kanpur Nagar, city police PRO Brijesh Kumar Singh took the call. “The police registered a case immediately. A probe is in progress. Madam (Tyagi) has released a video of her statement on Twitter,” he said. Tyagi says in the statement: “A video has come to light in which some people are beating a man in Kachchi Basti area near Ram Gopal Chauraha. We have registered a case against some identified and unidentified persons on the basis of a complaint from the victim. We are taking action against the accused.” Earlier on Wednesday, Tyagi had told local reporters: “Afsar Ahmad, the victim, was accused by a woman on July 12 of inducing her to convert.” Police sources said the woman had accused Afsar of offering her money to convert, which she rejected. Afsar couldn’t be contacted. “A few days later, Afsar’s wife accused the woman’s husband of molesting her. On July 31, the woman who had accused Afsar of inducement filed a fresh case of molestation against him,” Tyagi said. She didn’t confirm the involvement of Hindutva outfits in the assault on Afsar and said Ajay Kumar, who runs a brass band, his son Don and eight to 10 unidentified people had attacked him. “The police had rushed to the spot and saved Afsar,” Tyagi said. She did not explain why Ajay and Don had not been arrested. Dilip Singh, district convener of the Bajrang Dal, said members of his group had grabbed Afsar and were taking him to the police station. “The woman who was being induced to convert had come to us and we were taking the accused to the police station. We cannot sit silent if our sisters and daughters are targeted,” Singh said. Told that the video showed the mob beating Afsar, he declined comment. Police sources said they were probing the inducement and molestation allegations too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
13-08-2021||India||Ministers are threatened in New India, says Pralhad Joshi||The Centre on Thursday fielded eight ministers to launch a counter-attack on the Opposition, accusing it of threatening behaviour, denigrating Parliament and seeking an apology and strongest possible action. The eight ministers were fielded in response to the Opposition’s attack on the government over the ruckus in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. The ministers took turns to attack the Opposition, claiming there was an attempt to “strangulate” the Rajya Sabha marshals and denigrate the Chair, before demanding an “apology to the country”. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi claimed the Opposition had “threatened a disastrous situation” if the government tried to pass more bills after the passage of the OBC bill. “In the morning itself (on Wednesday), we were threatened. I am using the words very carefully,” Joshi said. “We were threatened that if we try to pass the insurance and other bills after the OBC bill, there will be a more disastrous situation than what had happened yesterday,” he added, pointing out that the government decided to end the monsoon session two days before schedule because of the threat. Joshi claimed the threatening words were “clearly and unambiguously” addressed to the government when it approached the Opposition seeking cooperation to pass the bills. The minister said they had met Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu and demanded “strong action” against the Opposition members to prevent a repetition of such misconduct. “I demand that if they have little sense of responsibility and democracy, they should apologise to the country,” Joshi said. After Joshi, leader of the House in the Rajya Sabha, Piyush Goyal, took over and accused the Opposition of trying to divert attention by making claims on manhandling of MPs by marshals to escape action for their “shameful conduct”. He firmly denied the Opposition charge that outsiders were deployed inside the Rajya Sabha. “A total of 30 marshals were there, 18 men and 12 women. No outsiders,” Goyal claimed. His claim, however, didn’t match the statement issued by Naidu’s office. “Later in the day, the officials (of the Rajya Sabha) reported to Chairman Shri Naidu that no outsiders were deployed as marshals... only watch and ward staff of the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha secretariats were deployed, which is permitted, based on the need,” the statement from Naidu’s office said. The statement added: “They (RS officials) also informed that only 13 marshals were deployed to start with and was gradually scaled up to 42, based on the situation in the House.” Asked why the government couldn’t break the stalemate as the Opposition was only demanding a discussion on the Pegasus row in both Houses, Goyal said a suo motu statement had been made by information technology minister Ashwini Vaishnaw. “A suo motu statement (on Pegasus) was given by the minister. In the Rajya Sabha, the Opposition would have got ample opportunity to seek clarifications and ask questions,” Goyal said. The Opposition had demanded a detailed discussion and clarification from home minister Amit Shah on the Pegasus row as it involved national security. On the allegation that bills were passed without discussion, the ministers said the government was ready but Opposition rejected it. “It was pre-decided by the Congress and its friendly parties that they will not allow Parliament to function,” Joshi said. He justified the passage of bills amid the din, saying it was “basic duty of Parliament to pass bills”. The ministers said they had demanded a high-level inquiry into the ruckus inside the House on Wednesday and “strongest possible action” against the Opposition MPs. The government’s delegation of eight ministers met Naidu after his meeting with a group of Opposition leaders. On the Opposition’s claim that the passage and timing of the bill to privatise general insurance companies was in violation of norms, the government denied it. The government delegation told Naidu that the passage of the bill on Wednesday was “preceded by discussions with leaders of some Opposition parties and was in pursuance of an earlier understanding that the House would sit beyond the scheduled hours, if required, to complete the business of the day”. Asked about NCP chief Sharad Pawar’s statement that in his 55 years of parliamentary career he had never seen women MPs being attacked, Goyal said the veteran leader had been misinformed. “Mr Pawar has been wrongly informed,” Goyal said and asked how the veteran leader could “condone” the misconduct of his Opposition colleagues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
13-08-2021||India||Merit always comes first, says Rohinton Fali Nariman||Justice Rohinton Fali Nariman, the second senior-most judge of the Supreme Court, demitted office on retirement on Thursday amid glowing tributes by judges and lawyers at an event organised by the Supreme Court Bar Association. Justice Nariman, besides reviving the Babri Masjid demolition conspiracy charges in April 2017 against BJP leaders L. K. Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharati, Kalyan Singh and others, was part of the nine-judge constitution bench in the 2017 Justice K. Puttaswamy vs Union of India case in which the top court had ruled that the right to privacy was part of the fundamental rights under Article 21, which guarantees life and personal liberty. He was also part of the five-judge constitution bench in the triple talaq row in which the top court by a majority of 3:2 declared the age-old practice as unconstitutional. In 2015, Justice Nariman, heading a two-judge bench in the Shreya Singhal vs Union of India case, had struck down as unconstitutional Section 66A of the IT Act, which had empowered the authorities to put in jail any person articulating dissenting or critical views on the Internet. At the event organised by the SCBA, Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana said few were aware that “at the tender age of 12 years, while other children were probably busy playing cricket or something else, Brother Nariman became an ordained priest of the Parsi faith. This extraordinary grooming explains the evolution of his work ethic, commitment, focus and brilliance”. Justice Nariman said: “I believe nobody has a ‘legitimate expectation’ to come to this court. I believe there is a ‘legitimate expectation’ in the people of India and the litigating public to get a certain quality of justice from this final court. For that, it is very clear, merit must predominate, subject to other factors. But merit always comes first.” CJI Ramana said Justice Nariman had left an indelible mark on the jurisprudence of the country by authoring 350 judgments as a judge of the Supreme Court and disposing of nearly 13,565 cases. “I feel like I am losing one of the lions that guarded the judicial institution,” Justice Ramana said. Justice Ramana took the opportunity to debunk “a misconception in the minds of the people that judges stay in big bungalows, work only from 10am to 4pm and enjoy their holidays”. “Such a narrative is untrue. It is not easy to prepare for more than 100 cases every week, listen to novel arguments, do independent research, and author judgments, while also dealing with the various administrative duties of a judge, particularly of a senior judge. “We either burn the midnight oil, or wake up before sunrise, or sometimes even both, to fulfil our judicial duties. We continue to work even during the court holidays, do research and author pending judgments. Therefore, when false narratives are created about the supposed easy life led by judges, it is difficult to swallow. “We cannot defend ourselves. It is the duty of the Bar to refute these false narratives and to educate the public about the work put in by judges with the limited resources given to them,” Justice Ramana said. Justice Nariman underlined the need for more members from the Bar to be appointed as judges of the Supreme Court and asserted that merit should be the sole criteria for appointment as judges. Justice Nariman was directly elevated from the Bar to the Supreme Court as a judge in 2014. Since 2005, judges and chief justices of the high courts were normally elevated to the Supreme Court as judges but the convention of elevating lawyers was revived in 2014 by the Supreme Court collegium headed by then CJI R.M. Lodha, who had elevated senior lawyers like R.F. Nariman and U.U. Lalit. Between 2005 and 2013, the convention of appointing senior advocates directly from the Bar to the Supreme Court was stopped for some inexplicable reasons, only to be revived in 2014. Several judges of the Supreme Court and various high courts, attorney-general K.K. Venugopal, SCBA president Vikas Singh and other legal luminaries were present at the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
13-08-2021||India||RTI activist Saket Gokhale joins Trinamul Congress in New Delhi||RTI activist Saket Gokhale joined the Trinamul Congress in the capital on Thursday in the presence of recent entrant from the BJP, Yashwant Sinha, and other senior leaders such as Saugata Roy and Derek O’Brien. Interacting with the media after joining Trinamul, Gokhale appeared appreciative of the party’s ability to take an aggressive stand on issues. “The TMC is the second-largest Opposition party in Parliament and it was my obvious choice. If you look at all the national parties, the TMC takes an aggressive stand. The way the chief minister of Bengal has been fighting on the front foot, that’s what I am looking for.” Explaining his decision on Twitter, Gokhale said: “The fight to safeguard our democracy & its institutions needs all hands on deck. I hope to contribute in the best way I can.... The battle for me remains what it always has been. I will continue to do what I do with greater strength. The need for Opposition unity today is greater than it has ever been. Everyone that is fighting the monster of BJP’s fascism is forever a friend & ally of mine.” It was in response to an RTI filed by Gokhale that the Union home ministry had in January last year said it “has no information concerning tukde-tukde gang”. Gokhale had filed the RTI application on December 26 after Union home minister Amit Shah had told a rally in Delhi that the “tukde-tukde gang” needed to be taught a lesson. Since the term was coined in the wake of protests at Jawaharlal Nehru University in 2016, the BJP leadership and the Right-wing ecosystem had been using it not just in the context of JNU but also that of political opponents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-323
13-08-2021||India||Covid: Probe must to establish oxygen death, says Manish Sisodia ||It is difficult to ascertain without a probe if there were any oxygen-related deaths during the second Covid-19 wave, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia has told Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya in a written communication. Addressing a news conference on Thursday, Sisodia said the Delhi government had  in June formed a committee to probe the deaths and prepare a report so that the affected families could be given a compensation of Rs 5 lakh each. “But through the LG (Delhi’s lieutenant governor), the Centre did not allow that committee to be formed. We are sending the file again to the Delhi LG. We will carry out the probe with full responsibility and even punish the guilty,” he said. Delhi has recorded over 25,000 fatalities because of the infection, he said, adding it will have to be probed how many of these were linked to the oxygen crisis during April and May. “We cannot say that there was no oxygen crisis. The families of patients, hospitals were sending out SOS messages for help at that time,” he said. Last month, Opposition parties had hit out at the government for informing Parliament that no deaths because of oxygen shortage were reported by states and Union Territories during the second wave. On Tuesday, a top official said only one state had till now reported “suspected” death due to oxygen shortage during the second wave after the Centre sought data from them on such fatalities following raising of the issue in Parliament.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
13-08-2021||India||Rape case: Supreme Court stays Gujarat High Court order granting two-week furlough to Narayan Sai||The Supreme Court on Thursday stayed a Gujarat High Court order granting a two-week furlough to rape convict Narayan Sai, son of self-styled godman Asaram Bapu who is also undergoing life term for another rape case in Rajasthan. The court, however, said it needed to examine whether the rules allowed the annual furlough on the basis of the calendar year or from 12 months after the last one was granted to a prisoner. A bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah issued a notice to Sai on Gujarat government’s plea challenging the high court’s single-judge order and stayed it till further orders. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Gujarat government, said the single-judge order of June 24, 2021, granted furlough to Sai for two weeks but the division bench had stayed it till August 13 and therefore the state had moved the top court challenging the June 24 order. The bench said that under the Bombay Furlough and Parole Rules, applicable in Gujarat as well, a prisoner could be granted furlough once every year after he completed seven years in jail. “The idea of furlough is that a prisoner gets away from the environment of jail and is able to meet his family members,” the bench said and asked Mehta about the grievances with the order. Mehta replied that under the rules and even in a judgment of this court, it had been held that furlough was not an absolute right and it depended on various factors. He said Sai and his father wielded considerable influence with money and muscle power. Mehta said they had tried to bribe police officials, mobile phones were recovered from their cell in jail and three prime witnesses crucial to their cases were killed. The bench said that now that he is convicted, all these contentions will not hold good as he was also granted furlough in December last year, which the state government has never challenged. Mehta said that last year Sai was granted furlough for two weeks as he wanted to visit his ailing mother and it was purely on humanitarian grounds that the state government did not find it appropriate to challenge that order. The bench then asked Mehta, whether during his last furlough were there any incidents of law and order situation or was there any danger to peace and tranquillity to which he replied that it is not on record. Mehta said: “Problem now is that he is seeking furlough as a matter of right that he should be released every year on furlough.” The bench said the point which needs examination is that under the rules it is said that a prisoner can avail furlough once every year after he serves seven years in imprisonment. “Whether once every year means once every calendar year or once every year means since the last time he got furlough. This is the point we need to examine. We are issuing notice to the respondent (Sai),” the bench said. It asked the counsel appearing for Sai to file his reply within a week and posted the matter for further hearing after two weeks. On April 26, 2019, Sai was convicted under the Indian Penal Code Sections 376 (rape), 377 (unnatural offences), 323 (assault), 506(2) (criminal intimidation) and 120B (conspiracy) by a Surat court and sentenced to life imprisonment. In 2013, after Asaram was arrested for allegedly raping a girl in Rajasthan, two Suratbased sisters had accused Asaram and his son of sexual exploitation. The elder sister had accused Asaram of sexual assaults between 1997 and 2006 when she lived at his Ahmedabad ashram. The younger sister had accused Sai of sexual assaults when she lived at Asaram’s ashram in the Jahangirpura area of Surat between 2002 and 2005. Sai was arrested from the Delhi-Haryana border in December 2013.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
13-08-2021||India||Allahabad court asks police to probe authenticity of academic certificates of Yogi’s deputy||An Allahabad court has asked police to probe the authenticity of the academic certificates and mark sheets of Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya following a forgery complaint from a BJP colleague. Right to Information activist and district-level BJP functionary Diwakar Nath Tripathi had lodged a case with additional chief judicial magistrate Namrata Singh’s court seeking a directive to the police to file a forgery case against Maurya. The court has asked the police to submit an inquiry report before the next hearing on August 25. “When Maurya filed his nomination for the Assembly elections from Allahabad West in 2007, he had furnished two mark sheets and an intermediate (Plus II) certificate from the Hindi Sahitya Sammelan, which is not recognised by any educational board,” Tripathi told The Telegraph. “Allahabad High Court and the Supreme Court had in the past ruled that the Sammelan’s degrees and certificates are not recognised.” The Sammelan conducts intermediate courses in the Hindi language and literature. Its first and second-year courses are called Prathama and Dwitiya. “Maurya contested Assembly elections from Allahabad West in 2007 and from Sirathu in 2014, the Lok Sabha elections from Phulpur in 2014, and the legislative council elections in 2017. Each time, his educational certificates were different. This indicates fraud,” Tripathi said. “The enrolment number mentioned in Maurya’s mark sheet for Dwitiya is fake. According to the Sammelan’s records, one Manju Singh was enrolled against the same number.” Maurya dismissed the case as “a politically motivated allegation before the Assembly elections” and hinted at a role by the Opposition. Tripathi’s answer to the question why he had filed a case against a leader of his own party suggested a personal grudge. “Maurya is bad-tempered.... I was in charge of the party membership drive in 2004 and inducted him into the BJP after the VHP had discarded him. He then began working against me,” he said. “I was regional vice-president of the Kashi Prant of the BJP till two years ago before Maurya hatched a conspiracy to remove me. The Samajwadi Party government had provided me with police security but Maurya withdrew it. I won’t spare him.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-324
