14-08-2021||India||Be prepared for any challenge, says Rajnath to Indian armed forces||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said efforts are being made to resolve the differences on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh through dialogue with China and that the process of disengagement has been completed at some places. In an address to the armed forces on the eve of the 75th Independence Day, Singh said the dimensions of security are constantly changing in the evolving environment and called upon the three services to be prepared for any challenge that may come their way. "I call upon you to be prepared for any challenge that may come your way. I assure you that the government is ready and will continue to always meet your and your loved ones' needs," he said, in comments that came in the backdrop of the deteriorating security scenario in Afghanistan. Singh said the Indian civilisation has always been peaceful since ancient times, but peace is not possible without power. "If non-violence is our ultimate duty, protecting the integrity of the nation is equally important. Therefore, we are ready to sacrifice anything for unity and integrity of the nation," he said. "In order to maintain peace and prosperity in the country, it is necessary that you should be alert and aware in protecting the nation wherever you are in water, land or sky," he said. The defence minister also said that the situation along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir remained in check over the last year due to vigilance and indomitable valour of the Indian armed forces. "Ceasefire violations have also come down since February 2021. The infiltration from across the border has stopped due to vigilance of the armed forces and para-military forces," he said in the address aired on All India Radio. "In eastern Ladakh, efforts are being made to resolve the differences on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) through dialogue with China. The process of disengagement has been completed at some places," he said referring to the border row with China. Both sides have already disengaged from areas around the North and South banks of Pangong lake as well as from Gogra. Referring to Army Subedar Neeraj Chopra's feat, Singh said he has made this year's Independence Day even sweeter by winning the gold medal in the Javelin throw event at the Tokyo Olympics. "Subedar Neeraj as well as other Olympic medalists have been specially invited to the Independence Day celebrations at the Red Fort tomorrow. I thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji for this," Singh said. The minister greeted the armed forces on the occasion of Independence Day. "The nation is ushering in an important phase of Independence from midnight today, the 75th year of it. There is an atmosphere of celebration all around the country on this momentous occasion," he said. The defence minister said the government has always been aware of the operational requirements of the armed force, adding the capital outlay has been increased from Rs 1.13 lakh crore to Rs 1.35 lakh crore in the Union Budget for 2021-22. He assured the armed forces that the government will take every step to protect the country. Referring to the acquisition of Rafale fighter jets to maintain the "operational edge" of the Indian Air Force, Singh said 26 aircraft out of 36 have already arrived in India and the remaining ones too will reach soon, adding the fleet will bring qualitative enhancement in the defence capability of the force. The defence minister said Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC) Vikrant completed its four-day maiden sea voyage on August 8 and that the construction of the warship is a major achievement of the 'Make in India' initiatives. "In another important initiative of 'Make in India', Ministry of Defence has launched a project worth over Rs 40,000 crore for construction of six conventional submarines named Project 75 (India) for Indian Navy on July 20," he said. He said the Request for Proposal (RFP) under the strategic partnership model has been issued for the programme to the partners selected for it, adding that these submarines will be very effective in protecting India's strategic interests. Singh also mentioned the Defence Research and Development Organisation's (DRDO) recent successful demonstration of the hypersonic scramjet technology with the testing of Hypersonic Technology Demonstration Vehicle (HSTDV). He also talked about the successful test-fired Agni P and some other missiles. The defence minister said that the government constituted the Special Number 5 Selection Board in September 2020 for the permanent commission of women officers following a judgement on the matter by the Supreme Court. He said on the recommendation of the board, permanent commission was awarded to some officers in November last year. "The Supreme Court in March 2021 had passed another order for permanent commission to women officers... "Thereafter, on the recommendation of the Board, 147 more women officers were awarded permanent commission last month," he said. So far, 424 women officers out of 615 have availed this benefit, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
14-08-2021||India||India at 75: More than 1.5 crore Indians record and upload national anthem on rashtragaan.in||More than 1.5 crore Indians have recorded and uploaded the national anthem on the government's portal rashtragaan.in to mark India's 75th Independence Day, the Ministry of Culture said on Saturday. On July 25, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had given a clarion call to the people of the country to sing the national anthem together in his Mann Ki Baat' radio programme. "More than 1.5 crore Indians from India and across the world have recorded and uploaded their videos to achieve a never done before record on this very special occasion. This is evidence of the inherent unity, strength and harmony of India, the culture ministry said in a statement. The ministry had created a programme to enable people to sing the national anthem Jana Gana Mana' by August 15 and upload it on the website. The government had also made it mandatory for all school children to record and upload the same. "As is evident from the record-breaking numbers, people from all parts of the country, from all sections have enthusiastically participated in this unique initiative. Children, senior citizens, youth, women, no one wanted to be left behind from this feeling of community and shared pride. "Eminent artists, well-known scholars, top leaders, senior officers, brave soldiers, famous sportsmen to farmers, labourers, people with special needs, everyone came together and sang the National Anthem in one voice," the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
14-08-2021||India||Covid: Third wave unpredictable, says AIIMS director||AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria said here on Saturday that the country might not see a third wave of coronavirus disease but it largely depended on people following Covid Appropriate Behaviour. Talking to reporters at the Gitam Institute, where he received the Foundation Day Award in recognition of his services, Guleria noted that the only unpredictable part was how the virus behaved. "But I don't think that we will see a third wave which will be as bad as the second wave," he observed. Referring to apprehensions that the possible third wave could infect children more, the AIIMS chief pointed out that children would be "more susceptible" because they were not being vaccinated. "The general feeling is that adults are getting vaccinated, children are not being vaccinated and therefore if there is a new wave it will affect those who are more susceptible. Children will be more susceptible," he noted. More than 50 per cent of children have already been infected as per the sero survey and have antibodies, Guleria pointed out. But, he added, hopefully there would be a (anti-Covid) vaccine for children also coming up in another month or two. Then, children would also start getting vaccinated. He said the vaccines were still effective as far as severe disease was concerned. "Vaccines are helping in preventing severe disease and death from Covid-19. Infections are still happening but those infected are predominantly those who have not been vaccinated. That's why we are saying more and more people need to get vaccinated," he added. "Those getting infected even after vaccination, what we call breakthrough infection, are predominantly getting milder infection. So vaccines are effective in giving protection from severe disease," he noted. Guleria, a renowned pulmonologist, was presented the Gitam Foundation Day Award that carried Rs 10 lakh and a citation. Gitam Institutions chairman M Sri Bharat presented the award and felicitated Guleria on the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
14-08-2021||India||Traffickers using social media to prey on schoolgirls, says child protection activists||With her school closed for over a year and little to do at home, 15-year-old Shahida (name changed) started spending more time on social media. Soon, the teenager was in a relationship with a 24-year-old man, Aadil, who contacted her on a social media site. He told her that he would send her to a good school and look after her well if she married him. Eventually, he managed to persuade the girl to elope with him. With her family struggling financially since her father lost his job during lockdown, Shahida was excited about the good life that Aadil promised to give her. At the end of May, when Aadil came to take Shahida with him, child representatives of the Village Child Protection Committee alerted a social worker who stopped the wedding in time. "Aadil made me believe that I could go to a good school if I married him. He said that would also make my school admission easier," said Shahida, who lives with her family in West Bengal's South 24 Parganas district. "I agreed to his proposal as I hoped to have one square meal a day. I never thought that there might be danger lurking for me," she said. Rita Paramick, a frontline child protection worker with Save the Children, who stopped Shahida's wedding, said Shahida's is one of the many cases of traffickers using social media to target children, who are spending a lot more time online as schools are closed and they can't even go out to play. "These days, traffickers have changed their modus operandi. Social media is one platform through which they trap young children like Shahida," she said. "Children have been out of school for more than a year now and girls like Shahida, who are living in extreme poverty, are always soft targets for predators," she added. Mamata Sardar, a youth advocate for Save the Children in West Bengal, said girls are increasingly being lured into marriage on social media. "As most children are now at home and attending classes online, they're glued to social media," she said. Sardar said she has stepped up vigilance as parents of many children have lost their jobs during the pandemic, leading to an increased possibility of child trafficking. She said she has counselled at least three girls who were almost ready to marry men who contacted them on social media. "Since the second wave of the pandemic, I have intervened to stop five child marriages and convinced the girls' parents to let them finish their education before they marry them off," she added. In one such case, the unemployed father of a 15-year-old girl fixed her marriage so that he would have one less mouth to feed. He didn't even consult his wife. When the girl's mother found out, she informed a frontline child protection worker of their village in South 24 Parganas. The frontline child protection worker made the girl's father understand that marrying her before the age of 18 was illegal and that he should let her continue her studies. Anindit Roy Chowdhury, director - Programmes and Policy, Save the Children, said child marriages have risen sharply during the pandemic and are even being held in villages that have not seen any in years. "Child marriage is extremely harmful to girls. Not only does it mean that they are unable to continue their education but also poses danger to their physical and mental health," he said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
14-08-2021||India||Opposition slams Centre after Piyush Goyal's remarks on business practices in country||Opposition leaders on Saturday latched on to a media report on Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal's criticism of business practices of Indian industry to attack the government with some also taking a swipe at India Inc for backing the ruling dispensation, saying "you reap what you sow". Speaking at a CII plenary session, Goyal reportedly asserted that the business practices of Indian industry went against national interests. According to a report in the The Hindu, Goyal repeatedly singled out the Tata Group in his comments and said, "Kya aapke jaisi company, ek do aapne shaayad koi videshi company kharid li Uska importance zyaada ho gaya, desh hith kam ho gaya? (A company like yours, maybe you bought one or two foreign companies, now their importance is greater than national interest)? However, sources close to the minister said his comments were represented out of context. "The thrust of his interaction was on national interest. The minister's heart-felt appeal must be viewed in its entirety and not singled out for slander," a source close to him said. Several Opposition leaders tagged the media report and attacked the government for the criticism of India Inc. Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said he was flabbergasted at Goyal's "unprovoked attacks" on Indian industry. "First, he ensured Rajya Sabha did not function at all, and now this bizarre tirade! He couldn't be speaking without official sanction, could he?" Ramesh said in a tweet. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the new "Modi mantra" is to abuse those who "Make in India". "The New Modi Mantra: Abuse those who 'Make in India'. Publicly insulting India's 'Industry and its icons' is now the modus operandi of 'Hum Do, Hamare do' Modi Government. Ease the doyens for 'ease of business'," tweeted Surjewala. "This is the new India. When industry requests for handholding, Government hands over a certificate of anti-nationalism ! 'Hum Do, Hamare Do Sarkar'," he also said. Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill claimed that by making this statement, Goyal has mocked Prime Minister Narendra Modi's slogan Ease of doing business in India . "BJP Ministers confusing 'Govt andhbhakti' with 'deshbhakti' while pretending to be franchise holders of Nationalism!" Shergill tweeted. On one hand the BJP government has given a contract to build the new Parliament of India to the Tatas and on the other hand BJP minister Goyal, according to media reports, is calling them anti-national, he said, adding that "BJP doublespeak knows no limits". Some leaders also took a swipe at India Inc for backing the BJP government in recent years. Senior Congress leader Manish Tewari said, "You reap what you sow INDIA INC." "Bombay Club 1.0 created NDA/BJP Govt between 2012-2014. Threw collective weight behind one individual and not even one party. And now @PiyushGoyal terms them anti-national," the former Union minister tweeted. Taking to Twitter, Aam Aadmi Party leader Raghav Chadha said, "Dear Corporate India, Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. Best wishes." Slamming the remarks, Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Priyanka Chaturvedi said the kind of language used against industry captains and calling their work against the nation's interest is shameful to the core. "CII should demand an apology instead of helping him by pulling down the video. Stand up to bullying!" she said. All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen chief Asaduddin Owaisi also took a dig at the government over Goyal's comments, saying Prime Minister Modi wants to take them into confidence but the minister wants to hold them accountable. How will this work, he asked. Trinamool Congress leader Mahua Moitra took a dig at Goyal over what she said was an "unhinged rant" at the CII meeting, saying the "pressure of working in an underperforming one man show must really be getting to them". Anil Swarup, a former Secretary of the government of India, said he had doubted it but Goyal did make the comments and asserted that what is appalling is that no one from the industry protested. "The industry acted worse than civil servants (at least some protested) when they were pilloried & called 'Babu' in Parliament," he said. Reacting to the comments, former IPS officer M Nageswara Rao said he was happy that Piyush Goyal spoke from his heart. "In less than a decade India's Rich became Super-Rich, while Non-Rich struggle to make both ends meet. All because of Central Govt's extraordinary focus on EASE OF DOING BUSINESS, rather than on EASE OF LIVING," he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
14-08-2021||India||India yet to come out of Covid-19’s devastating effects, says President ||President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday said Parliament is the ‘temple of the country's democracy’ which provides the highest forum to discuss, debate and decide issues for the well-being of people, remarks that came against the backdrop of the recent ruckus and continuous disruptions that led to the abrupt adjournment of the two Houses. In a televised address to the nation on the eve of the 75th Independence Day, the President also referred to the second Covid-19 wave, and said the country is yet to come out of its devastating effects. He asserted this is the time for extra care and caution, and people should not let their guard down. President Kovind also sought to address the concerns raised by protesting farmers' unions against the three contentious farm laws, saying the series of agricultural marketing reforms will empower our annadata' farmers and help them get better price for their produce. Referring to the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics, he lauded the "stellar" performance by the country's sportspersons. President Kovind said when India won independence, many sceptics thought democracy would not survive in India. Little did they know that roots of democracy were nurtured in this soil in ancient times, and even in modern times India was ahead of many western nations in offering franchise to all adults, regardless of any distinctions." The founding fathers had reposed their faith in the wisdom of the people, and we, the people of India' have made India a strong democracy, he added. We have adopted the system of parliamentary democracy. Therefore, our Parliament is the temple of our democracy which provides us highest forum where we discuss, debate and decide issues for the well-being of our people, the President said. Both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha were adjourned sine die on August 11, two days ahead of the scheduled date of August 13, after a tumultuous Monsoon session that witnessed unruly scenes in the Upper House on Wednesday when the Insurance bill was being passed. The Government and the opposition parties had traded charges over the abrupt end of the Monsoon session which was marred by continuous disruptions since it commenced on July 19. The opposition parties accused the government of crushing their voice in Parliament, "murdering" democracy and bringing "outsiders" as marshals to beat up MPs, a charge denied by the government. The government on its part had alleged that it was pre-planned by the opposition to not allow Parliament to function. Kovind also said it is a matter of great pride for all Indians that our Parliament will soon be housed in a new building. "It will be a fitting statement of our outlook. It will honour our legacy while also walking in step with the contemporary world, he said, adding that it is more than symbolic that the new building will be inaugurated in the year of the 75th anniversary of Independence."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
14-08-2021||India||Let's work together to achieve constitutional ideals: VP Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday extended his greetings to the people on the eve of Independence Day, saying they have to work together to achieve the noble constitutional ideals of securing justice, liberty, equality and fraternity for all citizens. "As we enter the 75th year of independence, we should recall the countless, valiant sacrifices of our founding leaders who won India freedom and resolve to strive towards building the nation of their dreams," he said. "On this momentous occasion, let us also remember that the progress and well-being of our nation impinge on delivering the benefits of development and ensuring dignity of life to each and every individual in our country. This is the foundational belief behind our civilizational value of 'share and care'," the Vice President said. Naidu said "we must work together to achieve the noble constitutional ideals of securing for all our citizens - justice, liberty, equality and fraternity". "On this joyous occasion of Independence Day, let us once again solemnly resolve to dedicate ourselves to rediscovering our inner strengths, to realising the enormous potential of our people, and to give India its rightful place in the comity of nations," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
14-08-2021||India||Partition Horror Remembrance Day: Congress accuses Modi of  playing divisive politics||The Congress on Saturday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of playing "divisive and diversionary politics" after he called for observing August 14 as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day in memory of the struggles and sacrifices of people. The government has said the decision will be a fitting tribute to all those who lost their lives due to the partition of the nation and were displaced from their roots. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, however, said that while on one side the prime minister congratulates Pakistan on their Independence Day, on the other side he indulges in Pakistan-bashing the moment elections are near. "The divisive duplicity of the prime minister stands exposed," he said in a statement. "When there are no elections, the prime minister exhibits his love for Pakistan and congratulates the neighbouring country on March 22, the day Muslim League passed the 'Partition Resolution' in 1940, and congratulates it on every August 14. But when elections near, he starts diversionary politics at home," Surjewala said. The Congress leader also shared the prime minister's congratulatory letters to Pakistan on August 14 and tweets on March 22. Prime Minister Modi on Saturday announced August 14 will be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day, saying the pain of Partition can never be forgotten. He said the day will keep reminding the country of the need to remove the poison of social divisions and disharmony and further strengthen the spirit of oneness. Pakistan's independence day falls on August 14. India will celebrate its 75th Independence Day on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
14-08-2021||India||Code of Ethics under new IT Rules violation of Article 19, says Bombay HC||The Bombay High Court on Saturday granted an interim stay to the operation of parts of the recently notified Information Technology Rules, 2021 which require that all online publishers follow a "code of ethics" and norms of conduct. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni stayed sub-clauses 1 and 3 of clause 9 of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. It found "prima facie" (on the face of it) that these sub-clauses violated the petitioners' constitutional right to freedom of speech and expression under Article 19, the high court said. Provisions of clause 9 also went beyond the scope of the substantive law (the Information Technology Act of 2000), it said. The order came on petitions filed by legal news portal The Leaflet and journalist Nikhil Wagle which challenged several provisions of the new IT Rules claiming that they were vague and likely to have a "chilling effect" on a citizen's right to free speech guaranteed by the Constitution. The Rules went beyond the scope of the main IT Act and also the `reasonable restrictions' on freedom of speech and expression allowed by Article 19 (2) of the Constitution, the petitioners said. The HC, however, refused to stay clause 14 that pertains to the setting up of an inter-ministerial committee with powers to regulate online content and deal with grievances and breach of rules, and clause 16 which is about blocking of online content in case of an emergency. As such a committee was yet to be formed, it did not see any reason to stay clauses 14 and 16 at present, the court said. The HC also did not stay sub-clause (2) of clause 9 which provides for action in case of the contravention of any law in force for the time being. The petitioners had sought an interim stay on the implementation of the new IT Rules till the court gives its final decision in the matter. Senior counsel Darius Khambata, lawyer for The Leaflet, had argued that the new IT Rules were beyond the rule-making power of the Union government as the "parent Act", that is the Information Technology Act, did not provide for anything seeking to regulate ethics and content of online publishers. On Friday, the HC had asked the Union government what was the need to introduce the new IT Rules, 2021 without superseding the existing IT Rules of 2009. The Union government's lawyer Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh had defended making code of ethics mandatory, saying the Press Council of India (PCI) also prescribes a code of ethics for journalists. The norms prescribed by the PCI along with the Cable TV code would be mandatory for digital media under the new rules, he had said. But the judges had pointed out that the PCI's guidelines were in the nature of advisory norms of behaviour, and did not carry any drastic punishment for a breach. ASG Singh had contended that the need to bring in new rules was felt for checking the spread of fake news and illegal content in the digital space. "We may observe that as far as (clause) 14 is concerned, (there is) no immediate urgency as Committee is not set up. In these circumstances, oversight committee itself has not taken effect. We urge petitioners to come as and when it is set up," the court order said. "We find no case is made out for stay on (clause) 16. Hence that is not stayed. (Clause) 9 prima facie seems to be against the freedom of speech. We have stayed 9 (1) and (3) and not (2)," the court said. The bench refused the Centre's request to stay the order for a few weeks. It also directed the Union government to file a detailed affidavit replying to the issues raised by the petitioners within three weeks. The high court will hear the petitions further on September 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
14-08-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh bans Muharram processions amid pandemic and security concerns||The Uttar Pradesh government has asked district authorities to not allow any religious processions to be taken out on the occasion of Muharram in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and security concerns. 'Tazias' will not be installed publicly. However, they can be set up at homes, Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi said in directions issued to district magistrates, senior superintendents of police and other senior officials. "Owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, no permission should be granted to take out any processions/'Tazias'," the order said. It also directed officials to talk to religious leaders to ensure strict compliance of the order. Adequate police force will be deployed in sensitive areas and containment zones, it added. The order also asked officials to remain vigilant about anti-social elements who may try to disturb communal amity and the possibility of terrorists targeting common citizens. "Special attention should be paid to anti-social elements and those spreading rumours. Checking should be conducted at public places like railway stations, bus stations and religious places. "Social media should be routinely monitored and appropriate action should be taken in case an objectionable post is found. The post must be blocked. Special alertness must be maintained as the possibility of increased sensitivity due to Muharram occurring in the month of Shravan cannot be ruled out," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
14-08-2021||India||CPI MP urges detailed probe into August 11 ruckus at Rajya Sabha||CPI MP Binoy Viswam has written to the secretary-general of Rajya Sabha requesting him to conduct a detailed probe into the events of August 11 and alleged that "selective leaking" of CCTV footage of the House was done to put the blame on the Opposition and "mislead" the country. The Opposition and the government have been blaming each other for the ruckus in the Uppper House on Wednesday. In the letter, Viswam alleged that he, along with other Opposition members, was "physically manhandled and targeted by unknown personnel in Parliament". The MP demanded that the complete footage of the House on August 11 be provided to the Opposition members, against whom such allegations were being made, along with all complaints and documents about them. He alleged that the government tried to "bulldoze the passing of the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021" despite "requests from the Opposition and even their own allies to send the bill to a Select Committee". "Upon the devious attempts by the government to pass this anti-people bill, we exercised our right as Parliamentarians to protest the same and it is only the bringing in of over 40 personnel, whose identity is unknown and suspect, that lead to the chaos in the well of the house," he claimed. He also alleged that there was a "deliberate move" to create multiple cordons of security, which resulted in members of the Opposition, including female MPs being manhandled. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi had alleged that Opposition members had manhandled marshals and cited the CCTV footage from Rajya Sabha. He had demanded that the Rajya Sabha chairman constitute a special committee to probe the misbehaviour and indiscipline by opposition members and strict action taken against them. In his letter, Viswam alleged, "I was personally targeted by 4-5 of these outsiders who grabbed hold of me and physically assaulted me. " He accused the government of portraying a "biased and concocted narrative against members of the Opposition". He condemned, what he called, the "selective leaking of privileged property" of the Rajya Sabha in the form of CCTV footage and internal documents and filing of false allegations by the marshals alleging assault by the Opposition MPs. It shows that the government is "actively trying to mislead the country and whitewash its draconian actions during this session," he alleged. For a fair and just probe into the incident, it is imperative that the Rajya Sabha not be "turned into a political tool for the Government and selective leaks related to the events of 11th August must be stopped immediately," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-316
14-08-2021||India||'Break monsoon' phase likely to continue till August 18 in Delhi||The "break monsoon" phase in Delhi and adjoining areas in northwest India is likely to continue till August 18 and good rainfall in the last 10 days of the month is expected to cover the precipitation deficit in the capital, weather forecasters said on Saturday. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the capital, has recorded a meagre 63.2mm rainfall in August so far against the normal of 123.1 mm -- a shortfall of 49 per cent -- according to the India Meteorological Department. Normally, the capital gauges 247.7mm rainfall in August. The IMD had earlier predicted normal rainfall for Delhi this month. The break monsoon phase, the second this season, started on August 10 and is likely to continue till August 18, said Mahesh Palawat, vice president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet Weather. The 'break monsoon' phase got extended in the absence of any favourable weather system which would have pulled the monsoon trough from the foothills of the Himalayas towards the plains. "However, a low-pressure system is developing in the Bay of Bengal. It will travel in the west direction to south Madhya Pradesh and pull the monsoon trough, leading to rains in Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and west Uttar Pradesh from August 19, Palawat said. He said good rainfall in the last 10 days of August is expected to cover the deficit, but the monthly precipitation may not surpass the long-period average of 247.7mm. During the monsoon season, there are spells when the monsoon trough shifts closer to the Himalayan foothills, leading to a sharp decline in rainfall over most parts of the country. However, rainfall increases along the foothills of Himalayas, Northeast India and parts of the southern peninsula. In July, the monsoon had entered the first break phase even before reaching most parts of northwest India, including Delhi. The capital had gauged an unusual 507.1 mm rainfall this July, which was nearly 141 per cent above normal. It was also the maximum rainfall in the month since July 2003, and the second highest ever. Owing to the intense bursts of rains in July, the capital has gauged 605.1mm rainfall since June 1, when the monsoon season starts, against the normal of 399.2 mm -- an excess of 52 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
14-08-2021||India||DMK government in Tamil Nadu presents state's first exclusive farm budget||In sync with its poll promise, the DMK government on Saturday presented a budget in the Tamil Nadu Assembly exclusively for agriculture featuring schemes for the overall development of the farm sector, including one for self-sufficiency and farm growth in villages. Presenting the budget, Minister for agriculture and farmer's welfare, M R K Panneerselvam said the views of farmers and experts were sought and the budget was prepared based on their views. "The agriculture budget is the aspiration of farmers. It is a dream of nature lovers." This is the first time a separate budget for agriculture is presented in Tamil Nadu. During 2021-2022, Rs.34,220.65 crore is provided for agriculture and related departments like animal husbandry, fisheries, dairy development, irrigation, rural development, sericulture and forest, he said. A sum of Rs 4,508.23 crore has been allocated to the state-run electricity entity, the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation for providing free of cost electricity to farm pump sets, he said. To bring prosperity to farmers and farm labourers in the Cauvery delta region, "it is proposed to declare this area as agro industrial corridor," to promote agro based industries, he said. The previous AIADMK government had declared the Cauvery delta region, a protected agricultural zone. The Minister said in regions such as Thanjavur, rice, pulses, banana, coconut are produced throughout the year. If rice and oil mills, coir units and pulse processing units (that use agricultural products of this region to produce value added products) are promoted, it would greatly contribute to the welfare of farmers and farm workers of delta region, he said. Panneerselvam said a scheme with a total outlay of Rs 1,245.45 crore to ensure overall agricultural development and self sufficiency in all villages of Tamil Nadu would be implemented. This plan, named after former Chief Minister M Karunanidhi (Kalaignarin Anaithu Grama Orunginaintha Velaan Valarchi Thittam) would be implemented in 2,500 village panchayats in the current year (2021-22), he said. Out of the 12,524 village panchayats in Tamil Nadu, each year, one-fifth of them would be be identified and the scheme shall be implemented in all of the panchayats areas in five years. Bringing fallow lands into cultivation, augmenting water resources, installation of solar powered pump sets, marketing of value-added farm produce, adoption of micro-irrigation and increasing milk production are among the objectives of the scheme. Aimed at increasing the income of farmers (depending on rainfed farming), the Chief Minister's Dry land Development Mission would be implemented in three lakh hectares, he said. To promote organic farming, "Organic farming development scheme" would be implemented at a cost of Rs 33.03 crore. Inputs for organic farming would be made available in Agricultural Extension Centres and among the several measures proposed under the scheme, farms would be certified as organic, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
14-08-2021||India||Bommai holds discussion with Yediyurappa amid discontent over Cabinet exercise||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj S Bommai on Saturday called on his predecessor B S Yediyurappa and had a discussion amid disgruntlement among a section of BJP ministers and legislators over the Cabinet expansion and allocation of portfolios. In addition to the brewing discontent, the two leaders also discussed the prevailing political situation in the half-an-hour meeting held Yediyurappa's residence, sources close to the CM said. Tourism Minister Anand Singh and Municipal Administration and Small Scale Industries' Minister N Nagaraj (MTB) have openly expressed displeasure over their portfolio, and have sought "weighty" ones. BJP MLA S A Ramadas and MLC C P Yogeeshwara were among those who are reportedly unhappy over not securing Cabinet berth. A sulking Singh had shut down his office in Hospet in Ballari district earlier this week and called on Yediyurappa before meeting Bommai. Later, the Chief Minister along with Revenue Minister R Ashoka tried to pacify Singh. After the meeting, Bommai said there were no differences of opinion between him and Singh and that both were "united". He had, however, conceded that Singh wanted a "better" portfolio. Nagaraj had also expressed his desire to have portfolios like public works department and transport. Meanwhile, BJP MLA from Krishnaraja in Mysuru district and former Minister Ramadas and MLC Yogeeshwara called on Bommai on Saturday. Speaking to reporters, Ramadas said he gave a letter in a sealed envelope to the Chief Minister. "Today I handed over a letter in the sealed cover. I told him (the Chief Minister) to read when he is free. I have explained certain things in the interest of the State and the government," Ramadas said. He added that he has explained in his letter why he did not meet the Chief Minister during his visit to Mysuru on Monday. Addressing the media outside Bommai's residence, Yogeeshwara, who was a Minister in the Yediyurappa government, however, said, "Earlier also I had met the chief minister and now also I met him. There are no reasons behind meeting him. I have no discontentment. I am a party worker and work accordingly." Bommai took over as the Chief Minister on July 28 two days after Yediyurappa resigned from the post.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
14-08-2021||India||Navy cancels I-Day flag hoisting on Goa island as locals object||The Navy said it has cancelled its plan to hoist the national flag at Sao Jacinto island in South Goa on the Independence Day after local residents objected to it, following which state Chief Minister Pramod Sawant requested the naval authorities to go ahead with the scheduled programme of unfurling the tricolour there, and also warned the islanders that "anti-India activities" would be dealt with an "iron fist". The residents of Sao Jacinto, however, made it clear that they were not opposed to unfurling of the flag, but were afraid that the Navy's function scheduled on Sunday could be the beginning of the central government taking over the island under the Major Ports Authorities Bill, 2020 in future. Sawant said the flag hoisting will happen at the island "at any cost" and assured full cooperation to the Navy from the Goa police for the event. Officials have said that the Ministry of Defence planned unfurling of the national flag on islands across the nation between August 13 and 15 as part of the 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' to commemorate 75 years of Independence. A spokesperson of the Navy's INS Hansa base near Dabolim in the state said on Friday that a team from the Goa Naval Area visited the islands of the state, including Sao Jacinto, as part of this pan-India initiative. "However, the plan at Jacinto island had to be cancelled due to the objection by local residents," he said. The Navy official said the nationwide 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' initiative has been undertaken to instill a sense of patriotism and celebrate the run up to the 75th year of independence. Sao Jacinto island is located around four kms away from INS Hansa base and approximately 100 families reside there. Anthony Rodrigues, who owns the land where the Navy had planned to carry out the flag hoisting event, said that he had already given his go ahead to the naval officials for the programme, but some local residents expressed apprehensions. "Several local residents came to my residence, asking me why I allowed the place for flag hoisting. Their apprehension is that the Navy might take over the island in future. So I told the Navy about the reservations expressed by the locals," he said. Another resident, Custodio D'Souza, said that the issue is not about the hoisting of the national flag. "We don't mind Indian Navy joining us for the event on the Independence Day, he said, adding that the islanders are concerned that the central government might take over the island under the Major Ports Authorities Bill, 2020 in future. D'Souza said that the residents were worried that Mormugao Port Trust may take over the island under this law. He recalled that the residents of the island had taken a vow some years back not to sell their land to anyone. Another resident said, "We want to protect our island under any circumstances. We are facing threats from different quarters, including the Coastal Zone Management Plan." Reacting to the Navy's announcement of cancelling the flag hoisting programme, CM Sawant said on Twitter late on Friday, "It is unfortunate and shameful that some individuals at St. Jacinto Island have objected to Hoisting of the National Flag by the Indian Navy on the occasion of India's Independence Day. I condemn this and want to state on record that my Government will not tolerate any such acts." "I have requested the Indian Navy to go ahead with their original plan and have assured full cooperation from Goa Police. These attempts of Anti-India activities shall be dealt with an iron fist. It will always be Nation First," he added. Speaking at Saligao on the sidelines of a rally on Saturday, the chief minister said, "The flag hoisting will happen on the island at any cost and I have asked the authorities to ensure that the tricolour is unfurled there."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
14-08-2021||India||Jaish-e-Mohammed module tasked to cause blast in Jammu busted||In a major success, security forces have busted a module of Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) tasked to trigger violence by planting a vehicle-based IED on the eve of Independence Day here by arresting four terrorists and their associates, officials said on Saturday. Giving details, a police spokesman said that four Jaish terrorists, including an Uttar Pradesh resident, and their associates were arrested by the Jammu Police in a drive to root out the militant presence in the district. "They were planning collection of arms dropped by drones and supply to active terrorists of Jaish-e-Mohammed in Kashmir valley; planting a vehicle-based IED in Jammu before 15th August and reconnaissance of important targets in other parts of the country," he said. Muntazir Manzoor alias Saifulla of Prichoo Pulwama, a member of JeM, was the first to be arrested in this chain and from him one pistol, one magazine, eight live rounds and two Chinese hand grenades were seized, the spokesman said. His truck used for transporting weapons to Kashmir was also seized, he added. Subsequently, three more Jaish terrorists, including Ijahar Khan alias Sonu Khan of Mirdan Mohalla in Kandala of Shamli district, Uttar Pradesh, were arrested, the spokesman said. Khan disclosed that a JeM commander in Pakistan by the name of Munazir alias Shahid had asked him to collect weapons from near Amritsar which would be dropped by a drone, he said. Khan was also asked by Jaish to do reconnaissance of Panipat oil refinery which he did and sent videos to Pakistan. He was then tasked to do the reconnaissance of Ayodhya Ram janmabhoomi but was arrested before he could accomplish the task, the spokesman added. Other terrorists, Touseef Ahmed Shah alias Showket of the Jeff area of Shopian district was tasked by JeM commander Shahid and another Jaish terrorist by the name Abrar in Pakistan to take up accommodation in Jammu which he did, the spokesman said. He was then asked to procure a second-hand motorcycle for causing an IED blast at Jammu. The IED for this purpose would be dropped by a drone, the spokesman said. Shah was arrested before he could complete this task, he added. Jahangir Ahmed Bhat of the Bandzoo area of Pulwama district has been arrested in the case and he is a fruit merchant from Kashmir who was constantly in touch with Shahid in Pakistan and had introduced Ijahgar Khan to him, the police official said. Bhat was further doing recruitment for JeM in Kashmir and in the rest of the country, he said. Further investigation on the work of the remaining module is in progress, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
14-08-2021||India||Abdullah condemns grenade attack that killed a 3-year-old child in JK's Rajouri||National Conference president and Member of Parliament Farooq Abdullah on Saturday condemned the killing of a three-year-old child in a grenade attack by militants on a BJP leader's house in Rajouri on Thursday. He expressed sympathies with the bereaved family. "Violence in all its forms and manifestations brings countless miseries to people. I express my unison within the bereaved family; pray for strength to bear this inconsolable loss and fast recovery to all the others who have sustained injuries in this despicable act of violence," he said. Party's vice president Omar Abdullah while denouncing the attack said the vicious circle of violence must stop now. "I condemn the heinous and despicable act that shows contempt for innocent lives. The vicious circle of violence must stop now. The perpetrators of the attack must be held accountable and be brought to justice," Omar said. Jammu and Kashmir People's Conference (JKPC) led by Sajad Lone also condemned the attack. "We unequivocally condemn the dastardly killing of a 4-year-old in a senseless attack on the family of Jasbir Singh. The attack on mainstream workers for their political affiliations is the worst violation of human rights. Such killings only add to our collective suffering," the JKPC said on Twitter. A three-year-old child was killed and six members of BJP leader Jasbir Singh's family were injured in the grenade attack on his house in Khandli area of the district on Thursday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
14-08-2021||India||Six more bodies recovered from landslide site in Kinnaur, toll rises to 23||Six more bodies were recovered from the site of the landslide in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district, taking the death toll to 23 on the fourth day of rescue and search operations on Saturday, a senior official said. State Disaster Management Director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said six bodies had been retrieved from the rubble at Chaura village on National Highway 5 in Nichar tehsil. The search and rescue operation for the rest of the nine missing persons is underway, he added. Meanwhile keeping in view the continuous falling of shooting stones at the sliding point, Nichar Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Manmohan Singh ordered to restrict all type of vehicles at this point for the safety of public from 9 pm to 9 am. In his order issued on Thursday, he stated that the station house officer of Bhawanagar police station would ensure deputing of police force at both ends of the site. On Friday evening, two people were injured after stones falling down a mountainside hit their bus near the area. In the meantime, Mokhta said search and rescue operations, which had been suspended on Friday night, resumed again on Saturday around 6 am. An SUV and its passengers feared buried under the rubble could not be traced so far, he said, adding that it might be possible that the vehicle rolled down with the debris. The rescue operation is being carried out jointly by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and members of local police and home guards. On the day of the incident, 10 bodies were recovered and 13 people rescued. Earlier on Wednesday, eight bodies were found trapped in a Tata Sumo taxi during the search and rescue operation. Two cars had also been recovered in damaged condition on Wednesday, but no one was found in them. Earlier on Thursday, four bodies were found from the landslide site, while three were taken out on Friday. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had informed the state assembly after visiting the spot on Thursday that 16 people were still missing. After that, six bodies have been recovered so far. At least nine people are still missing, officials said. An HRTC bus, which along with other vehicles, was buried under the debris, was found in a badly damaged condition on Thursday. A truck was also found, which had rolled down towards a riverside due to stones falling down a mountainside, and the driver's body was recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
14-08-2021||India||Punjab makes negative RT-PCR report or full vaccination mandatory to enter state||The Punjab government Saturday announced that from Monday the state will allow entry to only those who are either fully vaccinated against coronavirus or have a negative RT-PCR report. The directions, issued after Chief Minister Amarinder Singh held a Covid review meeting here, also said there will be strict monitoring of people coming from Himachal Pradesh and Jammu. According to an official statement, Singh expressed concern about the positivity rate in Himachal Pradesh and other parts of the country, which probably also pushed Punjab's positivity rate marginally up to 0.2 per cent in the last week. The new restrictions will apply to all those entering Punjab by road, rail or air, the chief minister said, adding if a person does not fulfil either of the criteria, he/she will have to undergo RAT (rapid antigen test) unless they recently recovered from Covid. Amid reports of Covid cases from schools, the CM also directed that only fully vaccinated teaching and non-teaching staff, or those recently recovered from Covid, physically teach in schools and colleges. Online learning option will remain available to all children, he said. Several school students have tested positive for coronavirus over the past few days. Punjab has so far reported 5,99,846 coronavirus cases and 16,334 fatalities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
14-08-2021||India||NCPCR summons Facebook over Rahul Gandhi's Instagram post||India's apex child rights organisation NCPCR has summoned Facebook officials Tuesday for not responding to its notice flagging Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's Instagram post allegedly revealing the identity of a nine-year-old rape and murder victim. The latest NCPCR communication to Facebook, which owns the photo and video-sharing social networking platform Instagram, follows its notice seeking action against Gandhi's profile for posting a video of the affected family. "However, no reply/action taken report has been received by you," the commission said in its follow-up letter. The commission has now asked Facebook officials to appear at 5 pm Tuesday in-person at the NCPCR Office in Janpath or through video conferencing along with the details of the action taken. Earlier, the NCPCR had asked Facebook to take appropriate action against the Instagram profile of Gandhi over the alleged violation of provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, and the Indian Penal Code, and demanded the removal of the video. Section 74 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, prohibits the disclosure of the identity of a child in any form of media and Section 23 of the POCSO Act, 2012, also states that no information or photo of a child should be published in any form of media which could reveal the identity of the child. This information under Section 23 of the POCSO Act includes his/her name, address, photograph, family details, school, neighbourhood or any other particulars which may lead to disclosure of identity of the child. On August 4, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) wrote to Twitter, asking it to take action against the handle of Gandhi for posting the photo of the family. The microblogging site blocked the account of Gandhi following the complaint. Twitter on its part has said that it has followed the due process as Gandhi's tweet on the family of the victim was against its rules and the law. A Congress leader Saturday the account has now been restored. Gandhi last week met the family of the nine-year-old girl and asserted that he is with them on the path to justice and "will not back down even an inch". Later, he posted a picture of his meeting with the girl's parents on Twitter and wrote in Hindi, "Parents' tears are saying only one thing their daughter, the daughter of this country, deserves justice. And I am with them on this path to justice". The girl died under mysterious circumstances when she went to get water from a cooler at a crematorium in the Old Nangal area in southwest Delhi. The girl's parents alleged that she was raped and her body forcibly cremated by a crematorium priest who had falsely claimed that she was electrocuted. Hundreds of locals, including the victim's parents, have been staging a protest near the site of the incident, demanding capital punishment for the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
14-08-2021||India||Sneak peek into INS Vikrant after maiden sea trial||As India celebrates its 75th Independence Day Sunday, the Southern Naval Command (SNC) offered a sneak peek into the engineering marvel that is INS Vikrant, the country's first indigenous aircraft carrier (IAC). The largest and most complex warship built in the country, opened its 'doors' to mediapersons Friday in Kochi after its maiden sea trial successfully concluded on August 8. Speaking on board the 40,000-tonne warship, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Southern Naval Command Vice Admiral A K Chawla said the five-day trial was a "glowing testimonial" to the country's vision of an Atmanirbhar Bharat. "It demonstrates the Indian Navy's capability to design and oversee the construction of the most complex of warships, as also the capability of our ship-builders and industries to successfully execute such a large and complex ship-building project," he said. The IAC, built at a cost of around Rs 23,000 crore, has been described by the Navy as "historic" as it propelled India into a select group of countries having capabilities to build state-of-the-art aircraft carriers. Commander Sreejith, a senior electrical overseer officer, told PTI that "the power used in the ship can light up half of the Kochi city". However, the officer said the exact power generated in the ship cannot be disclosed as it was "classified information". "All the major electrical industries including BHEL have contributed to the construction of this ship. We have used approximately 2,600 km-long cable in this," he said. Major Manoj Kumar, the Designer architect of the IAC, who shared factual details about the aircraft carrier and said "with the steel used in this, we can build three Eiffel towers". "There is a fully functional medical complex inside the ship with two operation theaters. There is a kitchen to cater to the needs of at least 2,000 staff on the ship. We have automated machines in the kitchen. We can park 20 aircraft in the hangar," he said. Anoop Hameed, part of the warship overseeing team which assesses the day to day progress of the ship said it was a "floating island". "The aircraft needs to generate enough power to take off due to the short runway and we also need a proper mechanism to arrest a landing one. We need to have that much power and coordination. This ship has everything inside it. This is a floating island," he said. The power generated in the ship is used for electrical systems including the radar system, communications, navigation, propulsion power generation, steering, air conditioning, food storage, safety related systems, medical systems among others, he added. The media team also met women officers who are part of the group which undertook the maiden sea trial. "At least 25 women officers from both the Navy and the Shipyard are associated with the IAC. Six of them have taken part in the sea trial. Two are from the Navy and four women officers were from the CSL," Lt Commander Janet Maria told PTI. Suresh Babu, Advisor to Chairman and Managing Director, Cochin Shipyard, told the media the sea trial was able to prove the workmanship of the CSL. "We have received two more orders, an anti-submarine warship and next generation missile vessels from the Navy and these are the two new orders worth Rs 16,000 crore," Babu said. He said the construction of the IAC was a major challenge to the design team of the Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL). "The design process and construction happened concurrently. It was very challenging for the designing team," he said. He said currently, the CSL is the only shipyard in the country that could undertake repairs of major aircraft carriers. "INS Viraat was repaired around 13 times here. We have the largest dry dock. We have a 300-member strong designer team and the productivity of the CSL helped us in bagging the order," Babu said. The Naval officers escorted the media contingent through the hangar and the flight deck. Chawla said the country can be justifiably proud of this achievement as India joins an elite club of nations that can design and build aircraft carriers. The Indian Navy is confident that the new Vikrant will carry forward the illustrious legacy of its predecessor and write a new and glorious chapter in our maritime history," he said. The first INS Vikrant played an important role in India's victory in the Eastern theatre during the 1971 war. The warship, which will host MiG-29K fighter jets, Kamov-31 helicopters, MH-60R multirole helicopters, has over 2,300 compartments, designed for a crew of around 1,700 people, including specialised cabins to accommodate women officers. The aircraft carrier, with more than 76 per cent indigenous components, is expected to be commissioned into the Indian Navy by August next year after it completes the aviation trials. Vikrant has a top speed of around 28 knots and cruising speed of 18 knots with an endurance of about 7,500 nautical miles. The ship can accommodate an assortment of fixed-wing and rotary aircraft," the Navy had said in a statement. The IAC is 262-metre long, 62-metre wide and it has a height of 59 metres. Its construction began in 2009. Around 550 Indian firms including about 100 MSMEs are registered with the Cochin Shipyard Limited(CSL) and they provide various services in the construction of the IAC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-317
14-08-2021||India||August 14 to be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day, announces PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Saturday that August 14 will be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day in the memory of the struggles and sacrifices of people, saying the pain of partition can never be forgotten. Modi noted that millions of people were displaced and many lost their lives due to mindless hate and violence caused by the partition. May the Partition Horrors Remembrance Day, the prime minister said, keep "reminding us of the need to remove the poison of social divisions, disharmony and further strengthen the spirit of oneness, social harmony and human empowerment". Pakistan was carved out as a Muslim country after the division of India by the British colonial rule in 1947, and millions of people were displaced and many lakhs of them lost their lives as large scale rioting broke out. India will be celebrating its 75th Independence Day on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
14-08-2021||India||Twitter unlocks accounts of Congress, Rahul Gandhi||Twitter Saturday restored the account of Rahul Gandhi, alongside those of the Congress and its other leaders, amid ongoing friction between the social media platform and the party over its members sharing pictures of the family of an alleged rape victim. "Satyameva Jayate (truth alone triumphs)", the Congress tweeted in its first reaction after its official handle was unlocked. Gandhi's and Congress' accounts were temporarily suspended last week after he tweeted pictures of the family of the nine-year-old victim of alleged rape and murder in Northwest Delhi. Twitter deemed it violation of its rules. Sources said the Twitter accounts of some of the party leaders who had shared the same pictures have also been restored. "Rahul Gandhi's Twitter account has been unlocked," a party functionary said. After the restoration of its account, the Congress party and some party leaders ran the hashtag "Speak Up against Twitter's hypocrisy". "The people of India demand accountability from Twitter. We demand that your restore the locked accounts that were simply demanding justice for a rape victim and stop interfering in our politics because of your fear of the Modi government," a Congress leader said, a statement shared by his colleagues on Twitter. "Our demands from Twitter: Stop suppressing the voice of Indians under the pressure of Modi government. Don't be afraid of BJP and restore all accounts that demanded justice," said a statement tweeted by many Congress leaders. The former Congress chief had made a strong outburst Friday accusing Twitter of "interfering in the national political process" and said shutting down of his handle amounted to an "attack on the country's democratic structure". Gandhi, in a YouTube video statement titled "Twitter's dangerous game", alleged that it was not a neutral and objective platform and was "beholden to the government . Questioning Twitter's action, Gandhi had said the company was denying millions of his followers the right to an opinion, which was unfair. "It's obvious now that Twitter is actually not a neutral, objective platform. It is a biased platform. It's something that listens to what the government of the day says," Gandhi had alleged. In the wake of the friction with the Congress, Twitter has transferred its India head Manish Maheshwari, against whom an FIR was registered in Uttar Pradesh in connection with a probe related to a video of an alleged hate crime, to the US. While the company did not specify any reason for the change, it said Maheshwari will move to the US as Senior Director (Revenue Strategy and Operations) and focus on new markets in his new role.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
14-08-2021||India||India reports over 38,000 fresh Covid cases, 478 casualties in a day||India saw a single-day rise of 38,667 coronavirus infections, taking the total tally of cases to 3,21,56,493, while the death toll rose to 4,30,732 with 478 fresh fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated Saturday. The ministry said the country has now reported less than 50,000 daily new cases for 48 consecutive days. The active cases have increased to 3,87,673 (1.21 per cent of the total infections), while the recovery rate was recorded at 97.45 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. An increase of 2,446 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, it showed. Also, 22,29,798 COVID-19 tests were conducted Friday, taking the cumulative number of tests conducted so far for the detection of coronavirus in the country to 49,17,00,577, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.73 per cent. It has been less than 3 per cent for the last 19 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.05 per cent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease rose to 3,13,38,088, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 53.61 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered till Saturday morning. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 478 fatalities reported Saturday include 158 from Maharashtra and 114 from Kerala. Overall, a total of 4,30,732 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,34,730 from Maharashtra, 36,933 from Karnataka, 34,462 from Tamil Nadu, 25,068 from Delhi, 22,782 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,394 from Kerala and 18,276 from West Bengal. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths have occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that thste ate-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
14-08-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi questions Twitter’s 'discriminatory' action on Congress||Rahul Gandhi on Friday broadened the questions swirling around Twitter’s perceived discriminatory action on Congress handles, triggering a debate on multinational companies’ power to control and manipulate public discourse. “As Indians, we have to ask the question: are we going to allow companies just because they are beholden to the Government of India to define our politics for us? Is that what this is going to come to, or are we going to define our politics on our own? That's the real question here,” the Congress MP said in a video posted on Instagram. Efforts are already under way to nudge Instagram, owned by Facebook, to take action against Rahul for a post on a child was murdered after she was allegedly raped. Rahul said in the Instagram video: "By shutting down my Twitter (account), they are interfering in our political process. A company is making its business to define our politics. And as a politician, I don't like that." He added: “This is an attack on the democratic structure of the country; this is not an attack on Rahul Gandhi. This is not, you know, simply shutting Rahul Gandhi down. I have 19-20 million followers. You are denying them the right to an opinion. That's what you are doing." Rahul's Twitter account was locked a week ago after he posted a photograph of himself with the parents of the  nine-year-old Dalit girl, his act drawing accusations of revealing the victim's identity. This was followed by a crackdown on Congress handles by Twitter. According to the Congress, Rahul had not violated any laws or rules as the identity of the girl's mother had already been made public and several eminent people – and at least one commission -- had posted her photograph before Rahul did. Rahul has focused on the larger implications that Twitter's action might have on the future of democracy. "So this is not only patently unfair, this is their breaching the idea that Twitter is a neutral platform. And for the investors, this is a very dangerous thing because taking sides in the political contest has repercussions for Twitter," Rahul said. "Our democracy is under attack. We are not allowed to speak in Parliament. The media is controlled. And I thought there was a ray of light, where we could put what we thought on Twitter. But obviously, that's not the case. "It's obvious now that Twitter is actually not a neutral, objective platform. It's a biased platform. It's something that listens to what the government of the day says.” Many Congress leaders too wondered whether the right to free speech should be at the mercy of a company. Others asked whether the unbridled power available to social media platforms to control and manipulate public discourse should be left unchallenged. Even the younger politicians, who normally feel empowered by modern communication tools, have found it hard to digest that an American company should have the power to lock the accounts of India's main Opposition party. Some of the questions being asked are: ⚫ Twitter can flag or delete a tweet it finds objectionable but can it terminate the account holder's right to communicate at its whim? ⚫What if private telecom companies start monitoring calls and disconnecting people who criticise the government or violate a rule framed by them? ⚫What should be the basis of any such purge - the company's business interest or the country's constitutional scheme? Can Twitter or Facebook control public discourse through their algorithms? Asked whether any legal recourse was available, senior lawyer and Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi told The Telegraph: "Twitter is entitled to have its own rules in individual countries (most rules are/ should be uniform, only very few vary) but they are always subject to the laws of the country within which (the company) operates." Singhvi added: "Twitter's rules cannot violate or override the laws of a particular country unless Twitter can get those laws struck down by a competent court of that country. As far as a user is concerned, he has full rights to challenge any of Twitter's rules in his own country's courts and get it struck down provided he is able to show that that Twitter rule violates any law of his country." Otherwise, "the user would be contractually bound to follow Twitter's rules since they constitute an agreement between him and Twitter when he joins Twitter".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
14-08-2021||India||SCBA recommends 48 Supreme Court advocates as HC judges||The Supreme Court Bar Association has recommended 48 apex court advocates for appointment as high court judges, a plea likely to be resented by the associations of high court advocates. Under current law and practice, only advocates with 10 years’ experience of practising in the high courts are considered for appointment as high court judges. But Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana had in June agreed to explore a request from the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) to elevate Supreme Court lawyers as high court judges, without giving any assurances. This had triggered a letter to him from the All India Lawyers Union (AILU), a representative body of lawyers from across the country, urging him to reject the plea. Recently, the SCBA formed a “search committee” that considered 70-odd candidates, picked 48 of them and forwarded the names to Justice Ramana so they can be placed before the five-judge apex court collegium he heads. The move comes at a time the country’s 25 high courts are groaning under a backlog of 57 lakh cases while facing 40 to 50 per cent judges’ vacancies. However, if the apex court collegium endorses any of the SCBA candidates, it would amount to bypassing the high court collegiums that make the initial recommendation in the appointment of high court judges. Besides, high court lawyers are opposed to their Supreme Court counterparts being “para-dropped” into the high courts, thus depriving local lawyers of the opportunity to be elevated. A recommendation in 2019 by the Orissa High Court collegium to elevate (now Justice) Sanjeeb Panigrahi to the high court had triggered months of intermittent boycott of the high court and the state’s lower courts by lawyers on a call from the Orissa High Court Bar Association. This despite the candidate being a native of Orissa and having practised in Orissa High Court, although he also practised in the Supreme Court and in other high courts including the one in Delhi. The reason cited by the Bar association was that the candidate did not practise regularly in Orissa High Court but mostly in the Supreme Court. An intervention by some well-meaning lawyers led to the protests being withdrawn and Justice Panigrahi was eventually appointed a judge in February last year. Supreme Court advocates are often appointed directly as apex court judges but the SCBA feels that the best and most experienced of them should also be eligible for elevation as high court judges. While urging Justice Ramana to consider Supreme Court advocates for elevation as high court judges a few months earlier, SCBA president Vikas Singh had said: “In spite of having vast experience and exposure in dealing with all kinds of issues relating to civil, criminal, constitutional, commercial law, etc, the lawyers practising in the Supreme Court are rarely considered for elevation by the high court collegiums as they do not regularly practise before the high court.” He had added that apex court advocates were “professionally more meritorious than their colleagues at the high court”. Singh was part of the “search committee” along with SCBA vice-president Mahalakshmi Pavani and eminent senior advocates Rakesh Dwivedi, Shekhar Naphade, Vijay Hansaria and V. Giri. Justice Ramana had at a recent conference of chief justices of high courts referred to the SCBA plea but given no final assurances. The AILU, however, wrote to Justice Ramana saying: “We are afraid that such (a) move, if true, would cause far-reaching negative consequences impacting independence of judiciary and its transparency, and would lead to substitution of the opinion of the high court collegium by that of the Supreme Court collegium.” It added that acceptance of the SCBA plea would violate “Article 217 of the Constitution and constitution benches’ decisions” that had upheld the present collegium system. “It militates against the federal principles, the autonomy of the high courts and the constitutional norms,” said the letter from AILU president Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya, a senior advocate and CPM Rajya Sabha member, and general secretary P.V. Surendranath. Under Article 217, a person can be appointed a high court judge only if they have been a judge in the lower courts for at least 10 years or a lawyer in one or more high courts for at least 10 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
14-08-2021||India||Chennai based group to honour Stan Swamy on Independence day||A Chennai-based group is hosting a series of discussions and cultural events that will culminate in music and satire webcast on Independence Day in honour of Father Stan Swamy. The event, titled “Kelvi Koothu” in Tamil and “Dirge for Democracy” in English, has been organised by the Vettiver Collective, a group that agitates on social and environment issues by conducting unsponsored cultural events. Environmentalist Nityanand Jayaraman, a member of the Collective, told The Telegraph the death of the 84-year-old Jesuit in judicial custody in Mumbai had triggered the event. “Stan’s death is not isolated,” he said. “It is indicative of a culture that is choking democracy and constitutional values and (is behind) deaths from lack of oxygen, migrant workers walking back to their hometowns, violence by the State or by vigilantes. The event is a reminder of the multiple lives lost because of the State.” On Sunday, short plays based on poems written by two Tamil poets — Kavin Malar and Manushya Puthran — will be performed by a team of six artistes from a group called Kattiyakkari. Isaivani, a prominent Tamil gaana-style folk singer, will sing Haanji, a satirical song on an autocratic ruler by lyricist Veronica. Another singer, Gaana Muthu, will perform Karuvadu (dried fish), a song about caste and politics. Carnatic musicians Rithvik Raja and Praveen Sparsh will do a rendition based on an Ashokan edict on dharma. All this will be webcast free on the Vettiver Collective channel on YouTube. The events will feature the oppari (lament) and gaana forms of music as well as theatre, mostly in Tamil, Jayaraman said. “It is not merely a lament but we are celebrating the fact that we can fight back,” he said. “Independence Day is a renewal of our commitment to the sacrifices of our ancestors who fought for freedom, (and a commitment) to keep democracy alive and ourselves free.” The programme for Friday and Saturday features conversations between Sunday’s performers and musician T.M. Krishna, filmmaker Malini Jeevarathnam and others, which are being streamed on their Instagram and Facebook accounts with updates on the Collective’s Facebook page. The event is part of the Justice Rocks series, which featured similar online performances last September, titled “Armed and Dangerous”, on the police killing of George Floyd in the US and the custody deaths of 59-year-old P. Jayaraj and his son J. Bennicks in Tamil Nadu. Besides Father Stan, 15 other academics, writers, lawyers and activists were arrested in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links case. After the Jesuit died on July 5 while waiting for bail, Tamil Nadu had witnessed large condolence gatherings in places where his ashes were laid in state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
14-08-2021||India||Kashmir: Mainstream parties hesitate to revive politics ||The Valley’s mainstream parties are anxious to revive politics as they’ve known it; they are the most clueless on how to go about it. Politics has become a fraught and baffling thing in Kashmir. Kashmiri politicians are the most fraught and baffled lot. As one former minister, currently cooling his heels at home after a long spell of incarceration, said: “Delhi has declared us anti-nationals after all these years of holding up the Indian flag. The people blame us for being traitors and collaborators and Delhi’s agents. Where do we start?” But there is a greater concern that vexes them: will they even be allowed to start? And if they are, what sort of start will that be? Politics as it used to be was delicensed by the summary diminutions of August 5, 2019. Its renewal has become a thing of charity at New Delhi’s disposal; nobody here seems sure what the scope and shape of the new rules of play will be. I put it to a senior National Conference (NC) leader if they were any wiser after turning up for the meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last month. He first shook his head in resignation, and then said: “No.” I asked him what the Kashmiri parties had gone there hoping for, and he said: “Well, we believed we will get some sense of what the thinking was in New Delhi, what they make of our demands, what is the road ahead. We got nothing, no insights at all.” He then added with a sardonic grunt: “What we did get was a demonstration of how divided Kashmiri leaders and parties are. Delhi ensured that those differences were articulated to the degree that they got one of us (former PDP deputy chief minister Muzaffar Hussein Baig) to say that Article 370 should not be discussed because it is sub judice. This is the same man who came to the preparatory meeting of the Gupkar Declaration with piles of judicial paperwork on how we should fight for the restoration of all that was taken away two Augusts away.” A PDP leader, also familiar with what transpired at that meeting, picked out another symptom of how they had been collectively reduced. “Look at the range of demands previously made by some of those present at the Prime Minister’s table, everything from outright independence and separate nationhood to self-rule to autonomy. And what have been left to demand now? A beholden statehood for a moth-eaten province? And who says we are even getting that?” Politicians across the board in the Valley are lost on what they will get from New Delhi; they are lost equally, perhaps more, on what they would give the people. Between the looming puzzlement over the getting and the giving, Kashmiri politics lies verily immobilised. They seem like a set that’s been abandoned on an unfamiliar crossroads and doesn’t know how to pick its way back. It cannot be of any comfort to the NC and the PDP, established monopolists of power in the past, that they have for company two up and rising competitors in Sajad Lone’s People’s Conference and Altaf Bukhari’s Apni Party. Both parties have grown exponentially in profile and purchase recently, they’ve snagged prominent players from both the NC and the PDP, they’ve been afforded greater access by the powers, they have come to enjoy the overt and covert privileges of what you might call the King’s party, groups patronised tacitly by New Delhi. “It is lost on nobody that the Modi establishment has a deep dislike for both the NC and the PDP. Modi himself has made it plain he wants to uproot their monopoly,” says a senior Srinagar-based journalist. “It cannot be unfair to conclude that both Sajad and Altaf are being propped up and aided by New Delhi as part of a design to reshape the politics of Jammu and Kashmir.” The final contours of such reshaping are Kashmir’s worst-kept secret, and most likely its worst fear as well: a government with a BJP man as elected head. That, to many observers here, is the first major milestone New Delhi is manoeuvring to achieve on the track it put Kashmir on two Augusts ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
14-08-2021||India||Supreme Court glare on tribunal order watermarks||The Supreme Court on Friday observed that large watermarks on orders of tribunals made them unreadable and its e-committee would be contacting the tribunals to ensure that such logos were not used. The top court said in today’s era, tribunals didn’t need watermarks to show authenticity as all the orders and judgments could be digitally signed. A bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah made the observation while hearing a batch of appeals arising out of an order of the National Green Tribunal. Justice Chandrachud, after perusing the orders of the tribunal that uses watermarks, said: “These watermarks make the orders unreadable especially for the visually challenged because it is not machine-readable. It impacts the access to justice to the disabled.” Recounting his experience, Justice Chandrachud said he had a law clerk last year who was a Rhodes scholar and blind and he used to face difficulty in reading these orders. “Earlier, we had taken up the issue of watermarks with the high courts. Now we will take up the issue with the tribunals, including NGT. Due to the watermarks, I am not able to read these orders comfortably. Navigating through these watermarks is a nightmare,” Justice Chandrachud said. He said tribunals did not come under the Supreme Court and an e-committee headed by him would take up the issue with the tribunals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
14-08-2021||India||Class XII student seeks resumption of physical classes from SC||A Class XII student moved the Supreme Court on Friday seeking a directive to the states and Union Territories to resume physical classes, contending that the mode of virtual teaching was creating severe psychological and medical issues for children. The petition by Amar Prem Prakash from Delhi said several children had been pushed into “depression, social reclusiveness” because of the continued closure of schools. It said that children from the economically backward sections were now forced to carry out odd jobs or manual labour to contribute to their family income. According to the petition, after remaining closed from April 2020 to February 2021 and reopening for a brief period, schools across the country had stayed closed since the end of March or early April this year. Some states have now decided to resume physical classes, it said. “However, a large number of states and Union Territories, including central schools, are yet to take a decision,” the petition, filed through advocate Ravi Prakash Mehrotra, said. “The student community at large is in a dilemma and a state of confusion, apart from having severe psychological and medical issues with sustained and protracted online school teaching, as also a severe sense of deprivation and discrimination as most public places have been reopened and gatherings permitted in different states in the country since July. “Thus considered, and in this perspective and context, the petitioner before your Lordships, with profound respect, by way of the instant writ petition, is seeking enforcement of his fundamental rights guaranteed under Articles 14 (right to equality) and 21 (life and personal liberty), besides Article 21A which mandates free and compulsory education for all children in the country.” The plea has cited a Unesco declaration that says: “Schooling provides essential learning, and when schools close, children and youth are deprived of opportunities for growth and development. The disadvantages are disproportionate for underprivileged learners who tend to have fewer educational opportunities beyond school.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
14-08-2021||India||Centre notifies new plastic waste management rules ||The Union environment ministry has notified new plastic waste management rules that will prohibit the use of plastic sticks on balloons, candy, ear buds, flags and ice-cream from July 1, 2022. The rules, reflecting India’s efforts to phase out single-use plastic by 2022, will also increase the minimum thickness of plastic bags from the current 50 microns to 75 microns by September 30 this year and to 120 microns by December 31, 2022. The thicker plastic carry bags are intended to eliminate the use of lightweight single-use plastic bags. The ministry’s notification, released on Thursday, prohibits from July 1 next year plates, cups, glasses, cutlery such as forks, knives, spoons, stirrers, straws, trays, wrapping or packaging films around boxes of sweets, invitation cards, cigarette packets, and banners made from plastic less than 100 microns in thickness. The rules prohibit from July 1, 2022, the manufacture, distribution, sale and use of single-use plastic, including polystyrene and expanded polystyrene, for ear buds, balloons, flags, candy and ice-cream. The ministry said any plastic packaging waste that is not covered under the phase-out of identified single-use plastic items shall be collected and managed in an “environmentally-sustainable way” through the Extended Producer Responsibility rules introduced in 2016. The Central Pollution Control Board had estimated three years ago that India generates around 9,200 metric tonnes of plastic waste — carry bags, packing films, snack packets, among other items — daily, or over 3.3 million metric tonnes a year. Waste management experts say the notification is in line with the goal of phasing out single-use plastics by 2022, announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 15, 2019, but remain concerned about the fate of plastic waste in the country amid lack of reliable data on recycling. “We welcome the new rules, but there is lack of clarity on how much plastic waste India is recycling,” Atin Biswas, programme director for municipal solid waste at the New Delhi-based non-government Centre for Science and Environment, told The Telegraph. Sections of industry in India have claimed nearly 70 per cent of recyclable plastic waste is recycled but Biswas said that “we do not have verifiable figures for how much plastic waste is actually recycled and where”. The CSE in a report flagging India’s plastic waste problem released last October had urged the government to ban plastic products that cannot be recycled, such as multi-layered plastic packets used to package snacks, ban carry bags, incentivise recycling, and enforce rules. “We remain concerned about non-compliance and the absence of a robust monitoring system to ensure compliance with rules,” Biswas said. The environment ministry has said waste management infrastructure “is being strengthened” across the country and states have been asked to develop action plans for the elimination of single-use plastics and effective implementation of the waste management rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-318
14-08-2021||India||NCPCR seeks actions against Rahul's Instagram account||After Twitter, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights on Friday asked Facebook to take action against the Instagram profile of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for posting a photo of the family of the nine-year-old girl who was allegedly raped and murdered in southwest Delhi. In a letter to Facebook, the commission said it has come across a video posted on Rahul’s Instagram account where the faces of the victim’s parents can be clearly seen, which is in violation of the law. Instagram is owned by Facebook. The NCPCR asked Facebook to remove the video and take appropriate action against the Instagram profile of Rahul over violation of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012, and the Indian Penal Code that bar the disclosure of the identity of a child victim. Rahul had last week met the victim’s family and assured them of support in securing justice. Later, he shared a picture of the meeting calling for justice for the child. Hundreds of locals, including the victim’s parents, are on protest to demand capital punishment for the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
14-08-2021||India|| Elamaram Kareem demands probe into Rajya Sabha manhandling ||CPM parliamentarian Elamaram Kareem on Friday wrote to the Rajya Sabha secretary-general demanding a probe and action against the security personnel who had allegedly manhandled him and some other MPs, a couple of them women, on Wednesday. Wire agency ANI had on Thursday cited marshals as alleging that Kareem had grabbed one of them by the neck during the commotion on Wednesday as the Opposition sought to stop the passage of a bill that reduces the government’s stake in insurance companies. The Opposition sees the “so-called internal security report” of the Rajya Sabha secretariat as an effort by the government to divert attention from the manner in which the insurance bill was “bulldozed” through Parliament. Kareem has explained why the Opposition members were protesting in the Well of the House and accused the government of orchestrating what transpired. “The proceedings of the House were disrupted as the government outrightly (sic) rejected this demand (to refer the bill to a select committee) and proceeded with passage of the bill,” Kareem said. The MP said: “This led to the protest by Opposition members and sloganeering. It was never a violent struggle to physically harm any person present inside the chamber. The heavy deployment of marshals and security personnel during that time only to manhandle the Opposition MPs created the chaos. “This advance deployment of marshals in huge number makes it clear that it was a well-planned action intended to harm the protesting MPs.” Kareem alleged that the marshals had physically blocked the movement of Opposition members. “When I tried to approach the Chairman’s chamber to personally convince him, one among them, whom I can identify by face, grabbed and pushed me away,” he said. “I got a forceful hit on the chest. I am still suffering from physical (unease) and suffocation due to it.” Kareem said that Wednesday’s events were unprecedented and that instead of trying to find a way out, the government used force. “Many of us feel that those who were there in the chamber wearing security marshal uniforms were specially brought in from outside for manhandling the Opposition MPs,” he said. “I am saying this because the security personnel present in the chamber at that time were not the officers who are seen inside the Rajya Sabha chamber or Parliament House usually.” Kareem has sought access to camera footage of the day’s proceedings. He has accused the government of selectively leaking visuals from inside the House to make out a case against the Opposition amid demands from the BJP for an inquiry into Wednesday’s fracas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
14-08-2021||India||Kerala: Doctors on warpath over continued attacks & state inaction||Doctors are on the warpath in Kerala over continuing attacks and alleged inaction from the state government that at one stage had even refused to acknowledge the incidents. Health minister Veena George, who has been under fire over the rising Covid cases in the state that had managed the first wave remarkably well, courted controversy on Thursday by informing the Assembly that the government was not aware of any attacks on doctors. Her response came in reply to a question raised by Congress lawmaker Mathew Kuzhalnadan. The ensuing uproar over the reply forced George to rectify her statement before the Assembly was adjourned on Friday by informing Kuzhalnadan that the government was indeed aware of the incidents. But doctors’ bodies have slammed the minister for the inaccurate response in the first place. Dr Joseph Chacko of the Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association said the minister shouldn’t have given such a callous reply. “The person who reads such an answer should have some common sense and not give such a callous reply,” he told The Telegraph on Friday. The Indian Medical Association that represents the interests of doctors in the private sector has also come out against the minister’s response. “She shouldn’t have given such a reply in the Assembly in the first place. She may say it was a technical error or blame the department for drafting the answers. But it was she who read it out in the Assembly,” former president of the IMA’s state chapter, Dr Abraham Verghese, told this newspaper. The KGMOA has meanwhile threatened to shut down hospitals if any more doctors are assaulted. “We have decided to boycott all work at government hospitals if even a single doctor is assaulted again,” said Chacko. The doctors’ body had already written to the state government seeking strong intervention in such cases that end up demoralising doctors and all the medical professionals. “To our estimate, more than 30 doctors have been subjected to physical attacks or harassment and more than 700 health workers have been subjected to abuse and harassment in the last few months,” he claimed, adding that most of the cases are either settled locally or not reported to authorities. Two inebriated men had manhandled a lady doctor at a government hospital on August 7 in Thiruvananthapuram. A video clip circulating after the incident shows one of the men holding her against a wall and threatening that they would have plastered her to the wall had she not been a woman. They have since been arrested. A few CPM leaders had assaulted a government doctor in Alappuzha district on July 24 while another doctor was manhandled by a group of men the following day in another government hospital in the same district. The IMA functionary blamed the shortage of vaccines as one of the triggers for such incidents in the state that has been consistently reporting about 20,000 daily Covid cases for a few weeks. “The demand for vaccine is far greater than the supply. This shortage of vaccine supply has contributed to a lot of issues at vaccination centres where doctors and nurses bear the brunt of people who don’t get their jabs,” said Verghese.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
14-08-2021||India||Bihar: Primary teachers protest by hawking jute sacks||Thousands of teachers from primary and middle schools across Bihar carried empty jute bags on their heads to hawk them at their block headquarters on Friday despite the state government’s efforts to cow them into silence. The teachers were protesting the state government’s July 22 order asking schools to sell the sacks in which food grains had been sent to them under the midday meal scheme, and the suspension of a school principal for openly hawking the sacks at a market. At several places, the teachers marched to the block headquarters with banners and placards, shouted anti-government slogans and demanded the revocation of the July 22 order and the suspension of Muhammad Tamizuddin, principal of a primary school in Kadwa block of Katihar district. They converged at block offices or marketplaces and hawked the empty jute bags for a couple of hours, sometimes succeeding in selling a few. “See where the government has brought us,” a primary school teacher in Fatuha block, Patna, said. “We already have to help conduct censuses and elections, form human chains to please the chief minister, buy kitchen items to run the midday meal scheme, see that everything is cooked and distributed properly. Now we have to sell sacks too.” The Bihar Rajya Prarambhik Shikshak Sangh, one of the largest associations of primary teachers in the state, said the protest was successful and vowed to intensify the agitation if the demands were not met. “We will sell the sacks at all the district headquarters on August 16 if the July 22 order and Tamizuddin’s suspension are not revoked,” the association’s president, Pradeep Kumar Pappu, told The Telegraph. “The government tried to frighten and deter the teachers from participating in the agitation but failed. Chief minister Nitish Kumar should intervene immediately and act against the officials who issued the shameful order to sell sacks.” Bihar police headquarters had sent a letter to all the district magistrates and superintendents of police on Thursday, informing them about the teachers’ agitation programme and saying: “We expect administrative vigilance and precautionary safety measures.” Sources said several district magistrates had verbally warned local teachers of strict action and suspension if they went ahead with Friday’s protest. A few district magistrates had invoked Covid-19 protocols to dissuade the teachers from participating in the agitation. State education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary claimed ignorance of the action against Tamizuddin or the agitation. “I have no personal knowledge of this,” he told reporters. Choudhary added that any embarrassing act by any teacher (selling sacks) would tarnish his or her own image rather than that of the government. However, Tamizuddin was suspended on Sunday for “tarnishing the image of the state government” by carrying a stack of sacks on his head and hawking them at the local market, a video of which was widely circulated on the social media. Government officials have since suggested the schools should have invited traders and sold the sacks in bulk, but the teachers say that traders were unwilling to come and buy old sacks. The July 22 order was issued after the office of the comptroller and auditor general raised the spectre of revenue loss in its reports relating to the financial years 2014-15 and 2015-16. The government order asked the primary and middle schools — where the midday meal scheme is implemented — to sell at Rs 10 apiece the sacks they had received in 2014-15 and 2015-16, and deposit the money with the treasury. The teachers say that many of the bags had been distributed among students to sit on in the absence of benches and desks in classrooms. Many of the remaining sacks had been damaged by rats, floods and the passage of time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
14-08-2021||India||Odisha polls to see 27% OBC names from Biju Janata Dal||The ruling Biju Janata Dal, which has been in power in Odisha for 21 years, on Friday announced a 27 per cent reservation for candidates belonging to the Other Backward Classes in the upcoming panchayat polls and other elections in the state. Though some feel that chief minister Naveen Patnaik has set a bad precedent by resorting to caste politics, political observers think it’s a masterstroke ahead of the three-tier panchayat elections that are likely to be held in February 2022. At present, the BJD reserves 50 per cent of seats for women candidates in panchayat elections and 33 per cent in the Assembly and Lok Sabha polls. The decision was announced by two ministers — Ranendra Pratap Swain and Arun Sahoo. “It is a historic day for the people of Odisha, especially those who have been neglected. The party has decided to reserve 27 per cent of its seats for OBC candidates in panchayat and any other elections in the state,” Swain said. Swain said: “ Other political parties should learn from the BJD about its commitment to uplift the OBC. The BJD will be the first party in the country to give reservation to OBC candidates. Our move will help ensure social justice.” The BJD has often been criticised for not implementing 27 per cent quota for OBCs in employment and education. Sahoo said: “The Supreme Court has put a cap on reservations and made it clear that it should not cross 50 per cent. As there is no specific central law on determining reservations, our party has taken a political decision to extend 27 per cent reservation of seats for OBC candidates in the panchayat and other elections of the state. Other parties should follow us.” Earlier this week, the BJD MPs had met the Union home minister Amit Shah in New Delhi and stressed the need for a central law that removed the 50 per cent cap on reservation as fixed by the Supreme Court. They had also demanded caste-based census for the socially and educationally backward classes. Terming it a political gimmick, BJP spokesperson Prithviraj Harichandan said: “If the BJD is concerned about the OBC, it should take steps to implement the 27 per cent reservation for OBCs in education and employment. Many states are giving 27 per cent reservations to SEBC (Social and Educationally Backward Classes) in jobs, but in Odisha only 11. 25 per cent of these categories are availing the benefit in government jobs at present,” he said. However, the BJD continued to argue that the apex court and various high courts had struck down quotas for OBCs on the ground that they were made without any scientific database on their population. At present, people belonging to the SC and ST categories avail 39 per cent reservations and the OBCs 11.23 per cent. “Though the state in 2008 had made provisions for 27 per cent reservations for the SEBC, it could not be implemented due to various court orders,” the BJD said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
14-08-2021||India||Odisha government announces special package for weavers||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday announced a special package for the weavers of the state following reports that the Covid-19 had badly hit their livelihood. Stating that handlooms are the main source of employment for the rural population after agriculture, Naveen announced interest-free loans of up to Rs 50,000 to weavers. As per the announcement, 15,000 pit looms that are not concrete will be concreted in the next three years. Besides, Rs 7,000 will be spent for concreting of each pit loom. “So far 15,071 pit looms have been concreted out of 31,342 pit looms in the state,” officials said. Besides, 3,000 weaver families will be provided with house-cum-work shed on a priority basis. The weavers will be provided with electricity and electrical fans so that they can do weaving and designing comfortably. “It has also been decided to provide housing facilities to all eligible weaver families on a priority basis. The beneficiaries will be selected as per the guidelines of the panchayati raj department,” said a press release issued by the chief minister’s office Infrastructure such as customer fulfilment centres (CFCs), warehouse and sales centres will be installed through the panchayati raj department to store the products of the weavers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-319
