15-08-2021||India||Air India operates Kabul-Delhi flight with 129 passengers, services to Afghanistan not cancelled yet||Air India's return flight from Kabul to Delhi departed on Sunday evening with 129 passengers as Taliban forces entered the national capital of Afghanistan and waited for "peaceful transfer" of power.  Officials of Air India said that there is no plan yet to cancel its Delhi-Kabul-Delhi flight as of now and that it is scheduled to operate on Monday too.  Currently, only Air India is operating flights between India and Afghanistan.  The national carrier operated it Delhi-Kabul leg of the flight (with call sign AI-243) on Sunday afternoon with around 40 passengers, officials said.  Officials said AI-243 departed from Delhi at around 12.45 PM (Indian Standard Time) and had to hover for around one hour above the Kabul airport as it did not get permission to land from the air traffic control (ATC). They stated it was not clear what was the reason for the delay in the permission for landing of AI-243.  Therefore, the flight time for AI-243 on Sunday was around two hours and fifty minutes instead of usual one hour and forty minutes.  The return flight (with call sign AI-244) departed from the Kabul airport with 129 passengers at around 5.35 PM (Indian Standard Time).  Officials clarified that there is no plan to cancel Delhi-Kabul-Delhi flight as of now. They added that the flight is scheduled to operate on Monday.  However, they stated that the airline is monitoring the situation closely and it would take appropriate action as required.  India has put in place contingency plans to evacuate hundreds of its officials and citizens from Kabul that has been gripped by fear and panic following reports of Taliban fighters entering the outskirts of the Afghan capital city on Sunday.  People familiar with the development said the government will not put the lives of its staffers at the Indian embassy and Indian citizens in Kabul at any risk and plans have already been finalised in case they require emergency evacuation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
15-08-2021||India||Kejriwal’s govt rolls out ‘Deshbhakti’ curriculum in government schools from Sep 27||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced that the Delhi government will roll out the ‘Deshbhakti’ curriculum in all government schools from September 27 as a tribute to freedom fighter Bhagat Singh. During his Independence Day address at the Delhi Secretariat, he also announced that the national capital will soon get its first Sainik School and a preparatory academy to groom children for the armed forces. Over the last 74 years, students have been taught physics, chemistry, maths, history, geography and other subjects but not patriotism since it is assumed that they will develop a feeling of love for their country, Kejriwal said. On the occasion of the 75th Independence Day, the Delhi government is going to make this beginning. Under the ‘Deshbhakti’ curriculum, students will be inspired to feel proud of their nation. The curriculum, Kejriwal said, will not be based on rote learning and there will be no tests. “It will be activity based and students will be told stories about independence and the nation's pride. Children will be made to realise their responsibilities and duties towards the country. “They will be prepared to fulfil their responsibilities and contribute towards the nation's progress. They will also be prepared in a way that if the need arises, they can lay down their lives for the nation and be willing to give their all to the country,” he said. The curriculum will be rolled out on September 27 as a tribute to Shaheed Bhagat Singh, he said. “Shaheed Bhagat Singh made a supreme sacrifice. At the age of 23, the young man was hanged and he embraced it without any complaint. His entire life is an inspiration. He not only inspired the people of his generation but even the future generations. This is our tribute to him,” Kejriwal said. The chief minister expressed hope that in the future, this curriculum will be taught in schools across the country. "I call upon parents... when your child comes back from school, talk to them about the country and ask them what they were taught on patriotism. This will not only inspire the students but also their parents. “Let's all come together on the occasion of 75th Independence Day and fill the entire nation with the spirit of patriotism... We will have a bright future if we prepare the children today,” he said. Kejriwal had announced the vision for the 'Deshbhakti' curriculum on the 73rd Independence Day in 2019. The framework of the 'Deshbhakti' curriculum submitted by a government-appointed panel was approved by the Governing Council of the State Council of Educational Research And Training (SCERT) on August 6. On Saturday, the SCERT director presented a copy of the curriculum framework to Kejriwal. Kejriwal also said his government has begun preparations to give Delhi its first Sainik School. "Every state has its own Sainik School except Delhi. We have begun preparations to open Delhi's first Sainik School," he said. "Preparations have also begun to open an armed forces preparatory academy. In this academy, along with studies, students will be prepared for the NDA and the armed forces. They will be provided with every kind of training and coaching so that a majority of Delhi's children can join the armed forces," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
15-08-2021||India||India puts in place contingency plans to evacuate its officials and citizens from Kabul||India has put in place contingency plans to evacuate hundreds of its officials and citizens from Kabul that has been gripped by fear and panic following reports of Taliban fighters entering the outskirts of the Afghan capital city on Sunday. People familiar with the development said the government will not put the lives of its staffers at the Indian embassy and Indian citizens in Kabul at any risk and plans have already been finalised in case they require emergency evacuation. "The government is closely monitoring the fast-paced developments in Afghanistan. We will not put the lives of our staff at the Indian embassy in Kabul at any risk," said one of the persons cited above. Specifically asked when the Indian staffers and citizens in Kabul will be evacuated, they said decisions will depend on the ground situation. It is learnt that a fleet of the C-17 Globemaster military transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force is kept on standby to undertake evacuation missions. According to reports from Kabul, Taliban fighters have entered the outskirts of the city, triggering panic and fear among the residents. In the last few days, the Taliban fighters have swept through most parts of Afghanistan, seizing control of around 25 of the 34 provincial capitals, including cities such as Kandahar, Herat, Mazar-e-Sharif and Jalalabad. The Afghan Presidential Palace said on Twitter that the situation is under control in Kabul and it has not been attacked, though there were instances of sporadic gunshots. It said the Afghan security forces are working with their international partners to ensure the security of Kabul. "Kabul has not been attacked. The country's security and defence forces are working together with international partners to ensure the security of the city and the situation is under control," the statement in Pashto said. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani had a telephone conversation with security officials regarding the security of the citizens in Kabul, it said. The BBC reported from Kabul, quoting the country's acting interior minister, that a peaceful transfer of power to the transitional government is being prepared. As the situation deteriorated in Kabul, the United States and the embassies of several other countries began evacuating their staff from the Afghan city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
15-08-2021||India||Modi sets 100 per cent achievement target for India on every front||Noting that the benefits of many schemes launched in the last seven years have reached crores of poor people, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the country has progressed much faster than before, while asserting that the target now should be cent per cent achievement on every front. In his eighth consecutive address from the ramparts of the Red Fort on Independence Day, Modi also said it is his firm belief that in 2047, whoever will be the prime minister, he or she shall be chronicling those accomplishments in his speech about which the country has taken a vow today. Describing the next 25 years as "amrit kaal", a reference to deriving the best in every field, he said the nation cannot wait so long to attain these goals, making it imperative for everyone to make efforts for it. The goal of "amrit kaal" is to ascend to new heights of prosperity for India and its citizens, Modi said, adding that it is also to create an India where the level of facilities will not divides the villages from the cities. He said the goal of "amrit kaal" is to build an India where the government does not interfere unnecessarily in the lives of citizens and which has every modern infrastructure in the world. "Amrit kaal is of 25 years, but we do not have to wait for long to achieve our goals. We have to start now, we do not have a moment to lose. This is the right time. Our country also has to change and we as citizens have to change ourselves too," the prime minister said. "Today, I am requesting from the ramparts of the Red Fort that 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas' and now, 'Sabka Prayas', are very important for the achievement of our goals," he added. In this "Bharat Vikas Yatra", Modi said it has to be ensured that the country meets the goal of building an Aatmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) when it celebrates 100 years of independence. "Just as we have made electricity accessible to 100 per cent households and have made authentic efforts to construct toilets in 100 per cent households, similarly, we now have to move ahead with the goal of achieving saturation of schemes and for this, we do not have to keep a distant deadline," he said. "We have to make our resolutions come true within a few years. Now, we have to move even further -- 100 per cent villages should have roads, 100 per cent households should have bank accounts, 100 per cent beneficiaries should have the Ayushman Bharat card, 100 per cent eligible persons should have gas connections under the Ujjwala scheme and 100 per cent beneficiaries should have aawas (housing)," the prime minister said. "We have to move ahead with a mindset of cent per cent achievement," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
15-08-2021||India||India takes pride in having world’s largest Covid-19 jab drive, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that India takes pride in having the world's largest Covid-19 vaccination programme and more than 54 crore people have already taken the vaccine doses. In his Independence Day address from the ramparts of the Red Fort, the prime minister spoke of the country's fight against the Covid-19 pandemic and praised the scientists, doctors, paramedical staff among others. He lauded those involved in vaccine manufacturing in the country, saying India did not have to depend on others for vaccines due to their efforts. "We can say with pride that the world's largest Covid-19 vaccination programme is going on in India. More than 54 crore people have already taken the vaccine," he said. Modi said had India not developed its own vaccine, its supply from outside would have been uncertain. "The period of coronavirus pandemic presented a big challenge in front of our country and the entire human race in the world. "The people of India exercised restraint and fought the pandemic with a lot of patience. We had many challenges. But in every field, we countrymen have worked at an extraordinary pace. "It is the result of the strength of our scientists, our entrepreneurs that today we do not have to depend on any other country for Covid-19 vaccine," Modi said. "Imagine for a moment what would have happened if India did not have its vaccine. It took years to get the polio vaccine. In such a big crisis, when there is an epidemic across the world, how would we have received vaccines? "India might or might not have received it, and even if it had received the vaccine, there was no certainty of getting it in time," he said. "It is a moment of pride for us that because of our scientists, we were able to develop two make-in-India Covid-19 vaccines and carry out the world's largest vaccine drive," he said. The prime minister stated that online platforms like CoWIN and the system of giving digital vaccination certificates are attracting the attention of the world. "We have to ensure we meet our goal of building Aatmanirbhar Bharat when we celebrate 100 years of India's Independence," PM Modi said. The prime minister said though it is true that compared to other countries fewer people got infected by Covid-19 in India and also a high proportion of people could be saved from succumbing to the viral disease, it is not a matter of self-congratulation. "It is not something to be proud of! We cannot rest on these laurels. To say that there was no challenge will become a restrictive thought in the path of our own development," he said. "Our arrangements are less as compared to the rich countries of the world, we do not have what the world has, what the rich countries have... and we also have a large population and our lifestyle is also different. "Despite all our efforts we could not save so many people in this fight against Covid-19. So many children have been orphaned. This unbearable pain will always remain with us," he said. He also lauded scientists, doctors and paramedical staff for their role in combating the Covid-19 pandemic. "During the coronavirus global pandemic, our doctors, our nurses, our paramedical staff, sanitation staff, scientists engaged in making vaccines and citizens who devoted their time to public service, they all deserve to be worshipped," he said. The campaign to provide better health facilities to every poor in the country is also going on at a fast pace. For this, important reforms have also been made in medical education, the prime minister said, adding there has been a substantial increase in the number of medical seats in the country. Equal attention has been paid to preventive healthcare. Under the Ayushman Bharat scheme, quality health services are being provided to every village in the country. Affordable medicines are being made available to the poor and middle class through Jan Aushadhi Yojana, he stated. "So far more than 75 thousand health and wellness centers have been set up. Now work is being done exclusively on the network of good hospitals and modern labs at the block level. Very soon thousands of hospitals in the country will also have their own oxygen plants," he said. Along with the concern of basic needs, reservation is being ensured for the poor of Dalits, Backward, Adivasis, general category. More recently, in the field of medical education, a system of reservation has also been made for the OBC category in the All India quota, Modi highlighted. Talking about the provision of free ration to 80 crore people during the pandemic, he said it has surprised the world and is being talked about. "At the time of epidemic, the way India has kept burning the stove of their poor by giving free food grains to 80 crore countrymen continuously for months, this is also surprising to the world and is also a matter of discussion," he stated. Modi also called for steps to bridge the gap between lives in villages and cities. He batted for reaching a hundred percent coverage of schemes like Ayushman Bharat among the intended beneficiaries. "Just as we have made electricity accessible to 100 percent households, and have made authentic efforts to construct toilets in 100 percent households, similarly, we now have to move ahead with the goal of achieving saturation of schemes, and, for this, we do not have to keep a distant deadline. We have to make our resolutions come true within a few years. "Now, we have to move even further. 100 percent of villages should have roads, 100 percent of households should have a bank account, 100 percent beneficiaries should have Ayushman Bharat card, 100 percent eligible persons should have gas connection under Ujjwala scheme and 100 percent beneficiaries should have Aawas," the prime minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
15-08-2021||India||Ola drives into green mobility space, launches first electric scooter ||Ola Electric on Sunday forayed into the green mobility space with the launch of its first electric scooter, Ola S1, at a price starting from Rs 99,999 (ex-showroom). The Ola S1 electric scooter would come in two trims -- S1 and S1 Pro -- carrying a price tag of Rs 99,999 and Rs 1,29,999, respectively. "I want to underline that it is going to be the best scooter ever made. It has the best design, performance and technology," Ola Chairman and Group Executive Officer Bhavish Aggarwal told reporters here. With never seen before technology, design and features, the company is looking for a global leadership in the electric two-wheeler segment, he added. The company will officially open Ola S1 for purchase from September 8, and start deliveries across 1,000 cities and towns in October. Till September 8, the company will keep accepting the bookings at Rs 499, Aggarwal stated. He noted that Ola S1 solves one of the biggest challenges which has hampered the growth of the EV sector in India has been the upfront cost. "In states with active subsidy grants, Ola S1 will be much more affordable than many petrol scooters. For instance, after state subsidy in Delhi, the S1 would cost just Rs 85,009 whereas in Gujarat it would be only Rs 79,000," Aggarwal said. The company has also tied up with banks and financial institutes for an EMI plan starting at Rs 2,999, he added. The Ola S1 comes with a range of 181 km, a top speed of 115 km per hour and can be fully charged in less than 40 minutes with a fast charger, and around six hours with the portable charger that will come with the scooter and can be installed at homes. The scooter comes with various features like reverse mode, hill hold function, driving modes and cruise control and takes less than 3 seconds to cross 0-40 km per hour. It comes with keyless lock and unlock system and safety features like an anti-theft alert system and geo-fencing. "Scooters are meant for the young but the industry has made such a vibrant category dull and boring and we are hopeful that we are going to change that," Aggarwal quipped. The scooter comes in 10 colours with in-house development 8.5 KW motor and 3.97 kWh battery packs. Ola is setting up a manufacturing plant, spread across 500 acres, in Tamil Nadu. The company has previously said it is investing Rs 2,400 crore for setting up the facility that will create nearly 10,000 jobs and will be the world's largest scooter manufacturing facility upon completion. Aggarwal noted that the first phase of the 'Futurefactory' is nearing completion. "By the end of the month, it is going to be ready. We bought the land in January and we put up the first pillar at April-end," he noted. The company will initially start with 10 lakh annual production capacity and then scale it up to 20 lakh, in line with market demand, in the first phase. When fully completed, the plant is going to have an annual capacity of one crore units that is 15 per cent of the world's entire total two-wheeler production. "We are building this scale because it is the only way of accelerating this transition to sustainable mobility," Aggarwal noted. Asked when the company expects to reach the one-crore production mark, he said: "Ten million production depends how fast the market scales up. We are estimating it to be within the next two years." "Everything is being done by us. We are working with suppliers for mechanical parts but core parts of electrification are being done by us in-house. It is part of our strategy to control the technology ourselves and also to design the components ourselves and then manufacture them on our own," Aggarwal said. Ola Electric would source items like plastics and tyres from outside vendors and for that, it plans to build an entire ecosystem around the factory, he added. On charging infrastructure, Aggarwal noted that the company would have established presence across relevant cities by the time deliveries commence in October. "Charging station roll out will follow sales rollout, so it will be sales, then charging stations but every city will have at least relevant scale as we begin," Aggarwal said. Ola had earlier stated that it would like to have 5,000 charging stations across 300 cities and towns across India. "That's the goal, we will be targeting that...The company has tied up with various partners and those will get operationalised once deliveries begin," Aggarwal said, adding that all kinds of developers, office complexes and even hospitals would be covered under the exercise. He noted that the scooter would have a hybrid approach when it came to actual sales. The company would have physical experience centres and online channel to sell the product. The sales outlets or the experience centres would come up across the country over the next few months, Aggarwal said. The executive pointed out that the company has received strong demand from about 1,000 towns and cities. "The EV revolution is here to stay whether incumbents like it or not. Consumers have shifted in their mindsets and before we know it, people will be buying only electric," he noted. He further said: "When we are going to share our bookings number with you in few days, I can assure you that it is going to be the highest number of reservations ever for any automobile launch in the country." On exports, he said the shipments would begin soon. "We have been very clear about the fact that we can build in India for the world and (demand for) two-wheelers is growing globally. All across the world, especially after COVID, people want personal mobility options and we want to be the global leaders in this segment," Aggarwal noted. The company's electric scooter would be relevant in markets like ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations), LATAM (Latin America) and Europe, he said. "The traditional markets for two wheelers have been Asian markets, LATAM and Africa have been growth markets for two-wheelers but the large volumes have always come from the Asian markets," Aggarwal said. Especially after Covid, even the West has opened up and more and more people in Europe want to buy electric two-wheelers, he added. Even in the US and North America, people have started to experience two-wheelers for urban mobility, Aggarwal said. "Over the next four-five years, we will see a lot of evolution. Lot of opportunities will open up globally for two-wheelers and they will have to be electric," he stated. On competition with other electric vehicle brands, Aggarwal stated: "In two-wheelers, the incumbents have not properly invested for electrification and we believe we will absolutely lead the way as our technology is ahead by a few years". When asked if the company is also looking at tapping into the Chinese market, he said: "China is not an immediate priority for us". "There are enough markets beyond that. The Chinese two-wheeler market is a unique one, while it's all electric, it’s all low-speed, low-quality electric vehicles. Transformation is happening there as well," he added. Aggarwal noted that the company has been very careful to source almost all the components from India, with only the battery cells coming from South Korea. Asked about the chip shortage situation globally, he said the company is dealing with the issue and has been able to overcome the challenge for the short-term. "It is something that the industry would have to deal with over the next 6-9 months...It is a challenge, so we are trying to deal with it," he said. Aggarwal noted that the company plans to enter various segments, including an electric car, in the coming days. He, however, did not share any details.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-312
15-08-2021||India||India will have to bow down before China if dependence continues: RSS||If dependence on China increases, we will have to bow before it, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat said on Sunday. Speaking after hoisting the national flag at a Mumbai school on the 75th Independence Day, the RSS chief also said "swadeshi" means doing business on India's terms. "We use the internet and technology a lot. Our country does not have the original technology. It comes from outside," Bhagwat said. "No matter how much we shout as a society about China and boycott Chinese items, but from where does everything that is in your mobiles come from? If the dependence on China increases, then (we) will have to bow before China," Bhagwat said. Economic security is important, he said, adding the adaptation of technology should be based on our terms. "We have to be swanirbhar", he said. "Swadeshi does not mean ignoring everything else. International trade will remain, but on our terms, he said. We have to be self-reliant for that," he added. "What we can manufacture at home should not be brought from the market," he said. He said the economic vision should be to produce more and competition should be for the best quality of produce. "We are not against international trade and commerce but our production must be in villages. It should not be mass production but production by masses," he said. A decentralised production will help India's economy to generate employment and self-employment opportunities, he said. With more producers, more people will be self-reliant, he said, adding the revenue generated should be distributed equitably. Industries should get encouragement from the government, Bhagwat said. The government should act as a regulator and not do business itself, he added. "The government will appeal and urge industries to manufacture what is important for the development of the country and formulate policies to encourage industries," he said. "We don't believe in complete nationalisation but it is also not true that the nation has nothing to do with industries. All these should function together as a family unit," he said. Small industries should complement bigger industries, he said, adding the focus should be people-centric and not profit-centric. The focus should be on research and development, MSMEs and cooperation sectors, he added. "Considering the economic unit as a family will help the economy to be an employment generator," he said. The government's job has to be to support and encourage industries. The government should give directions to produce what is important for the development of the country, he said. Controlled consumerism is necessary to ensure there is no exploitation of natural resources, Bhagwat The standard of living should not be decided by how much we earn, but by how much we give back, the RSS chief said. We will be happy when we consider the welfare of all. To be happy, we need sound finances and for this, we need financial strength," Bhagwat said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
15-08-2021||India||Ex-servicemen hold march at Singhu border to mark 75th Independence Day||On the occasion of 75th Independence Day, ex-servicemen on Sunday held a march at the Singhu border where protesting farmers are celebrating 'Kisan Mazdoor Azadi Sangram Diwas'. Veteran farmer leader Satnam Singh hoisted the Tricolour at the Singhu border and some cultural programmes are also lined up, farmer leader Raminder Singh Patiala said. "Satnam Singh (85) hoisted the Tricolour at 11 am, following which the former servicemen marched in their dresses. Students of DAV college in Jalandhar will perform 'Bhangra' for around one-and-half-hour," he said. The programme will conclude around 3 to 4 pm. Jamhuri Kisan Sabha general secretary Kulwant Singh said 'Kisan Mazdoor Azadi Sangram Diwas' is being celebrated across the nation. "The ex-servicemen marched from the KFC restaurant till the main stage at the Singhu border. 'Kisan Mazdoor Azadi Sangram Diwas' is being celebrated across the nation where people are hoisting flags in support of the farmers," Patiala said. Another leader said the national flag was also hoisted at the Tikri border. He said there will be a 'Tiranga yatra' at the Ghazipur border. "We hoisted the flag at 8 in the morning. A 'Tiranga yatra' of 500 motorcycles from Hapur will reach the Ghazipur border at around 2 pm to celebrate the independence day," Dharmendra Malik of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) said. Farmers from different parts of the country have been protesting against the three laws since November last year. While the farmers have expressed apprehension over the laws doing away with the Minimum Support Price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations, the government has been projecting the laws as major agricultural reforms. Over 10 rounds of talks have failed to break the deadlock between the two parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
15-08-2021||India||Giant mural on freedom fighters, thematic artwork on display at Red Fort||A giant mural on Mahatma Gandhi and other freedom fighters along with thematic artworks depicting India's military might, technological achievements and cultural heritage was on display at the main gate of the Red Fort here for the 75th Independence Day celebrations. The makeshift wall of shipping containers was set up for security reasons but artists had turned the stacked metallic containers into eye-catching canvases with a strong patriotic theme. It was for the first time that such a temporary fortification was done on the occasion of Independence Day, a move that came after farmers protesting against three central agri laws had stormed the Mughal-era monument, which is also a UNESCO heritage site, on Republic Day and hoisted a religious flag. The organisers had ensured that the dull industrial objects served as a backdrop for creating appealing artworks. The face of the towering stack of containers, opposite the 17th-century fort's magnificent front wall was adorned with a mega mural depicting freedom fighters -- Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Bhagat Singh, Rani Laxmibai, and scores of other unsung heroes who made the supreme sacrifice for the country's freedom from the British Rule. While six containers were stacked up in the middle section of the temporary wall, three to four of those were lined up vertically, flanking the middle section. A standard container is about 8 ft high. On the towering middle section facing the fort, India's technological and engineering achievements and its military prowess were portrayed through colourful images of an LCA aircraft, Delhi Metro train, Atal Tunnel under Rohtang Pass, BraMos missile system. The slogan 'Rashtra Pratham' (in saffron letters), Sadaiv Pratham'(in green letters)' had been mounted in huge size on top of the stack. On the side facing the main street (Netaji Subhas Marg), the middle section had a fabric canvas with thematic artwork printed depicting the cultural heritage and diversity of India, with 75th Independence Day embossed on it. The stack of containers facing the street and flanking the middle section was coloured in saffron-white-green, depicting the tricolour, in succession vertically, and a smaller blue container was kept on top of both the left and right sides. On the front wall of the fort, a decoration was mounted with two peacocks on either side and the numeral 75 adorned on it, marking the 75th Independence Day. The multi-layered security ring, including NSG snipers, elite SWAT commandos, kite catchers, canine units and sharpshooters on high-rise buildings, were placed around the Mughal-era fort, and social distancing norms were in place as last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
15-08-2021||India||IAF choppers shower flower petals over Red Fort on I-Day for the first time||In a first, two Mi-17 1V Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopters showered flower petals at the venue of main Independence Day celebration at the Red Fort here after Prime Minister Narendra Modi unfurled the national flag. The petals were showered in the Amrut formation drawing loud applause and cheers from the audience. While the first chopper was controlled by Wing Commander Baldev Singh Bisht, the second was commanded by Wing Commander Nikhil Mehrotra. After the showering of flower petals, Prime Minister addressed the nation. Thirty-two Olympians who made the country proud at the Tokyo Games and two officials of the Sports Authority of India (SAI) were invited to participate in the Independence Day celebrations. Javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra, who created history at the recently-concluded Olympics by winning the country's first track-and-field gold medal, was among the 32 athletes. Talking about the IAF choppers showering flower petals, Ritika Joshi, who was present in the audience, said, "It was a sight to witness when flower petals dropped on each of us. We saluted the commanders." For Shubhanshu Sharma, tricolour balloons released in the air was among the highlights of the celebrations. "This year having flower petals showered by IAF helicopters was a pleasant surprise which filled our hearts with respect for our forces," he said. A separate block was created on the south side of the Red Fort's ramparts for Corona warriors such as healthcare workers to honour them for the pivotal role they played in fighting the pandemic. India is commemorating its 75th Independence Day as 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' under which a series of events have been organised across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
15-08-2021||India||Congress accuses Modi of making announcements but not implementing them||The Congress on Sunday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of only making announcements about schemes in his Independence Day speeches and not implementing them, even as it hit out at him for not withdrawing the three agri laws against which the farmers have been protesting. Senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge said for seven years the country has been listening to the "same speeches" by the prime minister but nothing is being done for any aggrieved section, including small farmers. "He announces new schemes but these are never implemented or seen on the ground. He says a lot of things but never adheres to them. And now, by bringing the three new farm laws, he has spelled doom for the farmers," he told reporters after the prime minister's Independence Day speech. Kharge also took exception to the prime minister targeting the previous regimes on the issues of small farmers and development, saying the country will not progress by criticising the Congress from the ramparts of the Red Fort again and again. "The Congress has done a lot of work for this country during its regime like providing irrigation systems for the farmers. Manmohan Singh ji and Sonia Gandhi ji waived farmers' debt when the UPA was in power," he said. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also took a swipe at the prime minister over his announcement of Rs 100 lakh crore investment in the infrastructure sector, saying it was the same two years ago. "It has been two years since August 15, 2019. At least, the 100 lakh crore figure could have been changed," he said in a tweet in Hindi while posting the news of the prime minister's I-Day speech in 2019. Congress leader Pratap Singh Bajwa said it would have been a historic day had the prime minister announced the withdrawal of the three farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
15-08-2021||India||Narendra Modi addresses nation on I-Day; Here are the top 10 quotes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Sunday gave a call for Sabka Prayas' (everyone's efforts) along with 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas' for building a self-reliant India, as he addressed the nation on Sunday on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day of India. Here are the Prime Minister's top quotes from his 90-minute speech:||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
15-08-2021||India||Parliament ruckus shows sorry state of affairs, says CJI NV Ramana||Observing that the law-making process in the country is in a "sorry state of affairs", Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Sunday rued the lack of debates in Parliament, saying this led to absence of clarity and a "lot of gaps and ambiguity" in the legislations. Doing some plain speaking at a public event, Justice Ramana said an elaborate discussion during the law-making process reduces litigation since when courts interpret legislations, "we all know the intent of the legislature". He was speaking at the 75th Independence Day function organised by the Supreme Court Bar Association(SCBA). Justice Ramana's remarks come against the backdrop of the tumultuous Monsoon session of Parliament when several bills were passed without any debate during the pandemonium following relentless protests by the Opposition over the Pegasus snooping row, farm laws, price rise and other issues. Parliament was adjourned sine die on Wednesday two days of the scheduled date of August 13. The crucial observations of the CJI also assume significance in connection with a case where though the apex court is seized of matters concerning appointment in tribunals, the Centre went ahead and secured the passage of the amendment bill relating to tribunals without any debate in Parliament. The bill restored the provisions struck down by the Supreme Court recently. The CJI also exhorted the members of the legal fraternity to participate in public life and share their experience about laws. He said the country's long freedom struggle was led by lawyers. "Whether it is Mahatma Gandhi or Babu Rajendra Prasad, they were legal luminaries, who sacrificed their property, family and life and led the movement." "Most of the members of first Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha were all lawyers and members from the legal fraternity. Unfortunately, we know what is happening now in the Parliament with respect to debates on laws." He said there used to be debates in Parliament on various constitutional amendments and how they will affect the people. "Long ago, I have seen a debate during the introduction of the Industrial Disputes Act and a member from Tamil Nadu used to discuss the law so elaborately as to how the law will affect the working class. It used to reduce the burden on the courts, as when the courts interpreted the law, we all knew the intent of the legislature," the Chief Justice said. "Now, it is a sorry state of affairs. There are a lot of gaps and a lot of ambiguity in the law-making process due to lack of debates... There is no clarity regarding the laws. We don't know what the intent of the legislature is. We don't know for what purpose the laws are made. This causes great inconvenience to the people. This happens when members of the legal fraternity are not in the Parliament and state legislature," he added. During the function, the CJI told the lawyers, "Don't confine yourself to your profession, earning money and living comfortably. Please think over it. We should actively participate in public life, do some good service and share the experience with the country. Hopefully, goodness will come out of it in the country." He added that the Supreme Court has played an active role in the country and has given more than what the Constitution has thought of, but he expects the legal fraternity to contribute more. "There are small issues but around 75 percent of the people in need of justice have got legal aid. You (lawyers) all should participate in the legal aid movement. On November 26 and 27, we may have two-day workshops on Constitution Day and legal aid," he said. At the outset, the CJI said it is a historic day and an occasion for all to rethink and review the policies to understand "what we have achieved and what we have to achieve in the future". "Seventy-five years is not a small period in the history of the country but we have to also consider the vast landscape and geographical condition of our country," the CJI said, while recalling his childhood days when they were given jaggery and and murmura (puffed rice) in school on the occasion of Independence Day. "Since then, a lot of development has taken place. Small things given to us in school made us very happy but in today's time when we have so many facilities, we are not happy. I think this is due to our saturation level," he added. Supreme Court Judges AM Khanwilkar and V Ramasubramanian were also present on the occasion along with several lawyers and members of the SCBA. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who was also present on the occasion, said the Chief Justice of India is the karta' (guardian) of the Indian legal family and thus he does not wish to say anything more. "India is a young democracy and when we look around the neighbouring countries and they call themselves democracy and we all know how they have failed. In contrast, we have been able to sustain it the way it was envisioned by the framers of our Constitution," Mehta said. The CJI also unfurled the national flag after which the national anthem was played by a police band. SCBA President and senior advocate Vikas Singh said it is a historic day as the country is celebrating its 75th Independence Day and thanked the Chief Justice and other judges for gracing the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
15-08-2021||India||India fighting terrorism and expansionism with great courage, says Narendra Modi||India is responding to the twin challenges of terrorism and expansionism with great courage, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his Independence Day address on Sunday, in a veiled reference to cross-border terrorism from Pakistan and Chinese activities. The prime minister also mentioned the government's resolve to strengthen the armed forces and promote defence manufacturing as he cited the construction of the country's first indigenous aircraft carrier Vikrant. In his around 90-minute speech from the ramparts of the Red Fort, Modi referred to the 2016 surgical strikes and the Balakot airstrikes in 2019, saying they sent a strong message about India's resoluteness to take tough decisions. "Today, the world is looking at India from a new perspective and this vision has two important aspects...One terrorism and the other expansionism. India is fighting these two challenges and responding to them astutely and with great courage," the prime minister said. His comments came as India continues to deal with Pakistan-backed cross-border terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir and the eastern Ladakh border row along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). India and China have already completed the disengagement of troops and weapons from a number of friction points in the region. "India has given a strong signal to its enemies by carrying out surgical and airstrikes. This tells us that India is changing. India can take the most difficult decisions and is not reluctant to implement them," Modi said. India carried out surgical strikes in September 2016 targeting terror launch pads across the Line of Control in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir in response to an attack on an army camp in Uri. Indian fighter jets bombed Jaish-e-Mohammed's biggest training camp near Balakot deep inside Pakistan on February 26, 2019, 12 days after the terror outfit claimed responsibility for a suicide attack on a CRPF convoy in Kashmir that killed 40 soldiers. Talking about defence manufacturing, Modi also talked about the production of fighter jets and submarines in the country. "You have seen, just a few days ago, India launched its first indigenous aircraft carrier INS Vikrant for trials at sea," the prime minister said. India's first indigenous aircraft carrier Vikrant last week successfully completed a five-day maiden sea voyage, ahead of its planned induction into the Indian Navy by August next year. The construction of the aircraft carrier has put India in a select group of countries that includes the US, the UK, Russia, France and China having capability to construct aircraft carriers. The prime minister said the government is committed to promoting self-reliance in the defence sector. In another announcement, Modi said the government has decided to open all Sainik schools to girls. At present, 33 Sainik schools are operating in the country. During his Independence Day speech Sunday, the prime minister said that two-and-a-half years ago, the maiden experiment of admitting girls in Sainik schools was carried out in Mizoram. "Now, the government has decided that all the Sainik schools in the country will also be open for the daughters of the country," he said. Sainik schools are run by the Sainik Schools Society which is under the administrative control of the Ministry of Defence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
15-08-2021||India||Narendra Modi announces Rs 100 lakh crore Gatishakti scheme to boost infra sector||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday announced an ambitious Rs 100 lakh crore holistic infrastructure development programme 'Gatishakti', which is aimed at boosting employment opportunities and productivity of industries. While Modi did not announce details of the plan, he said the plan will help local manufacturers compete globally and create new avenues of future economic growth. "India needs a holistic and integrated approach in infrastructure construction along with modern infrastructure. In the near future, India is going to come out with Pradhan Mantri Gatishakti National Plan and launch it," he said in his address to the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on India's 75th Independence Day. Modi said the over Rs 100 lakh crore scheme will bring new employment opportunities for lakhs of youth. Gatishakti, he said, will be a national master plan which will lay the foundation of the overall infrastructure in the country and give an integrated and holistic path to the economy. Modi said as of now there is no harmony in modes of transport in the country. Gatishakti, he said, will break the silos and bottlenecks. "This will reduce travel time and productivity of industry will increase even more," he said, adding that Gatishakti will also go a long way in helping India's local manufacturers to be globally competitive. Besides, the initiative will lead to possibilities of developments of future economic zones. The Prime Minister stressed that Gatishakti will become basis of India's rejuvenation. Boosting infrastructure in Asia's third largest economy is at the heart of the Modi's plan to pull back the country from a sharp economic decline worsened by the Covid-19 pandemic. In the last fiscal year, India's economic output fell by a record 7.3% and a second wave of Covid-19 has delayed economic recovery. The prime minister also set a target to become energy independent by 2047, saying the goal can be achieved through a mix of electric mobility, moving to a gas-based economy and making the country a hub for hydrogen production. During his nearly 90 minutes speech, Modi said India will have to work together for manufacturing world-class products, using cutting-edge innovation and new age technology. He said that to further increase the developmental progress, the country will have to focus on the manufacturing sector and exports. "We have to work together...for next generation infrastructure, for world class manufacturing, for cutting edge innovation, and we have to work together for new age technology," he said. The Prime Minister also said that the government has introduced tax reforms that will give impetus to 'ease of living' and 'ease of doing business'. (With Reuters inputs)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
15-08-2021||India||Preparations underway to conduct Assembly polls in Jammu and Kashmir, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that preparations are underway for holding Assembly elections in the future in Jammu and Kashmir, where development is now visible on the ground. "Giving fair opportunities to the potential of all, this is the real spirit of democracy. Be it Jammu or Kashmir, where the balance of development is now visible on the ground. "The Delimitation Commission has been constituted in Jammu and Kashmir and preparations are on for holding Assembly elections in the future," the prime minister said while addressing the nation from the ramparts of Red Fort on the occasion of 75th Independence Day. He also referred to the abrogation of Article 370 and said holding the first-ever District Development Council polls in J-K reflects the country's determination. Talking about Ladakh, which was carved as a Union Territory after the bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir, he said it is also progressing towards its limitless possibilities of development. "On the one hand, Ladakh is witnessing the creation of modern infrastructure, while on the other hand 'Sindhu Central University' is also going to make Ladakh a centre of higher education," he said. Modi said that whether it is eastern India, the North-East, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh including the entire Himalayan region, or the coastal belt or tribal region, they will become the base for India's development in the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-313
15-08-2021||India||India celebrates 75th Independence Day as Red Fort dons tricolour||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
15-08-2021||India||India records 36,093 new Covid-19 cases||India saw a single-day rise of 36,083 new coronavirus infections, raising its tally to 3,21,92,576, while the death toll has climbed to 4,31,225 with 493 fresh fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The active cases have declined to 3,85,336 and comprise 1.20 percent of the total infections. The national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.46 percent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A reduction of 2,337 cases has been recorded in the active coronavirus infections in a span of 24 hours, it stated. The ministry said less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for forty-nine consecutive days. As many as 19,23,863 tests were conducted on Saturday, taking the total cumulative tests done so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 49,36,24,440. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.88 percent. It has been less than 3 percent for the last 20 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2 percent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,13,76,015, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 percent, the data stated. A total of 73,50,553 vaccine doses were administered in the last 24 hours. Cumulatively, 54.38 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Sunday morning, the ministry said. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23. The 493 new fatalities include 179 from Maharashtra and 105 from Kerala, the data stated. A total of 4,31,225 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,34, 909 from Maharashtra, 36,958 from Karnataka, 34,496 from Tamil Nadu, 25,069 from Delhi, 22,783 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,499 from Kerala and 18,291 from Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 percent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
15-08-2021||India||Modi sets 2047 target for India to become energy independent||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday set a target of becoming 'energy independent' by 2047 through a mix of electric mobility, gas-based economy, doping ethanol in petrol and making the country a hub for hydrogen production. Delivering his Independence Day address from the ramparts of the Red Fort, he said India spends over Rs 12 lakh crore on energy imports every year. "For India to progress, for Atmanirbhar Bharat, energy independence is the call of the hour," he said. "India has to take a pledge that it will be energy independent by the year we celebrate 100th year of Independence." The roadmap for that is to increase usage of natural gas in the economy, setting up a network of CNG and piped natural gas networks across the country, blending 20 per cent ethanol in petrol and electric mobility, he said. The country has achieved the target of 100 gigawatts of renewable energy capacity ahead of the target, Modi added. 'No dearth of political will to bring reforms' Asserting that there is no dearth of political will to bring reforms in India,  Modi called for a review of rules and procedures across the country so that every process that creates a hindrance for people is removed. India is writing a new chapter in governance, he said while addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on 75th Independence Day. PM Modi said good and smart governance is required for implementing reforms in the country. "Political will is required to bring in big changes and big reforms. The world now knows that there is no lack of political will in India for reforms," he said. "Today the world is also a witness to how India is writing a new chapter of governance," he said. Modi said a campaign should be launched in all departments and government offices in both central and state governments to review rules and procedures. "Every rule, every process that has stood before the people of the country as a hindrance, as a burden, we have to remove it," Modi said. The prime minister said moving forward on the path of development, India will have to increase both its manufacturing and exports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
15-08-2021||India||75 Vande Bharat trains to connect different parts of India, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Sunday announced that 75 'Vande Bharat' trains will connect different parts of the country in 75 weeks to mark the ongoing 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav'. Addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on the occasion of 75th Independence Day, he said it is unprecedented the way UDAN scheme was connecting far-flung areas of the country and the speed at which new airports are being built. "The country has resolved that 75 Vande Bharat trains will be connecting every corner of the country in 75 weeks of Amrit Mahotsav of Independence," he said. Vande Bharat, the indigenous semi-high speed train set, is being given a boost, with the Railways gearing to roll out at least 10 of them, linking around 40 cities, by August 2022 to commemorate 75 years of Independence. Hyderabad-based engineering firm Medha, which in February secured the contract to supply the electrical systems for 44 Vande Bharat trains, has now been told to advance its production plan, so that at least two prototypes can be rolled out by next March following all trials. The PM also talked about boosting rail connectivity in the northeast region, saying it is significant for the entire country. "Today, we are in the process of writing a new history as far as connectivity to the northeast is concerned. This connectivity is both between hearts and infrastructure. "Very soon the job of connecting the capital cities of the northeastern states by rail will be completed," Modi said. As of today, except Sikkim, all northeastern states are connected to the rail network. The capital cities of Assam, Tripura and Arunachal Pradesh are already connected, while the work to link the capital cities of Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland and Meghalaya is underway. Keeping coronavirus-induced delays in mind, officials said that connectivity to the region will be achieved by 2024.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
15-08-2021||India||PM pays tributes to Nehru, lauds India’s Olympic athletes in Independence Day address  ||India has to march ahead with new pledges for the next 25 years, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday while addressing the nation on India's 75th Independence Day. "We have to ensure we meet our goal of building Aatmanirbhar Bharat when we celebrate 100 years of India's Independence," the prime minister said. Addressing the nation on India's 75th Independence Day, he said the 'Pradhan Mantri Gatishakti National Master Plan' will develop the possibilities of new future economic zones, and also announced the setting up of a National Hydrogen Mission to make India the new global hub of green hydrogen and its largest exporter. In a nearly 90-minute speech that dwelt on a range of issues, including India's deprived poor, its farmers and the pain of Partition, the prime minister also spoke of the challenges of terrorism and expansionism. A message of New India By conducting surgical and air strikes, the country had sent out the message of a 'New India', he said. This shows India is changing and can take difficult decisions, Modi said from the ramparts of the Red Fort, the centrepiece of India's Independence Day celebrations. On terrorism, a veiled attack The nature of international relations, he added, changed after the Second World War and there is a possibility of a new world order in a post-coronavirus pandemic scenario. "India has seen the efforts of the world and also appreciated it. Today, the world views India with a new perspective. There are two important perspectives to it. "One is terrorism and another is expansionism. India is fighting these two challenges and responding to them astutely and with courage," Modi said without naming China and Pakistan.  Roadmap for 25 years Drawing a roadmap for the all-round development of India and its people, he said India has to march ahead with new pledges for the next 25 years. "We have to ensure we meet our goal of building Aatmanirbhar Bharat when we celebrate 100 years of India's Independence. Sabka Prayas The prime minister, who called for 'Sabka Prayas' along with 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas' for building a new India, also announced that rice provided under any scheme will be fortified by 2024. The government's focus is to make small farmers, who own less than two hectares of land and comprise over 80 percent of all farmers, the country's pride, Modi added. "We are witnessing the rapid transformation of our villages," he told the nation while stressing that digital entrepreneurs are being nurtured in villages too. Reservation is being ensured for Dalits, STs, backwards and general category poor, he added in his speech and emphasised that the hand-holding of deprived communities is necessary. Over 4.5 crore new households have received piped water supply within two years of 'Jal Jeevan Mission'. PM calls for holistic approach Along with modern infrastructure, India needs to adopt a holistic approach in infrastructure construction, the prime minister stressed in his address after hoisting the tricolour. India imported mobile phones worth USD 8 billion seven years ago and is now exporting USD 3 billion worth of mobile phones, the prime minister said. "We will have to work together for manufacturing world class products, using cutting-edge innovation and new age technology," he told the nation. Vande Bharat trains to connect country In 75 weeks of the 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav', 75 'Vande Bharat' trains will connect different parts of country, the prime minister announced. The prime minister said the capitals of northeast states will soon be connected with the railways. The region, he said, is also getting connected with Bangladesh, Myanmar and southeast Asia. On Jammu & Kashmir, NEP The development of Jammu and Kashmir is visible on the ground, Modi said, adding that the delimitation exercise is on and preparations are underway for assembly polls there. Describing the New Education Policy as a means to fight poverty, he said it will focus on encouraging teaching in regional languages. Sainik Schools for girls The government has decided to open all Sainik schools to girls, the prime minister said. "I call upon all departments to launch a campaign to review rules and procedures; we must remove all rules that create hindrance," he asserted. PM lauds Covid warriors Addressing the gathering held under the shadow of Covid with social distanced seating, Modi stressed that the day should not be merely a ceremony. People can take pride that the world's largest Covid vaccination programme in going on in the country, he said. He lauded doctors, nurses as well those involved in vaccine manufacturing and others involved in fighting COVID-19. The pain of partition was one of the greatest tragedies of the last century, the prime minister said while asserting that August 14 will be remembered as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day. "I have faith in our youth; this is a 'can do generation', it can achieve every goal," he said. PM's praise for Olympic contingent He also lauded India's Olympic contingent, which was present at the Red Fort, and said their performance encouraged the youth of the country. "The young generation made India proud at the Olympics. Those athletes are present here today," Modi said and then requested everyone assembled at the function and people across the country to applaud the achievers of the Tokyo Games. He himself began applauding the athletes and the gathering joined him. "We can be proud of the fact they have not only won our hearts but inspired the youth of this country," Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
15-08-2021||India||L.K. Advani recalls 'trauma', underlines 'triumph of freedom'||BJP veteran L.K. Advani, himself displaced by the Partition, on Saturday recalled the “trauma” but also underlined the “triumph of freedom” that accompanied it, stressing “respect for diversity and freedom of expression” as the way to strengthen Indian democracy. “Eventually, when India became free on 15th August 1947, the triumph of freedom was accompanied by the tragedy of Partition,” Advani said in a statement that did not refer to Modi’s announcement about observing August 14 as “Partition Horrors Remembrance Day”. “Having been a victim of it myself, I painfully recall the physical and emotional trauma this tragedy caused to the displaced people on both sides of the border.” Advani, 93, who was born in Karachi, asserted that India had blossomed into a prosperous country “over the (past 75) years”, his remark contrasting with the present government’s insinuations that nothing good had happened in the 67 years before Modi. “It has been my strong belief that the essence of Indian democracy is respect for diversity and freedom of expression. It is this that has contributed to India being a successful democracy,” Advani said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
15-08-2021||India||Goyal comes under fire on social media for outburst on industry||Commerce minister Piyush Goyal has come under fire on social media after slamming the Tata Group and a couple of other Indian business houses for placing their own interests ahead of the nation’s. Goyal’s diatribe against the Tatas came on Thursday at an event organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), and apparently stemmed from Bombay House’s objections to proposed changes in e-commerce regulations that the minister was looking to introduce. Bombay House is the Tata Group’s headquarters in India’s commercial capital. A war of words erupted after a video of Goyal’s comments was withdrawn from YouTube. The Hindu newspaper reported that the government had directed the industry chamber to take it down. The newspaper report also said a flubbed attempt to put out a sanitised version of Goyal’s unseemly attack against Indian corporate houses was also blocked. Neither the commerce minister nor the CII would comment on the controversial video. Goyal had apparently hit out at the Tatas in his 19-minute diatribe. “Kya aapke jaisi company ek do aapne shaayad koi videshi company kharid li… uska importance zyaada ho gaya, desh hith kam ho gaya (You may have bought one or two foreign companies and now their importance has become greater than the national interest)?” he said. Sources close to the minister claimed his comments had been wrenched out of context. Opposition leaders seized the opportunity to fire a fusillade against Goyal and the Narendra Modi government. Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said he was flabbergasted by Goyal’s “unprovoked attacks” against Indian industry. “'First, he ensured Rajya Sabha did not function at all and now this bizarre tirade! He couldn’t be speaking without official sanction, could he,” Ramesh tweeted. The Shiv Sena’s Priyanka Chaturvedi said: “The kind of language used against industry captains and calling their work against nation’s interest is shameful.… CII should demand an apology instead of helping him by pulling down the video.” Trinamul Congress MP Mahua Moitra termed Goyal’s comments an “unhinged rant”, adding that the “pressure of working in an underperforming one-man show must really be getting to them”. In a tweet, former Union minister Milind Deora said: “World over, governments are working with industry, entrepreneurs & traders to help them get back on their feet. GOI’s ‘minimum government, maximum governance’, prefers berating & bullying them toward unprofitability & decline. A strong economy is in India’s national interest.” Anil Swarup, a former secretary of the Government of India, said he was appalled that no one from the industry protested. “The industry acted worse than civil servants (at least some protested) when they were pilloried & called ‘Babus’ in Parliament,” he tweeted. E-commerce rules Industry was agog with speculation about what really triggered Goyal’s harangue. A few corporate observers said the Tata Group -- which is in the process of unveiling a Super App that will telescope multiple websites that sell products of group companies and other unrelated vendors -- had objected to the proposed new e-commerce rules that seek to place restrictions on any attempt to prioritise the sale of products on what is being construed as a digital marketplace. Last month, a Reuters report had said the conglomerate had been among the most vociferous in telling the government in a July meeting that the proposed e-commerce rules would have a major impact on its business and bar its joint venture partners like Starbucks from selling goods on Tata’s shopping websites. “If Tata cannot sell their own product — be it Voltas, Titan or plethora of other products — from this app, then it makes no sense for them. Likewise, if the consumers don’t get the option to choose from multiple other competing products, the app would not appeal to them,” explained a source who is aware of the context of Goyal’s tirade. Besides Starbucks, the Tata Group has joint ventures with Inditex of Spain which owns Zara and the high street Massimo Dutti apparel brands. The app is expected to provide an additional outlet to them as well. The Super App is at the heart of the digital ambitions of the Tata Group under chairman Natarajan Chandrasekaran. In the past year, the Tatas have bought a majority stake in grocery chain BigBasket, online pharma chain 1mg and fitness start up CureFit. The new e-commerce rules are likely to impede the salt-to-software conglomerate’s plan to consolidate digital sales under one app. The Tata Group did not comment on Goyal’s remarks. Digital fiefs Just a few days ago, Goyal had fired a sharp broadside against Amazon and Walmart-owned Flipkart for seeking judicial intervention in an effort to stop an anti-trust investigation into their trade practices. After the Supreme Court turned down the plea by the two e-commerce giants, Goyal had gloated in Parliament over the symbolic significance of the date on which the Supreme Court announced its verdict, which he said coincided with the launch of the Quit India Movement. The sudden attack now against the Tatas comes at a time when several Indian and foreign business groups are scrambling to establish digital marketplace fiefs. The outburst also comes amid a severe setback to Reliance Industries’ plan to acquire Kishore Biyani’s Future Retail after the Supreme Court ruled that an emergency arbitral award that Amazon had secured from a Singapore tribunal was enforceable in India. In April, Reliance Industries was forced to push back the deadline for closing the over Rs 25,000-crore deal by six months to September 30 --  a date that looks in some doubt as the legal battle escalates. On Thursday, Future Retail filed a special leave petition in the apex court challenging the verdict. No date has yet been set for a hearing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
15-08-2021||India||Bombay HC grants interim stay on operation of some parts of IT rules||Bombay High Court has said dissent is vital for democracy and granted an interim stay on the operation of some parts of the Information Technology Rules, 2021, which require that all online publishers follow a “code of ethics”. Sub-clauses 1 and 3 of Clause 9 of the new rules were, on the face of it, “manifestly unreasonable”, the high court said. “The indeterminate and wide terms of the rules bring about a chilling effect qua (regarding) the right of freedom of speech and expression of writers/editors/publishers” as they can be hauled up for anything if the authorities so wish, the court said. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni stayed these two sub-clauses of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, saying they seem to violate the petitioners’ constitutional right to freedom of speech and expression under Article 19. “Dissent in democracy is vital.... For proper administration of the State, it is healthy to invite criticism of all those who are in public service for the nation to have a structured growth, but with the 2021 rules in place, one would have to think twice before criticising any such personality, even if the writer/editor/publisher may have good reasons to do so,” the judges said. If a committee proposed under the rules did not approve of criticism of a public figure, anyone who criticises such a person would invite punishment, said the court. The high court order came on petitions filed by the legal news portal, The Leaflet, and journalist Nikhil Wagle, which challenged several provisions of the new IT rules, saying that they were vague and likely to have a “chilling effect” on a citizen’s right to free speech. The court, however, refused to stay Clause 14 that pertains to the setting up of an inter-ministerial committee with powers to regulate online content and deal with grievances and breach of rules and Clause 16 that deals with  blocking online content in case of an emergency. Such a committee is yet to be formed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
15-08-2021||India||Twitter unlocks handles of Congress leaders including Rahul||Twitter on Saturday unlocked the handles of the Congress and its leaders, including Rahul Gandhi. The Congress tweeted: “Satyameva jayate (The truth alone triumphs).” The tweet that led to the lock on Rahul’s account — showing a photo of the Congress leader with the parents of a nine-year-old Dalit girl who was allegedly raped and killed in Delhi — still remains invisible in India. This owes to a notice from the National Council for the Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) to Twitter to prevent the revelation of the child's identity. The unlocking of the accounts comes a day after the girl’s mother told reporters the family had no objection to their images being shared by politicians in the quest for justice. A Twitter spokesperson said in an email to The Telegraph: “As part of the appeal process, @RahulGandhi has submitted a copy of the formal consent/ authorisation letter to use the referenced image via our India Grievance Channel. “We have followed the necessary due diligence process to review the appeal in order to protect the safety and privacy of the affected individuals. We have updated our enforcement action based on the consent provided by the people depicted in the image. “The Tweet is now withheld in India and the account access has been restored. As explained in our Country Withheld Policy, it may be necessary to withhold access to certain content in accordance with valid legal provisions under the Indian law(s). The withholding actions are limited to the specific jurisdiction/ country where the content is determined to be unlawful and remains available elsewhere.” The Congress had accused Twitter of a double standard, as tweets by the National Commission of Scheduled Castes and its member Anju Bala of the BJP that contained photos of the parents had not led to their handles being locked. Rahul said in a video on Friday: “Our democracy is under attack. We are not allowed to speak in Parliament. The media is controlled. And I thought there was a ray of light where we could put what we thought on Twitter. But obviously, that’s not the case.” Twitter had explained the restriction of access to the Congress accounts saying they had not deleted the tweet, while the Congress alleged that the Centre had arm-twisted the US-based company. On Friday, Twitter had transferred the MD of its Indian subsidiary, Manish Maheshwari, as a senior director in the parent company in San Francisco. In June, an FIR was lodged in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh against Maheshwari for tweets by Congress leaders showing a news report by a portal on an alleged incident of communal violence. However, the Indian subsidiary, Twitter Communications India, is responsible only for business here and not content, which is handled by the parent company, Twitter Incorporated. The Reuters news agency reported that an internal staff memo thanked Maheshwari for his work in India during “extraordinarily challenging times”. On Friday, NCPCR chairperson Priyank Kanoongo had said he had written to Facebook as well over a video of the grieving parents posted by Rahul on Instagram, a social media platform owned by Facebook. By posting the video and the tweet, Rahul is deemed to have violated the Juvenile Justice Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, which prohibit the revelation of the identity of any alleged child victim of sexual abuse. In 2018, the Supreme Court had ruled that “…No person can print or publish the name of the (rape) victim or disclose any facts which can lead to the victim being identified”. Violation is punishable with a jail term of up to six months. Delhi High Court has refused to issue notices on an individual’s plea for an FIR against Rahul on the issue and adjourned the matter to September 27. Earlier this week, senior human rights lawyer Indira Jaising had tweeted: “We must understand the prohibition against disclosing the identity of a rape victim is to protect the living survivor; that logic does not apply to the dead victim.” After the gang rape and murder of a paramedical student in a bus in Delhi in December 2012, the victim and her parents had been kept anonymous by most publications and personalities. After Narendra Modi became Prime Minister in 2014, a news agency had tweeted photographs of Modi meeting the parents without blurring their faces. Twitter took no action against this. The following year, the victim’s mother referred to her deceased daughter by name at a public event and said that it was the perpetrators who should feel ashamed and not the family. Photos of the parents are widely available on social media but there have been no strictures from any panel. Interim relief On August 1, the Dalit girl was hurriedly cremated by a crematorium priest and other crematorium staff who claimed she had been electrocuted while using a water cooler on their premises near Delhi Cantonment. After protests by Dalits, the police - who face allegations of intimidating the parents -- booked four men including the priest in connection with multiple offences including rape and murder. No conclusive evidence from the forensic examination has emerged so far because the child's body has been burned. On Thursday, a Delhi court allowed an interim compensation of Rs 2.5 lakh to the girl's parents on the ground of loss of life but declined interim relief for rape citing lack of evidence. Additional sessions judge Ashutosh Kumar said in his order: "The IO (investigating officer) has further admitted that neither any statement of any eyewitness nor any other evidence, including medical or scientific, could be collected so far to confirm as to whether the victim child was raped or not. He has further submitted that at this stage, he cannot conclusively say as to whether the victim child was raped or not." The order added that disclosure statements by the accused to the police - not considered conclusive unless corroborated by material evidence - suggested that the priest and a crematorium employee had raped and murdered the child and two other employees had participated in the cremation, thereby destroying evidence. The parents have petitioned Delhi High Court for a judicial probe, alleging administrative failure by the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
15-08-2021||India||August 14 to be observed as Horrors Remembrance Day, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday tweeted that August 14 would now be observed as “Partition Horrors Remembrance Day”, stressing that the misery suffered during the 1947 partition of the country can never be forgotten. August 14 being Pakistan’s Independence Day, many saw Modi’s announcement as politically and ideologically loaded, timed with the preparations for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls next year. “Partition’s pains can never be forgotten. Millions of our sisters and brothers were displaced and many lost their lives due to mindless hate and violence,” Modi tweeted. “In memory of the struggles and sacrifices of our people, 14th August will be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day.” Modi added: “May the #PartitionHorrorsRemebranceDay keep reminding us of the need to remove the poison of social divisions, disharmony and further strengthen the spirit of oneness, social harmony and human empowerment.” Some, however, alleged that the Prime Minister’s statement was aimed at reopening old wounds and polarising people. “This is vile! It is not about remembering people who lost families to the partition, this is done to open wounds and create communal hatred,” musician, author and activist T.M. Krishna tweeted. RJD leader Manoj Jha questioned the wisdom of the announcement and asked Modi to focus on removing poverty and divisiveness. “I don’t know who advised the Prime Minister to observe the remembrance day of Partition. India has suffered the agony of Partition, but its character and fabric were kept entirely different from Pakistan,” Jha said. “Our foundation is the Constitution and the Prime Minister should focus on the key objectives of poverty removal and ending communal divide. It is his responsibility to address the growing chasm between communities. He is not concerned about this at all.” Sometime after Modi’s tweets, the home ministry issued a notification that said: “Therefore, the Government of India declares 14th August as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day to remind the present and future generations of Indians of the pain and suffering faced by the people of India during the partition.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-314
15-08-2021||India||Separatist spearheads may lie blunted in Kashmir, but not separatism||Syed Ali Shah Geelani, the patron protagonist of Kashmiri secession, is 91 and in cascading poor health. He barely ever speaks out or issues a statement. When he does, the communiqué comes from proxy social media handles that operate from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. His sons, one a doctor, one a university teacher, are often the first ones to issue disclaimers to the local police absolving themselves of any association. The odd hartal or protest call that gets issued in the senior Geelani’s name goes mostly unheeded. Ashraf Sehrai, Geelani’s most prominent associate, died while in jail as a Public Safety Act detainee this May of Covid-related complications. Moulvi Umer Farooq, head of the moderate faction of the secessionist Hurriyat, has remained under house arrest for nearly two years and refrained from any of the activities that were his calling card. The public prayers of his outfit, the Awami Action Committee, that the Moulvi be allowed to conduct prayers at Srinagar’s Jama Masjid have gone unheard. Yasin Malik of the Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front (JKLF) is in Tihar jail, charged with armed assault on an Indian Air Force party in 1990; four personnel died in the attack. Malik has the company there of another separatist, Shabbir Shah. Masarat Alam, another feisty separatist, lies bundled in jail on a long catalogue of charges that include sedition and violence against the state; Aasiya Andrabi, firebrand militant of the Dukhtaran-e-Millat, and her husband Qasim Faktoo, one of the founders of the Hizbul Mujahideen, are also behind bars, charged with waging war on the state. The lead actors of Kashmiri separatism have been rendered ineffectual, one way or another. Those that still have the freedom of their homes — Prof. Abdul Ghani Bhat and Moulvi Abbas Ansari among them — seldom risk going public with the views they’ve long held close and fought for. “The realisation has gone home that it is no longer possible to take liberties beyond a point and not suffer consequences,” a senior police officer told me. “This is a very different dispensation, it has very low, or no, tolerance for any appeal or action that challenges the state or the legitimacy of India. The recent raids on suspected leaders and activists of the Jamat-e-Islami across the state were part of the exercise to underline that. Miscreants are aware they are under keen watch and will not get away with actions that undermine the nation.” But to interpret the blow to separatists as a sign that separatist sentiment in the Valley has been whittled would be to grossly misread Kashmir’s ground reality. As one retired bureaucrat who spent a lifetime espousing India’s case as a secular democracy, told this paper: “How do you even expect the Kashmiri to like you, especially after what happened in August 2019? We were made to feel deeply hurt and humiliated, reduced as a people. But that was not all. Our humiliation and our chaining became a thing to rejoice all over the country. That celebration of our suffering cannot be a thing to forget.” It is no surprise that most Kashmiris are reluctant to talk frankly about how they feel; it comes from a deep sense of resignation and, in no small measure, out of fear. “We’ve been knocked into levels of despair that we see no way out of,” a shop-owner in Polo View, Srinagar’s fashionable shopping avenue, told me. “And why would I risk what I still have opening myself up to you?” Then, he suddenly turned acerbic out of not being able to resist it. “I can tell you happy and lovely things, as you often hear being broadcast on television channels, but they will all be lies, or things I have been forced to say by someone in authority. We do not even have the freedom to shut our shops when we feel like shutting them as an expression of our anger; the police will heckle and threaten us into lifting shutters and then the channels will show how Kashmir has returned to being a place of peace and good cheer. All lies!” The eve of Independence Day has for a long time been an uneasy moment in the Valley, laden with apprehension over what untoward or ugly turn the slightest provocation could trigger. This year, the administration has ordered teaching and non-teaching staff at schools across the Union Territory to turn up for work, ceremonially hoist the national flag, and demonstrate proof of it. School heads have also been instructed to call students to school (10 per cent in view of Covid restrictions) and make them learn the national anthem which must be sung in each institution. “But what really are we meant to celebrate?” a school teacher asked, palpably outraged at the order. “Our chaining and our gagging? Is that what Independence Day means? When people wish to celebrate they do it with the fullness of their hearts, you don’t require government orders to be proud of your nation.” Separatist spearheads may lie blunted in Kashmir, but not separatism as widespread sentiment; nor the Kashmiris’ deep sense of anger and disdain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
15-08-2021||India||Narendra Modi relies so heavily on Pakistan to win elections: Congress||The Congress on Saturday described Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement about August 14 being observed as “Partition Horrors Remembrance Day” as an oblique dig at Pakistan to polarise Indians and divert attention from his government’s mismanagement of the pandemic and the economy. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala linked the announcement to the Uttar Pradesh elections, due early next year, where the BJP’s performance will be critical to Modi’s hopes of retaining power in 2024. “Modi has started preparations for the Uttar Pradesh elections. Modi relies so heavily on Pakistan to win elections,” he said in a statement. “He has to divert attention from the horrific Covid mismanagement, abnormally high prices, Pegasus snooping, farmers’ movement, unemployment and theft in the name of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. This is an attempt to reinvent the shamshan-kabristan discourse.” In the run-up to the last Uttar Pradesh elections in 2017, Modi had told a rally that if a kabristan (graveyard) was built in a village, a shamshan (cremation ground) too should be built there. This was seen as an attempt to give a communal twist to the electoral discourse. Now the Yogi Adityanath government is grappling with a macabre discourse of another kind — that of families of dead Covid patients failing to find space at either cremation grounds or graveyards during the second wave of the pandemic. Bodies were dumped into rivers or buried in the sand on riverbanks, their photographs causing national outrage and international horror. Modi has as Prime Minister greeted Pakistan on August 14, its Independence Day. His sudden realisation of the need to recall the horrors of the Partition at a time India was poised to begin celebrating its 75th year of Independence left many observers baffled. “Partition of the country was the saddest and cruellest part of our history,” historian S. Irfan Habib tweeted. “We need to forget that hate and commit ourselves not to ever repeat that insanity ever. Do remember it but only to learn that fanatical madness ruins lives and leads to disastrous consequences.” Congress leader Jairam Ramesh called “Mr M” the “Ustad of doublespeak and hypocrisy” and accused him and the “toxic ecosystem he has nurtured” of polarising and dividing society. The Congress said that Modi was the only Indian Prime Minister to have greeted Pakistan on March 22, its National Day. Modi had written to his Pakistan counterpart Imran Khan on March 22 this year saying: “Excellency, on the occasion of the National Day of Pakistan, I extend greetings to the people of Pakistan. As a neighbouring country, India desires cordial relations with the people of Pakistan.” The seeds of Partition were sown by the Muslim League in 1940 at its March 22-24 session in Lahore, which resolved to create a separate nation of Pakistan. Surjewala recalled that Muslim League leader Fazlul Huq had read out the 1940 resolution, and that BJP icon Syama Prasad Mookerjee had in 1942 formed a Bengal government with him under the patronage of British rulers while opposing the Quit India call given by the Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
15-08-2021||India||Kerala church opens gates of cemetery to cremate Hindu woman||A Kerala church opened the gates of its cemetery to cremate a Hindu woman whose family lacked enough space to conduct the last rites at their modest property. Hindu families in certain rural areas of Kerala do not prefer to conduct the last rites at public crematoriums. So when Omana Achary, 68, passed away on Thursday, her family approached the St Joseph’s Church in Ramankary, Alappuzha, seeking permission to cremate her at the church cemetery, located just 100 metres from their home. The vicar agreed even before he had taken the matter to the church committee, made up of members of the parish. “I didn’t think twice when the family approached me,” Father Varghese Mathilakathuzhy, vicar of the church that is part of the Changanassery Archdiocese of the Syro-Malabar order, told reporters. Nor did the church committee object. “We knew the family of Omana since her son had done some carpentry job on our church premises,” Father Varghese said. The vicar was present during the cremation along with the other church committee functionaries. He also mobilised more than 20 volunteers from the parish to clean the ground and arrange for other facilities for the cremation, held around 3pm on Thursday. Congress leader Joseph Checkoden, former panchayat member from the area and a neighbour of Omana’s family, described the vicar’s gesture as a “model worth emulating”. “It’s a clear message to everyone. Not only did the vicar immediately agree to allow the cremation, he made all the arrangements,” Checkoden, a member of the same parish and convener of the Congress-led United Democratic Front for the Kuttanad area in the district, told The Telegraph on Saturday. He said a proper pyre was built at the cemetery and all the Hindu rituals were conducted. Checkoden said the church had already allowed the cremation of Christians in the same cemetery following the Covid outbreak. Cremating dead Covid patients is widely considered a safer option than burying them. “My 84-year-old uncle, George, had died of Covid in May during the peak of the second wave. I was the one who lit the pyre after the vicar agreed to have my uncle cremated at the cemetery,” Checkoden said. He said his uncle’s ashes were then buried according to Christian rites at the same cemetery. While churches have traditionally buried the dead, they have been open to cremation in many instances. The Alappuzha Latin Catholic Diocese had in July permitted the cremation of Covid victims at their respective church cemeteries. The church had cited permission from the Vatican to cremate the dead because of a space crunch at burial grounds several years before Covid made such decisions inevitable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
15-08-2021||India||Stop 'selective leak' of CCTV footage, order detailed probe: CPI MP to RS secretary-general||CPI MP Binoy Viswam on Saturday wrote to the Rajya Sabha secretary general seeking access to CCTV footage of the proceedings on Wednesday when several Opposition MPs, including women, said they were manhandled by marshals while the government claimed it was the MPs who pushed. Alleging that unknown persons were brought into the Rajya Sabha to help the government bulldoze the insurance bill, Viswam said: “Since then the government has used every avenue to portray a biased and concocted narrative against members of the Opposition. From the selective leaking of privileged property of the Rajya Sabha in the form of CCTV footage and internal documents to the filing of false allegations by the marshals alleging assault by the Opposition MPs, it is clear that the government is actively trying to mislead the country and whitewash its own draconian actions.” Viswam pointed out that the footage was a property of the House and not the government and sought access to the full recording for Opposition MPs. The CPI leader alleged that he, along with other Opposition members, was “physically manhandled and targeted by unknown personnel in Parliament”. “Upon the devious attempts by the government to pass this anti-people bill, we exercised our right as parliamentarians to protest the same and it is only the bringing in of over 40 personnel, whose identity is unknown and suspect, that led to the chaos in the Well of the House,” he claimed. He also alleged that there was a “deliberate move” to create multiple cordons of security, which resulted in members of the Opposition being manhandled.  Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi had alleged that the Opposition members had manhandled marshals citing CCTV footage from the Rajya Sabha. He had demanded that the Rajya Sabha Chairman constitute a special committee to probe the misbehaviour and indiscipline by Opposition members and strict action against them. In his letter, Viswam said: “I was personally targeted by 4-5 of these outsiders who... grabbed hold of me and physically assaulted me.” “In order for a fair and just probe into the incident, it is imperative that the Rajya Sabha not be turned into a political tool for the government and selective leaks related to the events of 11th August must be stopped immediately. Further, any probe into these events must abide by principles of justice and as such the complete footage of the house on 11th August 2021 be provided to the Members of Opposition against whom such allegations are being made in addition to all such complaints or other documents pertaining to them.’’ Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu is said to have watched the footage on Saturday .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
15-08-2021||India||Delhi High Court asks Animal Welfare Board of India to file affidavit on status of circus animals||Delhi High Court has asked the Animal Welfare Board of India to file an affidavit on the status of animals of circuses that have closed down. A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh, which was hearing a petition by the People for Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) India, gave three weeks to the AWBI to file the affidavit. PETA counsel Aman Hingorani said an affidavit filed already by the AWBI did not specifically disclose the status of such animals. “Mr. Rajesh Kumar Gogna, Advocate who appears for respondent No. 3 (AWBI) should ensure that a further affidavit is filed, disclosing the status of the said animals within the next three weeks,” the court said in its order dated August 10. Last year, the court was informed by the Federation of Indian Animals Protection Organisation (FIAPO) that according to a report filed by AWBI, around 740 circus animals were registered with it, but in a survey only 28 were found. The court had then directed the AWBI and the Central Zoo Authority to find out what happened to the missing animals and file an affidavit on the status of all circus animals registered with them. It had termed “serious” and “shocking” that there was a huge gap in the number of animals found by the AWBI, as against those registered with it, when it inspected circuses across the country. PETA India and the FIAPO had moved the high court last year for the protection of animals in circuses stranded across the country because of the pandemic. PETA India claimed in its plea that because of the Covid-19 outbreak and the resultant lockdown, circuses are finding it difficult to feed the animals that left many of them vulnerable to starvation. It sought a direction to the Centre to immediately notify the Performing Animals (Registration) Amendment Rules of 2018 which expressly prohibits the training and exhibition of performing animals in circuses and “mobile entertainment facilities”. The matter will be heard next on November 11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
15-08-2021||India||75th I-Day: Twenty Indo-Tibetan Border Police personnel awarded gallantry medals ||Twenty Indo-Tibetan Border Police personnel, who fought shoulder to shoulder with the Indian Army in keeping the Chinese troops at bay in eastern Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control last year, have been awarded gallantry medals on the eve of the 75th Independence Day. The ITBP is the first line of defence along the 3,488km-long China frontier which passes along Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. The army remains behind the ITBP. Sources said the ITBP troops have been awarded gallantry medals for displaying bravery during the two clashes last year — the violent clash on June 15, 2020, in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed and the confrontation on May 5 in which several Indian and Chinese soldiers were injured when they came to blows and hurled stones at each other near the Pangong Lake, two-thirds of which is under Chinese control, and Hot Springs area. The 20 ITBP personnel awarded medals are among the total 1,380 service medals announced by the Centre for various central and state police forces on the eve of Independence Day. Sources in the ITBP said out of the 20 jawans awarded for gallantry in eastern Ladakh, eight have been decorated for their gallant acts, meticulous planning and tactical insightfulness and for defending the country in Galwan on June 15 last year. Twelve personnel have been awarded police medals for gallantry for their bravery during the face-off on May 18 last year near the Pangong Lake and Hot Springs in Ladakh. “ITBP troops displayed exemplary courage by effectively using shields to protect themselves and also responded fiercely to (Chinese) People’s Liberation Army’s advancing troops during the violent clash at the Galwan Valley,” said an ITBP official. According to the official, the ITBP troops fought through the whole night and received minimal casualties by giving befitting replies to the stone-pelters of the PLA. The paramilitary force kept the PLA troops at bay due to the high altitude training and maneuvering experience of the force in the Himalayan deployments, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
15-08-2021||India||Partition: The Other Part||Among the millions who crossed the great divide in the north was six-year-old Balbir Singh Suri. Leaving their home in Jhelum district, now in Pakistan, the Suris survived on “roti and achar given by the army”, cowering in a truck that brought them to Patiala in India’s Punjab. Sitting in his Princep Street office in central Calcutta today, the 81-year-old covers his ears with his palms, shuddering, “People dying, people killing... Kaat ke udhar se idhar phenk raha thha aur idhar se udhar. Have you seen that film Bhaag Milkha Bhaag? It was exactly like that.” The vivisection of India in 1947 led to one of the largest mass migrations in human history. The 3,323-kilometre Radcliffe Line, announced just two days after the declaration of Independence, sliced up the populous states of Bengal and Punjab. Over a million were killed, 15 million displaced and countless others simply disappeared. The Sikh community had been part of Calcutta from way before Partition. In the essay, The Other Sikhs: Punjabi-Sikhs of Kolkata, Himadri Banerjee writes, “As the railways facilitated travel between these two distant parts of the British-Indian Empire, Sikhs had reasons to come to the metropolis. Their link with the capital of the British-Indian Empire went back to the mid-nineteenth century when they had passed through the city, on the way to China to fight in the Second Opium War (1858-61).” But after Partition it became home to several refugees from West Punjab. The Dhan Pothohar Bradri — biradri means brotherhood — consists of some 440 Punjabi families, mostly Sikhs. It was founded in 1948 by one Chattar Singh Rekhi as a self-support system for all those who had migrated from West Punjab. A booklet-cum-directory of the society enumerates one of its objectives as — “To create brotherhood among the families of Dhani, Pothohar and Sohann comprising the districts of Rawalpindi, Jhelum and Campbellpur (now in Pakistan) residing in Calcutta.” Taranbir Singh Mokha, current president of the Bradri, says, “My father told me that when these people came, somebody had expired. They didn’t even have four people to lift the body. That’s how the idea came up...” According to the 2011 Census, the Sikh population of Calcutta was 13,849, which was 0.31 per cent of the total population of the city. In 1951, the community constituted 0.56 per cent of Calcuttans and in 1961, 0.51 per cent. “Compared to other parts of India, the number of Sikhs who came over to Calcutta after Partition was less because West Bengal was grappling with the problem of Hindu refugees from East Pakistan,” explains Banerjee, former Guru Nanak Professor at Jadavpur University’s department of history. But numbers are hardly indicative of the community’s strength or presence in their adoptive home. Banerjee writes that during the pre-Partition years, Calcutta’s Punjabi-Sikhs made their presence felt “from the domain of surface transport to the sphere of literary activity. Participation in the city’s nationalist politics as well as their tie with the Left ideology made them partners in the anti-colonial struggle”. So when Mokha’s father arrived in Calcutta in the 1950s, it was not entirely a journey into the unfamiliar. In the many-layered Punjabi migrant and Calcutta narrative, the Partition migrants from West Punjab form just one chapter, one thread, if you will. Mokha’s grandparents were from Rawalpindi. His grandmother was a high school teacher and grandfather had a small business. Soon after Partition, he expired. His grandmother got a teacher’s job in Ambala and that is how she brought up her children. Mokha says, “My father got a chance to come to Calcutta, he was 16 then, because a relation had already come here and started a business.” No two families had the same journey. For Jhelum’s Suri family, the first stop out of Pakistan was Patiala. “The Maharaja of Patiala helped us a lot,” says Suri. They then moved to Delhi and thereafter to Dehradun where his maternal uncles had found a footing. When he couldn’t pass matriculation, Suri landed in Calcutta as a 15-year-old to join his cousin in the motor parts business. That was 1955. Suri slept on the pavement for a whole week before securing a corner near the stairway of a building in the same lane, but the elderly gentleman’s mein turns pure joy as he talks about what kept him going — hockey. “At 6 every morning we would go to the Maidan. And you know what, no bus conductor or tramwallah would charge us for tickets! Even taxi drivers gave us free rides, saying ‘you are players’.” Three years down the line, Suri was on his own — “jhola niye, maal niye”. Opportunity was yours to grab, he explains in fluent Bengali, you earned as much as you toiled. “We were in the market by 9am. And the grind continued till 10 or 11pm.” His own shop materialised in 1964. In time, a match “made in heaven” was initiated by a gentleman across the street, his would-be-wife’s uncle. A graduate from Shimla, her family too had migrated from Pakistan. Hari Om Batra, president of the Calcutta Punjab Club, is into the finished leather business and also owns a finance company. His grandfather and his five children were living in Sargodha (now in Pakistan) district when destruction came knocking on their door. Give us your girls and we will leave you — was the thing going around. The family fled overnight with whatever jewellery they had, first by bullock cart and then by train. They stayed in a refugee camp in Delhi before moving on to Ambala, where they were allotted some land. But that was hardly sufficient for a big family such as theirs. Batra’s father, then in his early twenties, commuted to Jalandhar to sell balloons, clothes and the like, travelling ticketless and often pulled up by the railway checker. Still searching for sustenance, one part of the family shifted to Agra, where they came in contact with some Muslim families. “They were Khurja Muslims who were engaged in the leather business,” narrates Batra. Providence or coincidence, they were planning to shift to Pakistan. A sort of barter was carried out — leather work in exchange for help with the Batra family’s own jaggery business back in Sargodha. It was leather that occasioned Batra’s father’s frequent visits to Calcutta — a leather hub even then. Much later, in 1960-61, they rented a small office space — one room in Chandni Chowk; this meant they didn’t need to rent a place for the nights. Says Batra, “I recall coming with him when I was six or seven. We laid out mattresses at night and by morning it was back to business. About 10 years down the line, my father bought an apartment in Karnani Estate on Park Street along with a group of friends…” And the West Punjab stories abound, of Partition induced migrations and movements to Calcutta. They are little known perhaps given their numbers, especially in comparison to the influx from East Bengal and perhaps because they are difficult to fathom given the leap of geography they entail. But they are there nevertheless, a true and an indelible part of the Calcutta mosaic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
15-08-2021||India||Cyber cafe owner held from UP for hacking into ECI website, making fake voter I-cards||A 24-year-old cyber cafe owner was arrested in Saharanpur on Friday evening on the charge of illegally accessing Election Commission of India data and making fake voter I-cards, police said after the poll panel issued a statement mentioning the scam. Officers, however, stayed tight-lipped about the ECI’s assertion that one of its data entry operators in the district too had been arrested for sharing his official user ID and password with prime accused Vipul Saini. An election data analyst told The Telegraph that the data entry operator would be an employee at the office of the district magistrate, who is the district electoral officer. Saharanpur senior superintendent of police (SSP) S. Channappa told reporters that Saini had hacked the ECI website. But he made no mention of the data entry operator. “Vipul Saini runs his own computer shop at village Maccharheri in the Nakur area of Saharanpur district. He used to log in with the help of the same password that the ECI uses,” Channappa said. “Saini made 10,000 voter IDs in the past three months,” he said. On Friday, the ECI had said: “Assistant electoral roll officers are mandated to provide citizen-centric services including printing of voter ID cards…. (A) data entry operator of one of the AERO offices has illegally shared his user ID (and) password with a private service provider in Saharanpur’s Nakur sub-division to print some voter ID cards.” It added: “Both these persons have been arrested. The ECI’s database is absolutely safe and secure.” Channappa didn’t take calls from this newspaper. Superintendent of police (Saharanpur rural) Atul Sharma and Nakur circle officer Arvind Singh Pundir said said only the SSP and the cyber cell had any information to provide. Pundir said he knew “only about one arrest”. An officer of the cyber cell of the Saharanpur police said: “We don’t know who else was arrested besides Saini.” The election data analyst, who asked not to be identified, said: “The ECI appoints a data operator in every district. He or she is authorised to log into the ECI website and make necessary entries. Sometimes they share data unofficially with their friends or members of political parties. In Saharanpur, the data operator shared the password with an outsider. I noticed that the ECI had blocked most of its data over the past week without explanation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
15-08-2021||India||Puri lifts restriction on cremation of bodies from outside at Swargadwar crematorium||The Puri district administration on Saturday lifted the restriction on cremation of bodies from outside at the Swargadwar crematorium in the pilgrim town. The order will come into effect from Monday. However, only the bodies of persons who died of diseases other than Covid-19 and other causes will be allowed to be cremated at Swargadwar with adherence to coronavirus guidelines. “The restriction imposed on observance of the funeral rites of the deceased belonging to other districts, states at Swargadwar, Puri, as well as immersion of ashes at Mohodadhi (sea) in order to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the district is hereby withdrawn in view of decreasing trend of Covid-19 positive cases in the Puri district as well as Puri Municipality areas,” said an order issued by the Puri collector. According to the order, a maximum of 10 people will be allowed to accompany the body to Swargadwar for cremation. The administration had imposed the restriction on April 25 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Only those from Puri were allowed to cremate their dead at Swargadwar which has religious significance as people believe that performance of last rites at the crematorium opens the gateway to heaven.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-315
