17-08-2021||India||UP: Draft population control bill submitted to Adityanath||The Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission has submitted to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath the draft population control bill and made a slew of recommendations, including additional incentives to public servants for adopting the one-child norm and banning those who violate the two-child policy from contesting local bodies polls. The recommendations were made in the 19th report on Population Control, Stabilisation and Welfare which, along with the draft of The Uttar Pradesh Population Control, Stabilisation and Welfare Bill, 2021, was handed over by Uttar Pradesh Law Commission chairperson Justice (retd) AN Mittal to the chief minister. "The report was submitted yesterday (to the UP Chief Minister)," Mittal told PTI on Tuesday. However, it is still unclear whether the Bill will be tabled in the current Monsoon session of the state legislature. When contacted by PTI, UP Legislative and Justice minister Brijesh Pathak refused to comment on this issue. According to the salient features of the report, the Commission recommended that a specific card should be issued to the person adopting two-child or one-child norm that should be valid proof to obtain the incentives so that the beneficiary is not required to run from pillar to post to prove eligibility. Specific law should be enacted regarding control and stabilisation of population in Uttar Pradesh, the report said, adding that the proposed legislation should have an overriding effect on other laws that are in force in the state. It is also proposed that the subject of population control be included in the school curriculum so that proper education, as well as guidance, may be provided at the school age. The success of any policy depends upon incentives and disincentives. Therefore, to control the population certain incentives to public servants who adopt the two-child norm and additional incentives to those who adopt the one-child policy should be provided, according to the report. Special benefits should be provided to married couples having only one child in the shape of a one-time lump sum amount as may be notified by the state government, it said. There should also be a provision for revocation of benefits and disincentives for those who do not follow the two-child norm. There should be a provision for bar on contesting election to local bodies on who-so-ever breaches the two-child norm or has children in excess of the two-child norm and they shall be ineligible for being chosen as, or for being a member of any elective office under any local authority or public corporation, according to the report. In the proposed law, various incentives and disincentives and bars are being provided, which may be in contravention of some laws in force in Uttar Pradesh. Therefore, in the opinion of the Commission, the provisions of this proposed law should have an overriding effect, the report said. BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh's move for a population control law has reignited the debate on the issue in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
17-08-2021||India||Special panel to decide on penalty for Parliament chaos: Sources||A committee of parliamentarians, from the ruling alliance and the opposition, can be formed to take action against members who create a ruckus in Rajya Sabha, sources told NDTV. Seven or nine senior members can be part of this committee. They may be asked to submit their report and recommendations within a month. Sources said the government is determined to make an example of the MPs who created ruckus in parliament during the monsoon session, leading to non-stop disruption. Towards the end of the session, the government pushed through 22 bills. During the session, sources had said the disruptions had led to the loss of more than ₹ 130 crore in public money. On Sunday, the government sent a written complaint to Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu, who is also the chairman of the Rajya Sabha, naming the MPs. A delegation of seven Union ministers met Naidu and gave him the complaint, which contains the names of more than 15 MPs from the Congress, Trinamool Congress, Shiv Sena, the Left parties and the Aam Aadmi Party. The names were the Congress’s Deepinder Hooda, Rajmani Patel, Akhilesh Prasad Singh, Pratap Singh Bajwa, Ripun Bora, Syed Nasir Hussain, Phoolo Devi and Chhaya Verma. From the Trinamool Congress, the government named Abir Ranjan Biswas, Dola Sen, Arpita Ghosh, Shanta Chhetri and Mausam Noor. Shiv Sena’s Anil Desai and Priyanka Chaturvedi, Ilamaram Karim of Left parties and Sanjay Singh of Aam Aadmi Party have been named in the complaint as well. Similar written complaint will also be lodged by allies of BJP like JD(U), AIADMK, RPI, NPP, AGP etc. According to the government, they climbed on the table and shoved the female marshal during the proceedings. The opposition has repeatedly slammed the government over its reluctance to discuss the Pegasus spyware issue in parliament and a tug-of-war over issue had marred the session. Amid the acrimonious stand-off, Rajya Sabha saw chaotic scenes on August 11 when the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill was passed despite demands to refer it to a select committee. CCTV footage of the proceedings showed opposition members jostling security personnel inside the Rajya Sabha. While the government accused the opposition of manhandling women marshals, the opposition, in a joint statement, said, “Outsiders, who were not part of Parliament security, were brought in to manhandle opposition leaders and members, including women MPs who were only protesting the government's conduct, highhandedness and muzzling of their voice.” The joint statement was handed to Mr Naidu on August 12, and the opposition members, including Congress’s Rahul Gandhi, held a protest outside parliament. According to sources, the government wants such strict action against the MPs who created ruckus so that it can become an example. Some leaders have even cited the case of the 2005 cash for questions scam, in which the MPs who took bribe to ask questions in parliament had their membership terminated. According to sources, the Rajya Sabha Chairman is not in favor of such extreme action. The penalty, however, will be strict and for this reason, the committee is being formed, they said. The opposition has blamed the government for the ruckus, pointing to its “authoritarian attitude and undemocratic actions”. The government, it said, “deliberately” derailed the monsoon session even though the opposition “unanimously conveyed (the need) to discuss important national issues” like the Pegasus scandal, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
17-08-2021||India||Facebook asks Rahul Gandhi to remove photos of Dalit girl's parents||Facebook has asked Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to remove his post from Instagram where identity was revealed of the family of a nine-year-old girl who was allegedly raped and murdered in southwest Delhi, apex child rights organisation NCPCR said. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights shared with PTI copies of the letter that Facebook forwarded to it in response to its summon to the social media giant. In the letter to Gandhi, Facebook said, "A post you uploaded through your Instagram account is unlawful under Section 74 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015; Section 23 of the POCSO Act, 2012; and Section 288A of the Indian Penal Code. In accordance with NCPCR's Notice, you are requested to remove this post expeditiously." Following the communication from Facebook, the NCPCR withdrew its direction to the company to appear before the commission with an explanation over non-action over Gandhi's post. Instagram, a photo and video sharing social networking platform, is owned by Facebook. The NCPCR had last week asked Facebook to take appropriate action against Gandhi's Instagram profile over violation of provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, and the Indian Penal Code, and demanded the removal of the video from the platform. Section 74 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, prohibits the disclosure of identity of a child in any form of media and Section 23 of the POCSO Act, 2012, also states that no information or photo of a child should be published in any form of media which could reveal the identity of the child. This information under Section 23 of the POCSO Act includes his/her name, address, photograph, family details, school, neighbourhood or any other particulars which may lead to disclosure of identity of the child. Gandhi last week met the family of the nine-year-old girl and asserted that he is with them on the path to justice and "will not back down even an inch". Later, he posted a picture of his meeting with the girl's parents on Instagram. The girl died under mysterious circumstances when she went to get water from a cooler at a crematorium in the Old Nangal area in southwest Delhi. The girl's parents alleged that she was raped and her body forcibly cremated by a crematorium priest who had falsely claimed that she was electrocuted. Hundreds of locals, including the victim's parents, have been staging a protest near the site of the incident, demanding capital punishment for the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
17-08-2021||India||Not feasible to have national-level security  guards for judges, Centre tells SC||The Centre Tuesday told the Supreme Court that it may not be feasible and advisable to have a national level security force like CISF to guard judges across the country. Irked over non-filing of responses by various states, the top court said the reply affidavits can be filed within 10 days subject to deposit of fine of Rs one lakh each with the Supreme Court Bar Association Welfare Fund and failing which the chief secretaries will have to appear before it. Counsel appearing for Kerala prays for and is granted 10 days' time from today to file counter affidavit, subject to the condition that the said State shall pay costs of Rs 1,00,000/ to be deposited with the Supreme Court Bar Association Advocates' Welfare Fund. The remaining States which have not filed their counter affidavits so far shall also file the same within a period of 10 days from today, subject to deposit of costs of Rs 1,00,000/ with the SCBA Welfare Fund, failing which we would be compelled to seek the presence of the Chief Secretaries of the concerned States, a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana said in the order. The bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose, was hearing a suo motu case relating to safety and security of judges and lawyers across the country in the wake of mowing down of a judicial officer at Dhanbad and has sought the information from states on steps taken to ensure the safety. The top court also permitted the apex bar body, the Bar Council of India, to be a party to the matter and also file its response and listed it for hearing after 10 days. At the outset, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, said the issue concerning safety of judges is a serious matter . Referring to the reply of the Centre, he said a mechanism has been there and the Union Ministry of Home Affairs, in 2007, had issued the guidelines saying that there should be special units for looking after the security of judges. Terming the issue as an administrative one, the bench asked whether the Centre was willing to raise a force like CISF or Railways Protection Force for judges and judicial officers in the country. "We have said it may not be advisable or feasible to have a national level security force like CISF (Central Industrial Security Force) for judges," the law officer said. "We have issued guidelines and they are placed on record. Instead of creating a specialised or dedicated police force there is a need to ensure fuller implementation of the guidelines of the MHA by states and union territories (UTs)," he said. The bench asked the law officer to call a meeting of all the states and take a decision to solve the problem. The Solicitor General said that the meeting of either home secretaries or state police chiefs may be called on the issue. "You (Centre) are the best person to get this done. States are now saying they do not have funds for CCTVs. These issues you have to resolve between you and the states. We don't want to call these excuses," the bench said. Earlier, noting the gravity of the matter, the apex court had asked the Jharkhand High Court Chief Justice to monitor weekly the CBI probe into the alleged mowing down of District and Sessions Judge-8 of Dhanbad court, Uttam Anand by a vehicle on July 28. The apex court also referred to the alarming situation in the country where judicial officers and lawyers are being pressurized and intimidated, and had said there was an institutional need to create an environment where judicial officers feel safe and secure. CCTV footage showed that the judge was jogging on one side of a fairly wide road at Randhir Verma Chowk in Dhanbad early on July 28 when a heavy auto-rickshaw veered towards him, hit him from behind and fled the scene. He was declared dead by the hospital. The Jharkhand government has transferred the probe to the CBI. The bench had also said: "Apart from the specific incident in question, this Court had also taken up this matter to take note of attempt(s) to resolve the alarming situation in the country where judicial officers and lawyers are being pressurized and intimidated by threats of, and/or actual violence." "There is, therefore, an institutional need to create an environment where judicial officers feel safe and secure . On August 6, the CJI-led bench had expressed concern over the incidents of judges getting threats and abusive messages and had said that Intelligence Bureau (IB) and the CBI are not helping the judiciary at all and there is no freedom to a judicial officer to even make such complaints. It said there are several criminal cases involving gangsters and high-profile persons and at some places, judges of the trial courts as well as high courts are being threatened not only physically but also mentally through abusive messages on Whatsapp or Facebook. Prior to this, the top court had on July 30 taken suo motu cognizance of the unfortunate sad demise of the judge in a gruesome incident and had sought a status report within a week from Jharkhand's Chief Secretary and the DGP on probe. The Jharkhand High Court had also ordered an SIT probe into the death of Anand, under the leadership of Additional Director General of Police Sanjay Latkar. The Jharkhand police had arrested two persons, auto driver Lakhan Verma and his helper Rahul Verma, in connection with the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
17-08-2021||India||Modi directs refuge to Sikhs, Hindus at high-level meet on Afghanistan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday directed officials to ensure safe evacuation of all Indian citizens from Afghanistan and to provide refuge to Sikhs and Hindus wanting to come to India from there, as he chaired a crucial high-level meeting in the backdrop of the Taliban takeover of the war-torn country, sources said. Chairing a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Security, Modi also said India must provide all possible help to its Afghan brothers and sisters who are looking towards India for assistance, official sources said. Modi directed officials concerned to undertake all necessary measures to ensure safe evacuation of Indian nationals from Afghanistan in the coming days. The Cabinet Committee on Security is the apex government body that deals with the issues of national security. Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman attended the meeting, besides senior officials, including NSA Ajit Doval, Cabinet Secretary Rajeev Gauba, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and India's Ambassador to Afghanistan Rudrendra Tandon. Tandon was on the evacuation flight from Kabul that landed in Jamnagar earlier on Tuesday. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar could not attend the meeting as he is not in the country. According to sources, the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) was briefed in detail on the current and evolving security and political situation in Afghanistan. The CCS was also briefed on the recent evacuations of Indian Embassy officials and some members of the Indian community, as well as some members of Indian media. India has brought back the Indian ambassador Tandon and all staff members from its embassy in Kabul in two military transport aircraft in the wake of escalating tension and deteriorating security situation in the Afghan capital after its takeover by the Taliban. A military transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force brought back from Kabul around 150 people including Indian diplomats, officials, security personnel and some stranded Indians on Tuesday. Another flight had evacuated around 40 staffers from Kabul on Monday. Earlier on Tuesday, the MEA said that the immediate priority for the government is to obtain accurate information about all Indian nationals currently staying in Afghanistan. Soon after the second military aircraft landed in Hindon completing a two-phase evacuation mission, Jaishankar, who is in New York on a four-day visit, said the evacuation of the Indian embassy staff from Kabul was a "difficult and complicated" exercise. While Jaishankar spoke to his American counterpart Antony Blinken, NSA Doval had a conversation with President Joe Biden's National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan on Monday evening on the evacuation of the Indian staff, people familiar with the matter said. In a tweet, Jaishankar said he thanked his French counterpart Jean-Yves Le Drian for evacuating 21 Indian nationals from Kabul to Paris. Sources said that both Jaishankar and Doval were involved in ensuring the smooth evacuation of around 190 Indian diplomats, officials and security personnel from the embassy in Kabul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
17-08-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir cops beat up journalists for covering Muharram procession||Police on Tuesday lathicharged and thrashed a group of journalists covering a Muharram procession in Srinagar, evoking criticism from various quarters. Police also detained a few Shia mourners at Jehangir Chowk in the city as they tried to take out a procession to mark the eighth day of the 10-day Muharram mourning period. The traditional Muharram procession used to pass through the areas of Abi Guzar, Lal Chowk and Dalgate areas, but has been banned since the eruption of militancy in 1990 as authorities maintain that the religious gathering has been used for propagating separatist politics. Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said police respects the religious sentiments of the public, but at the same time, it is their joint responsibility to defeat the ill designs of vested interests who try to disturb the peaceful atmosphere. As the media personnel, mostly photo and video journalists, were discharging their professional duties, police swung into action and lathicharged them, the scribes said. They said the policemen, armed with batons, also thrashed some of the journalists and caused damage to their equipment. The pictures and the videos of the incident were uploaded on various social media forums as the journalists protested the police action. A senior police officer reached the spot and assured the journalists that he we will look into matter. Kashmir Press Photographers Association (KPPA) condemned the use of force by police. KPPA terms the action unjustified and uncalled for. It is highly unfortunate that the police was thrashing the photojournalists (and stopping them) from performing their professional duties, a statement from the photojournalist body said. Meanwhile, National Conference (NC) vice president Omar Abdullah said the police action was unfortunate and expressed hope that Jammu and Kashmir LG Manoj Sinha will ensure such incidents are not repeated. "Very unfortunate to see J&K police personnel mercilessly thrashing journalists in Srinagar. These people were simply doing their jobs - reporting the news. They don't make the news & they don't engineer events to create the story. I hope @OfficeOfLGJandK will ensure no repeat," Abdullah said on Twitter. He also demanded that an independent photojournalist be compensated for the loss as his equipment was damaged allegedly in the police action. He's an independent photo-journalist. His camera is his livelihood. The administration owes it to Sajad to compensate him for the loss he has suffered while working, the NC leader said. PDP president Mehbooba Mufti also took to Twitter to highlight the issue. Media is spending hours debating the human tragedy & unfolding crisis in Afghanistan but will they speak up for their own community in Kashmir who were beaten to pulp today by security forces for doing their job? Mufti tweeted. The Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee (JKPCC) termed the thrashing of media persons as unfortunate . Media is fourth pillar of democracy and the routine coverage as part of its professional obligation must be allowed, they should not be intimated while performing their duties, the party said in a statement. JKPCC feels disappointed over the thrashing of mediapersons, who were covering Muharram procession and expresses its full solidarity with the media fraternity, it said. The party urges the government to ensure that mediapersons are allowed to perform their duties, without any fear, it added. The Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Conference (JKPC) led by Sajad Lone too condemned the police action. Merciless beating of journalists is highly condemnable. We express serious concern over such repeated acts of use of force on the media fraternity without any accountability. Surprisingly, the upholders of the law are out to demolish the founding principles of law, the JKPC said in a tweet. Apni Party senior vice president Ghulam Hassan Mir termed the thrashing of mediapersons as undemocratic. In a statement issued here, Mir said media is the fourth pillar of democracy and the coverage of routine happenings is a part of their professional obligation that must not be dissuaded with the use of force or any sort of intimidation. Today's incident in which journalists allege that they were thrashed by police while doing their duty is extremely unwarranted. These journalists were performing their usual professional duties. These kinds of occurrences need to be stopped as it taints democratic ethos of our country, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
17-08-2021||India||Elgaar-accused Hany Babu to return to jail from hospital tomorrow||Delhi University associate professor Hany Babu, an accused in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links case who is undergoing treatment at a private hospital here since May, will be discharged and sent back to the Taloja prison on Wednesday, the Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court on Tuesday. A bench of Justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar took on record Babu's medical report submitted by the Breach Candy Hospital in Mumbai, and accepted the state government's submission that he will be "transferred back to the Taloja prison on Wednesday." Babu's counsels, senior advocate Yug Chaudhry, and advocate Payoshi Roy, told the HC that as per the private hospital, Babu was fit to be discharged. Roy said as per the hospital, the professor is ready for discharge, but there is still some swelling in his eye and he should be taken for regular follow-ups to the medical centre in south Mumbai. Babu was sent to the private hospital in May this year following an order of the high court. At the hospital, he had been undergoing treatment for an eye infection that he had developed while in the Taloja prison. He had also tested positive for Covid-19 while at the prison in Navi Mumbai. Following a plea filed by Babu's wife Jenny Rowena, seeking immediate medical aid for the academic, the HC had directed that he be treated at the private hospital and the medical bills be borne by him and his family. On Tuesday, the bench led by Justice Shinde directed that after Babu was back in prison he must be provided with medical care whenever required. Justice Shinde said that the academician must be taken to state- run JJ Hospital in the city for follow-up check-ups for his eye, and if required, he be taken to the Breach Candy Hospital as well. The Maharashtra government's chief public prosecutor, Aruna Pai, told the HC that if Babu is taken to the private hospital for consultations in the future, he must bear the medical cost himself. The HC, however, said such medical consultation costs must be borne by the state authorities. "Supposing some treatment is not available (at JJ Hospital), you (prison authorities) can take him to Breach Candy for consultation," the bench said. "Article 21 of the Constitution (dealing with protection of life and personal liberty) applies to all equally. There are various judgements (of the Supreme Court) that say treatment (of undertrials) is the state's responsibility," it said. "Only thing is, he (Babu) should get timely treatment," the HC observed. The case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches made at a conclave, Elgaar Parishad, held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial on the city's outskirts. The Pune Police claimed the conclave was backed by Maoists. Later, the case was taken over by the NIA. Several activists have been arrested in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
17-08-2021||India||India has not abandoned people in Afghanistan, says envoy upon return||Indian Ambassador to Afghanistan Rudrendra Tandon on Tuesday asserted India has not abandoned the people of the war-ravaged country with whom New Delhi forged longstanding ties and which is now under the Taliban control. Maintaining that welfare of the Afghan people and "our relationship with them is very much in our mind", the envoy expressed happiness over the safe return of Indians from Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover of that country whose citizens now face an uncertain future. "We are happy that it's finally over and we are back home safely and securely without any accidents. We were a very large mission of 192 personnel, who were evacuated from Afghanistan within a period of three days in a very orderly fashion in two phases," Tandon told reporters at Jamnagar. An Indian Air Force plane with 120 people on-board, including Tandon, landed on Tuesday at the Jamnagar airbase in Gujarat from Kabul in Afghanistan. The aircraft had taken off from Kabul carrying Indian personnel as part of an emergency evacuation that was undertaken amid rapidly worsening security situation in Afghanistan. The aircraft then left for New Delhi from Jamnagar after refueling. In addition to the mission personnel, those who were evacuated from Afghanistan included people working in public sector companies such as Air India and other Indian citizens who found themselves "in distress due to the fast changing situation", Tandon said. Speaking about Afghanistan post the Taliban's violent takeover, the envoy said welfare of the people of the war-torn country was still on India's mind. "It's not that we have abandoned the people of Afghanistan. Their welfare and our relationship with them is very much in our mind. We will, going forward, try and continue our interaction with them, of course I can't exactly say in what form or manner, as the situation is changing so much," he said. About the safe return of Indians, Tandon said the Indian embassy had adopted a policy wherein "anyone who reached the embassy was taken inside the premises to ensure their safety and an avenue for an exit". "We are still monitoring the situation as there are some Indians there, that is why Air India will continue its commercial service till Kabul, as long as the airport there is functional. The Ministry of External Affairs has opened a help desk there so that anyone who is stuck there is somehow brought here," he said. According to Tandon, though some Indians contacted the embassy for evacuation, they could not be brought back yet as they were "too far away and were in areas that were no longer possible to access". Moreover, there are many others who had earlier chosen to stay back in Kabul but later on "changed their mind", he said, adding that such people will also be brought back once the commercial service begins. When asked about the exact number of Indians still stranded in Afghanistan, Tandon said the figure could be 40 to 50. He, however, highlighted the fact that many Indians had not registered themselves with the embassy, making it difficult for the mission authorities to contact them in the prevailing situation. "(Some of the) Indian nationals, unfortunately, do not register themselves with Indian embassies, though we keep sending them advisories...There are some individuals there, I know personally of, at least 5 to 6. "But, as per the figures quoted to us, it could be 40 to 50, But, that (figure) is not something that I stand by officially," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
17-08-2021||India||Pakhtoons across India worried about kin in Afghanistan, says great-granddaughter of 'Frontier Gandhi'||Yasmin Nigar Khan, the Calcutta-based great-granddaughter of 'Frontier Gandhi' Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan, on Tuesday said that she has been receiving SOS calls from Pakhtoons across India, urging her to request the Ministry of External Affairs to ensure the safety of their kin after the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. Khan (50), who has been living in central Calcutta for generations, is the president of the All India Pakhtoon Jirga-e-Hind, the apex body of the community in the country. "We are in constant touch with the central and West Bengal governments, but the situation is fluid and very little information is trickling in from Afghanistan. Phone lines are jammed and visuals from Kabul are disturbing. Those living in India are distraught," Khan, who has barely slept in the last two nights, told PTI. She said that the 1,000-odd Pakhtoons in the state and lakhs living in other parts of the country for generations have no chance of returning to their native place but almost everyone has relatives in Afghanistan or north-western Pakistan. "They regularly spoke with their relatives in Afghanistan even a few months back but are not able to contact them now. Whatever little information they are getting is through those living in Pakistan. Many of the kin have been killed in the aggression of Taliban, which is a monstrous force with no respect for liberty, dignity and freedom of women," Khan said. "During the previous Taliban rule, they abducted young widows to marry them off to their members. They don't want girls to study or go to school. What they describe as Islamic law is in fact a travesty of the religion. Don't girls study in madrassas? Even in Islamic countries, women are encouraged to get modern education and work alongside men. The Taliban wants to take women back to medieval ages," she said. Her great-grandfather had set up a school for girls in the present-day Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan in 1921. "The school has been closed now. I don't know what will happen to it later," she said. Khan said that her organisation will approach the United Nations to intervene in the humanitarian crisis. The outfit was formed by Frontier Gandhi's adopted grandson Lala Jaan Khan in 1949 and Yasmin Nigar Khan became its head in 1996.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
17-08-2021||India||Protective gear for Sahiyas who spread Covid awareness in Jharkhand villages ||Over 42,000 Sahiyas in Jharkhand are being provided protective gear, including PPE kits, oximeters, face shields and thermal scanners, to prevent coronavirus infections among the frontline workers who are in the line of duty, health officials said on Tuesday. Amid the fear of a third wave of Covid-19, it was imperative to ensure safety of Sahiyas as they are the ones who visit patients in the interiors and create awareness about various health issues, including Covid-19, officials from the National Health Mission (NHM) said. “We want to ensure the safety of our Sahiyas, so they do not contract the viral infection while performing their duty. The protective gear is being distributed among the Sahiyas with the help of several NGOs and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) teams of companies,” said the NHM director, Umashankar Singh. “They (Sahiyas) visit the interiors and come in contact with villagers on a regular basis. They have done a commendable job so far, and it is our responsibility to ensure that they do not fall ill while they continue to perform their duties relentlessly,” added Singh. Azim Premji Philanthropic Initiative (APPI), Tata Steel Trust and OXFAM India are among the organisations helping the government provide protective gear to the Sahiyas, officials said. The Sahiyas of Jharkhand have been actively involved in delivering healthcare services in the rural areas for several years. Even during the Covid-19 pandemic, they played a crucial role in spreading awareness about the disease and the need for adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour in  far-flung villages of the state, where a majority of the population is poor and unlettered. The Sahiyas also played an important role in the Integrated Public Health Survey (IPHS) conducted by the Hemant Soren-led government in rural areas of the state from June 18 to June 25. During the survey, the Sahiyas went door-to-door and sought details of the health condition and existing ailments of members of all the rural households. In the coming days, the state health department will be relying heavily on the Sahiyas for testing, tracking and preventing the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus, sources said. Their interpersonal connection with the rural masses will be used in encouraging vaccination and ensuring Covid-appropriate behaviour in villages. The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare recently lauded the efforts of Sahiyas in states' fight against Covid-19, claiming that these Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers did a commendable job in identifying cases of Covid-19 since March 2000 despite widespread resistance to Covid tests among the rural masses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
17-08-2021||India||India should respond to Afghan developments in ‘humane manner’, says former PM Deve Gowda||Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda on Tuesday said India will have to respond to the developments in Afghanistan in a ‘humane manner’, besides developing an independent policy of fostering friendship and peace in our neighbourhood. “Reports from Afghanistan show how fear and uncertainty have gripped the country. It is a difficult moment for India and the entire region. We have to respond in a humane manner besides developing an independent policy of fostering friendship and peace in our neighbourhood,” Gowda tweeted. India on Tuesday brought back home the Indian ambassador and its staff at the embassy in Kabul in a heavy-lift military transport aircraft in view of the deteriorating security situation in the Afghan capital, two days after its takeover by the Taliban. Hours after Afghan President Ashraf Ghani fled Afghanistan on Sunday, the Taliban took control of Kabul, capturing power nearly 20 years after a US-led military invasion ousted it in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
17-08-2021||India||HP landslide: three more bodies found, death toll climbs to 28||With the recovery of three more bodies on Tuesday, the death toll in the landslide in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district climbed to 28, a senior official said. State Disaster Management Director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said according to the information provided by the Bhawanagar DSP, three bodies have been found in Chaura village on National Highway 5 in Nichar tehsil. He said search and rescue operations, which were suspended on Monday night, resumed this morning. The rescue operation is being carried out jointly by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and police and home guard personnel. The landslide occurred on August 11 near Chaura village. A Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) bus, an SUV and other vehicles were trapped under the debris. On the day of the incident, 10 bodies were recovered and 13 people were rescued. Fifteen more bodies had been found till Monday. The SUV and its passengers feared buried under the rubble have not been found so far, Mokhta said, adding that it is possible that the vehicle rolled down with the debris. The HRTC bus was found in a badly damaged condition on Thursday. A truck, which had rolled down towards a riverside due to stones falling down a mountainside, was also found and the driver's body was recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
17-08-2021||India||BJP accuses Rahul Gandhi of politicising Dalit girl's rape||BJP president J P Nadda on Tuesday took on senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for tweeting pictures of the family of a nine-year-old Dalit girl who was allegedly raped and murdered in Delhi and said such issues should not be politicised for petty political interests. The BJP also demanded that Twitter should again lock Gandhi's account as the victim's family has denied his claim that he took their consent before posting the pictures. "Rahul Gandhi has lost credibility and is a habitual liar. The public has locked his political account, now Twitter should also lock his account," party spokesperson Sambit Patra said. Speaking at the virtual inauguration of the BJP office in Kozhikode in Kerala, Nadda said, "Rahul Gandhi's political tourism is also happening here in Kerala. He lost in Amethi, so he ran to Wayanad." Changing states doesn't change someone's behavioural patterns, intentions and the approach to serve people, the BJP chief said, referring to Gandhi. Nadda also took on the LDF government in Kerala over the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state, saying nearly 20,000 cases are being reported in the state on average. Currently, there are 1.08 lakh cases in Kerala and it is contributing almost 50 per cent to the total burden of Covid-19 cases in the country. "This is gross management. It is a model of mismanagement," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-306
17-08-2021||India||Union minister Shantanu Thakur claims arrest, police say himself boarded van||Union Minister Shantanu Thakur on Tuesday claimed that he was arrested at Birati in North 24 Parganas district even as the police said that he himself boarded a police vehicle. BJP workers had assembled at Birati as part of the party's "Shahid Samman Yatra" in Bengal. Thakur, who is a member of the Lok Sabha from Bongaon constituency in North 24 Parganas, claimed that he was arrested by the police when he went to a temple there to offer puja. A police official said that while BJP workers were arrested for illegally assembling there, Thakur had boarded the police vehicle on his own. Thakur and other BJP leaders, including Jay Prakash Majumdar and Archana Majumdar, along with party workers and supporters were taken to the Airport police station. "I came to offer puja and was arrested by the police," the Union Minister of State for Ports, Shipping and Waterways told reporters. On the claim of the police that he was not apprehended and that he himself boarded the police vehicle, Thakur said, "If I had got arrested on my own, why will so many others be there with me here." Thakur alleged that the police told him that he was doing "illegal work" by being at that place. "I believe that democracy and 'adhyatma bad' (spiritualism) has been finished in Bengal," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
17-08-2021||India||Modi virtually interacts with Paralympic bound athletes||"You are all winners and role models," Prime Minister Narendra Modi told India's top para athletes, who are set to compete in the upcoming Tokyo Paralympics. Modi virtually interacted with 10 athletes, including 2016 Rio edition gold winners Devendra Jhajharia and Mariyappan Thangavelu, and urged them to compete without pressure. The Paralympics will be held between August 24 to September 5. "In spite of all the difficulties in your lives, you did not lose heart and kept on fighting. By your hard work and strong will, you have reached this stage against all odds. You are going the represent the country in the biggest sporting stage," Modi said. "You all are winners and role models. You should not play with pressure. I hope you all will give your best and medals will follow. You will make the country proud." India is sending a 54-member team -- the largest ever -- in the upcoming Tokyo Paralympics with hopes that the country will produce its best ever performance. The team has some of the brightest medal prospects like Jhajharia, seeking his third Paralympics gold (after 2004 and 2016) in F-46 javelin throw, Mariyappan (T-63 high jump) and world champion Sandeep Choudhary (F-64 javelin throw). India will compete in nine sports. Mariyappan, who had won a gold in the last edition in Rio, will be the flag bearer of the Indian contingent during the opening ceremony. Sports Minister Anurag Thakur wished the athletes good luck, noting that para-athletes have performed impressively in the international events in the last few years. "We have won 12 medals so far in the Paralympics. Our athletes have done very well in the international events in the last few years. "I hope they will give their best and win laurels for the country." India will start its campaign on August 27, with men's and women's archery events.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
17-08-2021||India||Delhi HC seeks police report on alleged rape and murder of Dalit girl||The Delhi High Court Tuesday sought a report from the police on the status of investigation into the alleged rape and murder of a nine-year-old Dalit girl here even as it was informed that an SIT has been set up to probe the case. Justice Yogesh Khanna, who was hearing a plea by the parents of the deceased girl for constituting a special investigation team (SIT) for a court-monitored probe, directed the police to file the status report before the next of hearing on November 8. "Status report be filed so as to know the stage of the investigation," the judge said. Standing counsel Sanjay Lao, appearing for State, said that an SIT has already been constituted after the case was transferred from the local police station to Crime Branch. "DCP, Crime Branch has constituted the SIT. There are two ACPs. The prayer has been fulfilled, Lao said as he informed the probe was being monitored by the high-ranking officials of Delhi Police. He added that two accused persons have admitted to the crime and provisions for alleged commission of offences of murder and rape under the Indian Penal Code, section 6 under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 have been added to the FIR. Round-the-clock security has also been provided to the parents, Lao informed the court. With regards the parents' prayer to initiate a judicial inquiry into the administrative lapses in the case, Lao contended that the same could be considered only after the conclusion of the investigation. The court observed that in view of the State's stand, the prayers in the petition seemed to have been answered. The investigation is at a nascent stage. We can't direct judicial inquiry at this stage, the judge stated. "When they have constituted the SIT, let them do their work. You can't presuppose (the outcome)," the court observed during the hearing. The court nonetheless directed that a status report be filed before the disposal of the petition. In their plea, the parents of the deceased child have stated that they have no faith in the present investigation which has now been transferred to the crime branch of the Delhi Police. "What type of SIT has been constituted? Nine days after the incident, police moved the application of custodial interrogation of the accused. What is this type of investigation by the so-called SIT," questioned advocate Jitendra Kumar Jha, appearing for the parents. The plea further sought adequate safety and security to them as well as the other witnesses in the case along with judicial inquiry into the lapses on the administrative front in the case in order to reveal the reason behind the delay in police response and "why no vital evidence was preserved". They alleged that the total focus of the police was to hush up/sabotage the case and that the parents were tortured and pressurised by the police and its agent to compromise the case . The delay in registration of FIR that too under diluted offences itself indicates the police did not want to give justice, said the petition. The parents have submitted that they belong to the poorest section of society and are illiterate and are under the force and influence of various groups with vested interest. The minor Dalit girl died under suspicious circumstances on August 1 even as her parents alleged that she was raped, murdered and cremated by a crematorium's priest in southwest Delhi's Old Nangal village.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
17-08-2021||India||Centre need not disclose information compromising national interest, says SC on Pegasus ||The Supreme Court Tuesday issued notice to the Centre on a batch of pleas seeking independent probe into the alleged Pegasus snooping matter, making it clear that it did not want the government to disclose anything which might compromise national security. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana said this after the government maintained that divulging information on affidavit would involve aspect of national security. The bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose, said it had thought that government would file a comprehensive affidavit but only a limited affidavit was filed in the matter. The apex court said it will take up the pleas for hearing after 10 days and will see what course of action should be adopted in the matter. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who was representing the Centre, told the bench that government had made its stand clear in the affidavit which was filed on Monday. "Our considered response is what we have respectfully stated in our last affidavit. Kindly examine the issue from our point of view as our affidavit is sufficient," Mehta told the bench, adding, "The Government of India is before the highest court of the country." He said the government has said in its affidavit that it will constitute a committee of experts to examine all the aspect and the panel will submit its report before the top court. "There is nothing to hide," he said, adding that aspect of national security is involved in the matter. Mehta said this cannot be a "matter of public debate" and the committee of experts will report to the apex court. "This is a sensitive matter and this has to be dealt with sensitivity," he said, adding that government cannot divulge information in public domain on security apparatus being used. The bench told Mehta that it does not want anything which would compromise the national security. "What is the problem if the competent authority files an affidavit before us," the bench observed, adding, "We do not want any word about national security." Mehta said he is not saying that government will not tell anything to anyone and his argument is that they do not wish to say this publicly. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for veteran journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar who have filed a petition in the matter, said they does not want the state to divulge any information which may have bearing on national security. The bench said it is issuing notice to the government and the matter would be heard after 10 days. The court is hearing a batch of pleas, including the one filed by Editors Guild of India, seeking independent probe into the matter. They are related to reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Israeli firm NSO's spyware Pegasus. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware. The apex court had said on Monday that it cannot compel the reluctant Centre to file a detailed affidavit on pleas seeking information if Pegasus spyware was used to snoop on certain citizens and steps it took to probe the allegations amid vehement claims that there was nothing to hide and it will set up a panel to examine all aspects related to the issue. The Centre had on Monday filed a limited affidavit in the court and said the pleas were based on conjectures and surmises or on other unsubstantiated media reports or incomplete or uncorroborated material . The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology in a two-page affidavit had told the court that to dispel any wrong narrative spread by certain vested interests and with an object of examining the issues raised, the Centre will constitute a committee of experts in the field which will go in to all aspects of the issue. Sibal had argued that the Centre should file an affidavit stating whether the government or its agencies have used Pegasus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
17-08-2021||India||Freedom  of woman to decide whether to carry on with pregnancy  can't be taken away: Kerala HC||The freedom of a woman to decide whether to continue with pregnancy cannot be taken away, the Kerala High Court has said while allowing a mildly mentally challenged mother to abort her more than a 22-week-old abnormal foetus. The high court said that the right of a mother to terminate her pregnancy, if there was a substantial risk that after birth the child could suffer from abnormalities which could seriously handicap him or her, has been recognised by the courts. In the instant case, the woman was mildly mentally challenged and according to the report of a medical team that examined her, the foetus was suffering from Klinefelter syndrome -- a genetic condition in which a male is born with an extra copy of the X chromosome. The syndrome is a chromosomal anomaly associated with variable mental sub-normality, endocrine problems and psychological issues in later life, the court noted in its order. According to the medical report, besides mild mental disabilities, the woman also suffers from visual disturbances, seizures and weaknesses of the left lower limb with a permanent disability of 55 per cent. The report said that while Klinefelter syndrome was not life-threatening, since the mother has a mild mental disability and impaired adaptive skills, "she might find it difficult to cope with the child-rearing demands of a baby with disability". "For the above mentioned reasons, medical termination of pregnancy is recommended," the report said. After perusing the report, the high court said, "The freedom of a pregnant woman in making a choice as to whether the pregnancy should be continued cannot be taken away. Likewise, the right of the mother to terminate the pregnancy medically even after the permissible period in terms of the provisions of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, has been recognised by the courts, if there is substantial risk that if the child were born, it would suffer from abnormalities as to be seriously handicapped." "In the result, the writ petition is allowed and the first petitioner (mother) is permitted to undergo the procedure for termination of the pregnancy. The respondents concerned would be free to undertake the said procedure at the risk of the first petitioner," the court added. The order came on a plea moved by the woman and her husband seeking to medically terminate the over 22-week-old pregnancy on the ground that continuing with it would pose a risk to the mother's life and the baby would suffer from physical and mental abnormalities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
17-08-2021||India||Amway India ropes in Mirabai Chanu as their brand ambassador||Direct selling major Amway India has signed Olympic silver medalist Saikhom Mirabai Chanu as brand ambassador for Amway and its Nutrilite range of products. Chanu will appear in Amway's campaigns focused on its foundation range such as Nutrilite Daily, Omega and All Plant Protein amongst others, across platforms. The association with Chanu is in line with Amway's focus on consolidating its health and nutrition category, especially targeting women and youth in the country, the company said on Tuesday. "Our association with Mirabai Chanu is a natural choice. She exemplifies our values of hope, commitment, self-empowerment, healthy living; and her commitment to fitness is unparalleled. This makes her the perfect partner to further amplify our ethos of helping people live better, healthier lives," Amway India CEO Anshu Budhraja said. Over 60 per cent of Amway's direct sellers are women and youth, and the association with Chanu would help them to motivate and strengthen the brand Nutrilite. "Our association with Chanu is also a tribute to our incredible women leaders who have been leading from the front and re-imagining the future, for themselves, for their families and ultimately for the society at-large. "Comprising over 60 per cent direct sellers, women and youth are at the heart of this incredible organization and are the enablers in helping us drive the commitment towards entrepreneurship to empower the women and our women," he added. At the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics Games, the 26-year-old Chanu brought cheers to over a billion people as she clinched the silver medal with an effort of 204kg (87kg+115kg) in the women's 49kg category. "Nutrilite is an iconic brand, recognized globally for its plant-based approach to dietary supplements. As a professional athlete, I am always looking for ways to improve my fitness and thereby, my game. Hence, proper nutrition through a balanced diet is extremely important for me," Chanu said. Amway India Chief Marketing Officer Ajay Khanna said: "Her unmatched dedication to fitness and youth appeal resonates well with Nutrilite's world-class image offering the best of nature and the best of science for optimal health. With Ms. Chanu as our brand ambassador, we are confident of further strengthening our connect with young consumers across the country." After the pandemic, consumer trends are evolving towards the nutrition category. Amway has also extended its play into the nutrition portfolio by introducing Chyawanprash by Nutrilite and Nutrilite Vitamin C Cherry Plus. According to Amway, the nutrition category has registered immense growth with Nutrilite contributing over 61 per cent to the company's business revenue. The category is poised for tremendous growth with an increase in contribution to over 65 per cent (CAGR of 10 per cent) by 2024, which includes a significant contribution from the Nutrilite Traditional Herbal segment, the company said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
17-08-2021||India||Documents sought by CBI not relevant to probe against Deshmukh, Maharashtra govt tells HC||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday told the Bombay High Court that it was willing to cooperate with the CBI in its probe against former state home minister Anil Deshmukh but the documents sought by the central agency are "not relevant" to the case. The state government submitted its affidavit in response to an application filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) alleging the government was not cooperating by refusing to hand over certain documents in connection with a probe against Deshmukh. The CBI had last month filed an application stating the government was acting contrary to an order passed by the HC which allowed the Central agency to inquire into allegations of corruption in police transfers and reinstatement of Mumbai Police officer Sachin Waze, now dismissed. Former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh had alleged that Deshmukh when he was home minister, had instructed Waze and other police officers to collect Rs 100 crore per month from bars in Mumbai.Deshmukh had denied these allegations. The state government claimed in the affidavit that the HC had said the CBI didn't have "unfettered authority" to probe police transfers that have "no nexus to Deshmukh". "Applicant (CBI) is demanding documents and/or information which are not at all relevant in terms of relevancy to the case it is probing," the affidavit said. "The documents and/or material so demanded by the applicant has no nexus whatsoever even either with the then Hon'ble Home Minister (Deshmukh) and his associates and/or any of the allegations made against him and resultantly has no connection and therefore not needed by the applicant for the purpose of carrying out investigation," it said. The government said the CBI was "overstepping its authority, jurisdiction and power in demanding the documents and/or information". The matter came up for hearing on Tuesday before a division bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar which posted it for further hearing on Friday (August 20). "We will consider the stand of the state government then. But we are putting the state to notice...if we feel that our orders are not being followed...we reserve our comments for now," Justice Shinde said. The affidavit filed by Kailas Gaikwad, Joint Secretary, Home Department, added that the Maharashtra government and its officials are duty-bound to cooperate in the investigation being carried out by the CBI pursuant to the conditional order passed by the HC. "The State Government and its officials are ready and willing to fully cooperate with the applicant (CBI) in its investigation, provided the investigation is done strictly within the four corners of orders passed by this Hon'ble Court," the affidavit said. It added the state government has no malafide intentions to defy the orders of the high court. The government said the documents sought by the CBI is part of another investigation initiated by the police's cyber cell concerning leakage of confidential information and data theft. By demanding documents and/or information that is a subject matter of this alleged crime, the CBI is interfering with the investigation that is being carried out legally by the cyber cell, the affidavit said. In an application filed last month, the CBI said it had written a letter to the State Intelligence Department seeking details of a communication sent by senior IPS officer Rashmi Shukla on the issue of corruption in police transfers and postings, but the SID refused to provide them claiming it was part of an ongoing investigation. The high court on July 22 held that the CBI can inquire the allegations of corruption in transfers and postings of police personnel and dismissed a petition filed by the Maharashtra government seeking that some parts of the Central agency's FIR against Deshmukh be quashed. The CBI on April 21 registered an FIR against Deshmukh on the charges of corruption and misuse of the official position. The FIR was lodged after the agency conducted a preliminary enquiry against the NCP leader following an order from the HC on April 5. Deshmukh is also facing a probe by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). On Monday, the Supreme Court refused interim protection to the 71-year-old NCP politician from any coercive action by the federal agency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
17-08-2021||India||ED issues fresh summons to Anil Deshmukh in money laundering case||The ED has issued fresh summons to former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh to appear before it on Wednesday in connection with a money laundering case probe against him and others, official sources said on Tuesday. The development comes a day after the Supreme Court refused interim protection to the 71-year-old NCP politician from any coercive action by the federal agency. Deshmukh, sources said, had been asked to depose before the investigating officer of the case on August 18 at the ED office located in south Mumbai. This is the fifth such summon notice to Deshmukh. It has been issued under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) as the agency wants to further record his statement in this case, the sources said. Deshmukh had skipped the last such appearances for questioning in the case, calling the ED action unjustified. His son Hrishikesh and wife too were summoned and they also did not appear. Deshmukh has last month issued a video statement stating that he would appear before the ED "after" the apex court's decision on his petition. "I had received ED's summons after which I filed a petition in the Supreme Court. I will go to the ED to record my statement after the SC's decision on my petition," Deshmukh had said. The summonses were issued in connection with the criminal case registered under the PMLA related to an alleged Rs 100 crore bribery-cum-extortion racket in the Maharashtra police establishment that led to Deshmukh's resignation in April.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
17-08-2021||India||India achieves highest ever Covid vaccination in single day||India has administered more than 88.13 lakh COVID-19 vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, the highest ever vaccination achieved in a single day, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. In a tweet, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said, "India achieves the highest single-day record in #COVID19 vaccine doses.Yesterday will go down in the history of the world's #LargestVaccineDrive.Congratulations." Cumulatively, 55,47,30,609 vaccine doses have been administered through 62,12,108 sessions across India, as per the provisional report till 7 am. Besides, the ministry said more than 56.81 crore vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far through all sources and a further 1,09,32,960 doses are in the pipeline. Of this, the total consumption including wastage is 55,11,51,992 doses, according to the data available at 8 AM. More than 2.25 crore balance and unutilised COVID vaccine doses are still available with states,UTs and private hospitals to be administered, the ministry stated. The new phase of universalisation of COVID-19 vaccination commenced from June 21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
17-08-2021||India||MP asks PM to stop Covid tests of fully vaccinated in Assam||A Rajya Sabha member on Tuesday appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to stop COVID-19 tests of fully vaccinated travellers in Assam, saying such a step is nothing but a "wastage of resources" and "harassment of people" and may arise questions on the credibility of the vaccination programme. Congress MP Ripun Bora also said that by making rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests mandatory for fully vaccinated travellers visiting Assam, the state government is following a contradictory policy. Bora said the prime minister and the Union health ministry have been emphasising that people who have been administered the second dose are almost immune from further Covid infection and it is substantiated to be a generally accepted scientific opinion. "But, contrary to this in Assam, the state government has been following a contradictory policy in this regard," he said. The MP said all travellers who are fully vaccinated and coming to Assam from different parts of the country are subjected to rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests at all airports, railway stations of Assam, "resulting in heavy loss of time, wastage of resource and work power, in addition to facing harassment". Even the repeated travellers to Assam are also not exempted and they are required to undergo tests on each and every journey entering in Assam, he said. "This system has put a question mark in public perception in Assam on the credibility of the second dose of vaccine. Apart from this, we should be aware of the need of preventing any kind of wastage in public facilitations," he said. Bora said every test kit is precious because they are provided to public at the cost of public money and therefore, these could not be wasted on the fully vaccinated people. "Under this backdrop, I urge upon you to intervene into the matter and advise the Hon'ble chief minister of Assam to stop such wastage by testing people who have the due certificate of two doses of Covid vaccination and restore the confidence of the people on your massive campaign of double dose vaccination to protect people from the infection," the MP said in his letter to Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-307
17-08-2021||India||India announces new category of visa for Afghans||The Union Home Ministry on Tuesday announced a new category of visa to fast-tack the applications of Afghans who want to come to India in view of the prevailing situation in Afghanistan. The announcement came two days after the Taliban captured power in Afghanistan. "The MHA reviews visa provisions in view of the current situation in Afghanistan. A new category of electronic visa called 'e-Emergency X-Misc Visa' introduced to fast-track visa applications for entry into India," a home ministry spokesperson said. Thousands of Afghans rushed into Kabul's main airport on Monday, some so desperate to escape the Taliban that they held onto a military jet as it took off and plunged to their deaths. At least seven people died in the chaos, US officials said, as America's longest war ended with its enemy the victor. The crowds came while the Taliban enforced their rule over the capital of five million people after a lightning advance across the country that took just over a week to dethrone the country's Western-backed government. There were no major reports of abuses or fighting, but many residents stayed home and remained fearful after the insurgents' advance saw prisons emptied and armories looted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
17-08-2021||India||India records over 25,000 fresh Covid cases, 437 casualties in a day||India saw a single-day rise of 25,166 new COVID-19 cases, the lowest in 154 days, taking the tally to 3,22,50,679, while the national recovery rate was recorded at 97.51 per cent, the highest since March 2020, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll has climbed to 4,32,079 with 437 daily fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases have declined to 3,69,846, the lowest in 146 days. It comprises 1.15 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, the health ministry said. A reduction of 12,101 cases has been recorded in the total number of active COVID-19 cases in a span of 24 hours. Also, 15,63,985 tests were conducted on Monday, taking the cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 49,66,29,524. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.61 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 22 days. Weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.98 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 53 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,14,48,754, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 55.47 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive so far with more than 88.13 lakh doses being administered in the last 24 hours, which is the highest ever vaccination achieved in a single day, the ministry said. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 437 new fatalities include 142 from Kerala and 100 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,32,079 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,35,139 from Maharashtra, 37,007 from Karnataka, 34,547 from Tamil Nadu 25,069 from Delhi, 22,785 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,743 from Kerala and 18,312 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
17-08-2021||India||Afghanistan: India brings back envoy, staff home from Kabul||An Indian Air Force plane with over 100 persons on board landed on Tuesday at Jamnagar in Gujarat from Kabul in Afghanistan, an official said. The C-17 aircraft touched down at the IAF air base at Jamnagar shortly before noon, the official said. The aircraft had left Kabul carrying Indian personnel as part of the emergency evacuation in view of the prevailing situation in the Afghan capital following its takeover by the Taliban. Immediately after passengers on board the C-17 heavy-lift transport aircraft deplaned, they were greeted by people present on the tarmac, the official said. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi had earlier said it was decided that the ambassador and his Indian staff will move to India immediately considering the current circumstances in Kabul. "In view of the prevailing circumstances, it has been decided that our Ambassador in Kabul and his Indian staff will move to India immediately," Bagchi tweeted. The people cited above said the IAF transport aircraft left for India this morning with over 120 people including officials and security personnel from the embassy.Some Indian nationals are also learnt to have been returning home on board the aircraft. It is the second evacuation flight. On Monday, another C-17 aircraft had evacuated around 40 people including a number of Indian embassy staff from Kabul before the operations at the airport in the city were suspended. The two military aircraft flew into Kabul using the Iranian airspace while avoiding the route through Pakistani airspace, the people cited above said. The return of all diplomatic staff means that the Indian diplomatic mission in Afghanistan is at least, temporarily, closed. Prior to this India had closed missions in Jalalabad and Herat last year and consulates in Kandahar and Mazar-e-Sharif in the last month. The government will now have to decide on the nature of relations with the Taliban government in Kabul, once it is formally announced. The government will also have to decide how to help any Indians still stranded in Kabul as no commercial aircraft were allowed to land after chaos on the tarmac on August 16 that left at least five Afghans dead. In addition, Afghans wanting to flee to India and were able to receive visas in the last few days would also have to be considered. On August 16, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said it would facilitate “Hindus and Sikhs” and would “stand by” India's Afghan partners who worked on projects with India. Earlier, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, who is in New York on a four-day visit, spoke to US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and discussed the latest developments in Afghanistan. "Discussed latest developments in Afghanistan with @SecBlinken. Underlined the urgency of restoring airport operations in Kabul. Deeply appreciate the American efforts underway in this regard," he tweeted at around 3 am. It is learnt that Jaishankar was also involved in hectic discussions including with US officials on the evacuation of the Indian officials from Kabul. The US military had taken control of the security at the airport on Monday after thousands of desperate people converged there in the hope of getting on an evacuation flight and leave the country. Hours after Afghan President Ashraf Ghani fled Afghanistan on Sunday, the Taliban took control of Kabul, capturing power nearly 20 years after a US-led military invasion ousted it in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks. In a series of tweets, Jaishankar also said that India is monitoring the situation in Kabul continuously. "Monitoring the situation in Kabul continuously. Understand the anxiety of those seeking to return to India. Airport operations are the main challenge. Discussions on with partners in that regard," he tweeted. "Significant UN Security Council discussions today on developments in Afghanistan. Expressed the concerns of the international community. Expect to discuss these during my engagements at the UN," he added. In another tweet, he said the government is in constant touch with the Sikh and Hindu community leaders in Kabul, adding their welfare will get its priority attention. "Given the Kabul situation, important we have accurate information about Indians there. Urge that this be provided by all concerned to the MEA Special Afghanistan Cell," he said. The contact details of the Cell are phone number: +919717785379, Email:MEAHelpdeskIndia@gmail.com, Jaishankar said. Afghanistan is witnessing its worst political crisis in two decades as Taliban returned to power on Sunday evening, months after the US withdrawal of troops from the South Asian country. Shocking visuals showed the terrorists inside the Presidential Palace, shortly after President Ashraf Ghani fled the country. Tragic scenes from Kabul Airport on Monday captured the plight of locals as wells as foreigners stuck in the country. A video that has caught global attention shows three persons falling to death from a plane as they try to escape the Taliban rule. At least five people were killed in chaos, witnesses told news agency Reuters, as U.S. troops guarded the evacuation of embassy staff a day after the Taliban seized the Afghan capital and declared the war was over and peace prevailed. It was not immediately clear how the victims died. A U.S. official said troops had fired in the air to deter people trying to force their way onto a military flight that was set to take U.S diplomats and embassy staff out of the fallen city. One witness, waiting for a flight out for more than 20 hours, had said it was unclear if the five had been shot or killed in a stampede. U.S. officials at the airport were not immediately available for a comment. Three bodies could be seen on the ground near what appeared to be an airport side entrance, in video posted on social media. Reuters could not verify the footage. Another witness said he had also seen five bodies. Earlier, the US said it would deploy 6,000 troops at the vital airport to ensure the safe departure of American citizens and its allies from Afghanistan which has been taken over by the Taliban, in a sudden and unprecedented collapse of the elected regime led by embattled President Ashraf Ghani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
17-08-2021||India||Bihar primary and middle school teachers step up sack sale agitation||Primary and middle school teachers in Bihar pushed ahead with their ‘sack-sale agitation’ on Monday by holding demonstrations at all 38 district headquarters in the state and selling empty jute bags in which mid-day meal food grains are supplied to the schools. They also threatened to intensify their agitation and demonstrate in front of chief minister Nitish Kumar if their demands were not met. Several groups of teachers  marched with banners, placards and bundles of sacks and converged at their respective district headquarters. They demanded the revocation of the government’s order to sell sacks and the suspension of Muhammad Tamizuddin, principal of a primary school in Katihar’s Kadwa block. The teachers were protesting the Nitish government’s July 22 order asking them to sell the sacks in which food grains for midday meal scheme were supplied to the schools during the financial years 2014-15 and 2015-16, and the suspension of fellow primary school principal Tamizuddin for hawking the sacks in the local market place. Tamizuddin was suspended on Sunday for “tarnishing the image of the government” by carrying a stack of sacks on his head and trying to sell them at the local market, a video of which went viral on the social media. The July 22 order was issued after the office of the comptroller and auditor general raised the spectre of revenue loss in its reports relating to 2014-15 and 2015-16 fiscals. Around 1.27 crore jute bags had reached the schools under the midday meal scheme in those two years. With the teachers asked to sell them at Rs 10 apiece, the government is expecting to rake in Rs 12.7 crore. “The government is behaving like a dictator and issuing illogical directions. All the teachers are opposing them in a united manner. It should take back its order to sell sacks and revoke the suspension of Tamizuddin. Taking action against an innocent teacher is extremely unfortunate for the educational system in the state,” Bihar Rajya Prarambhik Shikshak Sangh (an association of primary teachers) president Pradeep Kumar Pappu told The Telegraph. Pradeep added that the “teachers would intensify the agitation and stage a demonstration in front of chief minister Nitish Kumar very soon if the state government did not meet their demands.” The state government, including the education department, has overtly ignored the ongoing agitation and has not tried to hold talks with the teachers. However, it has issued instructions to district magistrates and superintendents of police to take precautionary measures in the wake of the protests. Education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary did not take the calls made by this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
17-08-2021||India||Pegasus: SC seeks fresh affidavit from Centre on spyware scandal||The Supreme Court on Monday suggested the Centre file a fresh affidavit on the Pegasus controversy after the petitioners seeking a probe rejected  the government’s two-page affidavit that denied the allegations of illegal surveillance as “conjectures and surmises”. The apex court and the batch of petitioners were also unwilling to accept the Centre’s plea for having the allegations probed by an expert committee, whose members the government offered to appoint. Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana wondered how such a committee could go into the various constitutional and legal issues the petitioners had raised. He noted that the petitioners wanted to know whether the Centre had ever bought or used Pegasus and, if not, what steps it had taken to inquire into the allegations of illegal snooping with the Israeli spyware that is sold only to governments and government agencies. The petitioners underlined that the affidavit had sidestepped these key issues. “If you (the government) want to file a detailed affidavit, you can take time and do so,” Justice Ramana said. The bench, which included Justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose, heard the matter for over an hour and posted the next hearing to Tuesday. By then, solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the government, has to specify whether the Centre would file a new and detailed affidavit. Justice Ramana told senior advocates Kapil Sibal, Shyam Divan, Rakesh Dwivedi and others appearing for the batch of petitioners that the court cannot compel the government to file a fresh affidavit but would certainly pass orders on the petitions. On the proposed expert committee, the Chief Justice said: “There are two issues. Experts can go into the angle of software being used or not. Other issues of permission, procurement has to be examined too. Who will examine?” Mehta replied that the experts’ body could look into both issues, and suggested the court give the panel the necessary powers and decide its terms of reference. Justice Ramana replied: “We are not saying anything against the government.... There are areas which the committee can go into while some they can’t.” The affidavit An international media investigation has suggested that many Indians, including judges, politicians, rights activists and journalists, were potential or actual targets of Pegasus-enabled snooping. The report has prompted a batch of petitions seeking a Supreme Court-monitored probe. The Centre’s affidavit, filed through Rajendra Kumar, an additional secretary with the IT ministry, said: “I hereby unequivocally deny any and all of the allegations made against the respondents... (which) are based on conjectures and surmises or on other unsubstantiated media reports or incomplete or uncorroborated material. It is submitted that the same cannot be the basis for invoking the writ jurisdiction of this hon'ble court. “It is submitted that this question stands already clarified on the floor of the Parliament by the hon’ble minister of railways, communications and electronics and information technology of India, Government of India…. “It is, however, submitted that with a view to dispel any wrong narrative spread by certain vested interests and with an object of examining the issues raised, the Union of India will constitute a committee of experts in the field which will go into all aspects of the issue.” Senior advocates Sibal and Dwivedi, representing different petitioners, said there was no question of accepting any inquiry committee whose members had been handpicked by the government. “The questions raised in all these petitions are against the government. So the government forming a committee will not create any confidence in people,” Dwivedi argued. Sibal said the Centre had to declare on oath whether it or any of its agencies had used Pegasus. If the government said they had not, the petitioners had different arguments to raise. Also, he said, the government needed to clarify whether Pegasus had been used on earlier occasions. He said that when Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi had raised the issue of Pegasus-enabled snooping in Parliament in 2019, the government had said there were 121 users of the spyware in India. “This was in 2019. What have they done till then? That’s why they don’t want to respond on facts. This is a serious question, as many people have said their phones were infiltrated,” Sibal said. He added: “I’m more concerned with institutions. Two institutions that protect democracy are journalism and the judiciary. They have been infiltrated. These institutions cannot be allowed to be infiltrated.” Divan said: “I have my fundamental rights violated by the State.... It isn’t a matter which should be allowed to be torched by the Union of India by filing this two-page affidavit.” Justice Bose remarked: “This is your allegation; we don’t have material to support that there’s been violation by the State.” However, Justice Ramana told Mehta the government must address the concerns raised by the petitioners. The arguments will resume on Tuesday. Cut and thrust The proceedings saw some verbal jousting between Mehta and Sibal who represents journalists N. Ram and Shashi Kumar. Mehta taunted Sibal, reminding him of his tenure as Union IT minister (2011-14) and suggesting that the IT Act 2000 was a “beautiful piece of legislation” except for Section 66A. This section, introduced by the UPA government in 2008, allowed the police to arrest any netizen for posting content officers deemed “offensive”. State governments were widely accused of abusing the section to target critics, and the apex court struck the section down as “unconstitutional” in 2015. Sibal responded: “See Mr Mehta, beauty over the years is no longer beautiful. It was beautiful; over the years it lost its beauty, the way you are using it. So let’s not talk about it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
17-08-2021||India||India decides to provide shelter to Afghan Hindus and Sikhs||India’s repatriation plans from Afghanistan had to be put on hold on Monday following the closure of Kabul airport for commercial services. The Centre has decided to provide shelter to Afghan Hindus and Sikhs — besides the Afghans who partnered India on various projects — now living in the newly named Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan. There was no official word on how many Afghans India plans to provide refuge to. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said: “We are in constant touch with the representatives of Afghan Sikh and Hindu communities. We will facilitate repatriation to India of those who wish to leave Afghanistan. There are also a number of Afghans who have been our partners in the promotion of our mutual developmental, educational and people-to-people endeavours. We will stand by them.” On the repatriation/ evacuation of Indians, including media personnel, stranded in Afghanistan, Bagchi said: “Commercial operations from Kabul airport have been suspended today. This has forced a pause in our repatriation efforts. We are awaiting the resumption of flights to restart the process.” There is no official word whether India plans to shut down the Kabul embassy although sources said the Indian Air Force’s C-17 Globemaster — a large military transport aircraft — is on standby for the evacuation of diplomats and mission staffers. An Air India flight was scheduled to leave for Kabul on Monday but was delayed initially, and then cancelled, because of the chaos at the airport. The crisis in Afghanistan has resulted in the re-routing of several India-bound flights, including those of Virgin Atlantic, Emirates and Air India, with the airlines deciding to avoid the Afghan airspace. At the UN, the Security Council held an emergency meeting on Afghanistan. Afghan envoy Ghulam Isaczai urged the UN to set up a humanitarian corridor for those facing possible Taliban ire and asked neighbouring countries to facilitate the exit of those who fear for their lives. Pakistan has offered to help foreign nationals — diplomats, staff, representatives of international organisations and the media — stranded in Afghanistan to leave the country via Pakistani territory. There was no word whether anyone from the Indian mission in Islamabad had been invited to the briefing on this at the Pakistani foreign office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
17-08-2021||India||SC chides govt for passing tribunal reform bill without debate||The Supreme Court on Monday chided the government for pushing through a tribunal reforms bill without a proper debate in Parliament. The Opposition has been complaining that bills were being passed  without discussion. “We have not seen any discussion in Parliament. Of course, Parliament has power to make laws. We must at least know what is the reason for the government introducing the bill even after this court striking it (the corresponding ordinance) down (in April),” Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta. On Sunday, Justice Ramana had regretted that bills were being passed in Parliament and state legislatures without quality discussions, and cited how every piece of legislation was once debated thoroughly in the Houses. The government passed 19 bills in the just-ended monsoon session of Parliament, mostly without any debate, as the Opposition stalled proceedings seeking discussions on the Pegasus allegations and other issues. The Tribunals Reforms (Rationalisation and Conditions of Services) Bill, 2021, vests the Centre with the power to appoint and remove the quasi-judicial members of the various tribunals. Some in the legal fraternity see this as part of a government bid to control the tribunals and erode their independence. Tribunals such as the National Green Tribunal, Income Tax Appellate Tribunal and the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal are set up with retired judges to deal with specialised issues and decongest the regular courts. In 2019, a five-judge constitution bench had struck down an amendment to the appointment and removal process that the government had made under the 2017 Finance Act. Undeterred, the NDA government brought in a fresh ordinance with similar provisions, which the court quashed in April this year on a petition from the Madras Bar Association. The Centre then got the corresponding bill passed in both Houses of Parliament recently, earning a rebuke from the bench of Justices Ramana, V. Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose on Monday. The bench, hearing a public interest plea moved by advocate Amit Sahni for a National and Regional GST Tribunal, asked Mehta whether the government wanted the tribunals to wind up. Justice Ramana underlined that during the introduction of the bill, the minister concerned had merely stated in one sentence that the apex court had not struck down the ordinance on grounds of unconstitutionality. The bench asked Mehta to place on record the note the government had prepared before introducing the bill in Parliament. Mehta argued: “Until the bill has matured into an act, it may not be appropriate on my part to respond. So far as since validity is not in question, I’m not right now in a position,” he said. The bench also expressed displeasure that the government had, despite earlier assurances, not taken any step to fill the 240-odd vacancies in the various tribunals. “Show us one appointment you have made. Whenever we ask the ministry about tribunal appointments, you say it is ‘under process’,” Justice Ramana said. “If you want to make appointments, nothing prevents you from making appointments.” Justice Ramana then repeated a question he had asked at the last hearing too. “Mr Mehta, we have a simple question for you. Are you planning to continue with the tribunals or close them down? Everything comes down to this question,” he said. “So tell us clearly, are you going to make appointments to the tribunals, which are almost on the verge of becoming defunct?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
17-08-2021||India||Afghanistan: Intelligence officer escapes 'certain death' on last commercial flight to Delhi||A 41-year-old Afghan intelligence officer took the last commercial flight from Kabul to Delhi on Sunday to escape “certain death”, leaving behind his mother, wife and eight-year-old son. “I had to run, else the Taliban would have killed me. I could not bring my family along,” Asif said in broken Hindi, his eyes welling up. A compatriot helped Asif find accommodation for Rs 500 a day. “I will try if I can get a room for Rs 200-300,” he said. Asked if he had food, the officer of the National Directorate of Security, Afghanistan’s national intelligence service, broke down. “Sab khatam. There is no chance we will return to our country ever,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
17-08-2021||India||Retired bureaucrats call for axe on ‘draconian’ UAPA||Over a 100 retired bureaucrats on Monday penned an open letter to fellow Indians making out a case for replacing the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act with a legislation that fights terrorism while safeguarding personal liberties. They urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to be true to his comments on democracy at the G7 summit and initiate the process of replacing the draconian law that has no place in a civilised society; that, too, in the world’s largest democracy. “Though this law has been in existence in India’s statute books for over five decades, the harsh amendments it has gone through in recent years has made it draconian, repressive, and amenable to gross misuse at the hands of ruling politicians and the police,’’ the signatories to the letter said, citing the cases of the three anti-CAA student protesters — Devangana Kalita, Natasha Narwal and Asif Iqbal Tanha — who were arrested under the UAPA and secured bail only recently after over a year behind bars. Referring to a reply given by the junior home minister in Parliament wherein the data show a 72 per cent increase in the number of persons arrested under the UAPA since 2015, the retired bureaucrats, who penned the letter jointly under the banner of their apolitical collective Constitutional Conduct, said: “We may conclude that the vast majority of the arrests under UAPA were made on specious grounds just to spread fear and muzzle dissent.’’ Tracing the “chequered history’’ of UAPA since it was first enacted in 1967, the open letter said the Government of India “seriously departed from the principles of criminal jurisprudence and from the provisions of the Constitution when the UAPA (Amendment) Act, 2008, was codified after the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack’’. Flagging the fact that this was done by the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government, they said successive governments at the Centre from across the political spectrum are equally responsible for the “extreme stringency’’ of the UAPA, referring to the amendments brought in by the NDA in 2019 with the help of most political parties. “For the UPA members or any other party to act outraged now is, therefore, disingenuous,’’ the letter said. Listing some of the prominent persons imprisoned under the UAPA — Sudha Bhardwaj, Rona Wilson, Gautam Navlakha, Anand Teltumbde, Arun Ferreira and Varavara Rao besides late Stan Swamy — the letter quotes former judge of Patna High Court, Justice Anjana Prakash, stating that 66 per cent of the total number of persons booked under this law were charged for conspiracy without any allegations of accompanying acts of violence. “She (Justice Prakash) also revealed that out of the total number of 386 cases being investigated by the NIA, 74 cases were for non-UAPA offences while 312 pertained to UAPA offences. She added that NIA has not been able to submit chargesheets in 56 per cent of these cases, meaning that the accused in these cases still remain in custody. These figures definitely point to an unhealthy practice of ‘governance by fear’ which has no legitimate place in a democracy,’’ it said.The signatories to the letter include former national security adviser Shivshankar Menon, former foreign secretaries Shyam Saran and Sujatha Singh and several retired IPS officers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
17-08-2021||India||Congress seeks Centre's response on the developments in Afghanistan||The Congress on Monday expressed shock at the Narendra Modi government’s silence on the developments in Afghanistan, wondering if something was being hidden about India’s role in the Doha agreement. In the evening, the government issued a statement on Afghanistan. Earlier, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “The stunning silence of the Narendra Modi government is deeply disturbing, highly intriguing and beyond any reasonable understanding. The unexplained silence at this extremely critical juncture gives rise to a reasonable apprehension that the Modi government is hiding something from the country. We are still in the dark over the Modi government’s role in Doha talks.” At Doha in 2020, the then Donald Trump government had agreed with the Taliban that US troops would be withdrawn from Afghanistan. The Biden administration executed that agreement. Surjewala said: “The safety and security of our embassy and its personnel as also that of the Indian citizens are at stake. The Congress expects a mature political and diplomatic response from our government over the complete collapse of the government in Afghanistan and the Taliban takeover. The Modi government’s refusal to set in motion a well thought-out plan to evacuate our citizens is a gross abdication of its duty and totally unacceptable.” Surjewala also pointed to Taliban and Haqqani Network’s connections with Pakistan’s ISI and Jaish-e-Mohammed, Lashkar-e-Toiba and Jamaat-ud-Dawah and asked the government to revisit our geo-political interests in this background and the impact on Jammu and Kashmir. “The Prime Minister and external affairs minister need to come out and clearly spell out our policy for the safe return of our citizens, embassy personnel as also our future relationship. The need of the hour is that the Modi government wakes up from its slumber and protects Indian citizens in Afghanistan and tells the country how it will tackle the dangerous situation in the immediate neighbourhood,” he said. Asked about the external affairs ministry’s statement that Indians in Afghanistan will plan their return on their own, Surjewala said: “What can be more shameful than this? We have heard that the government said they don’t take responsibility of Indians living there. Whose responsibility is this? Other countries are evacuating their citizens and the embassy staff. We are witnessing dreadful scenes at Kabul airport. We ask the government to wake up and take care of Indians.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-308
17-08-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir: Valley braces for Taliban insurgency spillover||The Taliban takeover of Kabul has triggered fears of an Afghan spillover in the Valley, with a propaganda blitz on Jammu and Kashmir by India’s diplomatic mission in Mazar-i-Sharif seen as evidence of how the country is preparing to prevent a possible upheaval. Kashmir was on the lips of India’s consulate in Mazar-i-Sharif as it was winding up its mission in the largest city in northern Afghanistan last week. India pulled out of Mazar on August 11. Three days later, it fell to the Taliban. India in Mazar, the Twitter account of the Indian consulate general in the city, began showcasing the so-called development work undertaken by the administration in Jammu and Kashmir, unusually re-tweeting the statements of Twitter handles of the J&K administration. The consulate posted content mostly on Kashmir from August 1 to 10, highlighting the tweets of lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha to the district information centres of Udhampur, Anantnag, Kathua, Budgam and Kupwara. In one tweet, Sinha expresses gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his “vision of building quality infrastructure in J&K for the coming generations”. “The UT has recently witnessed a phase of unprecedented progress in road connectivity projects among others,” he said, suggesting that Jammu and Kashmir was on the path to development after the scrapping of its special status in 2019. Noor Ahmad Baba, former head of the political science department of Kashmir University, said the Indian consulate is apparently trying to “mollify” Taliban by playing the Kashmir development card so that they do not get involved here. RSS veteran Ram Madhav, who was the BJP’s in-charge for Jammu and Kashmir for years, publicly expressed his fears of a spillover and asked the country to brace for any challenge. “Taliban has over 30K (30,000) mercenaries trained in Pak by ISI. In power in Kabul, Taliban leadership wl (will) now deploy them ‘elsewhere’ wid d (with the) help of mentor Pak. India shud (should) brace up for serious security challenges. Taliban may eventually consume Pak n China 2 (too), but immediate threat is 4 (for) India,” Madhav tweeted. Kashmir experts are calling for caution but claim the past experience is unpleasant. “Taliban were in power from 1996 to 2001. It was when you had all foreign terrorists entering India. Kargil war, Parliament attack, Assembly attack and major suicide attacks happened then. The past experience has not been very good,” former J&K police chief S.P. Vaid said. “It was during that period training camps for militants (for Kashmir) were established in Afghanistan.” Vaid, however, said some people claim that “Taliban 2” is different from “Taliban 1” and time only will tell whether the takeover will have any impact here. Baba said many people in Kashmir are waiting for the Taliban to cross over and fight here. “There will be encouragement. If Pakistan is willing to invest, it can have more focus on Kashmir (after neutralising its Afghan front). That part will have consequences. There can be more involvement of non-state actors who were previously involved in Afghanistan,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-309
