18-08-2021||India||CBI informs court about closure of further probe into Sheena Bora murder case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday informed a special court here about closure of further probe into the Sheena Bora murder case, which came to light in 2015, three years after the crime was committed.  Intimation regarding closure of further investigation into the high-profile case was filed by the CBI before special judge A S Sayyad.  Bora, who was working in Mumbai, was allegedly killed by her mother Indrani Mukerjea, a former media executive, and two others. Mukerjea is a key accused in the case.  Other accused in the case include former media baron Peter Mukerjea and Indrani Mukerjea's ex-husband Sanjeev Khanna.  Bora was Indrani Mukerjea's daughter from an earlier relationship. The 24-year-old was allegedly strangled to death in a car by Indrani Mukerjea, her then driver Shyamvar Rai and Khanna in April 2012 over a financial dispute, according to the prosecution.  Her body was burnt in a forest in neighbouring Raigad district. The matter came to light in 2015 following the arrest of Rai in another case and led to the arrest Indrani Mukerjea and Khanna.  Peter Mukerjea was also later arrested for allegedly being a part of the murder conspiracy. He is currently out on bail, which was granted by the Bombay High Court.  Indrani Mukerjea and Peter Mukerjea had got married in 2002, but later became estranged. A family court in Mumbai granted them divorce in October 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-301
18-08-2021||India||Taliban halt import/export with India: CAIT fears Afghanistan crisis will impact bilateral trade||The change of regime in Afghanistan and the uncertainty over future will hit the bilateral trade between the country and India, traders' association CAIT said on Tuesday. The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) also cautioned domestic exporters and sought the Centre's intervention in preventing losses to the business community. Afghan exports to India include dried raisin, walnut, almond, fig, pine nut, pistachios, dried apricot and fresh fruits such as apricot, cherry, watermelon, and medicinal herbs, according to a CAIT statement. India's exports to Afghanistan include tea, coffee, pepper and cotton, toys, footwear and various other consumable items. "With recent change of regime in Afghanistan, the bilateral trade between Kabul and India will be impacted badly since the future is uncertain," CAIT's Delhi NCR unit convenor Sushil Kumar Jain said. "The bilateral trade between India and Afghanistan was $1.4 billion in 2020-21 as against $1.52 billion in 2019-20. Exports from India were $ 826 million and imports were aggregated at $510 million in 2020-21," Jain said, citing figures released by the CAIT. The association expressed fear that prices of the products imported from Afghanistan may go up in markets due to uncertainty of the political situation in that country. It also feared that currently several import-export shipments are stranded due to the situation in Afghanistan which may cause heavy losses to traders, advising domestic exporters to remain alert and keep an eye on the developments. "Huge amounts of payments are likely to get blocked or delayed which will put traders in a vulnerable situation. The government must take cognisance of it and help the traders in the event of a financial crisis," the CAIT said. The Taliban, a militant group, has taken over power in Afghanistan from an elected government as its insurgents stormed the country and captured all major cities and provinces in recent days even before the US could completely pull out its troops from the two-decade-old war theatre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-301
18-08-2021||India||Railways reevaluating bidding process for Rs 30, 000 crore private passenger trains||The railways is reevaluating the ongoing bidding process for the Rs 30,000 crore private passenger trains after it failed to receive any interest from private players for its tender floated last year for the operation of such trains in 12 clusters, senior officials confirmed on Wednesday. Of the 12 clusters put up for bidding, only three saw any bid at all, they said. "The entire process of inviting tenders for the private passenger train operations is being re-evaluated. The present process bids may or may not be scrapped after the review is complete," an official said. It was in July last year that the Ministry of Railways rolled out bids for private participation in passenger train operations in twelve clusters across the country. The plan included 109 origin-destination pairs. Winning bidders were to be provided a concession period of 35 years on a revenue basis model. During the Request for Qualification (RFQ) last year, 16 private sector firms showed interest in the project. GMR Highways Ltd, Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation Ltd (IRCTC), IRB Infrastructure Developers Ltd, Cube Highways and Infrastructure III Pte. Ltd, and CAF India Private Ltd were some of the major firms that evinced interest in the project. This number significantly reduced in the recently held RFP stage (financial bidding) with only two bidders coming forward. The bids were submitted by IRCTC and Megha Engineering and Infrastructure Ltd for three clusters, while all other bidders backed out, citing concession rules favouring the Indian Railways, sources said. The officials indicated that the absence of a regulator, payment of haulage charges in addition to sharing revenue, and curbs on route flexibility are among the likely reasons that kept bidders away from the railways' ambitious plans. The Indian Railways in July last year planned to introduce private trains on its network in phases, with the first dozen due to start running in the 2023-24 financial year and all 151 by 2027. According to the Railway Ministry's projections, the transporter was supposed to select the companies that will run the private trains by April 2021; the first 12 were expected to start plying by 2023-24, followed by 45 more in FY 2024-25, the next 50 in FY 2025-26 and the last 44 by 2026-27. Now, the sources said that the ministry has gone back to the drawing board to plan the modalities of the entire scheme from scratch.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-301
18-08-2021||India||Collegium endorses 9 names to the Centre for appointment as Supreme Court judges||The Supreme Court Wednesday said the Collegium headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana has recommended to the Centre nine names, which include three women high court judges, for appointment as judges at the apex court. It said in a statement that the Supreme Court Collegium, in its meeting held on August 17, has recommended names of four chief justices of different high courts for elevation as top court judges. Besides them, names of Justice B V Nagarathna from the Karnataka High Court, Justice C T Ravikumar of Kerala High Court, Justice M M Sundresh of Madras High Court and Justice Bela Trivedi from the Gujarat High Court judge have been recommended by the Collegium. Senior advocate and former Additional Solicitor General P S Narasimha, whose name if cleared, would became the sixth lawyer to be elevated to the apex court bench directly from the Bar. The four chief justices of different high courts whose names have been recommended are -- Justices Abhay Shreeniwas Oka (Chief Justice of Karnataka High Court), Vikram Nath (Chief Justice of Gujarat High Court), Jitendra Kumar Maheshwari (Chief Justice of Sikkim High Court) and Justice Hima Kohli (Chief Justice of Telengana High Court). With the retirement of Justice R F Nariman on August 12, the strength of judges in the top court had come down to 25 as against the sanctioned strength of 34, including the CJI. Justice Navin Sinha of the apex court is also retiring today which will further bring down the number to 24. Significantly, no appointment has been made after the superannuation of the then CJI Ranjan Gogoi on March 19, 2019. The five-member Collegium also comprises Justices U U Lalit, A M Khanwilkar, D Y Chandrachud and L Nageswara Rao. The recommendations, if accepted, will fill all current vacancies taking the working strength to 33.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-302
18-08-2021||India||India on track to meet United Nations Paris Agreement goals: FM||India is among a few G20 countries on track towards United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and Paris Agreement goals and has taken decisive actions to tackle climate change, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Wednesday. The minister, in a meeting with COP 26 president-designate Alok Sharma, said the government is taking concrete steps and at appreciable speed to meet its commitments on the target of 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030. She also said 100 GW of this renewable energy had already been achieved. Among other important initiatives, she mentioned the extensive work done on Hydrogen Energy Mission. The minister discussed various issues related to climate change and specifically COP 26 -- the 26th UN Climate Change Conference of the Parties, a Finance Ministry statement said. The UK will host the international climate conference COP 26 in November this year. With regards to ongoing discussions on climate change in various fora, Sitharaman referring to the dialogue on climate justice spoke about the need to bring a sense of compassion towards the poor. The Finance Minister expressed hope that the commitment made by the developed countries to provide USD 100 billion per year to developing countries would be achieved and was optimistic about a positive outcome on the new collective goals on finance in COP 26. The Paris Agreement is a legally binding international treaty on climate change. It was adopted by 196 countries at COP 21 in Paris, on December 12, 2015 and entered into force on November 4, 2016. Its goal is to limit global warming to well below 2, preferably to 1.5 degree Celsius, compared to pre-industrial levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-302
18-08-2021||India||Congress: What has Modi done to protect India's interest after Taliban capture of Afghanistan?||The Congress on Wednesday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to tell the nation what he has done to protect the interests of India after the Taliban captured power in Afghanistan. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the Taliban is a terrorist organisation which is linked to the Haqqani network in Pakistan, which indulge in anti-India terrorist acts with the help and support of the Pakistan government. He said the Taliban are patron of Jaish-e-Mohammed chief Masood Azhar and the Lashkar-e-Taiba and one wonders how the government will protect the interests of India as such terror organisations get emboldened when their patron assume power in Afghanistan. "When such violent terrorist organisations control Afghanistan, then terrorist organisations based in Pakistan directly get protection and what is the Indian government doing about it. Prime Minister Modi and Amit Shah ji should come forward and tell us," he asked. Surjewala said India has always been in favour of a duly elected government in Afghanistan as women and children will get equal rights when democracy is there. "When the Taliban captured Afghanistan last time, everyone saw what heart-rendering treatment was given to women and minorities and all those speaking in favour of democracy. One shudders to even think of these events. Women all over the world are today worried about the Afghan women that their rights will be violated. We are also concerned about this," he said. Recalling the IC-814 plane hijacking, he said the ministers in the then BJP government released Masood Azhar in Kandahar. "Did India not sign an agreement with the Taliban at the time. How an Indian delegation was sent to Doha for talks with the Taliban," he said. Noting that the situation in Afghanistan is very serious, the Congress spokesperson said he had warned the Indian government that Afghanistan has become the regime of violent terrorist organisations and "we have to protect our interests".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-302
18-08-2021||India||Government sensitive towards price of petroleum products, says Hardeep Puri||The government is "sensitive" towards the prices of petroleum products and is taking all possible steps to address the issue, Union Petroleum and Natural Gas Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Wednesday and blamed the Congress for the trend of hike in petrol and diesel prices. If state governments want they can lower the prices of petrol and diesel, as a state did so recently, he said in a press conference at the Delhi BJP office. "We are sensitive towards it and are taking possible steps like doing blending of 10 per cent which we are going to raise to 20 per cent. So, we are taking many steps," Puri said when asked about the rising prices of petroleum products including cooking gas. The Congress government in 2010 deregulated prices of petrol and diesel, meaning there would be a local impact of international rates, he said. "The Centre imposes excise tax on petrol and diesel, while states impose VAT on it. We use this excise money to fund schemes like PM Garib Kalyan Yojna under which 80 crore people received free foodgrains, PM Awas Yojna, Ujjwala scheme," he said. Puri said that the Congress government, before 2014, issued oil bonds of Rs 1.34 lakh crore to control prices of petrol and "passed on their problem to us. They emptied the chest. We have to pay Rs 20,000 crore this year for the oil bonds that have a maturity period of 15 years." The minister also hit at the Congress saying the figures on oil bonds presented by it were "flawed" and challenged the party to ask states ruled by it to reduce VAT on petrol and diesel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-302
18-08-2021||India||Mamata coordinating with Centre for safe return of 200 people from Bengal stranded in Afghanistan||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said that her government is coordinating with the Centre for the safe return of over 200 people from the state who are still stranded in Afghanistan. She said that the stranded West Bengal residents are from Kalimpong and Terai who were working in Afghanistan. "The chief secretary will write to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) to bring them back," she told reporters. Holding that the Afghanistan crisis is a big problem, she said, "We must first look after the safety of Indians." To a question whether the BJP government at the Centre should revisit the immigration policy in light of the humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan, "It is a sensitive issue and a major policy decision. The MEA is monitoring the crisis situation. I shouldn't comment on it at present."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-302
18-08-2021||India||Covid ebbing as R-value drops to below 1 in country||After breaching the value of 1 in the first week of August, the R number, which reflects how rapidly the coronavirus pandemic is spreading, has been steadily ebbing, according to researchers at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai. India's R has fallen to around 0.9, Sitbara Sinha, who is leading the research, told PTI, citing their data. If R is lesser than 1, it means the number of newly infected people is lower than the number of infected people in the preceding period and the disease incidence is going down. The R-value of Kerala, which has the highest number of active cases in the country, is now below 1 after a gap of seven months, signalling a relief to authorities who have been struggling to bring down the injection levels in the state. The northeastern states seem to have finally come out of the second wave, Sinha said. The R-value between August 14-16, calculated by the researchers now stands at 0.89. The R-value for Maharashtra, another state which has a high number of cases, is 0.89, the data shows. However, Himachal Pradesh continues to have an R-value of above 1, although it reduced in the last few days, while Tamil Nadu and Uttarakhand still have R very close to 1, Sinha said. Among the major cities, the R-value of Mumbai was lowest (0.70 from August 10-13), followed by Delhi (0.85 from July 31 to August 4), Bengaluru (0.94 from August 15-17), Chennai (0.97 from August 15-17). However, the R-value remains high for Calcutta (1.08 from August 11-15), Pune (1.05 from August 10-14), The Reproduction number or R refers to how many people an infected person infects, on average. In other words, it tells how 'efficiently' a virus is spreading. A smaller R indicates the disease is on a decline. Conversely, if R is greater than 1, the number of infected people is increasing in each round - technically, this is what is called the epidemic phase. After the devastating second wave that saw hospitals and health infrastructure being overwhelmed by the patients infected by SARS-CoV2 coronavirus, the R-value started to decline. During the March-May period, thousands of people died due to the infection while lakhs were infected. In its bulletin on Wednesday, the Ministry of Health said India saw a single-day rise of 25,166 new COVID-19 cases, the lowest in 154 days, taking the tally to 3,22,50,679. The national recovery rate was recorded at 97.51 per cent, the highest since March 2020. Less than 50,000 daily cases have been reported for 52 consecutive days. From June 20 to July 7, the R-value stood at 0.78. However, it slowly started increasing - it was 0.88 from July 3-22, 0.95 from July 24-27, 0.96 from July 27-31. It breached the value of 1.03 for the first time after the second wave during August 6-9. However, since then it has slowly started to decline. The value was 0.92 from August 6-9, rose to 0.99 between August 12-14. But it slipped to 0.89 between August 14-17. Earlier this month, the central government said 37 districts across nine states, including Kerala (11 districts) and Tamil Nadu (seven districts) are still showing a rising trend in the average daily new COVID-19 cases over the previous two weeks even as the nationwide daily new infections continued to register a decline. It said the R-value is more than 1 in five states -- Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh which remains a cause of concern.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-302
18-08-2021||India||SC allows women to appear for NDA examination||In a major step towards gender equality, the Supreme Court on Wednesday allowed eligible women to take the examination for admission to National Defence Academy (NDA) scheduled to be held on September 5. The top court, however, said that the result of the examination would be subject to final adjudication of the petition. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy passed the interim order on a plea filed by one Kush Kalra, which has sought a direction to the authorities concerned to allow eligible female candidates to appear in the National Defence Academy and Naval Academy Examination' and train at the NDA. The bench also directed the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) to take out an appropriate notification in view of its order and give due publicity to it. During the hearing, senior advocate Chinmoy Pradip Sharma, appearing for Kalra, said they have received the Centre's counter affidavit on Tuesday in which the government has stated that it is purely a policy decision and court should not interfere with it. The bench told Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati that why is the government continuing in this direction after the verdicts of this court related to extending permanent commission in the Army and Navy to women. This is unfounded now. We are finding it absurd. Will the Army act on after the judicial orders are passed? We will then pass an order, if that is what you want. I have this impression right from the High Court that till an order is passed, the Army does not believe in doing anything voluntarily, the bench said. Bhati said the Army has conferred Permanent Commission (PC) to many women. The bench said, You had kept on opposing it (PC) till the orders were passed by this court. You did not do anything of your own. The Navy and Air Force were more forthcoming while the Army seems to have some kind of bias. Bhati said that in this case there are several modes of entry into the Army like NDA, Indian Military Academy (IMA) and Officers Training Academy (OTA) and women can enter into the force through OTA and IMA. The bench said, Why is it not through NDA. Is co-education a problem? Bhati said that this is a policy decision that women are not allowed in NDA. The top court told Bhati that this policy decision is based on gender discrimination. It said, We direct the respondents (Centre) to take a constructive view of the matter in view of the judgements of this court . Bhati said that she herself had argued the PC matter and appeared for women Short Service Commission officers, who were seeking grant of the PC. The bench said its endeavour is to persuade the Army to do things by itself rather than on the basis of judicial orders. We tried but there was no success in the Permanent Commission matter either in the High Court or even in the Supreme Court till Justice Chandrachud passed the order, the bench said. The top court told Bhati that even if it is a matter of policy the government was still allowing women's entry through two other ways, then why would it say no to the third way. It is not a case of just gender principle but it is a case of discrimination , the bench said, adding that women officers are now admitted even in combat roles. Bhati said that in the Army women are granted permanent commission only in 10 streams while in the Air Force they are admitted as fighter pilots. The bench observed that the mindset is to change which is not changing at all and even during hearing of permanent commission before the High Court, the government counsel had tried to persuade the Army but it did not materialise. The Air Force and Navy have acted in a more liberal way. However, in the Army, you kept giving them a five-five years job and never gave permanent commission till the verdict of the Supreme Court. If you are introducing women in the Army then why do you create a bar in NDA, the bench said, adding that the government should not compel judicial intervention all the time. It said, We, as an institution, must confess that we may not know all the intricacies of the structure of the Army but the broader principle of gender neutrality that you must understand and adapt to in the backdrop of your peculiarities. Court passing blanket orders does not advance the actual cause . On March 10, the top court had sought responses from the Centre and others on a plea which has raised the issue of exclusion of eligible and willing female candidates from joining the prestigious National Defence Academy (NDA) solely on the ground of sex that it is a violation of fundamental right to equality. The top court had issued notices to the Centre, the UPSC and others seeking their responses on the plea which said the categorical exclusion of eligible female candidates from entering the National Defence Academy is not constitutionally justifiable and is simply done on the basis of their sex." The plea filed by advocate Kush Kalra has referred to the February last year landmark verdict in which the apex court had directed that women officers in the Army be granted PC and command postings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-302
18-08-2021||India||Anil Deshmukh skips ED appearance again||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh has again skipped appearing before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a money laundering case stating that he was taking recourse to "lawful remedies" for the protection of his liberty. This was the fifth time that the 71-year-old NCP minister refused to appear before the ED. Deshmukh sent a three-page reply to the investigating officer of the case through his lawyer saying that the Supreme Court has "made it open for me to take recourse to all appropriate remedies available under CrPC (criminal procedure code) including filing of a quashing petition". He added that he was taking recourse to legal remedies for the protection of his liberty "within a day or two". Deshmukh added he was a "law-abiding citizen" as he requested the agency to record his statement through an electronic medium, till the time "appropriate orders are passed by court(s)". The next step being mulled by the agency was not informed. The ED had issued the fifth summons to Deshmukh and his son Hrishikesh after the Supreme Court on August 16 refused interim protection to the politician from any coercive action by the federal agency. A three-judge bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar, however, had said that Deshmukh was at liberty to access remedies. Deshmukh has last month issued a video statement stating that he would appear before the ED "after" the apex court's decision on his petition. "I had received ED's summons after which I filed a petition in the Supreme Court. I will go to the ED to record my statement after the SC's decision on my petition," Deshmukh had said. The summonses were issued to the former home minister in connection with the criminal case registered under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) related to an alleged Rs 100 crore bribery-cum-extortion racket in the Maharashtra Police establishment that led to Deshmukh's resignation in April. The agency had raided Deshmukh's premises in Mumbai and Nagpur in June apart from that of his aides and some others. It subsequently arrested two of his aides, personal secretary Sanjeev Palande (51) and personal assistant Kundan Shinde (45). The ED case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the CBI booked him in a corruption case related to allegations of at least Rs 100 crore bribery made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. The ED recently also attached assets worth Rs 4.20 crore of Deshmukh and his family. The ED had claimed its probe found that "Deshmukh, while acting as home minister of Maharashtra, with dishonest intention has received illegal gratification of approximately Rs 4.70 crore in cash from various orchestra bar owners, through Sachin Waze, then the assistant police inspector of Mumbai Police." The NCP leader has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing in these instances and his lawyers have called the ED action against him unjustified. Deshmukh had said Singh made the allegations against him after he was removed from the post of Mumbai Police Commissioner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-302
18-08-2021||India||Madras High Court asks Centre to free 'caged parrot' CBI||The Madras High Court has batted for more functional autonomy for the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), without any government control and bring the premier agency on par with departments that report directly to the Prime Minister. Charging the agency with dragging its feet whenever the court wanted to hand over serious cases, saying it lacked the resources and manpower to take up the probe, the Madurai bench on Tuesday said this has "been parroted" for a long time before the court whenever it wanted to hand over the investigation of certain cases to the CBI. "This order is an attempt to release the "Caged Parrot (CBI)," the bench was quoted as saying by ndtv.com. The agency should be made independent with functional autonomy without the administrative control of the government. "The CBI shall be made more independent like Election Commission of India and Comptroller and Auditor General of India," it said. "Its director should be given the power of the Secretary to the government and should report to the Prime Minister or the Minister concerned," Justice N Kirubakaran and Justice B Pugalendhi said. There was a need to have a special act to provide statutory status to the CBI, they added. The CBI currently reports to the DoPT (the Department of Personnel and Training) under the Prime Minister's Office, and the agency's chief is chosen by a three-member panel comprising the Prime Minister, the Chief Justice of India and the Leader of the Opposition. The court was hearing a plea from petitioners in Ramanathapuram district in Tamil Nadu, seeking to transfer the probe into a case of cheating depositors of Rs 300 crore to a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the CBI. "This ground (lack of resources and man power) has been parroted time and again before the court", the judges said. The court said the CBI lacked sufficient financial administrative powers and that it should be vested with ex-officio powers of the Secretary to the government. The judges suggested that the premier agency has to be elevated to such heights that it cane be equated with the US' FBI and the Scotland yard. "There is no doubt that the conviction rate of the cases probed by CBI was 60 per cent, but it needed to be enhanced," the court said. The courts handed over cases to CBI because they had faith in them. Some times cases were handed over even without the State's consent, the bench said. The judges wanted the agency to file a well thought out policy within six weeks for permanent recruiting of Cyber forensic and financial audit experts. The Government should clear pending proposals pertaining to CBI infrastructure development. The court also directed the central forensic science laboratory to clear cases pending as on December 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-302
18-08-2021||India||SC may resume physical hearings soon, says CJI||The Supreme Court on Wednesday indicated that physical hearing in the apex court, which is conducting proceedings virtually amid the Covid-19 pandemic since March last year, may resume soon. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana said that physical hearing in the apex court may start within 10 days. The bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose, said this while hearing pleas against the Bombay High Court verdict in a matter related to tariff order passed by the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India last year. The bench said in virtual hearing, sometimes they are unable to see or hear lawyers arguing the matter. "We may hear physically after one week or 10 days," the CJI observed. The top court has been hearing cases through video-conferencing since March last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic and several bar bodies and lawyers have been demanding that physical hearings should resume immediately. In July this year, the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) had written a letter to the CJI urging that physical hearing in the apex court be resumed saying the Covid-19 situation in the national capital has become almost normal". Earlier in March this year the apex court had commenced hybrid proceedings, a combination of virtual and physical hearing, amid demands by lawyers for resumption of complete physical hearings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-302
18-08-2021||India||India committed to UN Climate Convention & Paris Agreement, says minister||India is committed to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and its Paris Agreement, Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav said on Wednesday while extending support to the UK which will host the international climate conference COP 26 in November this year. The minister, in a meeting with COP 26 President-Designate Alok Sharma, said that India will work constructively for successful and balanced outcome at the UNFCCC COP26 (conference of parties). The minister discussed issues relating to climate change, COP 26, India-UK 2030 Roadmap and other related matters, ministry sources said. "Had an engaging and fruitful discussion with @COP26 President @AlokSharma_RDG and assured India's full support to the UK for a successful COP 26. "Conveyed the Indian government's position that COP 26 should ensure a balanced outcome with equal treatment to agenda items such as adaptation, finance, technology transfer," Yadav tweeted after the meeting. India believes climate actions must be nationally determined and advocates that the differentiation and operationalisation of flexibility in the UNFCCC and the Paris Agreement for developing nations must be at the core of decision-making, he said. The environment minister also noted the global initiatives spearheaded by India under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for tackling climate change, like Leadership Group for Industry Transition (LeadIT), Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI) and International Solar Alliance (ISA). Alok Sharma sought the support of India on COP 26 initiatives launched by the UK and for a successful COP at Glasgow, and acknowledged India's leadership role, the ministry said. Both the leaders also exchanged views on important climate negotiation agenda items to be deliberated in the upcoming COP 26 at Glasgow, it said in an official statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-303
18-08-2021||India||Congress slams govt over hike in prices of LPG cylinders||The Congress on Wednesday hit out at the government over the hike in prices of LPG cylinders, accusing it of being insensitive and distorting the budget of every household. The party also displayed empty LPG cylinders and 'chulhas' at a press conference here to highlight the issue of steep LPG prices. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate urged the government to bring down prices of LPG cylinders to provide relief to the common people in the country. She said the government has initiated the very steep hike on LPG cylinders by raising it by Rs 25 per cylinder, which is now being sold at Rs 860 per cylinder in Delhi and is touching almost Rs 1000 in various parts of the country. "Our one and only demand is please bring some respite to people, think about the plight of people and bring down prices of LPG cylinders. This is anti-women and anti-people and due to high prices people are forced to go back to using cow dung and firewood," she told reporters. "We do hope that an insensitive government intoxicated on power will pay some attention and bring some respite to people. This is absolutely immoral and there is no word to describe this," she said. Shrinate said as per Saudi Aramco, which decides on prices of gas, the price actually comes to Rs 600 but why are we paying Rs 260 more. “In the last eight or nine months alone, prices of LPG cylinders have gone up by Rs 265, which is almost 44 percent,” she said. She also alleged that the government is not paying any subsidy on LPG cylinders and there is no difference between the market and controlled prices. On the much-touted Ujjwala Yojna, she said the reality is that beneficiaries of the scheme cannot afford a cylinder at Rs 800 at a time when 97 per cent of people are earning less than what they were three years back and 23 crore people have gone below the poverty line. "At what stage will the government realise that during the economic crisis, when people have lost jobs and their wages have gone down and when people are looking for employment opportunities, they should not distort their home budgets," she said. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra charged that the government's "collection scheme" is flourishing by increasing prices of LPG every month. "On July 1, Modi ji's government increased the price of LPG by Rs 25 and on August 17 again increased it by Rs 25. By showing the dream of Ujjwala, the 'collection scheme' of the BJP government is flourishing by increasing the prices of LPG every month," she said in a tweet in Hindi. Congress leader Alka Lamba said women in the national capital are buying 'chulhas' from old Delhi and what would they be doing in other parts of the country. It would be better if 11 women ministers meet Prime minister Modi and tell him to bring down prices of LPG, she said, alleging that the government is trying to divert the attention of the people by raising non-issues. Delhi Congress chief Amrita Dhawan said the prime minister should resign if he is unable to control prices of LPG.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-303
18-08-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir DGP orders immediate action against cops who beat up scribes||Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbag Singh on Wednesday directed "immediate action" against a police officer involved in the beating of journalists during a Muharram procession in the city, terming it "undesirable behaviour". The incident occurred on Tuesday when photojournalists were performing their duty of covering the procession in the city. Police, unable to control the procession, targeted the photojournalists and charged them with batons besides rouging them up physically. Several photographers including S Irfan of the PTI, Waseem Andrabi of the Hindustan Times and Sajjad Hamid of Free Press Journal, whose camera was also broken, were injured. Taking cognisance of the incident, Singh directed Srinagar SSP Sandeep Chaudhary to take immediate action. "J&K DGP Dilbag Singh took a serious view of the undesirable behaviour with some media men in Srinagar yesterday. SSP Srinagar directed to take immediate action against the erring police officer," Jammu and Kashmir Police said on its official Twitter handle. The police, after roughing up the journalists on Tuesday, also detained a few Shia mourners at Jehangir Chowk in the city as they tried to take out a procession to mark the eighth day of the 10-day Muharram mourning period. The traditional Muharram procession used to pass through the areas of Abi Guzar, Lal Chowk and Dalgate areas, but has been banned since the eruption of militancy in 1990. The pictures and videos of the incident were uploaded on social media as journalists protested the police action. Kashmir Press Photographers Association (KPPA) condemned the use of force by police and termed its action "unjustified and uncalled for". The Kashmir Press Club condemned the assault and demanded action against the policemen involved in the incident as well as sensitisation of the police force to ensure media freedom is respected. Leaders cutting across political lines had on Tuesday denounced the incident, with National Conference (NC) vice president Omar Abdullah saying the police action was unfortunate and expressed hope that Jammu and Kashmir LG Manoj Sinha will ensure such incidents are not repeated. People's Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti also took to Twitter to highlight the issue saying, "Media is spending hours debating the human tragedy and unfolding crisis in Afghanistan but will they speak up for their own community in Kashmir who were beaten to pulp today by security forces for doing their job?" The Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Conference (JKPC) led by Sajad Lone condemned the police action and said, "Merciless beating of journalists is highly condemnable. We express serious concern over such repeated acts of use of force on the media fraternity without any accountability. Surprisingly, the upholders of the law are out to demolish the founding principles of law." Apni Party senior vice president Ghulam Hassan Mir termed the thrashing of media persons as undemocratic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-303
18-08-2021||India||Stranded Indian teachers at Kabul varsity urges govt to ensure their immediate evacuation||No gunshots have been heard since the Taliban took control of Kabul but the situation is precarious and getting more so with each passing hour, say four Indian teachers in war-ravaged Afghanistan, appealing for immediate evacuation so they can return to their families back home. All four are teachers at the Bakhtar University in Kabul, which was overrun by the Taliban three days ago. "We have reached out to every possible forum in India and we are hoping that the government will do something to ensure our immediate evacuation. I have not stepped out of the campus in two days and every time there is a commotion outside, my heart skips a beat," Mohd Aasif Shah told PTI over the phone. Shah, who is a resident of Kashmir and has been teaching economics at the Kabul-based varsity for four years, said he like his colleagues fear the current atmosphere following the unexpected turn of events. "I had plans to go back on Monday. I even had my ticket booked but the situation was rapidly changing. It took me hours to get to the airport and the sight at the airport was like the entire Kabul had gathered there. The flight was cancelled and I had no choice, but to return to the university hostel," he said. Shah had returned to Afghanistan two months back after the government decided to conduct offline examinations. "My family used to be here with me in Kabul. We all went back to India after the Covid outbreak, and classes were online. However, the government decided to hold exams offline. So only I came back for two months and I was to return after the exams were over," he said. Syed Abid Hussain from Bihar, who teaches marketing at the university, said so far everybody is safe but considering the situation, "we do not want to live in this uncertainty". "We have tried to get in touch with the embassy as well as the Ministry of External Affairs. We have not heard from them yet but I am confident that the government must be putting efforts for our safe and quick evacuation from Kabul," he said. Adil Rasool from Kashmir, whose wife is there with him at the varsity said, "We are just praying that the situation does not get any worse than this and we are able to go home safely." Right now everybody is inside the campus and waiting for a positive development from the Indian embassy or the government, said Rasool, who has been teaching management at the university since 2017. Afroz Alam from Jharkhand, who teaches computer science at the university, said so far there has been no bloodshed but the fear remains. "There has been no bloodshed outside, we have not heard gun shots too in the city but the scare remains whether this is momentary. The campus is huge, we do not have to move outside for necessities too. I am just hoping for safe and quick evacuation from here," he said. Two days after Kabul fell to the Taliban, India on Tuesday completed the evacuation of all its diplomats and other staff members from the Afghan capital under a "difficult and complicated" exercise, effectively closing its mission for the second time since 1996 when the militant group captured power. The mission to evacuate close to 200 people including the Indian envoy and other staffers in two military aircraft was accomplished with support from the US, a day after the Kabul airport witnessed unprecedented scenes of desperate residents rushing into it in an attempt to flee the country fearing the Taliban's brutality. Indian Ambassador to Afghanistan Rudrendra Tandon told media persons that the situation in Kabul is complex and "quite fluid" and that the remaining Indians stuck in the city will be brought back home when the commercial flight services resume. On its part, the Ministry of External Affairs has said that the focus now would be to ensure the safe return of all Indian nationals from the Afghan capital in view of the prevailing situation in the country, adding India's visa services will continue through an e-Emergency visa facility and it has been extended to Afghan nationals. The Taliban swept across the country this month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities in the backdrop of withdrawal of the US forces that began on May 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-303
18-08-2021||India||Monsoon set to revive in north India from August 19||After a gap of nearly two weeks, the Southwest Monsoon is set to revive in north India from August 19, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. The IMD said scattered to fairly widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy falls are very likely over east Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand from August 19 to 21. Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and west UP are likely to witness rainfall activity from August 20-21 August. Isolated heavy to very heavy falls are also very likely over Uttarakhand on August 19 and 20. Fairly widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy falls are also very likely over Bihar from August 20-22. The IMD said the current rainfall spell over Gujarat, Maharashtra, Odisha, Jharkhand, Gangetic West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, northeast India and sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim will continue till August 19. It said fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy falls are very likely over Gujarat, Maharashtra, Odisha, Jharkhand, Gangetic West Bengal on August 18 and 19; over Madhya Pradesh from August 18 to 20; and over Telangana and Chhattisgarh on August 18. The IMD said widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy falls are very likely to continue over northeast India and sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim during the next two days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-303
18-08-2021||India||Mehbooba Mufti's mother appears before ED in money laundering case||Mother of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Wednesday appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) here in a case related to money laundering, officials said. Gulshan Nazir, who is in her late seventies, came to the ED office along with her daughter at the agency's office located in the civil lines area here, they said. Nazir, the wife of former union Home minister and ex-chief minister Mufti Mohammed Sayeed, had earlier been summoned on three occasions, a move which was termed by the PDP as a political vendetta against the party which has been opposing the abrogation of the special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. The criminal case filed under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) is linked to the recovery of at least two diaries by the ED after raids on an alleged associate of Mehbooba. The diaries contain the details of some purported payments made from the chief minister's discretionary fund in alleged contravention of rules, the officials said. These funds are alleged to have been diverted during the People's Democratic Party (PDP) rule in the erstwhile state. A few lakh rupees from these funds are alleged to have been transferred into the accounts of Nazir and some others, and the ED wants to question her about it, the officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-303
18-08-2021||India||Ruling a significant conclusion to the long nightmare, says Tharoor||After a Delhi court discharged Shashi Tharoor in a case related to his wife Sunanda Pushkar's death, the senior Congress leader on Wednesday said his faith in the Indian judiciary stands vindicated and the ruling brings a "significant conclusion to the long nightmare" which had enveloped him. Special Judge Geetanjali Goel passed the order in a virtual hearing in the case related to Pushkar's death in a luxury hotel here. Taking to Twitter, Tharoor posted his statement and said, "I would like to express my humble thanks to Judge Geetanjali Goel for her orders today, discharging me from the charges levied by the Delhi Police, which I have consistently described as preposterous." Tharoor said the ruling brings a significant conclusion to the "long nightmare which had enveloped" him after the tragic passing of his wife. "I have weathered dozens of unfounded accusations and media vilification patiently, sustained by my faith in the Indian judiciary, which today stands vindicated," the former Union minister said. In our justice system, the process is all too often the punishment, he noted. "Nonetheless, the fact that justice has been done, at last, will allow all of us in the family to mourn Sunanda in peace," he said. In his statement, Tharoor also thanked lawyers, particularly Vikas Pahwa and Gaurav Gupta, for all they had done to bring the case to this conclusion. During the arguments, while police had sought framing of various charges, including 306 (abetment of suicide), senior advocate Pahwa, appearing for Tharoor, told the court that the investigation conducted by the SIT completely exonerated the politician of all the charges levelled against him. Pahwa had sought Tharoor's discharge in the case, saying there was no evidence against him to prove the offence. Pushkar was found dead in a suite of a luxury hotel in the city on the night of January 17, 2014. The couple was staying in the hotel, as the official bungalow of Tharoor was being renovated at that time. Tharoor was charged under Sections 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) as well as 306 of the Indian Penal Code by Delhi Police, but was not arrested in the case. Tharoor was granted anticipatory bail in the matter by a Sessions court on July 5, 2018. Following that order, a magisterial court converted the anticipatory bail into regular bail after he appeared before it on July 7 in pursuance to the summons issued by the Metropolitan Magistrate in the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-303
18-08-2021||India||Samajwadi Party MP booked for sedition over comments supporting Taliban||Samajwadi Party MP Shafiqur Rehman Barq has been booked for sedition following his recent remarks allegedly defending the Taliban's takeover of Afghanistan and equating it with India's own freedom struggle, police said on Wednesday. He was charged under Indian Penal Code section 124A (sedition) following a complaint from BJP leader Rajesh Singhal on Tuesday, Superintendent of Police Chakresh Mishra said. Singhal in his complaint said that Barq's "controversial statement comes in the category of sedition", he said. The MP has been also booked under sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language) and 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs), Mishra said. Besides Barq, two others -- Mohammad Muqueem and Chaudhary Faizan have also been booked under these sections, the officer said, adding that the matter is being probed. Following the Sambhal MP's remarks, Samajwadi Party (SP) workers Muqueem and Faizan posted material on social media in support of the Taliban, according to the FIR. Responding to questions from reporters on Monday, Lok Sabha member Barq had said the Taliban wanted to free their country and it was Afghanistan's internal matter. He had called the Taliban a force that did not allow Russia or the United States to establish themselves in Afghanistan, "and now they want to run their own country". The MP had said that when India was under British Rule, the entire country fought for independence. "They want to be free. This is their personal matter. How can we interfere?" the SP legislator had said on developments in Afghanistan. Endorsing the Taliban takeover, Barq had said the Afghans want to run their own country in the manner they wanted." The remarks drew sharp criticism from Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. In the state legislative council, the chief minister on Tuesday slammed the opposition MP. "He was shamelessly supporting the Taliban. It means supporting their barbaric act. We are a parliamentary democracy. Where are we heading? We are supporting people who are a blot on humanity," the CM added. Asked to comment on the MP's remarks, Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said he had not personally heard them. "But if this type of statement has been given then there is no difference between that person and Imran Khan." Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Monday had appeared to endorse the Taliban's takeover of Kabul, saying Afghanistan has broken the "shackles of slavery".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-303
18-08-2021||India||Chief Justice slams media speculation on judges' appointments ||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Wednesday termed "very unfortunate" certain "speculations and reports" in the media about Collegium meeting regarding the appointment of judges in the Supreme Court. CJI Ramana, while speaking in the ceremonial function to bid farewell to Justice Navin Sinha who is retiring, said the process of appointment of judges is sacrosanct and has dignity attached to it and the media must understand and recognise its sanctity. "On this occasion, I want to take the liberty to express my concern about certain speculations and reports in the media. You are all aware we need to appoint judges to this court. The process is ongoing. Meetings will be held and decisions will be taken. The process of appointment of judges is sacrosanct and has certain dignity attached to it. My media friends must understand and recognise the sanctity of this process," he said. The CJI said that as an institution, the apex court holds the freedom of media and the rights of individuals in high esteem and today's reflections in some sections of the media, pending the process, even before formalising the resolution is counter-productive. "There were instances of deserving career progression of bright talents getting marred because of such irresponsible reporting and speculation. This is very unfortunate and I am extremely upset about it," he said. The CJI also lauded the tremendous amount of maturity and responsibility displayed by majority of senior journalists and media houses in showing restraint and not speculating on such a serious matter. "Such professional journalists and ethical media are the real strength of the Supreme Court in particular and democracy in general. You are part of our system. I expect all the stakeholders to uphold the integrity and dignity of this institution," he said. The head of the judiciary was referring to media reports which said the Collegium, headed by the CJI, is understood to have recommended nine names for appointment as judges in the top court, media had reported earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-303
18-08-2021||India||Police oppose Natasha Narwal's plea seeking modification of bail condition||Delhi Police on Wednesday opposed JNU student Natasha Narwal's plea, seeking modification in the bail condition asking her not to leave the national capital without the court's permission, stating that she may destroy evidence. Narwal, an accused in three north-east Delhi riots cases, sought modification of a 2020 bail order in which she was directed to not leave Delhi, saying she has to travel outside for research purposes for her PhD and to visit her native place but has to seek the court's permission every time. During the hearing, Additional Public Prosecutor Rajeev Krishan Sharma opposed the plea and told the court that Narwal is a conspirator and may destroy evidence or run away if the condition of not leaving Delhi is changed. "So much evidence may get destroyed. We have great suspicion and apprehension. The investigation is still going on, the prosecutor, representing the police," told Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat. Sharma further said that there are conspiracy charges against her and a conspirator is always the most dangerous person as they can destroy the evidence and save themselves. "Tomorrow if they go abroad or run away, who will catch them?" he asked. "When they were conspiring to spread the riots, they were also doing PhD. Many people died. The court can understand what they are doing in the name of PhD," The prosecutor added. He said that Narwhal must move an application and inform the police whenever she is going outside the city. Because of this condition, they are not able to cause havoc and destroy evidence. Kindly consider the gravity of the case, he requested the court. Meanwhile, advocates Kunal Negi and Adit S Pujari, representing Narwal, told the court she is an accused in three cases but the court while granting bail in the other two matters, did not impose any such condition on her. "There is no such condition even in the conspiracy case. We will inform the IO prior to travel if the condition is modified," they emphasized. Narwal, along with several others, has been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in the case and they are accused of being the "masterminds" of the February 2020 violence, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-303
18-08-2021||India||Centre to make all efforts to bring back Indians from Afghanistan, says Scindia||Union Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia has said the central government will make all efforts, like it did in the 'Vande Bharat Mission', to bring back Indian citizens from Afghanistan, which has witnessed re-emergence of the militant group Taliban. The Vande Bharat Mission was carried out last year to bring back Indians stranded in foreign countries after the suspension of regular international flights following the oubreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. "The Indian government will bring its citizens back to their homes from Afghanistan, like we did in the Vande Bharat Mission, through Air India and the Indian Air Force (IAF) planes, whichever way is possible," Scindia told reporters late Tuesday night in Madhya Pradesh's Shajapur, where he reached as part of his 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra'. Scindia said the Union government had started the evacuation from Afghanistan last Friday. "The evacuation process continued for three days. But, when a flight was about to take off on Sunday, NOTAM (a notice to alert aircraft pilots of potential hazards along a flight route) was received following gunshots fired at the Kabul airport," he said. Following the NOTAM, the airspace over Kabul was closed, so the evacuation process was hindered on Monday, the minister said. Later, an IAF plane went to Kabul on Tuesday and brought back Indian citizens, he said. We will leave no stone unturned to bring back all our citizens from Afghanistan. We already did it earlier under the Vande Bharat Mission, the minister said. After starting his 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra' from MP's Dewas district on Tuesday morning, Scindia reached Shajapur late at night. As part of the tour, various newly-inducted Union ministers are reaching out to people and informing them about the welfare schemes of the Centre. Besides Scindia, Union minister S P Singh Baghel also carried out a tour in Gwalior district on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-304
18-08-2021||India||SC dismisses Maha govt plea against CBI probe into transfer, posting of cops by Deshmukh||The Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed a plea of the Maharashtra government seeking to set aside two paragraphs related to transfer and posting of police officers, reinstatement of an officer from the CBI's FIR against former state home minister Anil Deshmukh. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said that it is inclined to interfere with the July 22 order of the Bombay High Court and dismissed the petition. The top court said that it cannot dilute the direction of a constitutional court ordering a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe by drawing a line for the agency on which aspect the investigation should be done. "CBI has to investigate all aspects of the allegations and we cannot limit them. This will be like denuding the powers of a constitutional court," the bench said. It said that an impression is being created that the state is trying to protect the former home minister by not allowing the probe on the aspect of transfer and posting of police officers and reinstatement of additional police inspector Sachin Waze. Advocate Rahul Chitnis, appearing for the Maharashtra government, said the state has withdrawn consent for the CBI probe and the High Court direction for a probe was limited to allegations of collection of money from bars and restaurants and not on transfer, posting of police officers and reinstatement of Waje into the police force. On July 22, the High Court said the CBI can inquire into the transfer and postings of police personnel and the reinstatement of Waze in the Mumbai Police force "so far as this has a nexus with Maharashtra's former home minister Anil Deshmukh and his associates". The Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed a plea of the Maharashtra government seeking to set aside two paragraphs related to transfer and posting of police officers, reinstatement of an officer from the CBI's FIR against former state home minister Anil Deshmukh. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said that it is not inclined to interfere with the July 22 order of the Bombay High Court. The top court said that it cannot dilute the direction of a constitutional court ordering a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe by drawing a line for the agency on which aspect the investigation should be done. CBI has to investigate all aspects of the allegations and we cannot limit them. This will be like denuding the powers of a constitutional court, the bench said. It said that an impression is being created that the state is trying to protect the former home minister by not allowing the probe on the aspect of transfer and posting of police officers and reinstatement of additional police inspector Sachin Waze. "Which state government is going to order CBI, when the allegations are against its own home minister or any other minister. It is the court, which will have to exercise its power to order the probe and that what High Court did," the bench said. The top court said that the Maharashtra government should allow a free and fair investigation by CBI into the issue and it should be open as there is nothing to hide. Advocate Rahul Chitnis, appearing for the Maharashtra government, said the state has withdrawn consent for the CBI probe and the High Court direction for a probe was limited to allegations of collection of money from bars and restaurants and not on transfer, posting of police officers and reinstatement of Waje into the police force. He said that letter of former Mumbai commissioner of Police Param Bir Singh to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray only alleged the collection of Rs 100 crore from bars and restaurants. Chitnis said that Bombay High Court had said that Param Bir Singh can avail remedy before the appropriate forum with respect to undue consideration taken by then minister for transfer and posting of police officials. The bench said that like police has the power to investigate anything related to the FIR registered, similarly, CBI has to investigate all aspects related to the averment made in the letter of Param Bir Singh. "We cannot draw a line and tell CBI that you can investigate this and you cannot investigate that. It has to look into the manner the transfer and posting was done during the tenure of former minister," the bench said. The top court said that investigation is not against the state but against a former minister and state should be open to the investigation by CBI as there is nothing to hide. "Sorry, we are not inclined to interfere with the High Court verdict," the bench said and dismissed the petition. On July 22, the High Court said the CBI can inquire into the transfer and postings of police personnel and the reinstatement of Waze in the Mumbai Police force "so far as this has a nexus with Maharashtra's former home minister Anil Deshmukh and his associates". The High Court, in its judgment, had remarked that the allegations of corruption and misconduct levelled by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh against Deshmukh and if the reinstatement of Waze in 2020 after so many years of suspension had any quid pro quo (a favour/advantage granted in return for something), then it is a matter of investigation. The court had dismissed a petition filed by the Maharashtra government seeking that two paragraphs from the CBI's FIR against Deshmukh be set aside. While one paragraph is about allegations (of extortion) levelled against the NCP leader by former Assistant Police Inspector (API) Waze, dismissed from service after his arrest in the Antilia bomb scare case, the second one pertains to alleged corruption in transfers and postings of police officials. The investigating agency (CBI), in our view, can legitimately carry on its inquiry into the transfer and postings of police personnel and the reinstatement of Sachin Waze in the police force after 15 years, so far as this has a nexus with the former home minister (Deshmukh) and his associates, the court had said. The high court had noted that the allegations of extortion of money and attempts to influence investigations and transfer of particular officers to achieve these objectives "form an inseparable part of the alleged conspiracy". In March this year, Singh, in a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, had levelled allegations of corruption against Deshmukh. The CBI, on April 21 this year, registered an FIR against Deshmukh on charges of corruption and misuse of official positions. The FIR was lodged after the agency conducted a preliminary enquiry against the NCP leader following an order from the HC on April 5. Waze, now in jail, had claimed he was asked to collect money from bar and restaurant owners in Mumbai allegedly on instructions of Deshmukh, who has repeatedly denied the allegations against him. Deshmukh had resigned from the cabinet after the HC directed the CBI to conduct a probe into the allegations of corruption and misconduct levelled against him. The NCP leader has consistently denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-304
18-08-2021||India||Pegasus: SC notice to Centre, Bengal on plea against setting up of Commission of Inquiry||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought responses from the Centre and the Bengal government on a plea challenging the setting up of a Commission of Inquiry by the state to probe into the Pegasus snooping allegations. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana issued notices to the Centre and the Bengal government on the plea and posted it for hearing on August 25. Advocate Saurabh Mishra, appearing for the petitioner, told the bench that they have challenged the notification issued by the state government constituting the Commission of Inquiry on the ground of jurisdiction. We will issue notice, the bench, also comprising justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose said. Former Supreme Court judge Justice Madan B Lokur and former chief justice of Calcutta High Court Justice Jyotirmay Bhattacharya are the members of the Commission of Inquiry announced by the West Bengal government last month. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-304
18-08-2021||India||Sunanda Pushkar death case: Delhi court discharges Shashi Tharoor||A Delhi court on Wednesday discharged senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor in a case related to his wife Sunanda Pushkar's death in a luxury hotel here. Special Judge Geetanjali Goel passed the order in a virtual hearing. Tharoor thanked the judge and said it was absolute torture for the last seven-and-a-half years and that it was a great relief. During the arguments, while police had sought framing of various charges, including 306 (abetment of suicide), senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, appearing for Tharoor, told the court that the investigation conducted by the SIT completely exonerated the politician of all the charges levelled against him. Pushkar was found dead in a suite of a luxury hotel in the city on the night of January 17, 2014. The couple was staying in the hotel as the official bungalow of Tharoor was being renovated at that time. Tharoor was charged under sections 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and 306 of the Indian Penal Code by the Delhi Police, but was not arrested in the case. He was granted bail on July 5, 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-304
18-08-2021||India||Govt refusing to divulge details in public a confession that spyware was used, says Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday said the solicitor general telling the Supreme Court that the government has information which he cannot divulge in public by way of an affidavit is a "confession" that software-spyware was used, and sought to know if it was Pegasus and for what purpose it was used. The Centre on Tuesday told the Supreme Court that divulging information on whether the country uses spyware like Pegasus or not would involve national security aspect as enemies of the nation or those indulging in terror activities would change or modulate their software. Reacting to the development, Chidambaram said, "SG tells SC that the government has information which he cannot divulge in public by way of affidavit. That is a confession that software-spyware was used. For what, we do not know." "We want to know if that spyware-software was called Pegasus and for what purpose was it used," the former home minister said in a series of tweets. "If the government answers these two questions, the remaining questions will answer themselves in due course," Chidambaram said. On Tuesday night, Chidambaram had tweeted that the Israel-based NSO Group has admitted and said that Pegasus is spyware and is used to hack phones. "Why is the government reluctant to answer the question, 'Did any of the agencies buy Pegasus spyware and use it?' We want a straight answer," he had said. "If it has not come today, it will certainly come on a future day. The Supreme Court must demand an answer to the question. I hope the Court will," Chidambaram had tweeted on Tuesday. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, told a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana that those involved in terror activities may take pre-emptive steps if the government divulges details of which software is used for various purposes including interception. The apex court, which made clear that it did not want the government to disclose anything which compromises national security, issued notice to the Centre on the batch of pleas seeking an independent probe into the alleged Pegasus snooping matter and posted the matter for hearing after 10 days. During the arguments, Mehta said this cannot be a subject matter of affidavit and public debate and the government has said in its limited affidavit that it will constitute a committee of experts to examine all the aspects of the Pegasus issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-304
18-08-2021||India||India logs over 35,000 fresh Covid cases, 440 casualties in a day||India added 35,178 new coronavirus infections, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,22,85,857, while the national recovery rate improved to 97.52 per cent, the highest since March 2020, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll climbed to 4,32,519 with 440 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases declined to 3,67,415, the lowest in 148 days, and comprise 1.14 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, the ministry said. Less than 50,000 daily cases have been reported for 52 consecutive days. A reduction of 2,431 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 17,97,559 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 49,84,27,083. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.96 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 23 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.95 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 54 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,14,85,923, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 56.06 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive so far. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crores on May 4 and three crores on June 23. The 440 new fatalities include 127 from Kerala and 116 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,32,519 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,35,255 from Maharashtra, 37,039 from Karnataka, 34,579 from Tamil Nadu, 25,073 from Delhi, 22,786 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,870 from Kerala and 18,318 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-304
18-08-2021||India||Jaishankar discusses Afghan situation in bilateral meetings with UNSG, counterparts||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar discussed the situation in Afghanistan after the Taliban seized power in Kabul in his bilateral meetings here, including with UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres. Jaishankar arrived in New York Monday as the UN Security Council held an emergency meeting on the situation in Afghanistan, the second time in just over the 10 days that the powerful UN body met under India's Presidency for the month of August to discuss the unravelling situation in the war-torn country. Following his meeting with Guterres in the UN headquarters on Tuesday, the minister tweeted, Good to meet UN Secretary General @antonioguterres. Our discussions focused on Afghanistan, following upon the Security Council meeting yesterday. He also met Estonia's Minister of Foreign Affairs Eva-Maria Liimets and as UNSC members, discussed our working together on maritime and cyber security and other global issues. Exchanged views on the developments in Afghanistan. Look forward to her presence at the Council meeting tomorrow". Liimets described her meeting with Jaishankar as important and said in a tweet that they talked about the "uncertain" situation in Afghanistan and India's first UNSC Presidency. Good cooperation between Estonia and India, this year celebrating 30 years of diplomatic relations, she added. Jaishankar will chair two high-level signature events this week under India's current Security Council Presidency. As India assumed the Presidency of the 15-nation Council for the month of August, it had outlined maritime security, counter-terrorism and peacekeeping as the focus areas. The minister will chair an open debate Wednesday on technology and peacekeeping under the overarching theme of Protecting the Protectors'. He will lay a wreath at the Peacekeepers Memorial in a ceremony along with Guterres. India and the UN will exchange an MoU in support of partnership for technology in peacekeeping. Jaishankar will also chair a high-level event on August 19 on counter-terrorism during which the Council will discuss the Secretary General's six-monthly report on the threat posed by ISIL/Da'esh, under the agenda item Threats to International Peace and Security caused by Terrorist Acts'. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had chaired the virtual high-level open debate on maritime security that was attended by Russian President Vladimir Putin and Blinken. Jaishankar said he also discussed the evolving situation in Afghanistan with French Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs Jean-Yves Le Drian. We will continue to coordinate in the UN Security Council. Thank him for evacuating 21 Indian nationals from Kabul to Paris, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-304
18-08-2021||India||Afghan exodus demolishes Centre’s citizenship law excuse||The Centre has said that it would prioritise taking in Hindus and Sikhs from Afghanistan — a move that drew comparisons to a contentious 2019 citizenship law that discriminates against Muslims. The Union home ministry said it would introduce “emergency visas” to allow Afghans to stay in India for six months. It did not specifically mention any religion, which, on  the face of it, suggests  the visa is open to all. Muslims make up the majority of those seeking to leave Afghanistan. But a tweet stoked fears. “We are in constant touch with the Sikh and Hindu community leaders in Kabul,” S. Jaishankar, the external affairs minister, said on Twitter. “Their welfare will get our priority attention.” That distinction prompted condemnation from some corners. “Ashamed that the Government of India response now is to look at desperate Afghan refugees not as humans fleeing persecution and sure death, but from the view of whether or not they’re Muslim,” Kavita Krishnan, CPIML politburo member, said on Twitter. On Monday, the India foreign ministry spokesperson had also mentioned Hindus and Sikhs but he did not specifically say that they would be given priority. The spokesperson had added that India would stand by Afghan nationals who had been the country’s partners in development initiatives. India also drew criticism after numerous seats were left empty on an air force flight on Tuesday that evacuated Indian citizens and officials from the country’s embassy in Kabul. India has previously granted visas of a longer duration to Afghans fleeing persecution, irrespective of their religion. Many Afghans migrated to India when the Taliban took over about two decades ago. Some have settled in New Delhi, where a shopping district popularly named “Little Kabul” comes alive every evening. The Narendra Modi government had passed the controversial Citizenship (Amendment) Act in December 2019 that proposes to fast-track Indian citizenship to persecuted minorities from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan belonging to the Hindu, Sikh, Jain, Buddhist, Parsi and Christian communities who came to India before December 31, 2014. The rules under the Act are yet to be notified. “One of the justifications for CAA was ‘Muslims cannot face persecution in Islamic countries’, an always-specious argument now more exposed by the horrific images of refugees (mostly Muslim) fleeing Afghanistan, clinging to & falling from wings of planes in the process,” Krishnan tweeted. The new category of electronic visa announced by the Centre to fast-track applications is meant for Afghan nationals who wish to leave the Taliban-controlled country. The visa category is called e-Emergency X-Misc Visa and it does not mention any religion. Sources in the government said the new visa category was expected to benefit religious minorities in Afghanistan, mostly Hindus and Sikhs, who are stranded in the country and fear prosecution by the Taliban. “MHA reviews visa provisions in view of the current situation in Afghanistan. A new category of electronic visa called “e-Emergency X-Misc Visa” introduced to fast-track visa applications for entry into India,” said a statement from the home ministry. Sources said these visas will be initially valid for six months and are being granted to facilitate the stay of Afghans in India. The visas will be granted only after security clearance. There is, however, no clarity yet on what will happen after the expiry of the six-month validity. A ministry official said: “India does not have a refugee policy. India grants shelter to foreigners facing persecution in their countries on a case-by-case basis. Our mission in Afghanistan is shut now and people are being allowed to get online visas. All these applications will first be cleared by security agencies”. The controversial CAA had triggered widespread protests as many feared that coupled with the planned nationwide National Register of Citizens (NRC), it would result in lakhs of Muslims losing their citizenship. Following the passage of the law in Parliament, the country had witnessed widespread protests leading to the death of over 100 people in police firing and related violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-304
18-08-2021||India||India evacuates nationals posted in Kabul mission||India pulled the shutters down on its diplomatic presence in Afghanistan on Tuesday morning, evacuating its nationals posted in the Kabul mission after tapping into the newly established back-channels with the Taliban. However, several Indians continue to be stranded in Afghanistan. New Delhi does not seem to be planning another evacuation right away, awaiting instead the resumption of commercial operations at Kabul airport. “The Government of India is committed to the safe return of all Indian nationals and will institute flight arrangements once Kabul airport is open for commercial operations,’’ the external affairs ministry said in a statement on Tuesday evening, pointing out that the main challenge for travel to and from Afghanistan is the operational status of the Kabul airport. There is no official figure on the number of Indians stranded in Afghanistan. “We understand that a number of Indians are stranded in that country, some of whom are employed by third country organisations. Our immediate priority is to obtain accurate information about all Indian nationals currently in Afghanistan. They and / or their employers are requested to urgently share the relevant details with MEA’s Special Afghanistan Cell,’’ the statement added. That New Delhi was pulling out ambassador Rudrendra Tandon, other diplomats and Indian staff from the Kabul embassy — the last of the five diplomatic offices India had in Afghanistan — was announced by external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi in the morning after the Indian Air Force flight ferrying 150 passengers had taken off. The C-17 Globemaster flew back to India via Iran and landed in Jamnagar, Gujarat, before arriving at the Hindon air base on the outskirts of the national capital late in the  afternoon after a tense night at the Kabul airport. Briefing journalists at Jamnagar airport, Tandon said any Indian who managed to reach the embassy in Kabul was taken into the mission and evacuated on this flight. About the fate of others stranded, he said some of them had reached out to the mission. “They were too far away in areas that were no longer possible to access.” The evacuation of the mission, he said, was carried out in two phases, adding that India has not abandoned the Afghan people. With the embassy itself surrounded by the Taliban, accessing the Kabul airport was an uphill task and it is in this that the back channels with the Islamist group came in handy. The entire contingent managed to reach the airport shortly after midnight for a flight that eventually left only on Tuesday morning. In a tweet, without going into details, external affairs minister S. Jaishankar hinted at the risks involved in moving so many Indians, including diplomats, through the Taliban-controlled Kabul. “Movement of the Indian Ambassador and the Embassy staff from Kabul to India was a difficult and complicated exercise. Thank all those whose cooperation and facilitation made it possible.” During the night while India was awaiting the lift-off of the evacuation flight, Jaishankar had a phone conversation with US secretary of state Antony Blinken. The US currently controls the Kabul airport, and Jaishankar tweeted that he “underlined the urgency of restoring airport operations in Kabul”. After the flight landed in Hindon, Tandon attended a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Security on Afghanistan, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, amid reports of the return of Taliban co-founder Mullah Baradar from Doha and the country’s first Vice-President Amrullah Saleh claiming that he is the legitimate caretaker President. An ex-spy and a trenchant critic of the Taliban, Saleh is reported to be in Panjshir Valley and in consultations with Ahmad Massoud, son of the legendary anti-Taliban commander Ahmad Shah Massoud, to build a resistance. Saleh said the Constitution provided for a caretaker President in the case of the absence, escape, resignation or death of the incumbent. Since he is in Afghanistan, Saleh claims he is the “legitimate caretaker president”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-304
18-08-2021||India||JNU academic council approves plan to set up medical school||The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) academic council, headed by a controversial vice-chancellor on extension, has approved a proposal to set up a medical school in what is being seen as a fresh attempt to diffuse the standing of the institution as a celebrated cradle for humanities and social sciences. The initiative of M. Jagadesh Kumar, the vice-chancellor who is on extension after his tenure expired in January this year, also tests a government position that advises caretaker vice-chancellors against taking substantive policy decisions. An email this newspaper sent to the vice-chancellor to ascertain his views elicited no response till Tuesday night. Once the executive council approves the proposal passed on Tuesday by the academic council, the university will start the medical school which will offer courses and integrate modern medicine with traditional medicine. “Academic Council unanimously approved, as per the provisions of JNU Act, 1966, establishing a School of Medical Sciences and an attached Hospital with broad and super-speciality departments including supporting and non-conventional departments,” said a media release issued by rector Rana P. Singh. The media release added: “This School will offer PhD, MD-PhD, MD, MS, DM, MCh and MBBS degree programmes, with an emphasis on modern medicine integrated with traditional medicine and knowledge systems from humanities and social sciences.” The new proposal has attracted criticism on two counts — alleged failure to hold proper deliberations and the lack of power of the in-charge VC to push such a policy agenda. The JNU Teachers Association wrote a letter to the education minister, complaining against the  in-charge VC. JNUTA secretary Moushumi Basu said that the proposal for starting a medical school was not discussed with the related centres like the Centre of Social Medicine and Community Health. VC Kumar had set up a committee of subject experts from medical institutions, which endorsed the proposal to set up the medical school. Basu said the schools of engineering and management were started by the JNU in 2018 without proper discussion. Both the schools are yet to establish themselves in terms of quality, she said. Aditya N. Mishra, former president of the Federation of Central Universities Teachers’ Associations, said both the engineering and management schools did not have adequate infrastructure and faculty, affecting the quality. “Considering the standard of JNU, both the schools are not able to attract best talents,” Mishra said. A student of the engineering school said it did not have a building of its own. Besides, they have been put up in dormitories and a sizable section of faculty members are not regular employees, the student said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-304
18-08-2021||India||Pegasus: SC issues notices to Centre on plea for court-monitored probe||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued a notice to the Union government on a batch of petitions seeking a court-monitored special investigation into the Pegasus snooping controversy. The  Narendra Modi government, without confirming or denying that the Israeli spyware  was used, told a bench headed by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana that if the truth was divulged, it would only help terrorists. The Centre, represented by solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, said there was nothing wrong if surveillance was carried out for the sake of national security. The petitioners want to know if the Centre bought Pegasus and used it to snoop on several Indians, including Opposition politicians, judges, journalists and activists. Although the government renewed the offer to set up an expert panel to examine the allegations, the apex court did not immediately concede the plea. The court indicated that if necessary, at a later stage, the court may consider the request or set up its own panel. Mehta declined to file any additional affidavit as suggested on Monday by the apex court, which, along with the petitioners, was not satisfied with the two-page affidavit filed by the additional secretary, electronics and information technology ministry. “According to me, my affidavit suffices but as a responsible government I am saying we will form a committee and submit a report before this court…. If there is an illegitimate use, then it cannot be countenanced by this court. There can’t be anything more fair than this,” the government’s law officer contended. Justice Ramana said: “You understand we are not asking you to divulge what you don’t want to. We are not here for that. We are not compelling you. We are thinking, we will issue notice, let us see. In the meanwhile… we will see if we have to constitute a committee and see what to do.” The Chief Justice added:  “We will see that. This is all at stage of admission. We had thought a comprehensive reply will come but it was a limited reply. We will see, we will also think and consider what can be done.  We will discuss what needs to be done, if a committee of experts needs to be made, or some other committee has to be set up….” Focusing on national security, Mehta said: “Mr (Kapil) Sibal (representing two petitioners) pointed out yesterday that there is a statutory mechanism in the form of an act as well as  rules which permit interception as per the statutorily prescribed procedure. …This is necessary for national security purposes and to combat terrorists…. “It is nobody’s case that under the IP Rules, 2000, a software cannot be used for the purpose of national security and to combat terrorism. They want the Government of India to divulge which software is not used. No country would ever reveal which software they have used or not used. Then the persons who are being intercepted may take pre-emptive or corrective steps.” Mehta added: “We know the IT encryption rules are there for state security, and national security presupposes that these software can be used. These software are purchased by every country, they (the petitioners) want it to be divulged if the software has not been used. If we divulge this, then the terrorists and their sleeper cells… can take preventive steps.” “…These are national security issues and we cannot hide anything from the court. This has to be before a committee and it cannot be a subject to public debate. Some web portals are weaving a narrative that some software is used. If I ask the government to divulge this fact before the court, then I will fail in my duty,” Mehta told the bench that includes Justices Surya Kant and Anriuddha Bose. Mehta was making an oblique reference to Section 69 of the IT Act, which empowers the Centre and state government or their authorised officers to  “intercept, monitor or decrypt or cause to be intercepted or monitored or decrypted any information generated, transmitted, received or stored in any computer resource” to uphold the sovereignty, defence and security of the country. Responding to the solicitor-general’s submission, Justice Surya Kant said that as a court, the bench does not expect the government to disclose anything impinging on national security but wondered why the Centre was not willing to file a detailed affidavit. Justice Surya Kant said: “We, as a court, and you, as the solicitor-general, and all lawyers, as officers of the court, none of us would like to compromise the security of the nation. For the defence of the nation, we are not going to disclose anything. “Whatever mechanism the defence ministry has evoked, we will not ask you to disclose any such thing. But here there are some persons of eminence (the petitioners) who are alleging snooping and hacking of phones.… “Now, this can be done only with the permission of a competent authority. What is the problem, if the authority files an affidavit before us?” Mehta, however, insisted that the government was willing to disclose whether there was any authorised or unauthorised interception before the expert inquiry committee proposed by the Centre. The expert committee in turn can place the report before the court. But, at the same time, the government is not willing to make a statement in the open court lest it enters the public domain. The solicitor-general said: “What is intended should come by way of an affidavit before Your Lordships or a report by the committee. I am not saying that I won’t disclose this to anyone. I am only saying I won’t tell this publicly. We can say this before the expert committee. “I wish to make it clear that it’s not that I don’t want to disclose by affidavit…. Let me say it before a committee whose report will later come to Your Lordships.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
18-08-2021||India||Afghan students in Indian varsities request visas, hostel stay||The Taliban takeover of Afghanistan has left several Afghan students in India desperate for visa extensions and funding because of uncertainty not just about their careers but also their lives. Despite assurances against reprisals by the Taliban, Afghan students currently attending online classes of Indian universities from home are keen on fleeing to India. Indian faculty in Afghan varsities have also tweeted SOS messages to be rescued from the anarchy that now prevails in that country. Mohammad Shafiq Sultan, a finance ministry employee of the deposed regime, is awaiting the results of the final semester of MA in international relations and area studies in Jawaharlal Nehru University here. His monthly scholarship of around Rs 20,000 from the Indian Council for Cultural Relations has stopped. Sultan was on Tuesday asked to vacate his hostel room by September 22. “I have been unable to speak to my family in Wardak province for a fortnight. Friends back home have warned me that the Taliban is investigating those who worked for the (earlier) government. They are saying do not come home as I may not have the fortune of a trial as there have been extra-judicial killings. They will persecute me as they think that I may have been brainwashed by going to India,” he told The Telegraph. He added: “I can’t survive for more than a couple of months on savings and help from friends. I can’t afford to pay commercial rent if I am evicted from the hostel. My wages for the last two years — which I would have received once I reported back to work with my degree — are now gone as the government I worked for does not exist any more. We have been pleading with the ICCR to increase the duration of our stipend. I am confident of clearing the entrance for PhD but I can’t survive without the scholarship nor can I go back for fear of my life.” Afghans have been the biggest beneficiaries of the ICCR scholarships with around two-thirds of all such scholarships awarded going to students from that country. At the moment, it is unclear if the new regime will continue the agreement with India under which these scholarships are given. The ICCR did not respond to queries on whether any form of relief would be given to scholarship holders in India and Afghanistan. According to the latest All India Survey of Higher Education report of 2019-20, there were 4,504 Afghan students in India. While institutions such as Delhi University and the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, have reached out to students attending online classes in Afghanistan, and facilitated their visas, the JNU has not. In response to requests from such Afghan students and the JNU Students Union, varsity registrar Ravikesh said on Saturday that “the matter is being looked into” as Delhi’s lockdown regulations include the closure of educational institutions — a clause that does not prevent the JNU from issuing necessary documentation for them to be granted visas to complete their courses in India. A day after the registrar’s note, Kabul was taken over by the Taliban and an exodus at the airport has made air travel difficult. A student of sociology in the JNU, currently in Kabul, told this paper that her family was desperate for her to leave before the Taliban arrived as the possibility of her going out to study seems bleak given their track record. The power supply to her home has now stopped. “My mobile is dying… There is no way of getting out,” she said in a message to this newspaper. Three such students have reached out to the JNUSU. In DU that has facilitated the return of 40 students, a depreciated currency and defunct banking system has made paying guest accommodations too expensive for most students. Iqbal Ahmadzai, a BA (economics) student in Hindu College is currently staying with a well-wisher in JNU’s staff quarters. From Logar province, he spoke of the uneasy calm now as the Taliban finally won a war of attrition in his town and the shooting has stopped, but restrictions have been imposed on women travelling unaccompanied by men, as well as compulsory headscarves. “As I am among the fortunate few to have a place to stay, it is my duty to speak up for most Afghan students who can’t afford PG accommodations. None of us have been given hostels and no reasons have been given for denying us this when we need it the most,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
18-08-2021||India||Yogi govt to establish Anti-Terrorist Squad in Deoband ||The Yogi Adityanath government has decided to establish a new centre of the Anti-Terrorist Squad in Saharanpur district’s Deoband town, which is home to a Sunni seminary established a century and a half ago. “Listen to the news amid the barbarism of Taliban, Yogiji has decided to open an ATS Commando Centre in Deoband with immediate effect. About one-and-a-half dozen selected ATS officers from across the state would be posted there,” Shalabh Mani Tripathi, an adviser of the state information and publicity department, tweeted on Tuesday. The decision comes months ahead of the Assembly elections. When contacted, a senior member of the 155-year-old Darul Uloom Deoband told The Telegraph: “We have decided not to speak on this issue. We are a reputable university, which doesn’t want to know which office is opening in our town and why.” “There are more intelligence department offices in a small town like Deoband than in Lucknow, the state capital. It is very good for us. We feel secure. We would love to ask the government to open more such offices here so that we can focus on academics while feeling secure,” he added. Although the Darul Uloom Deoband has in the past condemned the Taliban and organised meetings against terrorism, a section of Sangh parivar leaders keep alleging during elections that the seminary is pro-Taliban. An information department officer was quoted as saying to reporters: “About 2,000sqm land has already been earmarked for the ATS office and work will start soon. It is a project close to the heart of Maharajji.” Chief minister Adityanath is called Maharajji by his supporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
18-08-2021||India||Congress calls bluff on finance minister's oil bonds claim||The Congress on Tuesday rejected as “falsehood” the claim that the prices of petroleum products were high because of oil bonds issued by the previous regime, arguing that the Narendra Modi government was fleecing the poor to fill its coffers and to make up for lower tax collection from the corporates. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram said in a series of tweets: “The finance minister’s statement that servicing oil bonds stands in the way of giving relief on petrol and diesel prices is astonishing. At best the statement is incredible ignorance; at the worst it is motivated malignity.” Congress general secretary Ajay Maken said: “Since 2014-15, the Modi government has spent Rs 73,440 crore on servicing of oil bonds. Against this, they have collected Rs 22.34 lakh crore through taxes on petroleum products. Spending on servicing of oil bonds is barely 3.2 per cent of the tax collection from petroleum products. The real reason is not oil bonds but reduction in subsidy by 12 times and increase of taxes by three times.” The Congress was responding to finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s statement on Monday that there will be no cut in excise duty on fuel as they are facing additional burden because of oil bonds issued by the previous UPA government. Arguing that the UPA had reduced fuel prices by issuing oil bonds of Rs 1.44 lakh crore, she had said: “I can’t go by the trickery that was played by previous the UPA government. Due to oil bonds, the burden has come to our government, that’s why we are unable to reduce prices of petrol and diesel.” Sitharaman didn’t release figures to back her charge but the Congress responded with detailed data, saying: “The official figures of the Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell reveal that the UPA government gave subsidy on petroleum products to the tune of Rs 1.64 lakh crore in 2012-13 and Rs 1.47 lakh crore in 2013-14. The Modi government drastically reduced this amount year after year and it is just Rs 12,231 crore in 2020-21. “In 2020-21 alone, ‘Modi tax’ on petrol-diesel was Rs 453,812 crore. It is three times more than 2013-14. The BJP government raised central taxes on petrol and diesel by Rs 23.87 and Rs 28.37 per litre in seven years and collected additional Rs 189,711 crore every year.” Maken said: “Since the lockdown, the increase on excise duties on petrol and diesel has surpassed all forms of exploitation and extortion. In the last 15 months, the insensitive government had raised petrol and diesel rates by Rs 32.25 and Rs 27.58 per litre respectively.” Pointing to the denial of benefit to the consumers despite drastic fall in international crude prices, Maken said: “Because of the lowering of corporate tax, the government needs more money to match its spending. The cost of lower corporate tax rates for the government is being borne by citizens in the form of higher petrol and diesel prices. In 2017-18, the corporate tax collections amounted to a total of 3.34 per cent of the GDP and fell to 2.32 per cent of the GDP in 2020-21. This was despite the listed companies registering bumper profits during the financial year.” Maken added: “Corporate taxes have come down primarily on account of the base tax rate being cut from 30 per cent to 22 per cent in September 2019 and to 15 per cent from the earlier 25 per cent for new manufacturing companies. In absolute terms, the total corporate tax collected in 2019-20 had stood at Rs 5.57 lakh crore. It fell to Rs 4.57 lakh crore in 2020-21, thanks to lower tax rates. To compensate for this to some extent, the government has increased the excise duty on petroleum products.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
18-08-2021||India||Karnataka HC rap on cops for questioning children in sedition case ||Karnataka High Court has observed that police questioning children in a sedition case last year in Shaheen Education Society in Bidar, bordering Maharashtra is a violation of Juvenile Justice Act and asked the state government to issue directions not to repeat them. The case relates to a play staged in the school where the script uttered by children allegedly contained derogatory remarks against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The play was allegedly against the Citizenship Amendment Act and the National Register of Citizens (NRC). A case of sedition was invoked against the management and organisers of the event. Based on a petition by Nayana Jyoti Jhawar, the division bench of Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice N.S. Sanjay Gowda took note of the photographs which showed the policemen in uniform and with weapons questioning children in March last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
18-08-2021||India||Union ministry maintains secrecy over India’s Covid vaccine policy||A shroud of secrecy over the closed-door discussions through which health officials and technical experts shaped India’s Covid-19 vaccination policy remains intact. The Central Information Commission, disposing of a set of petitions seeking information on the vaccination policy, has said the Union health ministry has provided all relevant information to citizens. Petitioner Saurav Das, a Right to Information activist and an investigative journalist, had sought from the Union health ministry, among other details, minutes of meetings and file notings of the National Expert Group of Vaccination Administration for Covid-19 and the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation, two key bodies that have guided  the vaccination policy. India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign is currently proceeding at a pace significantly lower than what it needs — less than six million doses administered daily, instead of an ideal around nine million daily — mainly because of limited supplies. Sections of health experts say the current limited supplies are the likely outcome of decisions taken by either NEGVAC or other arms of the government presumably after technical discussions weighing pros and cons of multiple options. Das, whose petitions had sought information on those technical discussions, had appealed to the commission after the health ministry informed him that members of NEGVAC have to sign non-disclosure agreements. The ministry also said other information is exempt under Section 8(1)(a) of the RTI Act as it would prejudicially affect India’s strategic, scientific or economic interests. The ministry also told Das  it has consistently made available information relating to NEGVAC’s decisions and the vaccination policy through the Press Information Bureau, media conferences and minutes of NTAGI meetings are available on its website. The commission in its final adjudication on Monday said it finds the denial of information invoking such exemptions under Section 8(1)(a) without proper justification “untenable,” but said is it “convinced” that the respondent (the health ministry) has provided relevant information. “The respondent ought to and, as facts indicate, has been updating all relevant information which can be of use to citizens and serve the interests of all sections in the society,” the commission said. Das and another RTI activist Venkatesh Nayak, not associated with Das’s petition, said they are disappointed. “Everyone knows the decisions taken — but the minutes of meetings and file notings could have provided insights into the thinking, discussions, debates, if any, leading up to those decisions,” Das said. Nayak said the RTI Act requires the government to provide all relevant information about decisions that impact the public. “The government is obliged to provide information on details of the decision-making process too.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
18-08-2021||India||Bihar floods: Sixteen districts face deluge, sixteen people killed||The Ganga flood situation in Bihar worsened on Tuesday with the floodwaters inundating fresh areas and affecting lakhs of people. It sent chief minister Nitish Kumar flying to inspect the situation in Khagaria and Bhagalpur districts. At present 16 out of 38 districts including Buxar, Bhojpur, Patna, Saran, Vaishali, Muzaffarpur, Samastipur, Begusarai, Khagaria, Darbhanga, Saharsa, Bhagalpur, Munger, Lakhisarai and Katihar are facing the deluge. Bhagalpur and Khagaria are the latest areas to face the floods due to the Ganga that is flowing above the danger level in the state. The river’s strong flow has ruptured embankments, have cut-off various roads and national highways, and is threatening railway bridges. Sixteen people have been killed so far in the floods that have affected 27 lakh people living in around 2200 villages in these districts. Around 88 thousand of them have been displaced from their homes. “During the aerial survey, I saw that a large number of people in Bhagalpur district have been affected by the floods. Increase the number of flood relief centres as required and also ensure that the number of people staying at a centre is limited so that nobody experiences discomfort,” Nitish instructed Bhagalpur district magistrate Subrat Kumar Sen. Talking to media persons after inspecting relief centres, camps and community kitchens, Nitish pointed out that he was touring the flood-affected areas to take a first hand account of the situation. “We keep on issuing guidelines for the affected areas. The state government is providing a financial help of Rs 6000 to every flood-affected family. Food and accommodation is being provided at the relief camps. Special attention is being given to pregnant women staying at such camps,” Nitish said. The chief minister added that the state government was providing an assistance of Rs 10,000 for every boy and Rs 15,000 for every girl born at the flood relief camps. Meanwhile, the railways has cancelled 10 express and two passenger trains, changed the routes of 15 long-distance trains, and decided to terminate and start a couple of other trains from stations other than their pre-scheduled ones on the Jamalpur–Sahebganj and Jamalpur–Bhagalpur sections of the Malda division. “These temporary steps have been taken due to heavy rains and the increasing water level at different railway bridges,” East Central Railway chief public relations officer Rajesh Kumar said. The water resources department informed that the left embankment along the Ganga in Gopalpur block in Naugachhia sub-division of Bhagalpur has collapsed due to extreme pressure of water on it. Its officials are taking steps to contain the flow of water that was still spreading all around, inundating villages, roads and agriculture fields. Most of the other major flood-bringing rivers like Kosi, Bagmati, Kamla Balan, Burhi Gandak, Punpun, Adhwara, and Khiroi were flowing below the danger level at several places in the state. The only glimmer of hope was that the level of Ganga was showing a falling trend from Buxar to Patna, reducing the chances of the flood situation further aggravating in these districts. The mighty river will start calming down in the lower reaches from Patna onwards over the next couple of days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-305
