19-08-2021||India||Senior bureaucrat Apurva Chandra appointed Information & Broadcasting secretary||Senior bureaucrat Apurva Chandra has been appointed Information and Broadcasting secretary, a Personnel Ministry order said Thursday.  Chandra, a 1988-batch IAS officer of Maharashtra cadre, is currently Secretary, Ministry of Labour & Employment.  The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved the appointment of Chandra as secretary, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, the Personnel Ministry's order said.  Higher Education Secretary Amit Khare was holding the additional charge of the post of Information and Broadcasting secretary for over a year now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
19-08-2021||India||Jaishankar slams China over stand on terrorism at UNSC meet||In a swipe at China, India told the UN Security Council on Thursday that countries should not place "blocks and holds" without any reason on requests to designate terrorists, warning that any double standards and distinctions between terrorists would be made only at "our own peril". "The international community holds a collective view that terrorism in all its forms and manifestations must be condemned. There cannot be any exception or justification for any act of terrorism, regardless of motivations behind such acts, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar told the UN Security Council. Jaishankar, President of the UN Security Council, chaired the UNSC Briefing on Threats to International Peace and Security Caused by Terrorist Acts held under India's Presidency of the Council. Speaking in his national capacity, Jaishankar alluded to his remarks to the Council made in January this year when he had proposed an eight-point action plan aimed at collectively eliminating the scourge of terrorism. "Summon the political will: don't justify terrorism, don't glorify terrorists; No double standards. Terrorists are terrorists; distinctions are made only at our own peril; Don't place blocks and holds on listing requests without any reason," he said. This was in reference to China, a permanent member of the UNSC, repeatedly placing technical holds on bids by India and other nations to designate head of Pakistan-based militant group Jaish-e-Mohammed Masood Azhar. The United Nations designated Azhar as a global terrorist in 2019 after China lifted its hold on a proposal to blacklist him under the Security Council's Sanctions Committee, slapping an arms embargo, asset freeze and travel ban on him, 10 years after India first moved to have him blacklisted at the UN. Jaishankar also called for discouraging exclusivist thinking" and urged member nations to be on guard against new terminologies and false priorities. He stressed that enlisting and delisting should be done objectively, and not on political or religious considerations. The international community should also recognise the linkage to organised crime, support and strengthen the FATF, and and provide greater funding to UN Office of Counter Terrorism. "I call on this Council to collectively build on these principles. It is also important therefore to end the stalemate preventing the adoption of a Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism, which India has championed for so long, he said. Asserting that there cannot be any exception or justification for any act of terrorism, regardless of motivations behind such acts, Jaishankar said, we also recognise that the menace of terrorism cannot be and should not be associated with any religion, nationality, civilisation or ethnic group. However, in spite of the progress made to tighten the legal, security, financing and other frameworks to combat terrorism, terrorists are constantly finding newer ways of motivating, resourcing and executing acts of terror, he noted. "Unfortunately, there are also some countries who seek to undermine or subvert our collective resolve to fight terrorism. This cannot be allowed to pass," he said. On Pakistan-backed terror Pakistan-based terror groups like LeT and JeM continue to operate with both impunity and encouragement, India further said at the meet, calling on it not to take a "selective view" on the scourge of terrorism and to have the courage to call out the "double speak" of those who extend state hospitality to individuals who have innocents' blood on their hands. Jaishankar said the heightened activities of the proscribed Haqqani Network justifies this growing anxiety. "In our own immediate neighbourhood, ISIL-Khorasan (ISIL-K) has become more energetic and is constantly seeking to expand its footprint. Events unfolding in Afghanistan have naturally enhanced global concerns about their implications for both regional and international security," he said. "Whether it is in Afghanistan or against India, groups like Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) continue to operate with both impunity and encouragement," Jaishankar said. "It is therefore vital that the Security Council does not take a selective, tactical or complacent view of the problems we face," the External Affairs Minister said. "We must never countenance sanctuaries for terrorists or overlook their raising of resources," he said. Without naming Pakistan, where proscribed UN terrorists and terror groups enjoy safe havens and state support, Jaishankar said, "When we see state hospitality being extended to those with innocents' blood on their hands, we should never lack the courage to call out their double-speak." He also drew parallels between the Covid-19 pandemic and the scourge of terrorism, telling the powerful 15-nation UN body that let us always remember that what is true of Covid is even more true of terrorism: none of us are safe until all of us are safe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
19-08-2021||India||Alliance with Sena prevented BJP from expanding base in Maha, says Fadnavis||BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Thursday said his party could not expand its support base in Maharashtra earlier because it was in an alliance with the Shiv Sena, but post break-up will form its own government after the next state elections. Now that the Shiv Sena has snapped ties with the BJP and formed a government with the Congress and the NCP, the BJP has a golden opportunity to further expand its mass base in the state, the Leader of Opposition in the assembly said. He was speaking here after Shiv Sena leader from Pune district Asha Buchake joined the BJP in the presence of the party's state unit president, Chandrakant Patil. Fadnavis said, “The BJP could not expand earlier in the state because we were in an alliance (with the Shiv Sena). Now, three parties are in power and the BJP has a golden opportunity to expand itself at the state-level. The BJP will form its own government in the next assembly elections (due in 2024).” "All the three parties that are in power are feeling suffocated now. It is a welcome move that Asha Buchake, who is from a party in the ruling coalition, is joining the BJP," he said. The BJP and the Shiv Sena first entered into an alliance in the late 1980s at Maharashtra and national levels. The saffron alliance was temporarily broken in 2014 when both parties fought the assembly elections that year separately. In late 2014, the Shiv Sena joined the BJP government formed under the leadership of Fadnavis and both parties fought the 2019 assembly polls together. However, in November 2019, the Shiv Sena walked out of the alliance with the BJP over differences on sharing power, and joined hands with the Congress and the NCP to form the Maha Vikas Aghadi government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
19-08-2021||India||Ex-Haryana CM Om Prakash Chautala appears for Class 10 English paper||Former Haryana Chief Minister and INLD supremo Om Prakash Chautala has written the Class 10 English subject exam of the Haryana School Education Board at a centre here at the age of 86 years. He said he had prepared for the exam thoroughly and would pass with cent per cent marks. "I had appeared in the Class 10 examination two years ago while I was in the Tihar Jail. However, I did not appear in the English paper. The education board gave me a compartment in the subject, so I wrote the paper now," Chautala said after appearing in the exam at the Arya Kanya Senior Secondary School on Arya Samaj Road in Sirsa on Wednesday. The former chief minister said even though he could not get much education when he was young, he used to listen to English words with attention and then write those. "That is how I got hold of the subject," he said. A court in Rohini had convicted Chautala in the junior basic teachers recruitment case in Haryana and sentenced him to 10 years of imprisonment. The INLD leader was lodged in Delhi's Tihar Jail from January 2013 to July this year. "During my prison term, I decided to work on my educational qualification," Chautala said. The Haryana education board withheld Chautala's Class 12 results on August 5 as he had not cleared the Class 10 English paper. A class 10 student of the Sirsa school, Malkiat Kaur, assisted Chautala as a writer for the paper. "He was well prepared, his pronunciation was very good and his marks are expected to be good in this subject," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
19-08-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi to chair Opposition meet tomorrow, Mamata Banerjee to be present||Top Opposition leaders including some chief ministers are expected to attend a virtual meeting called by Congress president Sonia Gandhi Friday amid efforts to evolve a common strategy against the NDA government, sources said. Gandhi's office is learnt to have sent invites to NCP president Sharad Pawar and the chief ministers of Bengal (Mamata Banerjee), Maharashtra (Uddhav Thackeray) and Tamil Nadu (MK Stalin) who have accepted the invitations. The meeting on August 20, which also happens to be the birth anniversary of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi, is a part of the Congress party's efforts to unite various Opposition parties on key issues confronting the country and defeat the BJP in the upcoming assembly elections. Several Opposition parties displayed a show of unity during the just-concluded Monsoon session of Parliament when they took on the government to seek a discussion on the Pegasus snooping row, besides the farm laws and other issues. The meeting also comes in the backdrop of the government demanding strict action against those indulging in unruly behaviour in Rajya Sabha during the passage of the Insurance Amendment Bill. The meeting also comes close on the heels of a similar dinner meet hosted by Congress leader Kapil Sibal, where top opposition leaders favoured unity among like-minded parties to defeat the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
19-08-2021||India||India looks to work with US on market access issues to boost bilateral trade, says Piyush Goyal||India will look at working with the US on market access issues to promote bilateral trade as Washington has indicated that it is not looking for a new trade agreement as of now, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal said on Thursday. He also said that Australia has shown significant interest to do an early harvest pact with India and exporters should share areas of their interest with the ministry. An early harvest with countries like Australia will help India engage with others on similar lines, Goyal said. "The US as of now has kind of indicated that they are not looking for new trade agreements, but we look at working with them for more market access issues on both the sides and I think that would also be a big relief and a big opportunity opener for our export sector," he said while addressing the Export Promotion Council leaders in Mumbai. On the proposed free trade pact with the UK, the minister said it is progressing well as both the teams are in talks. "We are working with line ministries on areas where we can quickly close the deal in terms of an early harvest if possible, so instead of trying to address 11,000 lines (or products), we can look at areas of their immediate interest and our immediate interest," Goyal said. On the comprehensive trade pact with the European Union, he said discussions have started as the EU is a 27-nation bloc, an agreement with them is a much longer process. "We will work very hard to speed it up," he added. The minister also assured the industry that India will not allow the "same mistakes" that were made in the past FTAs and is trying to allow an interactive approach this time. "We are engaging with all of you and industry to ensure that FTAs are fairly and equitably crafted, bringing in more elements of reciprocity. But FTA cannot be a one way traffic. We also have to open our markets to others if we are wanting a larger pie in their markets, and therefore my appeal and request to all is to also identify areas where we have the confidence that we can withstand competition," he said. He expressed hope for "an early win" with Australia. India has also started talks for a pact with Bangladesh. "Our effort is to ensure that we focus on countries where we have significant potential and more with the developed world where we can compete better and where market size is of considerable value," the minister said. He also urged export promotion councils to study FTAs and see whether there are "hidden" opportunities in them as it will help India set significantly higher export targets for 2022-23. He informed that exports are doing good and it has increased by 55 per cent to USD 15 billion during the first two weeks of August. Further, he said that two areas where significant opportunities for investment exist are shipping and semi-conductors. On interest equalisation, he said it is at an advanced stage of finalisation within the government and "we hope that very soon we will be able to push out a cabinet note on that". On Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products (RoDTEP) scheme, he said steel, pharma, and chemicals sectors are not covered due to a lack of adequate budget. "But we have an open mind to consider concerns and rectify mistakes that might have crept in if anyone feels it is detrimental to their industry," he added. He also informed the exporters that the ministry is setting up two separate divisions which will focus entirely on the services sector. The minister said a policy would be announced for Santacruz Electronics Export Processing Zone (SEEPZ), besides Rs 50 crore would be used to set up a common service centre there and roughly Rs 200 crore for refurbishing or rebuilding so that SEEPZ can become a role model of truly world class export promotion area. In the meeting, Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) Chairman Colin Shah raised the issue of announcement of ecommerce policy for the sector. On this, Goyal said it is at an advanced stage and "we will finalise it shortly with the finance ministry". The minister asked the export community to also target USD 2 trillion exports by the year 2030, comprising USD 1 trillion merchandise exports and USD 1 trillion services exports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
19-08-2021||India||Covid: India prepares for third wave with focus on children||Several Indian states are building facilities with more paediatric beds, plus oxygen, due to concern that children returning to school without being vaccinated will be among the most vulnerable during a third wave of coronavirus infections. Health administrators have taken heed of trends in the United States, where a record number of children have been hospitalised as the coronavirus Delta variant, first found in India, has surged through unvaccinated populations. read more During a second wave of infections in India that peaked in April and May, hundreds of thousands of people died for want of oxygen and medical facilities, and now there are concerns that another third wave will gather during the winter months. "We don't know how the virus will behave, but we cannot afford to be unprepared this time around," Suhas Prabhu, who heads the Paediatric Task Force in the big western state of Maharashtra, said. "No mother should have to run around looking for a hospital bed when her child is sick." The Maharashtra government has stockpiled medicines, and built facilities for additional pediatric beds and oxygen provisions in new centres in Mumbai and Aurangabad. Built on empty stretches of land or in re-purposed stadiums, the Mumbai facilities have a total of 1,500 pediatric beds, most of them with oxygen. "We can upgrade this capacity to double if needed," Suresh Kakani, a senior official with Mumbai's civic body said. In neighbouring Gujarat, authorities have set up 15,000 pediatric oxygen beds, health commissioner Jai Prakash Shivahare said. India provides vaccines to people above the age 18. Most vaccines administered in India are made by AstraZeneca Plc (AZN.L), while shots produced by local manufacturer Bharat Biotech are also being used. Another local firm Zydus Cadilla and Bharat Biotech are separately testing vaccines for children but the results are not expected until the year end. Meantime, schools in at least 11 of India's 28 states have opened after more than a year of closures, raising worries these could become breeding grounds for transmission of the virus. As of March 2021, less than 1 pct of India's coronavirus deaths were in the under 15 age group, according to the health ministry, and officials say the severity of the disease in this age group has been minimal so far. Epidemiologists say there is no evidence to show that the Delta variant or any other mutations affect children more than other parts of the population.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-298
19-08-2021||India||‘Improvement’ needed in new farm laws, says  RSS-backed BKS||The RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Kisan Sangh (BKS) on Thursday said the outfit will stage a nationwide agitation on September 8 to press for 'remunerative price' to farmers for their produce to cover their production cost and called for "improvement" in the Centre's new agri laws that are facing opposition from a section of cultivators. The farmer body said the Central government should either bring a new legislation or make changes in the agri-marketing laws enacted last year to add a provision for payment of minimum support price (MSP) for major farm produce. Top BKS functionary Dinesh Kulkarni, addressing a press conference here, said farmers should get 'remunerative price' for their produce to cover their cost of production, which they are not getting in the existing system. "Remunerative price is cost of production plus profit - that is what we demanding. Remunerative price is the right of farmers, which should be facilitated by the government," said Kulkarni, the BKS's Akhil Bharatiya Sanghatan Mantri (national organising general secretary). "The MSP announced by the government today is not a remunerative price. However, even if it is not doing that it should at least give the MSP it is announcing and make a law for the same," he said. Kulkarni said the three new farm laws do not have any clause about ensuring MSP or remunerative price for agricultural commodities. "The government should ensure this remunerative price in the present farm laws or make a separate legislation for the same. The government should make guidelines in respect of contract farming wherein crops are not purchased below MSP. This should be at least implemented for the 23 crops that are currently under the MSP regime," he said. Asked about his views on the Centre's new agri-marketing laws, against which farmers are protesting for the last ten months, Kulkarni told PTI that they need "some improvement". "For example, there should be an agriculture court (to tackle disputes). Similarly, (private) traders coming into the farm sector should be registered and should give bank security. Thirdly, there is a huge flaw in respect to (changes) in the Essential Commodities Act as far as consumers are concerned," he said. The government, in order to promote business, has given huge exemption to big companies, allowing them to stock some commodities as much as they want and this needs to corrected, the BKS leader said. The 2020 amendment to the Essential Commodities Act, which is part of the new agri laws, removes restrictions on stocking of certain essential commodities. To a query on the BKS's view on the ongoing farmer protest, Kulkarni said the nature of the agitation changed after January 26, when the stir took a violent turn in New Delhi. After that dialogue with the Centre stopped, he said. The government and farmer unions have held 11 rounds of talks so far, the last being on January 22, to break the deadlock on the new laws and end the protest. "It (talks) would have paved the way for discussion with the system for implementing remunerative price in the right manner. However, that dialogue stopped," Kulkarni said. The three farm laws enacted in September 2020 have been projected by the Modi government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain in place.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-298
19-08-2021||India||Delhi HC to resume physical hearing on August 31||Delhi High Court and district courts here will start physical hearings in a restricted manner from August 31 and 24, respectively, said the high court registry Thursday. The high court, through two separate office orders, said that it has modified its earlier orders dated August 12 which had intimated that physical hearings would start at the high court and district courts from September 6 and August 31, respectively. In partial modification of this Court's Office Order dated 12.08.2021, the Hon'ble Full Court has been pleased to order that physical hearings in this Court shall resume from 31.08.2021, said the order issued by Registrar General Manoj Jain in relation to the high court. It is informed that the suitable number of benches that would hold the court physically shall be constituted as per the directions of the Chief Justice and the remaining benches shall continue to take up the matters through video-conferencing. On physical hearing days, the high court shall permit hybrid/video conferencing hearing when a request to such effect is made by any of the parties, the order added. The order passed in relation to district courts stated that: In partial modification of this Court's Office Order dated 12.08.2021 the Hon'ble Full Court has been pleased to order that physical hearings in the District Courts in Delhi shall resume in a graded manner with effect from 24.08.2021. Wherever possible, hybrid/video conferencing hearing may be permitted when a request to such effect is made by any of the parties and/or their counsel on physical hearing days, it added. The earlier direction issued by this Court dated 08.04.2021 that no adverse orders shall be passed by the District Courts in Delhi in case of non-appearance of parties and/ or their counsel stands withdrawn w.e.f. 24.08.2021, the order further said. The Principal District & Sessions Judges and Principal Judge, Family Court (HQs) have been directed by the high court to prepare the roster of judicial officers in such a manner that every judicial officer holds physical court on alternate days while the others continue to hold courts through video-conferencing, as per the existing arrangement. Further, the office order said the bail roster of Additional Sessions Judges is directed to be prepared while ensuring that on a given day, at least one Additional Sessions Judge sits physically. Endeavour shall be made to take up stay applications, bail applications and other miscellaneous urgent matters on physical days, wherever request to such effect is made, it said. The order clarified that the Principal District & Sessions Judges and Principal Judge, Family Court (HQs) shall, in coordination with respective Bar Associations, issue directions to regulate entry and for compliance of norms related to covid-appropriate behaviour and social distancing by all concerned. The necessary arrangements for the production of undertrials shall be made in coordination with Prison and Lock-up authorities, it added. On July 22, the high court had said that it might resume physical functioning on experimental basis from August 16. In its August 12 order, the high court had said that resumption of physical hearing was subject to the scale and magnitude of the COVID-19 pandemic remaining under control. On April 18, the high court had said that from April 19 onwards it would only take up "extremely urgent matters" filed this year. Similar orders were issued on April 23 and May 15. Prior to that, on April 8, it had decided that from April 9 to April 23 it would take up matters "through virtual mode only" in view of the rise in COVID-19 cases. The high court had commenced complete physical functioning from March 15 onwards. Subsequently, it had said that virtual or hybrid proceedings would be held on the request of lawyers. Following the outbreak of COVID-19 in March last year, the court was holding proceedings through video conference. Its functioning was restricted to urgent matters from March 16 last year. Thereafter, from March 25 last year, the functioning of the high court and district courts was further restricted and no physical hearing was being conducted due to the spread of COVID-19. Subsequently, from September last year a few benches started holding physical courts everyday on a rotation basis. Some of them also started holding hybrid proceedings, wherein lawyers have the option to attend the hearing via video conference instead of appearing in person.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-298
19-08-2021||India||Will appear before ED after completion of legal process, says Deshmukh||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday said he will appear before the ED, which had summoned him in connection with its probe into a money laundering case, "after the legal process is completed". Deshmukh in a statement claimed the "Supreme Court has accepted his plea on the ED and it will be heard soon". The SC on Monday refused to grant interim relief to NCP leader Deshmukh, who was seeking protection from any coercive action in connection with the money laundering case lodged by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). A three-judge bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar, while hearing a batch of pleas including those challenging the constitutional validity of certain provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), said Desmukh is at liberty to access remedies available to him under the law. Deshmukh in his statement said the apex court on Monday allowed him to move a lower court as well for lawful remedies under the CrPC (Criminal Procedure Code). "The legal process has begun and I will appear before the ED after the legal process is completed. I will cooperate with the ED. I have always followed high standards in my entire social-political life," he said. The ED had earlier issued summons to Deshmukh in connection with a criminal case registered under the PMLA related to an alleged Rs 100 crore bribery-cum-extortion racket that led to the the 71-year-old NCP leader's resignation in April this year. Deshmukh skipped appearing before the ED for the firth time on Wednesday and had stated that he was taking recourse to "lawful remedies" for the protection of his liberty. He had a three-page reply to the investigating officer of the case through his lawyer, saying the Supreme Court has "made it open for me to take recourse to all appropriate remedies available under CrPC including filing of a quashing petition". The NCP leader had said he was taking recourse to legal remedies for the protection of his liberty "within a day or two". Deshmukh had also said he was a "law abiding citizen" as he requested the agency to record his statement through an electronic medium, till the time "appropriate orders are passed by court(s)" The ED's case against Deshmukh and others was registered after the CBI had lodged a corruption case related to allegations of at least Rs 100 crore bribery made by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. In his letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray after he was removed from the police commissioner's post, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh asked suspended Mumbai police assistant police inspector Sachin Waze to extort over Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in the city. Deshmukh, who resigned from his post in April following the allegations, has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing. The ED had arrested Deshmukh's personal secretary and personal assistant after it carried out raids against them and the NCP leader in Mumbai and Nagpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-298
19-08-2021||India||Modi's popularity has plummeted, indicate two major surveys||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Teflon’ coating may be wearing thin, mainly due to his handling of the catastrophic second pandemic wave. Modi’s standing with the public has cratered, according to two major surveys by leading publications. Just 24 per cent said Modi was best suited to be prime minister, according to India Today’s six-monthly Mood of the Nation Survey. Modi’s popularity has crashed in this survey from 66 per cent one year ago and 38 per cent in January 2020. Similarly, 46 per cent feel there’s a need for new political leadership at the Centre, according to the latest YouGov-Mint—CPR Millennial Survey. Another 53 per cent of people surveyed agreed with the statement: “The people I interact with are very upset with PM Modi’s leadership in the past few months.” Another 42 per cent said that: “PM Modi is responsible for the healthcare disaster that followed the second wave of the pandemic.” But in what may come as partial consolation for the BJP in the YouGov survey is that 48 per cent said that Modi’s efforts can’t be faulted at all for the Covid catastrophe. Roughly half the respondents in the YouGov-Mint survey were millennials (25-40), the rest were pre-millennials (40+) or post-millennials (aged 18-24). Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath came in second as the person best suited to be prime minister -- 11 per cent of those surveyed wanted him for the job, according to the MOTN survey. Adityananath was followed closely by Rahul Gandhi at 10 per cent and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal at 8 per cent. Home Minister Amit Shah, regarded as Modi’s closest ally in government, came in with 7 per cent viewing him as best suited to be prime minister. Sonia Gandhi got 4 per cent. Adityanath is the most improved in this category because in August 2020 just 3 per cent saw him as the right man to be prime minister.  India Today’s survey was conducted across 10 days in July and covered 19 states, 115 parliamentary and 230 assembly constituencies. The pollsters conducted 14,559 interviews. Of those surveyed, 71 per cent of the people lived in rural areas and 29 per cent were urban-dwellers. The YouGov-Mint survey contacted 10,285 people online across 203 cities during June and July. The survey found that support for the BJP had remained steady at 44 per cent from a year ago. The survey notes its limits -- that its findings are restricted to relatively affluent urban netizens and excludes the rural population that suffered badly in the second wave so those voters’ assessment of the government’s performance may differ. On government policies, 29 per cent of those canvassed by India Today said the government’s biggest achievement was getting a favourable verdict on the Ram Temple in the Supreme Court and 22 per cent gave it high marks for the revocation of Article 370. In negative news for the Government, 29 per cent said its biggest failures were price rises and inflation and another 23 per cent singled out unemployment. Just 12 per cent felt the government had handled the Covid-19 pandemic well but only 11 per cent gave it a decisive thumbs-down for its pandemic handling. Crucially, people who felt that Modi’s performance as prime minister was outstanding slid from 30 per cent in January 2021 to just 16 per cent in August 2021 in the India Today survey. People who felt he had put in an average performance rose from 17 per cent in January 2021 to 30 per cent by August. Another 6 per cent felt he had performed poorly in January and that rose to 11 per cent by August. Interestingly, the percentage of people in the India Today survey who said they would vote for the BJP has fallen steadily since the May 2019 election and the sharpest fall came between August 2019 and January 2020 even before the pandemic. In August 2019, the survey reckoned the BJP had 45 per cent of the vote and would win 357 seats. That fell to around 42 per cent and 303 seats in January 2020 and to 40 per cent and 298 seats in the latest survey. The crucial figure to remember here is that a party needs 273 seats to hold an absolute majority in the Lok Sabha. The government’s handling of the pandemic seems to be the biggest complaint of voters. Modi got a 73 per cent approval rating in January 2021 for his handling of the first wave, that number dropped to 49 per cent after the second wave. The government recently denied that there have been any deaths “due to lack of oxygen,” despite widespread media coverage of oxygen shortages across the country. And few survey respondents seem to believe the Covid fatality numbers put out by the government. As many as 71 per cent said that Covid-19 had infected and caused more deaths in the country than the 433,000 reported by the government. (Many experts, employing research models and local official data, put the pandemic death toll in the three-to-four million range. Some estimates calculate the death toll at a massive five million). But in what may be some consolation to the BJP, 44 per cent of survey participants attributed the health crisis to both the central and state governments’ actions. While all these numbers are gloomy tidings for the government now, the next general elections aren’t till 2024 so Modi still has time to turn his popularity around.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-298
19-08-2021||India||Over 3.86 crore people missed their second dose, reveals govt||Over 3.86 crore people did not get their second dose of anti-Covid vaccines -- Covishield and Covaxin -- within the stipulated period of time, the government has said in response to an RTI query. According to information on the CoWIN portal, as of Thursday afternoon 44,22,85,854 people have received their first dose, while 12,59,07,443 have also taken their second. Activist Raman Sharma had filed a query under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, seeking to know from the government the number of people who had received the first dose of vaccines -- Covishield and Covaxin but did not take the second within the stipulated time period. In response to the query, the Covid-19 Vaccine Administration Cell of the Union Health Ministry said it is recommended the second dose of Covishield be taken within 84-112 days after the first, while in case of Covaxin the gap should between 28-42 days. "The total number of vaccinees (beneficiaries) who got their first dose of Covishield Vaccine but did not get their second dose within stipulated period of time as prescribed by the Govt of India as per the Due Report of Co-WIN portal is 3,40,72,993 (data as on 17th August 2021)," the response said. It further said the total number of beneficiaries who got their first dose of Covaxin but did not get their second within the stipulated period of time as prescribed by the government as per the due report of in Co-WIN portal is 46,78,406 (data as on 17th August 2021). "It is recommended that vaccinees who got their first dose of vaccine get their second dose in the stipulated period. There is no recommendation for such vaccinees who got their first dose of COVID Vaccine but did not get the second dose within the stipulated period as prescribed by Government of India to get their first dose again," it said. In the Frequently Asked Questions sections on the website, the government recommends that "both doses of vaccine should be taken for realising the full benefit of vaccination". "Both doses must be of the same vaccine type," it says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-298
19-08-2021||India||India should be ‘open-minded’ about dealing with the Taliban: Yashwant Sinha||Former external affairs minister Yashwant Sinha on Tuesday said India should be "open-minded" about dealing with the Taliban and suggested that it should open its embassy in Kabul and send back the ambassador. Noting that the people of Afghanistan have great love for India while Pakistan is not popular among them, Sinha told PTI in an interview that the Indian government should not conclude that the Taliban will place itself "in Pakistan's lap" as every country furthers its own interests. As a big country, India should approach the issues of the Taliban with a degree of confidence and should not indulge in a "widow's wail" as if Pakistan has taken over Afghanistan or has an advantage over it, he added. That the Taliban now controls most of Afghanistan is a reality, Sinha said, adding that India should adopt "wait and watch" mode and be in no hurry either to recognise or to dismiss its regime. The Taliban swept across Afghanistan this month, seizing control of almost all key Afghan towns and cities in the country following the withdrawal of the US forces from the country. Kabul also fell to the Taliban on Sunday after Afghan President Ashraf Ghani left the country for an unknown destination. "It appears on the face of it that the Taliban of 2021 is not the same Taliban of 2001. There appears to be some difference. They are making mature statements. That is something we have to take note of," Sinha said. "I am not saying that take their statements at face value but I will also suggest that they should not be dismissed off-hand because of their past behaviour. We have to look at present and future," he added. Sinha was the foreign minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government but became a critic of the Modi government and quit the BJP. He is currently vice president in the Trinamool Congress. He said India should have waited instead of immediately closing its embassy and evacuating its people after the extremist Islamist organisation captured Kabul. India on Tuesday rushed back home its ambassador Rudrendra Tandon and staff from the embassy in Kabul in a military transport aircraft following escalating tension, fear and uncertainty gripping the Afghan capital after the Taliban insurgents seized the Afghan capital on Sunday. This policy needs to have a second look, Sinha said, noting that the Taliban is holding talks with former Afghanistan president Hamid Karzai, who took office after the US-led forces had toppled the previous Taliban regime after the 9/11 terror attack, and its former CEO Abdullah Abdullah. It could not have been imagined earlier, Sinha said. He added, "India should immediately open its embassy in Kabul and send back the ambassador." "We must remember that the people of Afghanistan have great love for India. Pakistan is not popular with the people of Afghanistan, India is. That we must remember. Our development works have also been appreciated," he said. Organisations dubbed as terror groups have occupied the highest offices in the past and have changed, he noted, saying that India should wait to see how the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan pans out. To dismiss always is to turn your face from reality, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-298
19-08-2021||India||We feel like prisoners on our Independence Day, says former Afghan journalist||Cooped up inside his Kabul home with his family since the Taliban took over the capital city, Akhtarabir Akhtar, who eagerly waits to celebrate August 19 to mark the Independence Day of his beloved Afghanistan, says instead of festivities, fear and an uneasy calm rule the streets. Akhtar, a former journalist, is not a stranger to the fear of being targeted, but the chain of events in the past few days has given him sleepless nights. "August 19 is our Independence Day and we celebrate this occasion every year with feast and much gaiety. People decorate their homes and plant country flags, make merry, go to decked-up bazaars, wear colourful national clothes and do the national dance 'Attan'. All of that is missing today," the 54-year-old told PTI over phone from Kabul. While phone lines and internet are working in Afghanistan, the network connection is wobbly and his voice sometimes quivered as he bared his sentiments on the situation in his homeland. "Afghans celebrate August 19, but the government has fallen, what to talk of freedom. People are locked up inside their homes from Kabul to Kandahar and are afraid to step out as the Taliban men are marching in the streets. We all feel like prisoners on our anniversary day of 'azadi'," he said. Prices of food and other commodities have "shot up as borders are practically sealed", he said. Akhtar, who works as a government official, lives in Kabul with his wife and two daughters aged 27 and 18, while his elder son works in Germany and the younger one is studying at a university in Beijing. "My wife is a midwife at a private hospital. She is scared to go to work now. My elder daughter who worked in a bank earlier is feeling uncertain and my younger daughter who was dreaming of going to a college and pursue higher studies, is now wondering if she will be even allowed to study by the Taliban and live freely," he rued. A despondent Akhtar, who has not gone to office since the Taliban intensified its offensive early this month, lamented that "Afganistan has descended into an abyss of uncertainty". "No one wants to live here anymore as they fear for their lives. Some of my relatives and friends had also rushed to the Kabul airport to seek a flight out of the capital city the day it had fallen to the Taliban, but they couldn't escape, so returned to their homes," he said. The story of the Akhtar family finds echoes in tens of thousands of households across Afghanistan, which had achieved Independence way back in 1919, overthrowing the British colonial yoke, with Amanullah Khan being its first sovereign ruler, a revered figure among the Afghans. However, the civil wars in later decades had fractured the peaceful and progressive atmosphere that once existed in Afghanistan. The Taliban swept across the country this month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities in the backdrop of withdrawal of the US forces that began on May 1. The insurgent forces has now sought to portray themselves as more moderate than when they had imposed a brutal rule in the late 1990s. But many Afghans remain sceptical of this and fear return of "regressive" regime. Akhtar says he loves Afghanistan and is emotionally attached to his motherland, but given the current situation, if an opportunity comes up, "I will move out of country with my family, preferably to India, which is like my second home". The former journalist from Kabul, recalled his visit to India in 2011-12 when had come to Delhi for a mid-career course and become an admirer of India and its culture. "I have fond memories of my India visit and besides academics, we had also gone to see the Taj Mahal and other places. The food and the culture of India are very colourful like we have in Afghanistan. We are good friends and it breaks my heart that Kabul had fallen to Taliban on August 15, the day India marked its 75th Independence Day," Akhtar said, with a tone of sadness in his voice. He recalled his visit 10 years ago to south Delhi's Lajpat Nagar -- dubbed as 'Little Kabul' -- and how he felt it was "piece of Afghanistan in India". "India and its culture and cinema always attracted me. Even I have seen the Hindi film 'Kabuliwala'. It was such a beautiful coincidence that both countries achieved liberation in the month of August, Afghanistan in 1919 and India in 1947," the Kabul resident said. In August 2019, a suicide bomb attack in Kabul had delayed the centenary Independence Day celebrations in Afghanistan and its at embassies in Delhi and elsewhere. Asked how the Independence Day is generally marked in capital Kabul, Akhtar said, "Women wear beautiful 'Gande Afghani', men wear kurta and salwar, and lot of merriment takes place at home, people eat chopan kebab, Kabuli palaw, firni, dry fruits halwa, and greet each other, visit markets to shop". "Today with Taliban at our doorsteps literally, we can't even put up our national flag. Only Allah knows, what will happen to Afghanistan now," he lamented.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-298
19-08-2021||India||Rajnath defends farm laws but says ready for talks ||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday defended the Centre's three contentious farm laws but said his government is ready to talk to farmers if they feel there is any clause in the legislations against their interests. Stressing that there is a need to fully understand the laws, Singh said an "atmosphere of opposition" is being created and farmers should understand this. Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi's borders since late November in protest against the laws, demanding their withdrawal. Farmer groups have alleged that the laws will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. Addressing the gathering for a state-level Annapurna programme under the Prime Minister Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana through online mode on Thursday, Singh lauded the Narendra Modi government for taking steps for the welfare of farmers. "Our government brought three farm laws. But I think there is a need to fully understand these laws," said Singh. "Lekin ek virodh ka mahoul bhi paida kiya ja raha hai (But an atmosphere of opposition is being created). I feel that farmer brothers should understand this," he said. "Confusion" over the minimum support price was also spread, he asserted. "Farmers have started learning the truth and they have started doing calculations of their profit and loss," Rajnath claimed while pointing to benefits of the laws. "I have studied the farm legislations fully and I can say with confidence that there is no clause as per my information which is against the interest of our farmer brothers," he said. "If anybody feels there is any such clause in these laws which can affect the interest of farmers, I want to say with full confidence that we are ready to sit and hold talks with farmer brothers," the defence minister added. Listing out the Modi government's decisions taken for farmers' welfare, he said the MSP has been raised by one-and-half times and small farmers have been provided with cheaper loans. A sum of over Rs 1.50 lakh crore has been credited to the bank accounts of farmers, he said, adding that it had never happened in the history of the country. "All these steps were taken to empower and strengthen our farmers," he said. He also talked about Prime Minister Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana, saying Rs 6,000 directly goes into the account of farmers. "There is no possibility of corruption. The whole money reaches your accounts," he stressed while reminding that once former PM Rajiv Gandhi had said that only 16 out of 100 paise reaches people. "We today send 100 paise and the whole amount reaches your accounts. There is no possibility of corruption. What will be more sensitivity towards farmers than this," he asked. Singh said the Centre and state governments complement each other in a cooperative federal structure. "The Centre may frame many plans but until it gets support from the state government, their successful implementation is not possible. Similarly, the state government may make many plans, if the Centre does not support them, their implementation also becomes difficult," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-298
19-08-2021||India||Kovind undergoes cataract surgery, discharged ||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday underwent cataract surgery at the Army hospital here, a Rashtrapati Bhavan statement said. The surgery was successful and he has been discharged from the hospital, it said. Kovind aged 75 took over as the 14th president of India on July 25, 2017. "The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind underwent cataract surgery today morning (August 19, 2021) at the Army Hospital (Referral & Research), New Delhi. Surgery was successful and he has been discharged from the Hospital," the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-298
19-08-2021||India||Anarchy has no place in any part of India, says BJP on Calcutta HC verdict||Lauding the Calcutta High Court order for a CBI probe into serious cases of post-poll violence in Bengal, the BJP said on Thursday that the court has given a strong message that anarchy has no place in any part of India and asked Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to introspect. BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia cited the report of the National Human Rights Commission and the HC's order to say that people's complaints were not heard by the state police after violence broke out following the TMC's win in the Assembly polls and that the state government allegedly provided protection to criminals. Prima facie accused are from the Trinamul Congress, he alleged. The Calcutta High Court ordered a CBI probe into grievous cases such as murder and rape in the post-poll violence in Bengal. A five-judge bench headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal also ordered the formation of a special investigation team (SIT) to probe all other offences related to the alleged post-poll violence. Bhatia said, "The high court has given a strong message. It should be a milestone as the court has made it clear that anarchy has no place in India." Calling Mamata a "failed CM", he alleged that her government did not ensure security of people and asked her to now stand with the law and discharge her constitutional obligations. The judiciary has shown that if a chief minister supports anarchist elements, then it will step in to secure people, he said. Other Opposition parties can learn from the BJP, he said, noting that the saffron party had been consistently raising the issue and its president J P Nadda had visited the victims of violence to underscore the party's commitment to justice for them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-299
19-08-2021||India||Gujarat HC stays sections of anti-conversion law enacted in state||The Gujarat High Court on Thursday put a stay on the operation of some sections related to interfaith marriages of the state's new anti-conversion law. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice Biren Vaishnav said the interim order has been passed to protect people from unnecessary harassment. The Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Act, 2021, which penalises forcible or fraudulent religious conversion through marriage, was notified by the state government on June 15. Last month, the Gujarat chapter of the Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind filed a petition saying some of the amended sections of the law were unconstitutional. On Thursday, Chief Justice Nath said, "We are of the opinion that pending further hearing, rigors of section 3,4, 4a to 4c, 5, 6, and 6a shall not operate merely because the marriage is solemnised by a person of one religion with another religion without force, allurement or fraudulent means and such marriages cannot be termed as marriage for the purpose of unlawful conversion." "This interim order is to protect the parties which solemnised interfaith marriages from unnecessary harassment," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-299
19-08-2021||India||Army JCO killed in encounter with terrorists in JK's Rajouri||A Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) of the Army was killed in an encounter with terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district on Thursday, a Defence spokesperson said. Security forces had launched a search operation in the Thanamandi belt following inputs about the presence of terrorists there, a police official said. The search operation turned into an encounter after the terrorists opened fire on the forces, who retaliated, the official said. "One JCO of the Rashtriya Rifles had suffered bullet injuries in the encounter. The JCO was immediately evacuated to the nearest medical facility, but he succumbed to the injuries," said Defence Public Relations Officer (PRO), Jammu, Lt Col Devender Anand. Rajouri SP Sheema Nabi Qasba said the encounter is going on. This is the second encounter in the area in August this year. On August 6, two Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists were killed in an encounter with security forces in the Thanamandi belt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-299
19-08-2021||India||Param Bir Singh fined Rs 25,000 for not appearing before inquiry team||An inquiry commission headed by a retired high court judge has imposed a fine of Rs 25,000 on former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh for not appearing before it. The Maharashtra government in March this year formed a one-member commission of Justice (retd) Kailash Uttamchand Chandiwal to conduct a probe into corruption allegations levelled by Singh against the then state home minister Anil Deshmukh. As Singh failed to appear before the commission on Wednesday, a fine of Rs 25,000 was imposed on him, a government lawyer said on Thursday. During the previous hearing, the probe panel had given Singh the "last chance" to appear before it. This is the second instance of fine being imposed on Singh. In June, the commission had asked the senior IPS officer to pay a fine Rs 5,000 for not appearing before it despite a summons. The amount was to be deposited in the Chief Minister's COVID-19 Relief Fund. Days after he was shunted out as Mumbai police commissioner and transferred to the Home Guards in March, Singh claimed in a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray that Deshmukh used to ask police officers to collect money from restaurant and bar owners in Mumbai. Deshmukh, an NCP leader, has denied the allegations. The Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate are probing the allegations made against Deshmukh by the senior IPS officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-299
19-08-2021||India||Narendra Modi's bust removed from temple constructed for him by BJP worker in Pune||Days after a BJP worker constructed a temple for Narendra Modi in Pune, the bust of the prime minister has been removed from it. Mayur Munde, who built the temple, could not be reached for comments on what prompted him to remove the bust. Meanwhile, some NCP workers on Thursday staged a mock protest outside the temple in Aundh area here in Maharashtra. "Optimism had prevailed in the city that now (after construction of the temple for Modi), the fuel prices would come down, inflation would dip and people will get Rs 15 lakh in their accounts. However, we came here and saw that the 'god' is missing from the temple," NCP city unit president Prashant Jagtap said sarcastically. He said constructing such a temple was a symbol of "intellectual bankruptcy". Munde, 37, had earlier said the temple was his tribute to the prime minister who "built Ram temple at Ayodhya". "After becoming PM, Modi has done a lot of developmental work and dealt with issues such as the abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu & Kashmir, Ram Mandir construction and triple talaq successfully," he had said. Munde had also said the prime minister's bust, as well as the red marble used in construction, were brought from Jaipur and the total expenditure was around Rs 1.6 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-299
19-08-2021||India||Chairman P. Ashish Sharma leads Hathras towards a new era of  Development||Accountability is something which people seek from the elected representatives. The people in today’s time understand the power of the ballot and the differences it can make. For any City or Town, to keep up with the pace of exceptional growth, it requires a leader who has a vision to take the City/Town to new heights of development and growth. P. Ashish, the Chairman of Hathras Municipal Council is the new man who is credited with taking Hathras to an all new different league of development. Hathras, a city with historical significance, was always way ahead of its time. The beautiful city located in Uttar Pradesh was a city worth living with all the necessary amenities available but somehow, since the last few decades, the city has lost its charm and there has been an unprecedented decline in both development and preservation of the city’s rich heritage. Reversing this, P.Ashish Sharma took the charge and is now leading the city to help it find its lost glory. He aims to give a makeover to Hathras, a city very close to his heart. Ashish was elected for the post of the Chairman of Hathras Municipal Council in 2017. Since occupying the office, he has made several changes in the upgradation of the city particularly in the infrastructure sector. A lot of old damaged roads were built and several new ones have come up. He is rigorously working to solve the drainage system of the city by installing an effective sewage treatment plan. He is also making sure that an adequate amount of cleaning drinking water reaches every household in the city. A project which he is closely monitoring himself is the renovation of the historical “ Ghantaghar.” Ashish understands the importance of the 200 year old “ Ghantaghar” and hence he is working towards making sure it is renovated in such a way that will boost the beauty of the city and will attract tourists eventually generating a lot of employment opportunities for the locals. Hathras is also known for its 10000 sq ft pond which is a very famous tourist attraction. Ashish plans to revamp it and convert it into a picnic spot where people can enjoy the beauty of nature. When people were not getting full support from the government,P. Ashish Sharma emerged as the man of the hour on the ground comforting people and providing them with all their requirements. He made sure that cleanliness and hygiene were his top most priority. He introduced a new endeavour under which all the aspects related to cleanliness were taken care at night making it convenient for the cleaners to sanitize the space. Ashish is also committed to the development of a community centre which will help the poor and the underprivileged people for hosting their functions free of cost. Ashish has been working tirelessly since holding the post of Chairman of Hathras Municipal Council. He has brought several changes and a lot of projects are in the pipeline. Hathras was recognised and awarded for its cleanliness in Bangalore and a lot of this was possible because of P. Ashish Sharma. He is not willing to take rest until he completely renovates the city and brings back its lost glory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-299
19-08-2021||India||Over 50 crore samples tested for Covid in India till now||The number of samples tested for COVID-19 in the country has crossed the 50 crore-mark and in this month, the average daily testing has been over 17 lakh, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Thursday. The last 10 crore tests were done in only 55 days, the ICMR said in a statement. "On July 21, 2021, India had tested 45 crore COVID-19 samples, which reached the 50-crore mark on August 18, 2021," the ICMR said. According to its website, 50,03,00,840 samples have been tested up to August 18. "ICMR has been enhancing COVID-19 testing capability across the country by expanding and diversifying testing capacity by leveraging technology and facilitating innovation in affordable diagnostic kits. The testing strategy has been carefully calibrated to increase access and availability of testing," the ICMR said. It said that in this month, the average daily testing was of more than 17 lakh. ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said, "We have seen that exponential increase in testing led to early identification, prompt isolation and effective treatment of COVID-19 cases." "This testing milestone is testimony to the fact that India has been successful in implementing strategy of '5T' approach 'Test, Track, Trace, Treat and use of Technology' efficiently, which will enable us to contain the spread of the pandemic," he said. Further, enhanced production of diagnostic kits has made India 'atmamirbhar' (self-reliant), which has resulted in reduction of cost and improved availability of testing kits, Bhargava said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-299
19-08-2021||India||Calcutta HC directs CBI, SIT to probe Bengal post-poll violence cases||The Calcutta High Court on Thursday ordered CBI probe into grievous cases such as murder and rape in alleged post-poll violence in Bengal. A five-judge bench headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal also ordered the formation of a special investigation team (SIT) to probe all other offences related to the alleged post-poll violence. The bench said both the investigations will be monitored by the court. It directed the central agency to file a report on its investigation in the next six weeks. The SIT will comprise IPS officers Director General (Telecommunications) Suman Bala Sahoo, Calcutta Police Commissioner Soumen Mitra and Ranveer Kumar. The court had ordered the National Human Rights Commission to set up an eight-member committee to visit the clash-hit areas and meet people allegedly attacked by supporters of the Trinamul Congress. The committee submitted a report to the court admitting the petitioners’ contention of post-poll violence by the ruling party. The report recommended that each incident be probed by an independent investigating agency like the CBI. The state government opposed the NHRC recommendations. Appearing for the state and police, advocates Kapil Sibbal and Abhisekh Manu Singhvi argued that members of the committee were BJP activists and the report was politically biased. Appearing for the NHRC, advocate Mahesh Jethmalani claimed the bench should hand over each case to an independent agency for probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-299
19-08-2021||India||Did Goyal overstep his brief while launching a tirade against Tatas?  ||So, the big question is whether Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal overstepped the mark when he dressed down the country’s business elite in a speech last week. Speculation is rife about why Goyal chose a CII meeting attended by Indian industry’s top brass to launch a scathing attack on the Tatas? Was Goyal acting out of pique because the Tatas had vigorously opposed his proposals to regulate the e-commerce sector where they are planning a splashy expansion at a recent meeting? Or has he been nursing a grudge against them that dates back to the Modi government’s first term in office? Alternatively, did he get a green signal to indicate that the government has its grouses with industry but went further than his brief by launching an all-out intemperate attack that appeared to lash out at everyone gathered? He certainly chose a bad platform to launch the attack with all of Indian industry gathered even if virtually. And Goyal didn’t mince his words in hitting out at the Tatas and complaining that they were against the government’s rules intended to help consumers: “A company such as yours… perhaps you bought one or two foreign companies, now their importance has become more important than the national interest,” he said. The result is that Goyal reportedly received a dressing down from the prime minister and had to make an apology to the Tatas. This is quite a comedown for a minister who was initially hailed as one of the brightest stars in the Modi Mark-1 government and who was chosen to mind the shop at the finance ministry when Finance Minister Arun Jaitley was unwell. Jaitley’s death should have made Goyal the frontrunner for the top job controlling the government’s purse strings. But after the veteran minister’s death, it seemed that Goyal was knocked out of the running because of what was perceived as his over-eagerness to fill Jaitley’s shoes and Nirmala Sitharaman finally got the job. Whoever’s noses he may put out of joint, his bruising attack on industry didn’t stop him from being the top-billed guest at the National IP Awards on Monday. The awards meeting is jointly hosted by CII, the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) and the Indian Patent Office. In the last few weeks, Goyal has been chief guest at two other CII meetings. Goyal has been spearheading efforts to change the e-commerce rules that have been opposed by foreign giants like Amazon and Flipkart-Walmart. The government argues that sites like Flipkart-Walmart and Amazon are commercial platforms and for a level playing field they should not sell products belonging to their own group. However, the Tatas are also planning a mega-entry into the e-commerce field and are developing a super-app for this. The changes would hit their ability to sell products made by companies like the recently acquired Tata-1MG, the biggest player in online pharmaceuticals. The Tatas have also bought a controlling stake in BigBasket, the online grocery supplier. The group is looking at online sales of Starbucks products as well. Goyal is said to have been taken aback when the Tatas opposed his e-commerce rule changes even more strenuously than Amazon and Flipkart-Walmart. Reliance Jio is the other big player in the online e-commerce sector. The government has made several changes to the e-commerce rules that have mainly hit foreign-owned companies Flipkart-Walmart and Amazon. The rule that the platform owners should not have sales by their own group companies has already affected Amazon which initially had a 49 per cent stake in online retail company Cloudtail which was 51 per cent owned by Infosys co-founder N. R. Narayana Moorthy. In 2019, following government rule changes, Amazon had brought down its Cloudtail holding to 25 per cent. Similarly, Flipkart-Walmart had reduced its holding in a company called Appario from 49 per cent to 25 per cent. Companies with less than a 26 per cent holding are not classified as group companies. The government now wants to disallow even this. The government and the Tata Group are also expected to be working together on the disinvestment of Air India. The Tata Group is expected to get control of Air India. SpiceJet is also reported to be bidding for Air India but it’s unclear whether it can muster the financial muscle for such a big takeover. Goyal is normally known as outspoken both at events and private meetings. Relations between business and the government have been up and down for some time and the commerce ministry’s criticism of industry practices could further hurt the chemistry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-299
19-08-2021||India||See who all are also back from Afghanistan||Three sniffer dogs — Maya, Ruby, Bobby — who had served the Indo-Tibetan Border Police commandos for three years in Afghanistan have returned to India. The K-9 sniffer dog squad was deployed at the Indian embassy in Kabul with 150 paramilitary personnel. After the Taliban seized the country, they were airlifted along with the ITBP personnel, 30 diplomats and civilians from Kabul as India evacuated its embassy staff on Tuesday. The three dogs were brought to Delhi on Wednesday from Jamnagar where the Indian Air Force plane had first landed. Sources in the ITBP said the sniffer dogs had served the paramilitary force at the Indian embassy in Kabul for three years and had a challenging task in ensuring the safety and security of the staff. “The canines were trained at the National Training Centre for Dogs and were deployed in Kabul in 2019,” said an ITBP official. The dogs, the official said, had detected several IEDs during their service in Kabul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-299
19-08-2021||India||India following developments in Afghanistan very carefully, says Jaishankar ||With the Taliban now in control in Kabul, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Wednesday said New Delhi is very carefully following the developments in Afghanistan and India's focus is on ensuring the security and safe return of Indian nationals still in the war-torn country. Jaishankar, addressing reporters at the UN Security Council stakeout after chairing an open-debate on peacekeeping under India's current UNSC Presidency, said, "The situation (in Afghanistan) is really what has been very much the focus of my own engagements here, talking to the UN Secretary-General and other colleagues who are here as well as the US Secretary of State. "At the moment we are, like everybody else, very carefully following developments in Afghanistan. I think our focus is on ensuring the security in Afghanistan and the safe return of Indian nationals who are there," he said in response to a question by PTI. Jaishankar has discussed the situation in Afghanistan in his bilateral meetings here, including with UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres. He arrived in New York on Monday as the UN Security Council held an emergency meeting on the situation in Afghanistan, the second time in just over the 10 days that the powerful UN body met under India's Presidency for the month of August to discuss the situation in the war-torn country. In response to another question on India's investments in Afghanistan over the last two decades and whether New Delhi will be engaged in Afghanistan now that the Taliban is in control, he said, "You used the word investment. I mean, for us, it reflected what was a historical relationship with the Afghan people. "I think that relationship with the Afghan people obviously continues and that will guide our approach to Afghanistan in the coming days. At this time, as I said, these are early days. Our focus right now is on ensuring the safety and security of Indian nationals who are there," he said. Asked whether India has had any communication with the Taliban in recent days, Jaishankar said: at this point of time, we are looking at what is the evolving situation in Kabul. "Obviously, the Taliban and its representatives have come to Kabul so I think we need to take it on from there, he said without directly responding to the question. Following his meeting with Guterres in the UN headquarters on Tuesday, Jaishankar had tweeted Good to meet UN Secretary-General @antonioguterres. Our discussions focused on Afghanistan, following upon the Security Council meeting yesterday. He also met Estonia's Minister of Foreign Affairs Eva-Maria Liimets and as UNSC members, discussed our working together on maritime and cybersecurity and other global issues. Exchanged views on the developments in Afghanistan. Look forward to her presence at the Council meeting tomorrow. Jaishankar also discussed the "latest developments in Afghanistan with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and underlined the urgency of restoring airport operations in Kabul. Deeply appreciate the American efforts underway in this regard. State Department spokesperson Ned Price said that Blinken spoke with Jaishankar today about Afghanistan and the developing situation there. Jaishankar said he also discussed the evolving situation in Afghanistan with French Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs Jean-Yves Le Drian. "We will continue to coordinate in the UN Security Council. Thank him for evacuating 21 Indian nationals from Kabul to Paris," he added. India on Tuesday rushed back home its ambassador Rudrendra Tandon and staff from the embassy in Kabul in a military transport aircraft following escalating tension, fear and uncertainty gripping the Afghan capital after the Taliban insurgents seized the Afghan capital on Sunday. The C-17 Globemaster aircraft of the Indian Air Force carrying around 150 people, including diplomats, officials, security personnel and some stranded Indians, landed at the Hindon airbase near the national capital at around 5 PM after a brief halt at Jamnagar in Gujarat, in the wake of escalating tension, fear and uncertainty gripping the Afghan capital after its take over by the Taliban two days back. It was the second evacuation flight as another C-17 aircraft brought back around 40 people from the Hamid Karzai International (HKI) Airport in Kabul on Monday as part of India's emergency evacuation mission that was carried out following coordination with relevant authorities including US officials handling security at the airport in the Afghan capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-300
19-08-2021||India||India logs over 36,000 fresh Covid cases, 530 casualties in a day||India has added 36,401 new COVID-19 infections, taking the total tally of cases to 3,23,22,258, while the death toll has climbed to 4,33,049 with 530 more fatalities, according to Union health ministry data updated on Thursday. The national recovery rate has improved to 97.52 per cent, the highest since March last year, according to the data updated at 8 am. The ministry said that active cases have declined to 3,64,129, the lowest in 149 days, and comprise 1.13 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March last year. A reduction of 3,286 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The ministry said that 18,73,757 tests were conducted on Wednesday, taking the total tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 50,03,00,840. The daily positivity rate has been recorded at 1.94 per cent and it has been less than three per cent for the last 24 days, it said. The weekly positivity rate has been recorded at 1.95 per cent and it has been below three per cent for the last 55 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has increased to 3,15,25,080, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 56.64 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive so far. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. India crossed two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-300
19-08-2021||India||Forecast of light rain in Delhi today||The meteorological department has forecast light rain or drizzle in Delhi on Thursday, even as the maximum temperature is likely to settle at 36 degrees Celsius. The relative humidity at 8.30 am was 70 per cent, while the minimum temperature was recorded at 27.5 degrees Celsius, one notch above the normal, according to the India Meteorological Department. The maximum and minimum temperature recorded on Wednesday was 38 and 27.4 degrees Celsius, respectively. Good rainfall in the last 10 days of the month is expected to cover the precipitation deficit in the capital, according to the weather experts. Normally, the capital gauges 247.7 mm rainfall in August. The IMD had earlier predicted normal rainfall for Delhi this month. The air quality in the city was recorded in the "moderate" category. The air quality index (AQI) was 158 at 8.05 am, real-time data of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-300
19-08-2021||India||Drowned Odisha  girl’s eyes donated ||Parents of a nine-year old girl who drowned in a pond at Bankasole village in Mayurbhanj district of Odisha have donated her eyes to help “remove darkness from someone’s life”. Mahendra Basuri, father of the girl Sriya, told The Telegraph: “On August 15 after playing with her friends, she had gone to the nearby village pond for a bath. Her feet slipped and she drowned. Our grief knows no bounds. Her mother is inconsolable.” Sriya, who studied in Class IV in Bhubaneswar, had gone to her village under Kuliana police station in May to spend some time with her relatives during the lockdown. “We were to leave for Bhubaneswar on Monday but this mishap occurred,” said her father. Mahendra, who is an assistant professor in a private college in Bhubaneswar, said: “It was a tough decision to donate her eyes. But we wanted that the eyes of my daughter should light up someone else’s world. Let it help remove darkness from someone’s life.” His brother Suvendu, a social worker, said: “It was heartbreaking but we suggested to my brother to donate the eyes of her daughter to help someone see the world through them. He immediately agreed. We contacted the L.V. Prasad Eye Institute. The next day (August 16), they sent their team to carry out the procedure. Both her eyes were intact. Hopefully someone will be able to see the world through them.” Sriya’s mother Priya said: “We know she will not come back. But we will have the satisfaction that her eyes could help someone who needs them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-300
19-08-2021||India||Modi government’s responses to Afghan evacuation draws criticism||When India padlocked its mission in Kabul and effected a chaotic evacuation late on Monday evening, it took more than five hours for the escaping caravan to reach the military airbase just four kilometres away. Officials most likely tapped into tenuous links with local Taliban commanders to see themselves through, but those tortuous hours were probably symbolic of the sudden and sheer fall New Delhi has taken in Afghanistan — from being an old and deeply invested player and partner to a self-proclaimed superpower bereft of agency and panicked into abrupt ejection. It was courtesy the American armed forces that Indian mission staff were even able to bail out. It is evident that the swift and easy sweep of the Taliban over the Afghan capital left governments across the world numb and nonplussed. In India, it has raised sharp and critical questions over the Narendra Modi government’s anticipation and responses — logistical, strategic and diplomatic. The blame for blundering has come to stick no less because the foreign office is helmed by S. Jaishankar, a widely-experienced former foreign secretary. “It is too early to analyse the medium and long term implications of this radical shift in our neighbourhood, but forget that for the moment,” a career diplomat told The Telegraph. “Why did we not secure the evacuation of our diplomats and officials, and even citizens much earlier? Everybody knew the Americans were leaving in droves and the Taliban were coming, what were we thinking? We were stoned in the head, and leaden in our feet, we just did not react or move the way we should have. Why did we have to leave in such ungainly fashion at the last minute, almost at the mercy of Taliban traffic controllers? And what are we going to do now for Indians still stranded in far Afghan corners, or our valuable human assets?” He called the last few days an “alarming enactment of a foreign policy disaster” and went on: “We’ve been dealt a severe and strategic blow in our immediate neighbourhood, and it has happened because we obdurately blindsided ourselves, we refused to see what was coming, we let the United States misread the situation for us, we grossly neglected what we required to do in our own national interest. The Americans were leaving, we were merely getting left behind.” Former ambassador to Afghanistan, Vivek Katju, put it more bluntly: “I have been arguing for years that we should have opened negotiations with the Taliban, more so after it became apparent to everybody that their takeover of Afghanistan was imminent. I mean the Americans were talking to them across the table, why didn’t we? Others have articulated the same advice but it got no attention from the current framers of foreign policy.” Asked if India would not have legitimised the Taliban by talking to them, Katju said: “Look, what’s foremost is your national interest and how you serve it. There are principles and very often there are the requirements of pragmatism. After all, you often negotiate with your enemies as well, that does not mean you are embracing them or their ways. Where have we left ourselves in Afghanistan today?” Another former ambassador to Kabul, Rakesh Sood, expressed similar misgivings during a panel discussion hosted by The Print on Tuesday. He blamed the establishment for “putting all its eggs in one basket (meaning the US basket, or the abdicated Ashraf Ghani basket)” and said that India could have thought it out much better for itself. He also felt New Delhi should have “engaged” with the Taliban. In the context of India’s scrambled exit from Kabul, Sood said New Delhi could have planned the evacuation in a much more organised way. Speaking on condition of anonymity, a foreign policy think-tank scholar said: “We could have done many things to avoid the mess we are in, but we did not. India is a regional power, it has leverage, it has resources. We could have pressed the US to not quit in such haste, at least demonstrated our reservations. We could have prevailed upon Ashraf Ghani to give way, or if not that, open up decision-making to a larger body like a shura, a broader council of Afghan elders, to achieve a smoother transition. Instead, we merely toed what the Americans were doing and what Ghani was falsely promising he would do to resist the Taliban advance.” There has, of course, always been a strong counter-argument in the Indian foreign policy establishment to any engagement with the Taliban. Back in 2018, India had sent two representatives — Amar Sinha, former ambassador to Kabul, and T.C.A. Raghavan, former envoy to Islamabad — for talks on the evolving future of Afghanistan to Moscow. “They were sent with express instructions to not even look at the Talibanis on the table,” a foreign policy insider said. Deep reservations about the Taliban in the Indian establishment spring not merely from their bellicose Islamist and militarist mien; they are equally, if not more, predicated on the Taliban’s close ties with Pakistan and a deep, and justified, scepticism about establishing trust with the mainly Pashtun militia which now holds sway over most of Afghanistan. The conviction that the Taliban will forever do Pakistan’s bidding even if India were to try and make deals with them, runs strong across South Block. As another former ambassador, Deb Mukharji, said: “Look, the Taliban know where India stands in relation to them, you cannot sweet-talk them into deals, and they are not reliable people. This is a very difficult area for many reasons. But that said, if we had not blindly followed the US script in Afghanistan, we probably would have known better.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-300
19-08-2021||India||Covid: Study underlines need for shorter Covishield dose gap||A large hospital-based study in India has found that a single dose of Covishield offers no protection from Covid-19 symptoms or severe disease, amplifying apprehensions about India’s current policy of a 12-week gap between two doses. The new findings from the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, New Delhi, bolster the evidence for arguments to shorten the gap between two doses and to prioritise vaccinations for people who have not had prior Covid-19 infections, doctors said The Ganga Ram study that tracked over 4,700 hospital workers — doctors, nurses, and paramedics — found no significant differences in the incidence of symptomatic Covid-19 infections, moderate or severe disease, or oxygen requirements between single-dose recipients and the unvaccinated. While earlier observations from the UK and India had suggested that a single dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine — Covishield in India — offers lower protection than two doses, the Ganga Ram study found “no protection” from a single dose. The Ganga Ram doctors conducted the study during March and April this year, a period when the highly contagious Delta coronavirus variant was driving India’s second Covid-19 wave with surges in daily new infections across the country. “A long gap between two doses might not be such a good idea — especially in areas anticipating a surge,” said Ambarish Satwik, a study team member and senior consultant at the hospital’s Institute of Vascular and Endovascular Sciences. The study also found that previous infections were “significantly protective” against symptomatic infections, moderate to severe disease and oxygen requirements. The level of protection from prior infections appeared to be higher than that offered by a single or double doses of the vaccine. The “no protection” in the Ganga Ram study contrasts with the 61 per cent protection after one dose observed among healthcare workers at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, and 33 per cent protection reported by Public Health England, the UK’s health agency. The Union health ministry had on May 23 expanded the gap between Covishield doses from 6-8 weeks to 12-16 weeks, citing evidence that a longer gap gives a better response. Delaying the second dose allows more people to get the first dose and, experts say, the decision to delay doses takes into account potential gains of expanding the pool of people with first doses and the potential risks of delaying second doses. Sections of health experts in India have been arguing for the need to shorten the gap between Covishield doses at least for vulnerable populations, citing the low protection levels from a single dose noted in the Public Health England study. “The Ganga Ram study reinforces the urgency of protecting the vulnerable groups and essential workers with both doses as soon as possible,” said K. Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India and a member of the national Covid-19 task force, who was not associated with the study. Health officials and medical researchers have cited available evidence, including the CMC Vellore study, to argue that a single Covishield dose also offers some protection against severe disease and death. But as the daily new infections surged in Delhi during March and April, the Ganga Ram doctors noticed through anecdotal observations that hospital co-workers who had a single dose were more likely to become infected than those who had received two doses. “Our study data matches those anecdotal observations,” said Ruma Satwik, the lead author of the study, published this week in the European Journal of Internal Medicine, a peer-reviewed research journal. In countries facing vaccine shortages, health administrators should consider early full vaccinations, prioritising those never infected, the researchers have suggested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-300
19-08-2021||India||Amit Shah custody judge overlooked||Justice Akil Abdulhamid Kureshi, one of the senior-most high court chief justices in the country and who had remanded Amit Shah in CBI custody over a decade ago, does not figure on the list cleared for elevation to the Supreme Court by the collegium on Wednesday. The Supreme Court collegium, headed by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, formally cleared nine chief justices and judges of various high courts for the elevation. The list has been cleared less than a week after Justice R.F. Nariman, the third senior-most member of the Supreme Court collegium, retired. Justice Nariman was learnt to have insisted when he was part of the collegium that a senior judge like Justice Kureshi be elevated to the apex court before the other names were considered. As a result, there appeared to be a stalemate on the elevation of judges to the Supreme Court for several months, sources said. Justice Nariman retired on August 12. On Tuesday and Wednesday, the five-member Supreme Court deliberated on a set of names and cleared the nine, omitting Justice Kureshi who is due to retire in March next year. Justice Kureshi had sent Amit Shah, now Union home minister, to CBI custody in 2010 in a case related to the death of gangster Sohrabuddin Sheikh in an encounter that was then alleged to have been staged. Justice Kureshi, who was then senior judge in Bombay High Court, was named the Tripura High Court chief justice in 2019 after a deadlock between the then collegium and the Narendra Modi government. The collegium had initially chosen Justice Kureshi to preside over Madhya Pradesh High Court, which has 40 judges. But the Modi government had refused to clear his name. The deadlock was eventually broken when the collegium, headed by then CJI Ranjan Gogoi, decided to shift Justice Kureshi to Tripura High Court, which has four judges. The present collegium of Justices Ramana, U.U. Lalit, A.M. Khanwilkar, D.Y. Chandrachud and L. Nageswara Rao discussed the names till 8.30pm on Tuesday. An in-principle decision was taken on Tuesday night and the names were formally cleared on Wednesday evening to be sent to the Union government for approval. Three women are among the nine candidates cleared, among them Justice B.V. Nagarathna, a Karnataka High Court judge who will eventually become Chief Justice of India between September and October 2027 for a brief period of 40 days. The others cleared for elevation to the Supreme Court are Karnataka High Court Chief Justice A.S. Oka; Gujarat High Court Chief Justice Vikram Nath; Sikkim High Court Chief Justice J.K. Maheshwari; Telangana High Court’s Justice Hima Kohli; Kerala High Court judge, Justice C.T. Ravi Kumar; Madras High Court judge, Justice M.M. Sundresh; Gujarat High Court judge, Justice Bela M. Trivedi; and senior advocate P.S. Narasimha. Most of the elevated chief justices and judges are relatively junior to Justice Kureshi in terms of experience or stints as judges in high courts. There is no hard and fast rule that the senior-most judge or chief justice of a high court should be elevated to the Supreme Court. But as a convention, seniority is accorded high priority. Repeated efforts by The Telegraph to elicit comment from CJI Ramana on the reasons for excluding Justice Kureshi from the list did not yield results. A resolution uploaded by the Supreme Court on Wednesday did not refer to the factors taken into account while elevating the nine judges to the apex court. CJI anguish At a farewell speech in honour of Justice Navin Sinha who retired on Wednesday, CJI Ramana expressed anguish at reports relating to the collegium surfacing in a section of the media. The CJI said: “Personally, I’m left feeling quite saddened by his (Justice Sinha’s) retirement. We are losing an important voice and a valued colleague. On this occasion, I want to take the liberty to express my concern about certain speculations and reports in the media. “You are all aware we need to appoint judges to this court. The process is ongoing. Meetings will be held and decisions will be taken. The process of appointment of judges is sacrosanct and has certain dignity attached to it. “My media friends must understand and recognise the sanctity of this process. As an institution, we hold the freedom of media and the rights of individuals in high esteem. Today’s reflections in some sections of the media, pending the process, even before formalising the resolution, are counter-productive.” CJI Ramana added: “There were instances of deserving career progression of bright talent getting marred because of such irresponsible reporting and speculation. This is very unfortunate and I am extremely upset about it. “I must also place on record the tremendous amount of maturity and responsibility displayed by majority of senior journalists and media houses in showing restraint and not speculating on such a serious matter. Such professional journalists and ethical media are the real strength of the Supreme Court, in particular, and democracy, in general. “You are part of our system. I expect all the stakeholders to uphold the integrity and dignity of this institution. I am sure Brother Sinha will forgive me for deviating a bit on this solemn occasion. He will understand my anguish. I firmly believe that the nation will continue to draw the benefit of Brother Sinha’s rich experience. I look forward to his continued contributions in the legal field.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-300
19-08-2021||India||Teen on hill for online class slips  to death in Odisha||A 13-year-old tribal schoolboy in Odisha who had climbed onto a boulder atop a rain-soaked hill to be able to connect better to his online classes fell to his death on Tuesday. Adria Jagaranga’s death in Rayagada district underlines the problem of poor Internet connectivity in rural areas that has helped create a digital divide among the country’s students and prompted educationists to appeal to the Centre to provide universal digital access. Adria’s family said the boy had gone to the hilltop with three friends. The boulder he had climbed slipped and he fell more than 50ft with it, the stone crushing his right leg. He died on the way to hospital. The boy was a Class VIII student at the Missionary High School in Cuttack. Schools have recently reopened in Odisha. “He was to return to school on August 22, so he was desperate to complete his homework,” a relative said. A fire brigade officer from nearby Padampur, Sushant Sethi, said heavy rain had made the hilltop slippery. “We received a call from a resident to rescue the boy who had met with an accident,” he said. “By the time we reached the spot, 25km from the fire station, the boy had been brought down from the hill on a cot by his family. He died on the way to hospital.” Rabindranath Mohapatra, a local reporter, said Internet connectivity and mobile networks were poor in the area, forcing many students to climb to hilltops or treetops to attend their online classes. The situation is similar across the country’s rural areas. This newspaper had last year reported how 25 male and female students in a Sambalpur village clambered atop a 150ft water tank every day to be able to connect to their classes. Odisha school and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Dash said the state government had asked the Centre to set up mobile towers in rural areas, “particularly in tribal and Maoist-hit areas”. He said chief minister Naveen Patnaik had taken the matter up with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. However, the Centre appears to have passed the responsibility on to the states, although educationists say the Union government alone has the wherewithal to provide digital access to all students. “Education is a subject in the concurrent list of the Constitution,” education minister Dharmendra Pradhan had told Parliament recently. “Accordingly, the state governments have been directed to act based on the situation prevailing at every place to meet the demands of all students for providing them with the digital access required for learning digitally.” Apart from poor connectivity, erratic power supply and the lack of quality devices too have left economically disadvantaged and rural students in the lurch. Biju Dharamapalan, a teacher at M.G. University, Kottayam, had told this newspaper the Centre should “provide smart phones or TV sets with DTH connections to economically backward students”. Ram Ramaswamy, an academic at the Indian Academy of Sciences, had said the Centre must ensure that “economically disadvantaged students get at least a free tablet and cheap data”. Odisha minister Dash said: “Even though schools and colleges have reopened, the student turnout is only 60 to 70 per cent. Many parents are afraid to send their children to school. So, many of these students still depend on online classes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-300
19-08-2021||India||Centre's ayurveda cocktail not beneficial against Covid: Research||A herbal formulation promoted by India’s ayurveda ministry as a remedy against mild and moderate Covid-19 and included in its clinical management protocols has no beneficial effect against the infection, new research has suggested. Doctors at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur, have found no differences in the course of Covid-19 infections or viral clearance between patients who received the formulation, Ayush-64, and those who had received standard care. Their study found that while the formulation was safe and had no adverse effects, there were no significant differences in the fever patterns, respiratory symptoms or key blood test measurements between patients who had received Ayush-64 and those on standard care. “Ayush-64 has no significant beneficial effect” compared with the standard care, Jaykaran Charan, associate professor of pharmacology at AIIMS, Jodhpur, and his colleagues said in their study, not peer-reviewed yet but posted on Wednesday on medRxiv, an online preprint server. The findings appear to contradict the results of an earlier study led by the Centre for Rheumatic Diseases, Pune, which had suggested that Ayush-64 “hastened recovery, reduced hospitalisation, and improved overall health in mild and moderate Covid-19” when given with standard care. The AIIMS study had 60 patients while the earlier study tracked 140 patients. The earlier positive results and the new negative results, the AIIMS doctors said, underlined the need for validating the efficacy of Ayush-64 against Covid-19 through a rigorous “double-blind” trial with a large sample of patients. A double-blind study is one in which neither the patients nor the doctors know who is receiving Ayush-64 and who is receiving standard care and are intended to minimise any bias or placebo effects. The call for a rigorous evaluation of Ayush-64 against Covid-19 comes months after the Union ministry for ayurveda, yoga, unani, siddha and homoeopathy (ayush) described the formulation as “one of the most significant developments” for treating Covid-19. The ayush ministry had in April this year said the Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences had conducted “extensive robust clinical trials focusing on the management of asymptomatic, mild to moderate Covid-19” in collaboration with medical colleges across India. The trials had shown that Ayush-64 had anti-viral, immune-modulating and anti-fever effects and “it is found useful in the treatment of asymptomatic, mild and moderate Covid-19 infections”, the ministry had said. The ayush ministry’s national clinical management protocol for Covid-19 too lists Ayush-64. The ministry said six clinical studies had shown “very promising trends” based on which it was included in the protocol. But sections of doctors have long called for caution in interpreting any clinical trial results, especially those involving mild or moderate Covid-19. “We know 80 per cent of Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms will likely recover on their own,” said an internal medicine specialist who requested not to be named. “Studies need to be well-designed to distinguish whether the patients recovered on their own or because of the beneficial effect of a medication.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-300
19-08-2021||India||Taliban insurgency: Your questions answered||When did India close its consulates in Afghanistan? The Herat and Jalalabad consulates were closed in April 2020, ostensibly because of the pandemic. India refrained from reopening them owing to the US plans to withdraw troops. Indians working at the Kandahar consulate were evacuated in July this year as a “temporary measure”. On August 10, Indians working at the Mazar-e-Sharif consulate were evacuated along with Indian nationals from in and around the area who were able to get to the mission in time for the special flight. How many Indians are estimated to be still in Afghanistan? There’s no official number. In a written reply tabled in the Rajya Sabha on August 5, the ministry of external affairs (MEA) said: “According to available information, there are approximately 1,500 Indian nationals in Afghanistan including the Government of India officials.” Since then, this number is likely to have come down. The embassy website had earlier put the figure at 1,710. On Tuesday, the ministry said: “We understand that a number of Indians are stranded in that country, some of whom are employed by third country organisations. Our immediate priority is to obtain accurate information about all Indian nationals currently in Afghanistan. They and/or their employers are requested to urgently share the relevant details with MEA’s Special Afghanistan Cell.” Some of the Indians in Afghanistan had, according to ambassador Rudrendra Tandon, reached out to the mission but were in areas that were too far away to access any longer. How many advisories did India issue? Over the past two months, India has issued four security advisories for its nationals in Afghanistan: on June 29, July 24, August 10 and August 12. The last two advisories told Indians to make immediate arrangements to return to India while commercial air services were still operating. Indian companies operating in Afghanistan were advised to withdraw their Indian employees from project sites before air services were discontinued. The August 12 advisory mentioned how three Indian engineers had needed emergency air rescue from a dam project site in an area outside the control of the Afghan government. What level of contact did India have with the Taliban? Officially, India has never acknowledged any contact with the Taliban. But since earlier this year, there have been media reports saying India has engaged directly with the Taliban. The foreign ministry has neither confirmed nor denied these reports. In June, Qatar’s special envoy for counter-terrorism and mediation of conflict resolution, Mutlaq bin Majed Al Qahtani, said at a web conference that Indian officials had made a “quiet visit” to Doha to speak to the Taliban’s political leadership. The Indian foreign ministry’s response to this too was that India was in touch with all stakeholders in pursuance of its long-term commitment towards development and reconstruction in Afghanistan. What was the level of India’s participation in multilaterals related to Afghanistan’s future? India was invited to witness the signing of the US-Taliban agreement in Doha on February 29 last year. India attended the first round of intra-Afghan talks in Doha in September last year with a joint-secretary-level official attending in person and foreign minister S. Jaishankar joining in via videoconferencing. Last week, when Doha hosted peace talks on Afghanistan, India found itself on the sidelines. It was not present at the opening session of a meeting that included the US, China, Pakistan, Uzbekistan and the UK and was kept out of the Troika-Plus talks between Russia, US, China and Pakistan that had been convened by Moscow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-300
19-08-2021||India||RRAG plea to NHRC to ensure refugee status for Afghans||The Rights and Risks Analysis Group (RRAG) has petitioned the National Human Rights Commission to ensure that refugee status is granted to Afghans, including some MPs, who have already entered India. Based on media reports and interviews with some of them, the RRAG has listed the names of legislators: Wahidullah Kaleemzai, member of Parliament from Wardak; Abdul Aziz Hakimi, MP from Parwan; Abdul Qadir Zazai, secretary-general of the Wolesi Jirga (Lower House of Parliament); Senator Malem Lala Gul; Shukria Esakhail, MP from Baghlan; Senator Mohammad Khan; Mariam Solaimankhail, MP; and Qais Mowafaq, senior adviser to Afghanistan’s Upper House. As of date, the government — while announcing that it will not abandon its partners among the locals in Afghanistan — has not officially put out the list of the number or the names of those Afghans who have already entered India. Asked about the source of the names listed in his petition, RRAG’s director Suhas Chakma said it was based on media reports. Referring to the government’s decision to issue the “e-Emergency X-Misc Visa” to help Afghans who may want to move to India, the RRAG petition states that this is inadequate under the circumstances. “First, visa by definition comes with an expiry date and can be denied at any time. Second, visa by definition also excludes extension of any humanitarian assistance by the government and any possibility to work or engage in activities necessary for survival. The grant of visa does not take into account the situation that these Afghan nationals are not in a position to return to Afghanistan as the Taliban has taken over the entire country and refoulement/repatriation means certain torture or even death,’’ the petition said. The petitioner argues for granting refuge or asylum to those Afghans fleeing their country. “It would be a historic blunder if India fails to grant refugee status and protections to the Afghan nationals who have fled to India irrespective of their religion. The Afghans who fled to India including the members of Parliament named above had worked with the Government of India in the last 20 years, which makes them special targets of the Taliban, and India cannot abandon them by granting only e-visas,’’ it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-301
19-08-2021||India||SC seeks Centre, states' response on vacancies in the RTI panels||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the Centre, states and Union Territories to file within three weeks status reports on the vacancies of information commissioners and pending cases under their respective jurisdictions, as it expressed anguish at the large-scale vacancies in the transparency panels. A bench of Justices S. Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari passed the direction while dealing with a joint PIL filed by RTI activists Anjali Bhardwaj, Commodore (retd) Lokesh Batra and Amrita Johri, which claimed that there were nearly 50 per cent vacancies in the Central Information Commission and various state commissions, thus frustrating the very objective of citizens’ right to access information. Advocate Prashant Bhushan appearing for the petitioners said during the hearing that despite the apex court’s earlier judgment in February 2019 to fill up the vacancies, the Union and state governments had failed to fill the vacancies in the information commissions leading to a large number of pending cases and long delays in the disposal of appeals/complaints. The bench while expressing its displeasure at the failure of the states to fill vacancies warned of strict action against non-compliance with its directions. The petitioners pointed out that in its February 2019 judgment, the court had directed the Maharashtra government to ensure that the state information commission functions at full strength (one chief and 10 information commissioners) given the large backlog of appeals and complaints. However, the state commission is functioning with only four information commissioners even though there were more than 75,000 appeals/complaints pending as on May 31, 2021. The bench pulled up the Maharashtra government for not filling the vacancies in the state information commission and warned that the chief secretary will be summoned if the state fails to fill them within three weeks. In case of Karnataka, the court had directed in its 2019 order that the state information commission should function at full strength for which the government must sanction all posts given the large number of pending cases. Whereas the state government sanctioned all posts, however, in the hearing it was pointed out that currently three posts are vacant even though there is backlog of more than 30,000 appeals/complaints in the commission. The bench directed the state to fill the vacancies and file a status report. In the 2019 judgment, the Supreme Court had directed the state of Odisha to sanction three additional posts so the commission can function with one chief and six commissioners given the backlog of cases. During the hearing, it came to light that the state had sanctioned only two additional posts and currently the commission was functioning with only four commissioners. One post had fallen vacant in November 2020 and was yet to be filled up while the chief had retired on August 15 this year. The bench directed the government to file a status report. During the hearing, it was pointed out that the state information commission of Telangana has been functioning without a chief for one year, despite the fact that the RTI Act envisages a crucial role for the official as the general superintendence, direction and management of the affairs of the SIC vests in the chief. The bench expressed disappointment at the state of affairs and directed that the appointment should be made by the next date of hearing. It was highlighted that in the case of the state information commission of Nagaland, the previous chief retired in January 2020 and since then no appointment had been made. As a result, the commission has been headless for 19 months. The state was directed to fill the vacancy and file a status report. In its February 2019 judgment, the court had directed the Bengal government to create three posts of commissioners in addition to the sanctioned strength of three (chief and two information commissioners). During the hearing it was pointed out that currently the commission is functioning with only two commissioners (one chief and one commissioner) though nearly 10,000 appeals/complaints are pending. The bench pulled up the state government for failing to file an affidavit before the hearing and for not filling up the vacancies. On the other hand, though the government of Jharkhand was not a respondent in the case, however, it was pointed out that the state information commission has been effectively rendered defunct since May 2020, when the lone information commissioner retired. Since then no information commissioner or chief has been appointed and the commission has been non-functional with people seeking information having no recourse to the independent appellate mechanism prescribed under the RTI Act. The apex court expressed anguish at the current state of affairs and directed the state to fill up the vacancies and also file a report. The matter regarding the CIC will now be heard next week while state governments have been given three weeks to file status reports indicating the vacancies in their respective state information panels and the number of pending appeals/complaints.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-301
19-08-2021||India||Sheikh Shami Akhtar thrown out of I-Day event for Ambedkar slogan||Sheikh Shami Akhtar, 70, gets such “goosebumps” seeing the Tricolour flutter that since the age of 12, he has been scrupulously attending the Independence Day ceremonies at the local school, block office, hospital and police station one after the other every August 15. Last Sunday, he was thrown out of one of these events — at Ramgarh police station in Bihar’s Kaimur district — because he had chanted a slogan in honour of B.R. Ambedkar after the flag had been hoisted. An assistant sub-inspector pushed him out of the premises, Akhtar said. The officer was suspended on Tuesday after a public protest but the incident has left Akhtar, president of a madrasa in Ramgarh, deeply hurt. Akhtar, who waits eagerly every year for August 15 to arrive, had been feeling happy and tranquil in the morning. This year’s event held particular significance for him — he had lost his wife to Covid in April and thought that attending Independence Day ceremonies would be just the succour he needed. “Participating in Independence Day functions, seeing our national flag flutter proudly and singing the national anthem make me feel happy and invigorated. It gives me goosebumps,” he told The Telegraph. So, donning white kurta-pyjamas and a “Gandhi topi”, he went about his annual ritual. The police station, where the flag was to be hoisted at 9.20am, was the fourth on his list before he would be winding up his programme for the day by attending the flag-hoisting at his madrasa. The event went off smoothly. The national anthem was sung and the guests assembled around the Tricolour began chanting slogans in honour of freedom fighters. Akhtar joined in the chorus and then went on to shout: “Babasaheb Ambedkar amar rahein.” “ASI Vijay Kumar Singh asked me why I had come, who had invited me and why I had chanted the slogan. I replied that people attend and celebrate Independence Day functions without invitation. We are lovers of azadi (independence),” Akhtar said. “He became angry and pushed me out of the police station premises. I was deeply hurt and almost cried, unable to believe this was happening to me in my own country, that too on Independence Day. I went again to the police station, met the station house officer (SHO) and told him I was feeling very sad. I requested him to ask the sub-inspector to apologise, but nothing happened.” Akhtar said none of the officers present intervened, only circle officer Archana Kumari apologised to him when he returned to the police station to complain. The 70-year-old said he had chanted Ambdekar’s name at I-Day events for years and nothing like this ever happened before. Akhtar, whose father was a freedom fighter and a social activist, said it was a tradition at I-Day ceremonies to chant slogans such as “Bharat Mata ki jai”, “Jai Hind”, “Vande Mataram” and a few in the names of leaders of the freedom movement like Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Subhas Chandra Bose, Vallabhbhai Patel, Jayaprakash Narayan, B.R. Ambedkar and Ashfaqulla Khan, among others. “I’m a citizen of India and I attend Independence Day events to express my happiness. I don’t go there for the sweets. My objective is also to increase popular enthusiasm for the occasion so that people understand its importance,” Akhtar said. “We want our country to stay independent and prosper always. If we don’t guide our youths, who will? They may forget everything.” He said he attended Republic Day events with the same fervour. Circle officer Kumari told this newspaper she had apologised to Akhtar since “that was the right thing to do”. News of Akhtar’s humiliation spread and a delegation of local citizens met Kaimur superintendent of police Rakesh Kumar, who asked Mohania deputy superintendent of police Raghu Nath Singh to conduct a probe. “We suspended the ASI on the report of the DSP. He (the ASI) said the gentleman (Akhtar) had chanted the slogan four times, after which he reacted,” SP Kumar told this newspaper. It’s not clear why the ASI thought that chanting Ambedkar’s name multiple times counted as an offence. “However, we suspended him for indulging in angry talk and pushing and shoving the person, that too during the Independence Day function, which was unbecoming of a police officer,” Kumar said. He said a further inquiry would be conducted. He, however, volunteered without elaborating that Akhtar had been chargesheeted in a “law-and-order problem” in Ramgarh in 2018. SHO Ram Kalyan Yadav said he wasn’t posted in Ramgarh at the time and didn’t know about the case. Akhtar said he had been walking past a crowd protesting an alleged rape and murder one day in January 2018 when the police beat up the demonstrators, arrested dozens and booked 200 named and unnamed people for disturbing public order. Akhtar says he got thrashed and arrested, but later received bail. Akhtar said he was not satisfied with the action against the ASI because the suspension order didn’t spell out the specific misconduct the officer had been charged with. D.M. Diwakar, academic and former director of the A.N. Sinha Institute of Social Studies, Patna, said the incident “represented a clash between the people to whom Independence and the suffering during the freedom movement matter more than their lives, and the bureaucracy that has refused to accept the people as their boss instead of subjects”. Diwakar said the ASI represented “the intolerance that’s been bred in society and the ideas of the ruling powers that are damaging for the social fabric of the country”. He said some people “have the mindset that Ambedkar cannot be in the same league with Gandhi and Nehru, when the fact is that he was one of the most mature leaders who worked to unite society and the country”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-301
19-08-2021||India||Congress slams Shah on Northeast violence and lawlessness||The Congress on Wednesday questioned the competence and commitment of home minister Amit Shah as sensitive border states in the Northeast are pushed into a cycle of violence and lawlessness. “As the media is occupied with Afghanistan, the situation in the Northeast is getting dangerous. Disturbing visuals are witnessed from streets. Assam and Mizoram are firing at each other like enemies and armed men are roaming the streets of Meghalaya and hurling petrol bombs at the chief minister’s residence. And the home minister and the Prime Minister are silent over the collapse of the constitutional order,” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said. “Whose responsibility is it to look after internal security? The governor’s convoy is attacked. The (state) home minister has to resign. A 98-hour curfew had to be imposed,” he said. Curfew was imposed in Shillong and Internet services snapped after the death of a former rebel in a police encounter on August 13 triggered violence. The Assam-Mizoram border has been tense since the end of last month when six Assam policemen were killed in firing from Mizoram. At one point, the Assam government issued an advisory against travel to the neighbouring state. However, travel between the states has since resumed. The Congress spokesperson questioned Shah’s silence on the unrest. “Why is the home minister silent? This completely indifferent, criminally aloof hands-off approach of the central government also emanates from its illegal and often divisive usurpation of power in many northeastern states,” Surjewala said. “Amit Shah has totally failed. There are reports of fresh tension on the Assam-Mizoram border. Can you imagine two Indian states barring travel and transportation across the borders? In Nagaland, the entire peace process and the so-called ‘framework agreement’ of August 3, 2015, remain in the realm of speculation and hearsay. “The NSCN (National Socialist Council of Nagaland) refuses to accept governor R.N. Ravi as the Centre’s interlocutor. The NSCN is refusing to accept India’s Constitution and talks of ‘shared sovereignty’. It is like compromising with India’s territorial integrity,” the Congress leader said. LPG price hike The Congress also blasted the Narendra Modi government for hiking the price of cooking gas cylinder by Rs 25 on Wednesday, arguing that the burden on the poor was being raised everyday at a time income had come down and millions lost their jobs. The price of an LPG cylinder has been increased by Rs 265 since November 2020 to push it to an all-time high of Rs 859. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said the finance minister was weaving a cock-&-bull story about oil bonds while the real reason was the government’s decision to cut subsidies. “The fuel subsidy, which was Rs 1.47 lakh crore in 2014 has been reduced to Rs 12,000 crore. The government earned Rs 4.53 lakh crore in 2021 through high taxes on petroleum products but refused to pass on the benefit of low international crude oil prices to the consumers,” Shrinate said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-301
19-08-2021||India||Sunanda Pushkar death: Delhi court discharges Shashi Tharoor||A Delhi court on Wednesday discharged Congress leader Shashi Tharoor from all charges, including abetment to suicide, in connection with the death of his wife Sunanda Pushkar in January 2014. “The accused (Mr Tharoor) is discharged,” said special judge Geetanjali Goel during a virtual hearing in which Tharoor was present. In May 2018, Delhi police had filed a chargesheet in the court, accusing Tharoor of abetting the suicide of his wife and subjecting her to cruelty. The case saw several twists and turns during which a murder case was also registered without attributing a motive. After the verdict on Wednesday, Tharoor issued a statement thanking the judge and his lawyers. “I would like to express my humble thanks to Judge Geetanjali Goel for her orders today, discharging me from the charges levied by the Delhi police, which I have consistently described as preposterous,” he said. He added: “This brings a significant conclusion to the long nightmare, which had enveloped me after the tragic passing of my late wife Sunanda. I have weathered dozens of unfounded accusations and media vilification patiently, sustained by my faith in the Indian judiciary, which today stands vindicated. “In our justice system, the process is all too often the punishment. Nonetheless, the fact that justice has been done, at last, will allow all of us in the family to mourn Sunanda in peace.” The couple had got married in August 2010. On January 17, 2014, Sunanda was found dead in a Delhi hotel suite she was sharing with her husband. Empty Alprax (alprazolam) strips were found by her bedside and sources told the cops she had been taking the anti-depressant tablets. In January 2015, then Delhi police commissioner B.S. Bassi had claimed Sunanda was murdered and cited “poisoning” as the cause of death, giving the case a sensational turn considering the police’s failure to attribute any motive, the inability to identify the poison and contradictory medical and forensic reports. An AIIMS team that had done the first post-mortem had said alprazolam overdose was the cause of death. In April 2014, the Central Forensic Science Laboratory in Hyderabad had denied that poisoning was the cause of death before making a U-turn seven months later after being asked to do a second test. But it didn’t identify the poison. Delhi police later sent the viscera to the FBI following a nod from the home ministry. In January 2016, the US agency concluded that Sunanda died of an overdose of alprazolam. A medical board formed with AIIMS experts to study the FBI report said: “The circumstantial recovery of empty Alprax tablets (27 tablets) and report of the FBI, which shows the presence of Alprax in stomach and its contents, spleen, liver section, half of each kidney, blood sample, as well as urine wet clothing, bed cover and bed sheet confirmed the death is due to excessive ingestion of tablet alprazolam.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-301
19-08-2021||India||Women’s wing stands up to IUML||The women’s campus wing of the Indian Union Muslim League, frozen for speaking out against misogyny and sexually explicit comments by some leaders of the male counterpart, has made it clear it will not surrender to patriarchy. The IUML had on Tuesday frozen Haritha — the women’s wing of party student arm Muslim Students’ Federation — after its leaders refused to withdraw a complaint lodged with the Kerala women’s commission alleging harassment by male MSF leaders. Ten Haritha leaders, including its president, secretary and treasurer, had lodged the complaint against MSF state president P.K. Navas and Malappuram district general secretary V. Abdul Vahab. The women accused them of using sexually derogatory words during a state leadership meeting in Kozhikode on June 22. The police have since booked a case based on a direction from the women’s commission. The IUML, a constituent of the Opposition front UDF, has sent showcause notices to the two accused and asked them to respond within 15 days. While the Haritha leaders have desisted from speaking on the issue in public, Fathima Thahliya, national vice-president of the MSF and former president of Haritha, openly backed her colleagues and their allegations. “Our women leaders, including me, have been facing character assassination and abusive comments on social media because we stood up against such behaviour,” Thahliya told a news conference in Kozhikode on Wednesday. P.M.A. Salam, state general secretary of the IUML who has been assigned to look into the matter, told reporters there was no going back on the decision to freeze Haritha. “It’s the final decision. Now there will be talks (within the party),” he said. “Our doors are open for discussion, but party discipline is very important.” Salam said that once the accused had replied to the showcause notice, appropriate action would follow. Party lawmaker M.K. Muneer said the Haritha leaders should have spoken to party leaders first. “They should have been open for discussion. Instead they went to the women’s commission, which immediately got the police to file a case,” he said. He chided the accused MSF leaders for providing ammunition to political rivals “by using abusive language”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-301
19-08-2021||India||Odisha govt to sponsor Indian hockey teams for 10 more years ||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday announced that the state government will sponsor the men and women national hockey teams for another 10 years. The chief minister made the announcement while felicitating members of Tokyo-returned men and women hockey teams at the state secretariat. The teams have done the country proud with their performance at the Tokyo Olympics with the men’s team winning a bronze medal after 41 years and the women’s team reaching the semi-finals for the first time. The Odisha government is the official sponsor of both the men and women’s national hockey teams. It has been sponsoring the Indian hockey teams since 2018 with the contract valid till 2023. Now with the chief minister extending it for another 10 years it will run till 2033. Sources said Odisha would spend more than Rs 200 crore on the sponsorship in the next 10 years. Congratulating the teams for their effort to revive Indian hockey, Naveen said: “For nearly four decades, the hockey fans have been yearning to see India grab a medal at the Olympics. The way the entire country was glued to the TV screens to watch the hockey matches, it is quite evident there is something more to hockey than just sports.” Stating that Odisha and hockey are destined to become synonymous, Naveen said: “We will continue our partnership with Hockey India. Odisha will support the Indian hockey teams for 10 more years. This will herald a new era of Indian Hockey and bring back the glory to the nation.” Each player was awarded Rs 10 lakh and each support staff was awarded Rs 5 lakh by the chief minister. Both the teams gifted a framed jersey autographed by the players to the chief minister as a memento. The chief minister also gave away 13 awards. In the men’s team, Harmanpreet Singh won the award for the player with maximum number of goals. Men’s team goalkeeper P.R. Sreejesh won the award for the player who saved the maximum number of goals. In the women’s team, Gurjit Kaur and Vandana Katariya won the award for player with maximum number of goals. Few other players were awarded for their performances. Each was awarded Rs 5 lakh. Naveen also felicitated president, Hockey India, Gyanendro Ningombam, secretary general, Hockey India, Rajinder Singh, CEO, Hockey India, Elena Norman and the entire Hockey India staff and announced a reward of Rs 50 lakh to the Federation. Naveen also felicitated Odia doctor Col. (DR). Bibhu Kalyan Nayak who was appointed as the first Indian FIH Medical Officer for the Tokyo Olympics and awarded him Rs 5 lakh at the ceremony. All the hockey players and President, Indian Olympic Association Dr Narinder D. Batra recognised the support of Odisha. “Odisha has played a major role and it’s because of its support, we are seeing the results today. We assure that the graph of the Hockey will not go down,” said Batra. At the function at the state secretariat, all officials including private secretary to chief minister V.K. Pandian were present. Hockey in India saw revival after the Odisha government came forward when Sahara India backed out in 2018 from sponsorship of the national teams. The state had shot into international focus when it successfully organised the Men’s Hockey World Cup in Bhubaneswar in 2018. It is going to host the Men’s Hockey World Cup in 2023 as well for the second consecutive time. Odisha is the only state of the country promoting the game in this manner. Indian hockey women’s team captain Rani Rampal praised Odisha’s love for the game. “Hockey is in the heart of Odisha people and the love that Odisha has given is exemplary. Other states and institutions should learn what Odisha has done for the development of sport. Having been a hockey player himself Naveen Patnaik Sir understands the requirements of hockey players,” said Rampal. Indian men’s team captain Manpreet Singh was also quite vocal in his appreciation of Odisha and the chief minister for their support to the game. “It feels good to be back here in Odisha, the place we call our home away from home, and now one of the biggest reasons behind our success at the Tokyo Olympics 2020,” he said, Earlier in the morning, both the teams were given a rousing reception when they reached Bhubaneswar with traditional dancers and conch blowers welcoming them. People danced and cheered the teams all through their journey from the airport to the hotel where they were put up. On behalf of the Odisha government, sports minister Tusharkanti Behera, sports secretary R. Vineel Krishna and former captain of Indian hockey team and chairman Odisha Hockey Promotion Council Dilip Tirkey received the teams at the Biju Patnaik airport.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-301
