20-08-2021||India||Protesting farmers block highway seeking Rs 200cr dues in Jalandhar||Demanding that the state government clear their dues of over Rs200 crore and hike the State Assured Price (SAP) of sugarcane farmers from Rs310 a quintal to Rs358, farmers of 32 unions blocked the Jalandhar-Phagwara stretch of the national highway and rail tracks on Friday. Unions have also claimed that their protest will continue indefinitely. The protest started from Dhanowali village of Jalandhar district and by the late afternoon, the unions had also blocked the rail track near Dhanowali between Jalandhar - Chaheru section. They blocked the movement of trains on the Ludhiana Amritsar and Ludhiana-Jammu tracks. The Ferozepur railway division said movement of 31 trains were hit, with six being cancelled and nine diverted. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Doaba) president Manjit Singh Rai and general secretary, Satnam Singh Sahni, said, “The Capt government did not increase even a single penny for sugarcane crop over the past four years. We will continue to block the national highway and the tracks till the time the state government agrees to meet our demands.” On the national highway that connects major cities of Punjab and Jammu, traffic was badly hit, with the police resorting to diversions. “We have conveyed to the CM Capt Amarinder Singh and the cane commissioner of the state to hold meeting with us at the earliest,” said a farm leader. Later in the day, Jalandhar deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, and SSP Naveen Singla met farmers near Paragpur on the national highway itself. Then DC told the farmers that the state government had already increased the sugarcane crop SAP from Rs310 to Rs325; farmers, however, remained adamant on their demand for a higher increase. Farm leader Sahni said, “The Punjab government has forced farmers to block the national highway, which affects the common man. We are also helpless as the state government has left us with no other option.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
20-08-2021||India||IAF on standby to bring home Indian nationals from Kabul ||A C-17 transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force is on standby to fly to Kabul and bring home Indian nationals who are stuck in the war-torn country after the Taliban takeover, sources have said. The IAF aircraft will go to Kabul as soon as enough Indian nationals are able to move to the airport in the Afghan capital, the sources said. India is working closely with the US government to facilitate movement of the IAF transport aircraft to Kabul, sources said. The government is hopeful up to 250 Indians can be evacuated in this C-17, but it depends on how many of them are able to reach the airport as the Taliban is in control of the city, controlling movement and checkpoints. Operating an Air India flight to Kabul has proven to be difficult, so the IAF remains on standby, sources said, adding over an estimated 400 Indians may need to be evacuated, but the exact figure is unclear at the moment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
20-08-2021||India||PV Narasimha Rao India's father of economic reforms, says CJI Ramana||Describing former Prime Minister P V Narasimha Rao as the father of economic reforms in the country, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Friday said that dispute resolution through negotiations and mediation is part of Indian culture. Speaking at the Registration of Trust Deeds of the International Arbitration and mediation Centre here, Justice Ramana said the city is well placed to have an international arbitration centre and the cost of dispute resolution through the centre would be much cheaper when compared to other countries. "You know the father of the economic reforms in the country is none other than P V Narsimha Rao, Telangana Bidda (son of Telangana). Under his leadership, in India for the first time economic reforms started," the CJI said. "This (arbitration and mediation) is not a new thing that we innovated. You know that in Indian culture we sort out all our disputes through mediation and negotiation and conciliation. Every day we negotiate with our children, brothers and friends," he said. Supreme Court judge Justice L Nageswara Rao and former SC Judge justice Ravindra will be the life Trustees of the Arbitration Centre here and they will co-opt some more members in future, Justice Ramana said. He said earlier foreign investors were apprehensive about the time taken for dispute resolution process in the Indian judiciary and added that after the Arbitration and Conciliation Act came into being in 1996, the momentum has started for out of court procedures. He asked the state government and Telangana High Court Chief Justice Hima Kohli to encourage companies to settle their disputes through arbitration and mediation. He said the centre here should become an internationally acclaimed one in dispute resolution. The CJI thanked Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao for acting quickly on his proposal and making necessary arrangements for starting the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
20-08-2021||India||Chhattisgarh government transfers Rs 1522 crore to farmers' bank accounts on birth anniversary of Rajiv Gandhi||On the occasion of Rajiv Gandhi's 77th birth anniversary, the Chattisgarh government on Friday transferred Rs 1,522 to bank accounts of 21 lakh farmers farmers  cunder the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana. Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel also transferred online Rs. 3 crore 49 lakh for the cow dung purchased from cattle rearers and to the Gauthan committees and women self-help groups under the GodhanNyay Yojana. Baghel said that the government has adopted the vision of Rajiv Gandhi to eradicate poverty and build a self-reliant India in Chhattisgarh. "Following the path shown by him, the state government has started many welfare programs and schemes for all sections of the people including the poor, farmers, tribals. 'Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana' has been started to provide remunerative price to the farmers for their produce," he said. "The government has expanded the scope of this scheme from Kharif season 2021 to include paddy as well as other Kharif crops. Along with this, Rajiv Gandhi Grameen BhoomheenKrishi Mazdoor Nyay Yojana is being started to provide financial help to the landless agricultural laborers of rural areas of the state. Under this scheme, 6000 rupees will be given annually to such families of rural areas, who do not have agricultural land and are associated with MNREGA or agricultural wages," a press release from the state government read. Under the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana, in 2020-21, an amount of more than Rs 5,600 crore was given to about 21 lakh farmers in four installments as crop production incentive input assistance. More than Rs 1,525 crore was paid to the farmers as the first installment in their account, the government said. The scheme was implemented in 2020 with the objective of providing a fair price to the farmers for their produce, promoting the productivity of Kharif crops and crop diversification, but with a retrospective effect, its benefits from the Kharif marketing year. In 2019-20, provision was made to give to the farmers selling paddy on support price and Rs 5628 crore was given to the farmers. The number of farmers has increased from 15 lakh to 22 lakh and the area under paddy cultivation has increased from 22 lakh hectare to more than 27 lakh hectare. People who have turned away from agriculture have also started joining agriculture again. Under the GodhanNyay scheme, one crore rupees to the cattle owners, villagers as the 26th installment of the Chief Minister Shri Bhupesh Baghel on August 20, one crore 3 lakhs as dividend to the self-help groups and Gauthan committees. 1 crore 46 lakhs, thus paying a total of Rs 3 crore 49 lakhs. It is worth mentioning here that under the GodhanNyay Yojana started in the state from July 20, 2020, cow dung worth Rs.99 crore 8 lakh has been purchased so far. This amount is mostly contributed by cow dung sellers, cattle farmers, villagers, people belonging to backward classes, scheduled castes and tribes. About 45 percent of the benefitted cow dung sellers are women. Among the beneficiaries, more than 78 thousand people belong to landless families. directly transferred to the account of So far, Rs 18 crore 49 lakh has been paid to self-help groups associated with Gauthans and Rs 26 crore 75 lakhs to Gauthan committees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
20-08-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi calls for unity of Opposition in 2024 Lok Sabha elections||It is time to rise above political compulsions to realise the "ultimate goal" of winning the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, Congress president Sonia Gandhi told top Opposition leaders on Friday as she pitched for a broad unity of the anti-BJP forces. The Congress will not be found wanting while working towards this goal, she said at a virtual meeting of the leaders of 19 Opposition parties, adding that the 75th year of independence is an apt occasion "to reaffirm our individual and collective resolve". "Of course, the ultimate goal is the 2024 Lok Sabha election for which we have to begin to plan systematically with the single-minded objective of giving a government to our country that believes in the values of the freedom movement and in the principles and provisions of our Constitution," Gandhi said. "This is a challenge, but together we can and must rise to it because there is simply no alternative to working cohesively. We all have our compulsions, but clearly, the time has come when the interests of our nation demand that we rise above those," she added. Noting that the 75th anniversary of the country's independence is indeed the most appropriate occasion "to reaffirm our individual and collective resolve", Gandhi assured the Opposition leaders, saying "the Indian National Congress will not be found wanting". The virtual meeting -- one of the biggest gatherings of Opposition leaders in recent times -- was attended by NCP's Sharad Pawar, TMC's Mamata Banerjee, Shiv Sena's Uddhav Thackeray and DMK's M K Stalin among others. Mamata also urged the parties to keep their differences aside and work towards defeating the BJP in 2024. She proposed setting up of a core group to chalk out joint Opposition programmes. The meeting convened by Gandhi came after the washout of the recent Monsoon Session of Parliament due to a united Opposition's demand for a discussion on the Pegasus snooping controversy, which the government declined. The Congress chief said the Monsoon Session of Parliament was a washout entirely due to the government's "obstinate and arrogant unwillingness to discuss and debate urgent issues of public importance" such as the Pegasus row, a repeal of three "anti-farmer" laws, price rise, the assault on federalism and the institutions of democracy that affect each and every citizen of the country. In spite of this, the session was marked by the determined unity that all the Opposition parties demonstrated for over 20 days in both the houses, she said. "We functioned in a coordinated manner with daily discussions among our floor leaders. "I am confident that this unity will be sustained in the future sessions of Parliament as well, but the larger political battle has to be fought outside it," Gandhi said. She claimed that it was entirely due to the Opposition parties that the Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill was passed to restore the long-standing rights of the states to identify and notify the other backward classes (OBCs). The Congress chief blamed the government, saying the bill was required to rectify the mistake it committed three years ago and a subsequent ruling of the Supreme Court. She also said after their intervention, crucial changes were made in the policy of procurement of Covid vaccines, but as always, someone else has taken the credit. Gandhi said Pawar has raised with the government the issue of creation of the Ministry of Cooperation, which is a blatant interference in the constitutional rights and responsibilities of the states. The meeting was part of the Congress leadership's efforts to unite various Opposition parties on key issues before the country, including the upcoming Assembly elections in some states and the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren, former chief ministers of Jammu and Kashmir Farooq Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, CPI's D Raja and Sharad Yadav of the Loktantrik Janata Dal were also present at the meeting. In a joint statement issued after the meeting, the Opposition parties said they will jointly organise protests all over the country from September 20-30. "The forms of these public protest actions will be decided by the respective state units of our parties, depending on the concrete conditions of the Covid regulations and protocols existing in the states. These forms, amongst others, may include dharnas, protest demonstrations, hartals etc. "We, the leaders of 19 Opposition parties, call upon the people of India to rise to the occasion to defend our secular, democratic, republican order with all our might. Save India today, so that we can change it for a better tomorrow," they added. The leaders who took part in the meeting were from TMC, NCP, DMK, Shiv Sena, JMM, CPI, CPI(M), NC, RJD, AIUDF, VCK, Loktantrik Janata Dal, JD(S), RLD, RSP, Kerala Congress (Mani), PDP and IUML. Leaders of AAP, BSP and SP were not present at the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
20-08-2021||India||Rajiv Gandhi's farsighted vision helped create modern India, says Rahul||The Congress on Friday paid rich tributes to Rajiv Gandhi on his 77th birth anniversary, with Rahul Gandhi saying that the former prime minister was a man with a tremendous vision, whose farsighted policies helped build modern India. Rahul Gandhi paid floral tributes to his father at the former prime minister's memorial, Vir Bhumi, and spent some time there. "Rajiv Gandhi ji was a man with tremendous vision, whose farsighted policies helped build modern India," the former Congress chief said in a Facebook post. "He was a wonderful father, a compassionate and loving human being. He will always stay alive in my heart. Paid my respects to him at Vir Bhumi," Rahul Gandhi said. Senior Congress leaders Pawan Kumar Bansal, K C Venugopal and Indian Youth Congress (IYC) chief Srinivas B V were among those who visited Vir Bhumi along with Rahul Gandhi. "A secular India alone is an India that can survive," Rahul Gandhi posted his father's quote on Facebook. "Remembering Shri Rajiv Gandhi ji on his birth anniversary," he said in a post. Congress president Sonia Gandhi paid tributes to the former prime minister at the Parliament House. Rahul Gandhi inaugurated a photo-exhibition dedicated to Rajiv Gandhi, and it was organised by the IYC. He also unveiled a bust of the former prime minister at the IYC headquarters here. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi posted a picture of hers with Rajiv Gandhi when she was a child along with a note which read, "The brave do not fall silent before injustice, they speak up for what is right and good, they do not cower when it is dark, they stand strong, they spread the light of truth across skies blackened by deceit. The brave never die." The Congress, from its official Twitter handle, tweeted, "India's youngest Prime Minister. The architect of 21st Century India. The visionary, the pioneer, the patriot. Today we pay homage to Bharat Ratna, Rajiv Gandhi and celebrate his immense contributions to the nation." Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also hailed the former prime minister and recalled his contribution to the country. "Remembering Rajiv ji on his 77th birth anniversary - the visionary who shaped India's destiny for 21st century, who touched lives in every sphere, who translated dreams into reality, who empowered the young-women-backward classes an poor," Surjewala tweeted. Chief ministers of Congress-ruled states Amarinder Singh (Punjab), Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan) and Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh) paid rich tributes to the former prime minister. Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal also remembered Rajiv Gandhi on his birth anniversary and said he was delighted that party chief Sonia Gandhi is set to meet Opposition leaders on this day to discuss issues that matter. Sonia Gandhi is holding a virtual meeting with opposition leaders on Friday. "Rajiv Gandhi ushered India's era of modernisation and launched the technology revolution," he tweeted. Senior party leaders Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Mallikarjun Kharge, Shashi Tharoor, Sachin Pilot, Salman Khurshid, among others, also paid tributes to Rajiv Gandhi on Twitter. Born in 1944, Rajiv Gandhi was prime minister from 1984 to 1989. He was assassinated in 1991.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
20-08-2021||India||LG rejected Delhi govt's proposal to form panel to probe oxygen deaths, says Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Friday said Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal has again rejected the Delhi government's proposal to form a panel to "investigate deaths due to oxygen shortage" in the national capital. "No one can deny that Delhi grappled with an oxygen crisis in April and May during the second Covid wave and also no one can deny that people died in the capital due to a shortage of oxygen," he said during an online press conference. "We had resubmitted a file for the constitution of a panel to probe deaths due to oxygen shortage. The LG (lieutenant governor) is saying that there is no need for that," Sisodia said. The deputy chief minister said that on one hand, the Centre has been asking states to tell how many people died due to oxygen shortage and on the other, "you have not been allowing us to investigate such deaths". "Then how will states tell?" he asked. "That means the Centre deliberately wants us to give in writing that no death occurred due to the shortage of oxygen in the entire country. It will be a big lie. It will be a cruel joke with the families who have lost their loved ones," Sisodia said. He claimed that the Centre was responsible for oxygen mismanagement in April and May and said whether it was deliberate or a mistake is a matter of investigation. The Centre will have to accept that it was responsible for the oxygen crisis. People across the entire country bore the brunt of it, Sisodia said. "People have died due to oxygen shortage in the 21st century, but the Centre is saying these fatalities should not be probed. Why?" he asked. Last week, the deputy chief minister had written to Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya that it is difficult to ascertain without a probe if there were any oxygen-related deaths during the second Covid wave, and the Delhi government is seeking fresh approval from the LG to form an expert panel for it. In June, the Delhi government had formed a four-member expert committee to look into the deaths due to the shortage of oxygen during the second wave of COVID-19. The committee was rejected by the LG.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
20-08-2021||India||Zydus vaccine gets DCGI nod for emergency use, to be given to people aged 12 years and above||Indigenously developed Zydus Cadila COVID-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D has received approval for Emergency Use Authorisation from the Drug Controller General of India and it will be administered to people 12 years and above, the Department of Biotechnology said on Friday.  With Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA), ZyCoV-D has also become the first vaccine to be administered to those in the age group of 12-18 years in the country.  Vaccines Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V are being given to only those above 18 years of age and unlike ZyCoV-D, which is three-dose, these are administered in two doses.  The Department of Biotechnology (DBT) said that ZyCoV-D is the world's first DNA-based vaccine against the coronavirus and when injected produces the spike protein of the SARS-CoV-2 virus and elicits an immune response, which plays a vital role in protection from the disease as well as viral clearance.  The "plug-and-play" technology on which the plasmid DNA platform is based can be easily adapted to deal with mutations in the virus, such as those already occurring, it said.  "Zydus Cadila has received approval for Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for ZyCoV-D today i.e. 20/08/2021, the world's first and India's indigenously developed DNA-based vaccine for COVID-19 to be administered in humans including children and adults 12 years and above," the government department said.  ZyCoV-D is a needle-free vaccine administered using PharmaJet', an applicator that ensures painless intradermal vaccine delivery, Zydus Cadila has said.  The DBT said that Interim results from Phase-III clinical trials in over 28,000 volunteers, showed primary efficacy of 66.6 per cent for symptomatic RT-PCR positive cases.  This has been the largest vaccine trial so far in India for COVID-19, it said.  The vaccine had already exhibited robust immunogenicity and tolerability and safety profile in the adaptive Phase I/II clinical trials carried out earlier. Both Phase I/II and Phase III clinical trials have been monitored by an independent data safety monitoring board, the DBT added.  Till now, there were five EUA-granted vaccines -- Serum Institute of India's Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, Russian vaccine Sputnik V, the vaccines of Moderna, and Johnson and Johnson.  Of these, Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V are in use in the country. ZyCoV-D will be the sixth to be added to the vaccine basket of the country.  In a Union health ministry briefing on May 13, Member (Health), Niti Aayog, V K Paul, had estimated that there would be 216 crore vaccines doses available for people in the country between August to December.  Of these, Zydus Cadila will provide five crore doses, he had said.  Zydus Cadila in a statement said it plans to manufacture 10-12 crore doses of ZyCoV-D annually.  The vaccine has been developed in partnership with the DBT under Mission COVID Suraksha, the department said.  "It has been implemented by the BIRAC (Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council, a PSU of the DBT) and ZyCoV-D has been supported under the COVID-19 Research Consortia through National Biopharma Mission for preclinical studies, Phase I and Phase II clinical trials and under the Mission COVID Suraksha for Phase III Clinical Trial," the DBT said.  Vaccine Technology Centre, the vaccine research centre of the Zydus group, Translational Health Science and Technology Institute, an autonomous body of the DBT and Interactive Research School for Health Affairs, Pune, GCLP Lab set up under the National Biopharma Mission (NBM) also played a vital role in this, the department added.  DBT Secretary and BIRAC Chairperson Renu Swarup said the development is an important milestone in the country's indigenous vaccine development mission and positions India on the global map for novel vaccine development.  It is a matter of great pride that today we have the EUA for the world's first DNA COVID-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D by Zydus developed in partnership with the Department of Biotechnology and supported through Mission COVID Suraksha," the official said.  We are confident that this will be an important vaccine for both India and the world, Swarup said.  Speaking on the development, chairman Zydus Group Pankaj Patel said, We are extremely happy that our efforts to put out a safe, well tolerated and efficacious vaccine to fight COVID-19 has become a reality with ZyCoV-D.  To create the world's first DNA vaccine at such a crucial juncture and despite all the challenges, is a tribute to the Indian research scientists and their spirit of innovation, Patel added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
20-08-2021||India||Violence: CBI writes to Bengal top cop for providing details of rape, murder cases||The CBI has written to the Bengal director general of police to provide details of all cases of murder, attempt to murder and rape reported during post-poll violence in the state, officials said on Friday. The agency sought the details of such cases from the director general of police in line with a Calcutta High Court order that directed the CBI to take over cases related to murder, rape and atrocities against women during the violence. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has set up four teams, each headed by joint directors Ramnish, Anurag, Vineet Vinayak and Sampat Meena, to probe the political violence which ensued after the victory of the Trinamul Congress (TMC) on May 2 in a bitterly fought eight-phase assembly poll in Bengal. Each team will have about seven members, including a deputy inspector general and about four superintendents of police, called from across the country, the officials said. The overall probe will be supervised by Additional Director Ajay Bhatnagar. The Calcutta High Court on Thursday had ordered a CBI inquiry into alleged killings, rape and crimes against women during post-poll violence in West Bengal. A five-judge bench, passing a unanimous judgment on a batch of PILs seeking an independent probe into incidents of alleged violence after the polls which the ruling TMC won by an overwhelming majority, also ordered constitution of a special investigation team (SIT) to probe all other cases. The SIT will include Suman Bala Sahoo, Soumen Mitra and Ranveer Kumar, all IPS officers of the Bengal cadre. The bench will monitor the investigations by both the CBI and the SIT, and it has asked them to submit status reports to the court within six weeks. It said that the working of the SIT will be overseen by a retired judge of the Supreme Court for which a separate order will be passed after obtaining his/her consent. In its ruling, the bench said heinous crimes such as murder and rape "deserve to be investigated by an independent agency which in the circumstances can only be Central Bureau of Investigation." The bench said the state failed to register FIRs even in some cases of alleged murder. "Rather the violence which erupted after polls and declaration of results was state-wide. Number of persons had died. The women were raped. The house of certain persons who had not supported the party in power were demolished. Their other properties were damaged. Their belongings were looted including the chattels," the court observed in its order. The bench said there are allegations that the complainants are being threatened to withdraw the cases and a number of cases of murder being claimed as natural death without recording FIRs and conducting investigation according to the procedure established by law. Noting that the Bengal Police has not properly responded to allegations of inaction and tried to downplay them, the bench said, "It certainly needs investigation by an independent agency." It said three months have lapsed since the matter was taken up by the court, but "no concrete action has been taken by the State, which could inspire confidence except filing affidavits and placing on record thousands of papers." The bench ordered the Bengal government to pay compensation to the victims of crimes in accordance with the policy of the State, after due verification. The compensation amount will be directly transferred to their bank accounts. The National Human Rights Commission committee had on July 13 submitted its final report to the court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
20-08-2021||India||Deshmukh: HC questions Maharashtra's refusal to share documents with CBI||The Bombay High Court on Friday questioned the Maharashtra government's refusal to share certain documents with the CBI for its probe against former state home minister Anil Deshmukh, and said that unless the documents are seen how can the central agency decide if there was any nexus with him over alleged corruption in police transfers and postings. The state government had earlier claimed that the documents sought by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) did not have any relevance with the agency's corruption probe against Deshmukh. A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar was hearing an application filed by the CBI alleging that the government was not cooperating by refusing to hand over certain documents in connection with a probe against the NCP leader. Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi, appearing for the CBI, on Friday said the government by refusing to hand over the documents was acting in contempt to a July order passed by the high court, which said that the agency had the power to inquire into corruption in police transfers and the reinstatement of police officer Sachin Waze. The bench noted that earlier the state government had said that it was not averse to any investigation. "Now why is the state government averse? We don't have any words. Why should the state government do this?" Justice Shinde said. Senior counsel Rafiq Dada, appearing for the state government, argued that the HC had not said that the government was bound to give the documents and had in fact said that the CBI should investigate only those aspects that have a nexus with Deshmukh and his associates. "Unless the CBI sees the documents, how will they (CBI) decide if there is any nexus or not. We only said that the CBI does not have unfettered authority to probe into other transfers. But the documents they are seeking pertain to a report submitted by Rashmi Shukla (IPS officer) on the issue of corruption in police transfers," the court said. "These documents, we believe, you (government) cannot object to. Whatever period Anil Deshmukh was holding the portfolio of home minister, those documents may be needed," Justice Shinde said. The court directed Dada to take instructions from the government on what documents it was willing to share with the CBI. "Both are agencies of the state and the Centre. There are many occasions where information is shared. Tell us the list of documents you (state government) are willing to share. This will lead to a congenial and happy situation," the court said. The bench posted the matter for further hearing on August 24. The CBI, in its application filed last month, had said it had written a letter to the State Intelligence Department seeking details of a communication sent by senior IPS officer Rashmi Shukla on the issue of corruption in police transfers and postings, but the SID refused to provide them claiming it was part of an ongoing investigation. The high court had on July 22 held that the CBI can inquire the allegations of corruption in transfers and postings of police personnel limited to its nexus with Deshmukh and had dismissed a petition filed by the Maharashtra government seeking that some parts of the central agency's FIR against the NCP leader be quashed. The CBI had on April 21 lodged an FIR against Deshmukh on charges of corruption and misuse of official position. The FIR was lodged after the agency conducted a preliminary inquiry against the state's former home minister following an order from the HC on April 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
20-08-2021||India||Quota benefit can be claimed in either Bihar or Jharkhand, but not both: SC||The Supreme Court has ruled that a person belonging to a reserved category is entitled to claim benefit of reservation in either of the successor States of Bihar or Jharkhand, but cannot claim benefit of the quota simultaneously in both the successor States upon their reorganisation in November, 2000. The top court also held that members of the reserved category, who are residents of the successor State of Bihar, while participating in open selection in Jharkhand shall be treated to be migrants and they can participate in the general category without claiming the benefit of reservation and vice-versa. A bench of Justices U.U. Lalit and Ajay Rastogi decided the peculiar question after a resident of Jharkhand, Pankaj Kumar, a member of Scheduled Caste filed an appeal against the 2:1 majority High Court order denying him appointment in state civil service examination of 2007 on the ground that his address proof showed that he was a permanent resident of Patna, Bihar. It is made clear that person is entitled to claim benefit of reservation in either of the successor State of Bihar or State of Jharkhand, but will not be entitled to claim benefit of reservation simultaneously in both the successor States and those who are members of the reserved category and are resident of the successor State of Bihar, while participating in open selection in State of Jharkhand shall be treated to be migrants and it will be open to participate in general category without claiming the benefit of reservation and vice-versa, the bench said. The top court said it holds that the majority judgement of the High Court of February 24, 2020 is unsustainable in law and is hereby set aside. We are also not in agreement with the minority judgment on principle and clarify that the person is entitled to claim the benefit of reservation in either of the successor State of Bihar or State of Jharkhand but would not be entitled to claim the privileges and benefits of reservation simultaneously in both the States and if that is permitted, it will defeat the mandate of Articles 341(1) and 342(1) of the Constitution, the top court said. It directed that Pankaj Kumar shall be appointed pursuant to his selection in reference to advertisement number 11 of 2007 within six weeks and said that he is entitled for his seniority as per his placement in the order of merit with notional fixation of pay and allowances. The bench said that the collective readings of the provisions of the Bihar Reorganisation Act, 2000, makes it apparent that such persons whose place of origin/domicile on or before the appointed day (November 15, 2000) was of Bihar now falling within the districts/regions which form a successor State, that is Jharkhand under Section 3 of the Act, 2000 became ordinary resident of the State of Jharkhand. The top court said that at the same time, so far as the employees who were in public employment in Bihar on or before November 15, 2000, apart from those who have domicile of either of the district which became part of Jharkhand, such employees who have exercised their option to serve in Jharkhand their existing service conditions shall stands protected by virtue of Section 73 of the Act, 2000. It will be highly unfair and pernicious to their interest if the benefits of reservation with privileges and benefits flowing thereof are not being protected in the State of Jharkhand after he is absorbed by virtue to Section 73 of the Act 2000 that clearly postulates not only to protect the existing service conditions but the benefit of reservation and privileges which they were enjoying on or before the appointed day, i.e. November 15, 2000 in the State of Bihar not to be varied to their disadvantage after they became a member of service in the State of Jharkhand, the top court said. The top court said that in its considered view, such of the employees who are members of the SC/ST/OBC whose caste/tribe has been notified by an amendment to the Constitution(SC)/(ST) Order 1950 or by the separate notification for members of OBC category, benefit of reservation shall remain protected by virtue of Section 73 of the Act, 2000 for all practical purposes which can be claimed (including by their wards) for participation in public employment. We are of the view that the present appellant Pankaj Kumar , being a serving employee (as an assistant teacher) in the State of Jharkhand by virtue of Section 73 of the Act 2000, would be entitled to claim the benefit of reservation including the privileges and benefits admissible to the members of SC category in Jharkhand for all practical purposes including participation in open competition seeking public employment, it said. Kumar was born in 1974 in Hazaribagh district of Jharkhand, where his father, a permanent resident of Patna was posted and at the age of 15 in 1989, Kumar shifted to Ranchi, the state capital which came into effect after Bihar's reorganization on November 15, 2000. He was appointed as assistant teacher in a school in Ranchi from December 21, 1999 and continued his job as teacher till 2008 in the same school. In 2008, Kumar applied for the 3rd Combined Civil Services Exam in Jharkhand and was called for an interview. He has submitted his Caste Certificate dated January 12, 2007 showing him as resident of Ranchi along with his application for the Civil Services, which showed his original residence' as Patna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
20-08-2021||India||Facebook removes Rahul Gandhi's Instagram post for violation of policy||After Twitter, Facebook has removed a content posted by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi that identified the family of a nine-year-old victim of alleged rape and murder in Northwest Delhi, saying it violated the social media platform's policies. According to sources, Facebook has informed Gandhi and the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) about the removal of the posts from Facebook and Instagram. Earlier this week, Facebook had written to Gandhi asking him to remove the said post from Instagram -- Facebook's photosharing platform. "We have taken action to remove the content as it was in violation of our policies," a Facebook spokesperson said in an emailed statement on Friday. Facebook takes action against a content if it violates its Community Standards or upon receiving a valid legal request as per Indian laws. Last week, NCPCR had asked Facebook to take appropriate action against Gandhi's Instagram profile over violation of provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, and the Indian Penal Code, and demanded the removal of the video from the platform. Following the communication from Facebook to Gandhi earlier week, NCPCR withdrew its direction to the company to appear before the commission with an explanation over non-action regarding Gandhi's post. Earlier this month, Gandhi had met the family of the nine-year-old girl and asserted that he is with them on the path to justice and "will not back down even an inch". Later, he posted a picture of his meeting with the girl's parents on Instagram. Similar posts were also shared on Twitter. The microblogging platform had locked accounts of Gandhi as well as many other Congress leaders who tweeted the controversial post. On August 14, Twitter restored Gandhi's account after the Congress leader submitted a consent letter from the family of the victim. Twitter, however, continues to withhold the tweets that contain the images saying they violate India's laws. "As part of the appeal process, @RahulGandhi (the official Twitter handle of Rahul Gandhi) has submitted a copy of the formal consent/authorisation letter to use the referenced image via our India Grievance Channel," Twitter spokesperson had said. The law provides that identity of a juvenile victim of sexual assault cannot be disclosed. Tweeting pictures of the family violated that and so the accounts were locked. During the period the accounts were locked, the owner could access the account but not allowed to send out new tweets. This was to allow them to delete the contentious tweets. But neither Gandhi nor Congress and its leaders did that. Instead, they submitted a consent letter from the family of the alleged rape victim for use of their images. "We have followed the necessary due diligence process to review the appeal in order to protect the safety and privacy of the affected individuals. We have updated our enforcement action based on the consent provided by the people depicted in the image," the Twitter spokesperson had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
20-08-2021||India||Delhi records zero Covid casualty, 57 fresh cases in 24 hours||No death due to COVID-19 was recorded in Delhi on Friday, while 57 fresh cases were reported with a positivity rate of 0.08 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. This is the eleventh time since the starting of the second wave of the pandemic in the national capital that zero fatality has been logged in a day. On July 18, July 24, July 29, August 2, August 4, August 8, August 11 and August 12, August 13 and August 16 too, no death due to COVID-19 was recorded, according to official data. On March 2 this year, the city had reported zero death due to the virus. On that day, the number of single-day infections stood at 217 and the positivity rate was 0.33 per cent. The second wave swept the city during April-May period. On Friday, 57 fresh cases were recorded as the positivity rate rose to 0.08 per cent, according to the latest bulletin. Twenty-five fresh COVID-19 cases, the lowest since April 15 last year, and two deaths due to the disease were recorded on Thursday, while the positivity rate had stood at 0.04 per cent, according to the official figures. On Wednesday, the city had registered 36 cases and four fatalities, while the positivity rate had stood at 0.05 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
20-08-2021||India||Delta variant of Covid-19 responsible for breakthrough infections, says govt consortium ||Breakthrough infections of coronavirus cases comprise a very high proportion of the Delta variant, the INSACOG, a genome sequencing government consortium of laboratories, has said. The continuing Covid-19 outbreaks across India are attributable to the Delta variant, a susceptible population and reduced vaccine effectiveness in blocking transmission, the INSACOG added. However, vaccination continues to be very effective in reducing severe disease and death, and public health measures to reduce transmission and inoculation remain critical, the INSACOG stressed in its latest bulletin dated August 16. "As of now, sequencing of vaccination breakthroughs in India is also showing a very high proportion of Delta variant. Investigations for any new variants are ongoing," the INSACOG said. Of the 30,230 samples of Variants of Concern and Variants of Interest sequenced by the INSACOG, 20,324 were of Delta, it said. The Delta variant is currently driving the pandemic across several countries with China and Korea seeing new highs. Korea has reported that the new surge is due to Delta plus K417N mutation. The Delta variant resulted in a deadly second wave in the country between March to May that wreaked havoc on the health infrastructure, overwhelming hospitals. It infected lakhs and killed thousands. In India, new cases of AY.1, AY.2, AY.3 (Delta Plus) are being seen in July samples from Maharashtra at a frequency of about 1 per cent. However, at this time none of these sub-lineages has been found to have a growth advantage over the Delta parent lineage, it noted. According to INSACOG (the Indian SARS-CoV2 Genomics Consortium), 61 samples of Delta Plus variants have been detected in the country so far. "Delta variant is the major VOC in India at this time. Continuing outbreaks across India are attributable to Delta, a susceptible population, reduced vaccine effectiveness in blocking transmission, and opportunities for transmission," the INSACOG said. Daily coronavirus cases have seen a significant plunge since the second wave which peaked in May. The active cases have declined to 3,63,605, the lowest in 150 days, and comprise 1.12 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, the Health Ministry said on Friday. Over 57 crore jabs have been administered in the country so far, the Health Ministry added. The R Value, or the Reproduction rate in the country has also dipped to 0.89 from August 14-16. But country continues to post over 25,000 cases everyday. There has been a concern whether an increasing vaccination breakthroughs in India are because of a new variant, the INSACOG said. It also cited an example of the UK. With a population of about 6.7 crore, the UK has reported about 18 lakh cases and 1.2 lakh vaccination breakthroughs with Delta since April 2021. "Thus, vaccination breakthroughs are common during Delta outbreaks and are expected in India as well," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
20-08-2021||India||Johnson & Johnson seeks India nod for jab trials for children||Johnson & Johnson (JNJ.N) has sought approval from Indian drug regulators to conduct a study of its COVID-19 vaccine among 12- to 17-year-olds, the company said on Friday. Conducting vaccine clinical trials among adolescents is imperative to achieve herd immunity against the coronavirus, J&J said in an emailed statement. The U.S. pharma giant had received emergency use approval for its single-dose vaccine in India earlier this month, making it the fifth authorised vaccine in the country. While J&J has a supply agreement with Indian vaccine maker Biological E Ltd to bring its shot to the country, the company had said that it was too early to give a delivery timeline.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
20-08-2021||India||Deported Afghan from Nagpur has joined Taliban, say cops||An Afghan national, who was deported to his country from Nagpur in June this year after he was found staying here illegally, has apparently joined the Taliban and his picture holding a rifle has surfaced on social media, a senior police official said on Friday. The Taliban has seized power in Afghanistan as it swept into capital Kabul on Sunday after President Ashraf Ghani fled the country. "The man, Noor Mohammad Ajiz Mohammad, 30, was found staying in Nagpur since the last 10 years illegally. He was living in a rented place in Dighori area of the city. Acting on a tip-off, the police had started keeping a watch on his activities. He was finally nabbed and deported to Afghanistan on June 23," he said. "After his deportation, he seems to have joined the Taliban and his photo holding a gun has emerged on social media," he added. During the probe earlier, police had found that he had come to Nagpur in 2010 on a six-month tourist visa. Later, he had applied to the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) seeking refugee status for himself, but his application was rejected. His appeal was also turned down by the UNHRC. Since then, he stayed in Nagpur illegally, the official said. Another police official said that Noor Mohammad's original name is Abdul Haque and his brother was working with the Taliban. Last year, Noor had floated a video on social media with a sharp-edged weapon. After he was nabbed, police found that he had "entry and exit wounds" from a gunshot near his left shoulder, he said, adding that when his social media accounts were checked, it was found that he was following some terrorists whose videos of gun firing were available on social media. "He was in the business of selling blankets and was unmarried. Police conducted searches at his rented accommodation but did not find anything suspicious. His call details are also under the scanner of the police," the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
20-08-2021||India||Amarinder, Sidhu agree to promote better coordination between party and government||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and State Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday agreed to set up a 10-member strategic policy group to ensure better coordination between the party and the state government and expedite implementation of various government programmes. The development is seen as a sign of thaw between Singh and Sidhu, amid the ongoing tussle between the two of them. In another development, the chief minister has deputed his ministers to sit at Congress Bhawan here for interacting with the party cadre and public. Congress president Sonia Gandhi had earlier advised that the Punjab government and the state unit of the party must work together. To be headed by the chief minister, the Group will have Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra, Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal and Social Security Minister Aruna Chaudhary as members along with Sidhu. The four state Congress working presidents, Kuljit Singh Nagra, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Sangat Singh Gilzian and Pawan Goel, and Pargat Singh will also be members. The decision was taken on Friday when Sidhu, along with Nagra and Pargat, called on the chief minister to discuss Punjab related issues and steps to strengthen party-government coordination, a statement here said. The Group will hold weekly meetings in consultation with other ministers and experts as may be required. It will discuss and review the progress of various state government initiatives already under implementation, and will also suggest measures to expedite the same, it said. In another decision, which came after Sidhu wrote a letter to the chief minister, Singh has also assigned his cabinet colleagues the task of being available in Punjab Congress Bhawan, the party's state headquarter here, every day, by rotation, for meetings with MLAs and other party functionaries to discuss issues relating to their constituencies or areas and address any grievances. One minister each will be available at the Congress Bhawan from Monday for three hours between 11 am and 2 pm, the roster for which has been put up by Sidhu on his Twitter handle, and in any case the minister deputed for a particular day is unable to make it for some reason, he or she shall arrange for a substitute in consultation with any other minister. The arrangement will be in place five days in a week, from Monday to Friday, said the chief minister, adding that this will help in better coordination between his government and party functionaries in the run-up to the 2022 Assembly elections. Sidhu, who released a photograph with the CM on his Twitter handle, said in a tweet, Highly positive Co-ordination meeting on proposal for roaster (sic) of Ministers to sit at Punjab Congress Bhawan !! . In his letter to chief minister, Sidhu said Punjab Congress workers are the backbone of the party, whose persistence, hard work and dedication led us to a sweeping victory in 2017 elections. Ever since the esteemed Congress high command has given me the pivotal responsibility as President, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, I have been interacting with hundreds and thousands of our party colleagues on a daily basis and listening to their concerns. "I, along with PCC working presidents and senior state Congress leadership are of the opinion that there are issues of dire importance to the people of Punjab, which are brought to the notice of PCC on a daily basis, Sidhu wrote. The Punjab Congress chief said these can be effectively resolved if ministers of the state Cabinet sit in the Punjab Congress Bhawan, Chandigarh on basis of one minister a day . Ministers spending quality hours in PCC office for five days a week to hear concerns of Congress workers, Unions and people of Punjab, and taking immediate action will be a great way to discharge their duty, he said in the letter. Creating a roster for efficient management, giving turns to each minister to sit and hear issues related to different departments and areas of Punjab can be a crucial step towards hearing and resolving the issue of the people of Punjab, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
20-08-2021||India||Uttarakhand govt sends list of names of 110 natives stuck in Afghanistan to Centre||The names of 110 Uttarakhand natives stuck in Afghanistan have been sent to the Ministry of External Affairs by the state government, official sources here said on Friday. "On Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami's direction the administration has sent a list of 110 names to the MEA on the basis of information available with it so far," they said. The list has been sent with a request that any information about them should also be shared with the state government, the sources said. The families of Uttarakhand natives stranded in Afghanistan since the Taliban takeover are worried and have been requesting the state government to facilitate their safe return. The chief minister has already spoken to National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and the MEA, urging them to take all steps necessary for their safe return. The state government has also asked people, whose kin are stuck in Afghanistan, to furnish the district administration with all relevant information about them like their names, passport details etc so that they can be passed on to the Centre for further action. The information can also be provided to the district administration on helpline no 112, an order issued by Additional Chief Secretary Anand Bardhan said. "The state government is making all efforts with help from the Centre to ensure safe return of the people from Uttarakhand stranded in Afghanistan," Dhami said. "We are in constant touch with the Centre. All steps are being taken to ensure that each Indian stranded in Afghanistan returns home safely," the chief minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
20-08-2021||India||Centre prepared to tackle possible third wave of Covid-19, assures Anurag Thakur||The Centre is fully ready to tackle a possible third wave of COVID-19 and a provision of Rs 23,123 has been made for this purpose, Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur said here on Friday. He said special emphasis is being given to strengthening paediatric care amid apprehension that the third wave may affect children more than others. Thakur, who is on a five-day 'Jan Ashirwaad Yatra' in his home state Himachal Pradesh, was speaking to reporters here. This is his maiden visit to the state after being sworn-in as a Union Cabinet minister. The Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government is fully ready to tackle a possible third wave of COVID-19. A provision of Rs 23,123 has been made to deal with it, said Thakur, who is also the minister for youth affairs and sports. Special emphasis is being given to strengthening paediatric care as experts fear that the third wave may affect children more than others, he said. Some experts have warned that the third wave of COVID-19 may affect children more while others have said there is little reason to believe this theory. However, experts concur that there is a need to improve paediatric Covid services in the country. So far, India has reported 3,23,58,829 COVID-19 cases and 4,33,589 deaths due to the disease, according to the Union health ministry. Thakur started his 'Jan Ashirwaad Yatra' from Parwanoo in Solan district on Thursday. He will cover a distance of 623 km across four Lok Sabha constituencies and 37 assembly segments in eight districts in the hill state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
20-08-2021||India||Terror forces can dominate for some time, but they are not permanent, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that destructive forces and people who follow the ideology of creating empires through terror can dominate for some time, but their existence is not permanent as they cannot suppress humanity forever. He was speaking while virtually inaugurating a few projects of the famous Somnath temple in Gujarat. "Somnath temple was destroyed many times, idols were desecrated many times and attempts were made to wipe out its existence. But it came up in its full glory after every destructive attack, which gives self-confidence to us," Modi said. "Forces that strive for destruction and those who follow the ideology of creating empires out of terror can dominate for some time, but their existence is never permanent as they cannot suppress humanity forever," he added. It was true when the Somnath temple was being destroyed in the past and it is true even today, the PM said. His remarks come in the wake of the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. Modi also said that India, which was at 65th position in 2013 in Travel and Tourism Competitiveness Index, jumped to 34th position in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
20-08-2021||India||Three-member panel probing Vikas Dubey's encounter gives clean chit to police||A three-member commission probing the encounter of gangster Vikas Dubey has given a clean chit to police, stating their version of events about his death were supported by evidence. The commission said that the Kanpur ambush in which eight cops were killed occurred because of "poor planning" by the police as it did not assess the situation correctly and there was "total failure" of Kanpur local intelligence. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Suresh Khanna tabled the report in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly on Thursday. "The evidence adduced in the (Dubey encounter) case supports police's version of the incident. The injuries suffered by policemen could not be self-inflicted or fabricated. Dr RS Mishra, who was on the panel of doctors, conducted the post-mortem and clarified that the injuries found on his person (Dubey) could be caused as per the version of police," the report said. "Nobody came forward from the public and media to controvert the police version and no evidence is filed in rebuttal. Richa Dubey, wife of Vikas, filed an affidavit calling the incident a fake encounter but she did not appear before the commission," it said, adding that in such eventuality, no suspicion or doubt arises about the police's version of the incident. A magisterial inquiry conducted by Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Kanpur Nagar has a similar finding. Eight police personnel, including deputy superintendent of police, were killed during a raid on Dubey's house at Bikru village in Kanpur district on the night of July 2-3, 2020. Later, Dubey was killed in an encounter when a police vehicle carrying him from Ujjain to Kanpur met with an accident and he tried to escape from custody, the police had said. The commission comprised Justice (Retd) BS Chauhan, Justice (Retd) SK Agarwal and former UP director general of police KL Gupta. It had submitted a 824-page report to the state government on April 21. The commission said there is "sufficient material on record" to show that Vikas Dubey and his gang were patronised by the local police, revenue and administrative officials. "He (Vikas) and his associates had been in touch with such officials, and the officers were also communicating with them. If any person lodged any complaint against Vikas or his associates, the complainant was always humiliated by the police. Even if higher authorities gave directions to lodge a complaint, the local police dictated the terms," it said. Though his name appeared in the list of top 10 criminals in the circle, he did not feature among top 10 criminals of the district, it said, adding that the members of his gang were included in a peace committee to resolve communal disputes. "His wife was elected as a Zila Panchayat member and his brother's wife was elected as Bikru village's pradhan. They were both living in Lucknow. If any person of the area wanted help from them, he would contact Vikas Dubey and he would resolve their problem. The elected people never came into the picture," the report said. Most of his family members had arms licences, and recommendations for them had been made by competent authorities by concealing material facts of their involvement in criminal cases. Their position was the same when it came to issuance of passports in their favour and/or grant of fair price shop licences, the commission noted. "Investigation in any case lodged against them (Dubey's gang) was never impartial. Sections relating to serious offences were dropped before filing the charge sheet. During the trial, most of the witnesses turn hostile. Vikas Dubey and his associates got bail orders from courts easily and quickly as there was no serious opposition by state authorities or government advocates," it added. "He was involved in 64 criminal cases. State authorities never considered it appropriate to engage a special counsel for his prosecution," it said, adding the state never moved any application for cancellation of bail or approached a superior court for cancellation of any bail orders. In most of the cases, the high court had granted interim relief to Dubey, staying the proceedings before subordinate courts in criminal cases, and he remained under the protection of such orders for 13-14 years, it said. The commission said the HC granted bail to Dubey and his associates mainly on the ground that he had been acquitted in a large number of cases, without attempting to know under what circumstances he was acquitted and how and why the witnesses turned hostile in most of the cases. About the ambush, it said some police personnel posted in Chaubeypur police station had intimated Dubey about the impending raid which gave him an opportunity to call his associates with arms. "There was a total failure of intelligence unit in Kanpur in collecting information about criminal activities and possession of sophisticated weapons (legal and illegal) by Vikas Dubey and his gang. No proper caution was taken while preparing for the raid, as 38/40 police personnel reached village Bikru and none of them was wearing a bulletproof jacket. Only 18 of them had arms, the rest had gone empty-handed or with sticks," the report said. The incident occurred because of "poor planning" by the police as it did not assess the situation correctly. "In fact, it did never expect that Dubey would retaliate with sophisticated weapons and his associates would take positions on on the roofs of houses. They were unaware that some police officials of Chaubeypur had already informed Dubey about the raid," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
20-08-2021||India||Active Covid caseload lowest in 150 days||India logged 36,571 new coronavirus infections, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,23,58,829, while the national recovery rate improved to 97.54 per cent, the highest since March 2020, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll climbed to 4,33,589 with 540 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases have declined to 3,63,605, the lowest in 150 days, and comprise 1.12 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, the ministry said. A reduction of 524 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 18,86,271 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 50,26,99,702. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.94 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 25 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.93 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 56 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,15,61,635, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. Cumulatively, 57.22 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Friday morning. The 540 new fatalities include 197 from Kerala and 154 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,33,589 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,35,567 from Maharashtra, 37,088 from Karnataka, 34,639 from Tamil Nadu, 25,079 from Delhi, 22,789 from Uttar Pradesh, 19,246 from Kerala and 18,337 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
20-08-2021||India||Taj Mahal to reopen for night viewing from Saturday||After remaining closed for over a year for night viewing, the Taj Mahal will open from August 21 for visitors who want to explore the marble monument under the moonlight, officials said on Friday. Night viewing of the monument had closed on March 17, 2020 during the first lockdown due to COVID-19. ASI Superintending Archaeologist (Agra Circle) Vasant Kumar Swarnkar told PTI that night viewing will be allowed on August 21, 23 and 24 as the monument is closed every week on Friday and the lockdown is in effect on Sunday. He said there are three time slots for visitors. From 8:30-9 pm, 9-9:30 pm and from 9:30-10 pm. "In every slot, 50 tourists would be allowed as per guidelines of the Supreme Court," he added. "The tickets can be booked a day in advance from ASI office's counter on 22 Mall Road in Agra," Kumar said. Rajeev Saxena, vice-president of the Tourism Guild of Agra, said it was a good step, but it would not attract weekend travellers until the restriction of lockdown on Sunday and curfew after 10 pm was not lifted. "Tourists want to enjoy nightlife of the city, they don't want to be packed in their hotels after 10 pm," he said. A government approved tour guide, Monika Sharma, appreciated the move and said it was a ray of hope for the revival of Agra's tourism sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
20-08-2021||India||No tolerance for terrorism, says Jaishankar at UNSC briefing||The UNSC members endorsed in one voice a "zero tolerance" approach to terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday as the top UN body issued a strong statement under India's Presidency, underscoring the need to ensure a strict check on terror financing and bring perpetrators of terror attacks to justice. The powerful 15-nation Council, currently being presided over by India, issued a Press Statement on ISIL/Da'esh after Jaishankar chaired the Security Council briefing on 'Threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts'. The UNSC briefing considered the 13th report of the Secretary General on the threat posed by ISIL (Da'esh) to international peace and security. Speaking to reporters after the briefing, Jaishankar said, "During our deliberations today, all Security Council members with one voice endorsed a zero-tolerance approach to terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. We are clear that there cannot be double standards and distinctions are really made at our own peril. "We are happy to note that a very strong, substantive, clear Press Statement has been adopted by the Council today that outlines many of the key concerns, especially the need to ensure a strict check on terror financing and bringing the perpetrators of the terror attacks to justice," he said. The Press Statement, issued by Jaishankar in his capacity as the Council President, said members of the Security Council noted with deep concern that ISIL (Da'esh) and other terrorist groups continue to exploit, both online and offline, of the disruption, grievances and development setbacks linked to the COVID-19 pandemic, as reflected in the 13th report of the Secretary General on ISIL. The members of the Security Council reiterated that they condemn in the strongest terms all instances of terrorism, including the recent cowardly terrorist attacks, such as, the terrorist attack in Baghdad on July 19, 2021, and noted with concern that ISIL (Da'esh) could regain the ability to launch or orchestrate international terrorist attacks, the press statement said. The Council members, on the eve of the fourth commemoration of the International Day of Remembrance of and Tribute to the Victims of Terrorism on August 21, 2021, reiterated their unwavering commitment to strengthening international cooperation to prevent and combat terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. They also reaffirmed that terrorism in all its forms and manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international peace and security, and that all acts of terrorism are criminal and unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation, wherever, whenever and by whomsoever committed, the statement said. The UNSC briefing was the third signature event held under India's Presidency that has focussed on issues of maritime security and peacekeeping. Counter-terrorism was the third key focus area for India during its August Presidency of the Council and as a country which has borne the brunt of cross-border terrorism, this will be a priority issue for India during its remaining term in the Security Council as well. India will be Chairing the UNSC Counter Terror Committee (CTC), in 2022, taking over from Tunisia and Jaishankar said New Delhi hopes to build on the gains from Thursday's meeting during its chairmanship of the CTC. At the briefing, UNSC member states joined India's call for a zero-tolerance approach towards terrorism in all its forms and manifestation. In a serious cause of concern, various terror organisations like ISIL, al-Qaeda, Lashkar-e-Taiba, Jaish-e-Mohammad, Haqqani Network and their frontal organisations are growing in strength and gaining new grounds with impunity, encouragement and state sponsored hospitality. The Council members expressed concerns over the increasing use by ISIL and its financiers of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT), including emerging technologies, such as virtual assets and other anonymous means of monetary or financial transactions. They also underscored the importance of international cooperation, effective governance in line with international law, and innovative partnerships with the private sector and civil society to prevent and counter the use of ICT for terrorist purposes. The UNSC Press Statement urged all member states to fulfil their obligations as set forth in relevant Council resolutions to criminalise the financing of terrorism, as well as to build further the capacity of their financial oversight and regulatory systems in order to deny ISIL (Da'esh) and its financiers the space to exploit and raise funds. This, the statement said, the member states should do so by including by cooperating with the private sector through public-private partnerships with financial institutions and designated non-financial businesses and professions, and by taking into account the assessments thereof by relevant entities such as the Counter-Terrorism Committee Executive Directorate. The Security Council underscores the importance of a holistic approach to counter terrorism and violent extremism conducive to terrorism, conducted in accordance with applicable international law, as well as efforts to address the governance, security, human rights, humanitarian, development and socioeconomic dimensions of the challenge, including employment for the youth and the eradication of poverty, the statement said. The members of the Security Council further reaffirmed that member states must ensure that all measures, undertaken to counter the financing of terrorism, comply with their obligations under international law, including international humanitarian law, international human rights law and international refugee law. The members of the Security Council expressed concern over the alarming expansion of ISIL (Da'esh) in many regions, including in Africa and acknowledged that the growing influence of ISIL (Da'esh) in Africa may have far-reaching implications for the peace, security and stability of the region. They recalled the Council's Presidential Statement issued in March last year that underscored the need for a coherent and effective regional approach and stressed the importance of an urgent global response to support African countries and regional organisations. The Council also deplored the continuous attacks on civilians, towns and military camps by ISIL's regional affiliates such as IS in West Africa Province (ISWAP), IS in Greater Sahara (ISGS) and ISIL in Central Africa, and expressed concern over the presence of, and threat from ISIL-Khorasan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
20-08-2021||India||Two militants killed in encounter with security forces in Pulwama||Two militants were killed in an encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama district on Friday, officials said here. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation at Khrew in Pampore area of the district following information about the presence of militants there, the officials said. They said the search operation turned into an encounter after the ultras opened fire at the security forces which was retaliated. In the ensuing encounter, two militants were killed, the officials said. They said the identity and group affiliation of the slain ultras was being ascertained. Incriminating material including arms and ammunition have been recovered from the site of the encounter, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
20-08-2021||India||Tej Pratap Yadav, Bihar RJD chief trade barbs||Turbulence struck Bihar’s main Opposition party Rashtriya Janata Dal on Thursday after a simmering conflict between party chief Lalu Prasad’s son Tej Pratap Yadav and state unit president Jagadanand Singh exploded in the public with both sides attacking each other. The latest development has the potential of creating a rift in the largest party in the Bihar Assembly at a time when senior leaders are expecting new political equations to emerge in the state, which may give the RJD a fresh shot at power. Former Lok Sabha member and minister Jagadanand, 76, considered a loyal associate of Lalu, had been sulking for the past couple of months over the insults meted out to him by Tej Pratap, sources said. Jagadanand had stopped coming to the state party headquarters and had even tendered his resignation last month, but Lalu refused to accept it. Senior party leaders said that the immediate trigger for the rift spilling out in the open was Jagadanand removing Akash Yadav from the post of the president of the student wing of the RJD, and installing one Gagan Kumar in his place on Wednesday. Akash is said to be close to Tej Pratap. Stung by the move, Tej Pratap, who has always claimed to be a patron of the student wing (Chhatra RJD), chose to hit out at his brother Tejashwi Prasad Yadav’s aide Sanjay Yadav without taking his name. Sanjay hails from Haryana. “The president (Jagadanand), while consulting the migrant consultant (read Sanjay), forgot that a party is run as per its constitution. The RJD’s constitution says that no office-bearer of the party could be relieved from his post without being served a notice. What happened is against the constitution of our party,” Tej Pratap said. He also asserted that those who worked hard in the party were not being rewarded while those who indulged in sycophancy were being handed plum posts. Several hours later, Tej Pratap attacked Sanjay again and said a “migrant consultant who cannot get any member of his family elected as sarpanch in Haryana cannot make my Arjun (read Tejashwi) a chief minister. He can only engineer friction in the Lalu family and the RJD”. The Mahua MLA also alleged that Jagadanand refused to accept the fact that he was the elder son of Lalu. However, his remarks pointed at Sanjay were seen as an indirect attack on Tejashwi and queered the pitch further. Jagadanand, who normally avoids getting into verbal duels or commenting on Tej Pratap’s barbs, chose to hit back this time. “I am not accountable to Tej Pratap. Who is he? I am accountable to Lalu Prasad,” an angry Jagadanand said on Thursday. “The post of the president of the student wing of our party was vacant. Hence I appointed a suitable leader. If anybody claims that he is the patron of the student wing and has appointed somebody as its president, he has no power to do so. He should first read the party’s constitution,” he said. The latest development seems to be an outcome of the silent power struggle among Lalu’s children, in which his younger son and leader of the Opposition Tejashwi has risen to prominence. Tejashwi led the party in the 2020 Assembly elections as the chief ministerial candidate of the Opposition Grand Alliance, winning 75 seats — more than the BJP (74) and the JDU (43) which are in power. He failed to come to power by just 12 seats. On the other hand, Tej Pratap and Lalu’s eldest daughter, Rajya Sabha member Misa Bharti, lost out in the race within the party. They have stayed sidelined for the past four years. Asked about the friction in the party, Tejashwi said: “Everybody has his own opinion. I am there, our national president (Lalu) is there. We will make everything all right. We are not worried.” The ruling JDU and BJP took the opportunity to attack the RJD over the friction among senior leaders and Lalu’s sons. Leaders from both the parties claimed that Tej Pratap was not getting his due as the elder son of Lalu. Reacting to their statements, Tejashwi asked them to “focus on the ongoing floods in the state in which lakhs of people were suffering immensely”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
20-08-2021||India||Bharatiya Kisan Sangh union plans protest  for minimum support price||The RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Kisan Sangh (BKS) has decided to stage a nationwide agitation on September 8 for a law on minimum support price (MSP) in a bid to foreground this demand over the ongoing farmers’ agitation for the repeal of the three farm laws. A PTI report from Nagpur said the BKS also called for “improvement” in the three farm laws. Addressing a news conference on Thursday, BKS office-bearer Dinesh Kulkarni said the Centre should either bring a new legislation or make changes in the agri-marketing laws enacted last year to add a provision for the payment of MSP for major farm produce. BKS general secretary Badri Narayan Choudhary told this newspaper that they had essentially served an ultimatum to the government. BKS would organise district-level protests across the country on September 8 if the government does not give an assurance on enacting an MSP law by the end of this month, he said. On the farm laws, Choudhary said their implementation had been stayed by the Supreme Court. “The government has said it is willing to amend some of the provisions. We are in favour of reforms in the agriculture sector and have already suggested some changes. If the government repeals these laws, we will protest. When all other sectors are being reformed, why should agriculture be left behind?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
20-08-2021||India||Well-wishers of terrorists in UP should remember who is their PM and CM: Swatantra Dev||The rise of the Taliban in Afghanistan may pose a serious security threat to India but internally the ruling BJP appears to be happy, hoping the tragic developments could help the party. The BJP’s rise is centred on majoritarian and Hindutva politics and seeking to project Islam as against the “idea of Bharat”. Party insiders feel the images coming out after the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan will help to strengthen its politics among the people. Though both the government and the party have been  guarded in their comments, leaders in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh and the BJP ecosystem appear to have hurled themselves into the effort to exploit the situation in Afghanistan, eyeing electoral gains. “People who are well-wishers of terrorists in Uttar Pradesh should remember who is their Prime Minister and chief minister,” BJP’s Uttar Pradesh chief Swatantra Dev said on Wednesday. The comment was aimed at rival Samajwadi Party’s Sambhal MP Shafiqur Rahman Barq, who has been slapped with a sedition case for allegedly equating the struggle of India’s freedom fighters for Independence with the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. The alleged comment from Barq, a Muslim, appears to have given a handle to BJP leaders in Uttar Pradesh to go all out to play the Hindutva card. The Samajwadi MP has said he was misquoted. On Thursday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath too sought to play the Taliban issue while speaking in the Assembly, apparently eyeing the polls in February-March next year. “Despite the kind of cruelty being meted out to women and children some people here are shamelessly supporting the Taliban. The faces of all these leaders should be exposed,” Adityanath said, seeking to slam principal rival SP, which draws support mainly from Yadavs and Muslims. BJP managers feel the Taliban overrunning Afghanistan coinciding with the preparations for the Uttar Pradesh polls could divert attention from the failures of the Adityanath government by sharpening polarisation. The Adityanath government had faced widespread flak for his mishandling of the second Covid wave and recent surveys have shown a sharp dip in his popularity ratings. But party managers hope the polarisation card could wipe off the failures and sway the majority community. The top leadership of the BJP has maintained silence on the developments in Afghanistan given the sensitivity of the issue but some other key leaders are slowly seeking to use the Taliban to make political statements. Two former general secretaries of the BJP, Ram Madhav (now with the RSS) and P Muralidhar Rao, initially flagged the serious security threat to India due to the Taliban takeover but later gave comments seeking to obliquely play politics. “World over people are keenly watching about the developments happening in #Afghanistan. How women are treated under Taliban rule is the touchstone!” P Muralidhar Rao tweeted on Wednesday. “Hope, all Indians irrespective of denomination they belong to have consensus on this.” he added. Speaking at an event in Kozhikode on Thursday, Ram Madhav said the Moplah rebellion of 1921, also called the Mappila riots, was one of the first manifestations of the Talibani mindset in India and accused the Left of trying to whitewash it by celebrating it as a communist revolution. BJP Rajya Sabha MP Rakesh Sinha, who has been known as an RSS ideologue, has slammed those supporting the Taliban and said: “Taliban is an idea which must be opposed by Indian Muslims without if and but!”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
20-08-2021||India||Lakshadweep administration withdraws master’s and undergraduate Arabic courses ||The Lakshadweep administration has withdrawn the master’s and undergraduate Arabic courses taught at the Union Territory at a time administrator Praful Khoda Patel has been accused of imposing a “saffron” agenda on the Muslim-majority archipelago. Kerala's state-run University of Calicut taught these courses at academic centres run by the Lakshadweep government. About a week ago, the Patel administration asked the university to stop all the master's courses it taught on the islands — MA Arabic, MCom, MA English and MSc aquaculture — as well as the BA Arabic course. The University of Calicut's syndicate on Wednesday ratified the cancellation of the courses, although the existing students will be allowed to complete their programmes. Syndicate member K.K. Haneefa told The Telegraph on Thursday that the Lakshadweep administration had cited a lack of demand for the master’s courses. “They apparently want to start job-oriented courses,” Haneefa said. University officials said the order did not say why the popular BA Arabic programme was being abolished. U.S. Afsal, who taught Arabic for five years until last month at Lakshadweep, expressed shock. “I just can’t believe this, since BA Arabic is a very popular course,” he told this newspaper. He acknowledged that MA Arabic attracted only a handful of students but underlined that the master's course was launched on the island only six years ago. BA Arabic was introduced 16 years ago. The University of Calicut taught BEd at a centre on Kavaratti Island and the other undergraduate and master's courses at centres on the Andrott and Kadmat Islands. The archipelago's students seeking degrees in Arabic will now have to travel to Kerala or elsewhere. While scrapping the Arabic courses, the Lakshadweep administration has signed an agreement with the Pondicherry Central University from NDA-ruled Puducherry to start diploma courses in travel and tourism, catering and hospitality, and technical education on the Kadmat and Minicoy islands. A senior official at the University of Calicut, located in Kerala's Malappuram district, said the BA Arabic course attracted about 30 students each year. He said it's mainly women who seek higher education in Lakshadweep. “There's no justification for pulling out the undergraduate (Arabic) course or the MA aquaculture course, which was specific to the ecology of Lakshadweep, whose people depend mainly on fishing,” said the official, declining to be named. He said the university had no choice but to accept the administration's directive. “The centres are run by the Lakshadweep administration while we provide the courses and teachers; so there was nothing we could do,” he said. A syndicate member, Rasheed Ahammed P, on Thursday wrote to the vice-chancellor of the University of Calicut demanding he mount pressure on the Lakshadweep administration to reinstate the BA and MA Arabic courses. “There was no shortage of students in BA Arabic all these years. Hence, such a move will not be in the interest of Lakshadweep's students,” the letter said. Ahammed said the master's course too should be allowed to continue and not judged solely in terms of enrolment figures. "It's a part of providing facilities to meritorious students... especially to poor girl students," the letter said. Afsal said: “We need to realise that Lakshadweep is a very backward area where the importance of higher education is just about getting accepted.” Patel, who took over as administrator last December, is a former BJP leader who was home minister of Gujarat for a while when Narendra Modi was chief minister. Several of his decisions have prompted protest in Lakshadweep and outside, among them his efforts to boost tourism and construction projects that many fear would harm the islands’ ecology. Patel has also been accused of trying to cut Lakshadweep's links with Kerala, with which the islanders share deep cultural, linguistic and marital ties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
20-08-2021||India||Left Front asks Centre to work closely with major regional powers on Afghanistan||The CPM and the CPI have asked the Centre to “work closely with major regional powers” on Afghanistan and desist from “blindly following the US”. “Major regional powers” usually mean Russia, China and Iran. “The United States has suffered a humiliating defeat in Afghanistan. Twenty years after the toppling of the Taliban regime, the Taliban are back in power....,” the Left parties have said. They added that the “the Afghan policy of the Indian government had been to blindly follow the Americans. This had resulted in its isolation in the region and hence, it is left with few options...”. “India must work closely with major regional powers to see that the Afghan people are able to live in a peaceful and stable environment. The Indian government should immediately work towards the safe evacuation of all stranded Indian citizens in Afghanistan,” the Left parties said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
20-08-2021||India||Helping hand for Afghans||A woman JNU student is stuck at her home in central Afghanistan, watching Taliban gunmen roam the streets, as she awaits her visa to be able to study in India. An Afghan student of Punjab University in Chandigarh keenly follows every piece of credible news from home to try and gauge his future prospects, while his wallet grows lighter every day. Their futures caught in the quagmire of a coup in Afghanistan, these students, some of the brightest from their country, now depend on the support of friends and a few NGOs and student groups that have begun relief efforts ordinarily performed by governments. The JNU student, holder of a scholarship from the Indian Council of Cultural Relations (ICCR), had contacted her university several times since July 26 as the Taliban closed in. She had secured admission last year from Afghanistan and been attending online classes for the past year from home. By the time the university responded, the Taliban had taken control of Kabul and the airport was shut. “They (JNU) were ignoring what I was facing. Later they said that it’s not just the bona fide certificate, they also need to contact the ICCR,” the student told The Telegraph over the phone. A bona fide certificate is one a university issues declaring a person as its student. It helps in getting a visa. “They said it would take 15 days. Now they have finally said that nothing is required from me; they will internally process it. I’m waiting, but the situation at Kabul airport is bad.” In response to requests from several Afghan students and the JNU students’ union, university registrar Ravikesh had said last Saturday that “the matter is being looked into”. On Wednesday, the registrar said that bona fide certificates would be issued to those whose visas are due to expire soon. Delhi University and the IITs had proactively facilitated visas for their Afghan students as soon as the Taliban began their march on Kabul in July. Some of these students have arrived in India. “There are reports of firing by the Taliban to control crowds at the airport and some say there have been injuries and deaths. Only military aircraft are operating and we don’t have information on civil flights,” the JNU student said. “The Taliban search homes but don’t say anything to us. For now, they have just taken away cars from some. Many people fear that the moment they get international recognition and foreign troops leave the airport, they may target former government officials, journalists and women activists. They have reportedly killed civilians without warning in Jalalabad. My parents want me to escape anywhere possible.” The Punjab University student, Farhad Haqyar — a 25-year-old ICCR scholar who is about to complete a master’s in journalism and communication --- has appealed to the Indian government for extensions of scholarships to Afghan students like him. Else, he says the United Nations should provide a dole until Afghans studying overseas find their feet. “There are some Afghans in India, including girls, with just Rs 100 left…. There is no financial support from home now as many cannot go to work any more,” Haqyar said. “In a few months, we will know if we have a working government and whether we can go back or go elsewhere. But at least until then, the ICCR can support us with the funds that were to be given to scholarship winners who now cannot come to India.” Haqyar is from the Panjshir Valley, where the anti-Taliban resistance is based. He was brought up in Kabul. His father, a government employee who has now confined himself to his home, lived through the brutal Taliban takeover of 1996. “A couple of months ago I had planned to return home and start an advertising company. Suddenly everything has changed and I see my ambitions escaping from me,” Haqyar said. “If the Taliban and other parties form an inclusive government, it will be a big opportunity for us. I’m ready to work in any situation if such a government is in place irrespective of who the ruler is,” he added. “For 25 years I have just breathed and not lived. Here I see couples enjoying themselves and going to the cinema. Back home, women pray at home just for the men to come back home alive. I just want to live for 20 years in tranquillity. It’s easy to capture Afghanistan but hard to rule it.... If the Taliban change 10 per cent, we can restrict ourselves too.” Sarhad, an NGO, is able to offer some help to those like Haqyar, if not the JNU student. Its president Sanjay Nahar told this newspaper that the organisation had shortlisted 25 students whose savings had run out. “For now, we are going to give Rs 5,000 to each of them, which may not last long. We intend to do a survey of how many are in need. We have helped them during the pandemic too,” he said. Nahar has petitioned a university in Pune to allow three women Afghan students to write the entrance test for the PhD programme although their visas — for the master’s course -- are about to expire. CPM student arm SFI is trying to help Afghan students at varsities across India. Its general secretary, Mayukh Biswas, said his organisation had recently taken up the cause of a recently arrived Afghan student of Jadavpur University who has been unable to join his programme as the regime change has left some of his documents in limbo. “We ask institutions to extend all help to their Afghan students in getting visas and places to stay. IIT Bombay has been most forthcoming,” Biswas said. “We also plan to appeal to the public to help students who need housing or financial assistance. But in the long run, institutions must offer scholarships. We are writing to MPs to ask this of the government.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
20-08-2021||India||Nitin Gadkari describes Nehru and Vajpayee as two ideal leaders of Indian democracy||Road transport and highways minister and senior BJP leader Nitin Gadkari has described Jawaharlal Nehru and Atal Bihari Vajpayee as two ideal leaders of Indian democracy, pointing out that both respected the Opposition. The statement, in reply to a question over the stalemate in Parliament, was seen as oblique criticism of the Narendra Modi government’s hostile attitude towards the Opposition. Gadkari said a “strong Opposition” was essential to keep a “check on the government” in a healthy democracy. The minister did not attack the Opposition for demanding a discussion on the Pegasus snooping allegations, which the government had refused to concede, leading to the stalemate. “Atal Bihari Vajpayee aur Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, ye Hindustan ke loktantra ke do adarsh neta the (Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru were two ideal leaders of Indian democracy),” Gadakri told News Nation on Wednesday in reply to a question on the Opposition’s protests during the monsoon session of Parliament. “Dono kehte the, mai apni loktantrik maryada ka palan karoonga (Both used to say that they would abide by their democratic values),” he added. The showering of praise on Nehru, who the current leadership likes to blame for India’s problems, will not go down well with the party and the government. Officially, however, the party sought to ignore Gadkari’s remarks, with some party spokespersons saying they were not aware of what he said. During the interview, Gadkari hailed Nehru thrice, stressing that the first Prime Minister’s contribution towards India’s democracy was “very significant”. “Is desh ke loktantra ko yashasvi karne ke liye majboot vipaksh ki bhi awashyakta hai (For making the country’s democracy glorious, a strong Opposition is needed),” he said when asked about the Congress’s decline. Refraining from attacking the Congress like most BJP leaders, he said: “Pandit Nehru ji ne har samay Atal Bihari Vajpayee ka samman kiya tha, ki loktantra ke liye majboot vipaksh ka hona zaruri hai (Pandit Nehru had always respected Vajpayee because a strong Opposition was essential for democracy).” The senior leader extended his best wishes for the Congress to become a “strong and responsible Opposition”. On the washout of the monsoon session, he said it was “very unfortunate” and suggested that the government and the Opposition come together and introspect. “Vajpayee’s legacy is our inspiration... Pandit Nehru’s contribution towards India’s democracy is also a very significant,” he said. “All parties should introspect... because the Opposition of today is the ruling party of tomorrow and the ruling side today is tomorrow’s Opposition. Our roles keep changing.” The government continues to attack the Opposition, particularly the Congress, holding it responsible for the deadlock in Parliament. It has also pressed for “strong action” against Opposition members for “denigrating” Parliament. Gadkari made no mention of this “denigration” in his reply despite being asked about it. The minister, who represents the Nagpur constituency and is known to be close to the RSS, is regarded as one of the best performing ministers. He is known to speak his mind and in the process toe a line contrary to the top leadership. In the run-up to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Gadkari had hit the headlines with his remarks aimed indirectly at the party leadership. He had suggested that the leadership should take responsibility for the defeat in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
20-08-2021||India||All India Council of Technical Education allows 2nd BTech degree ||The All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) has allowed BTech degree holders to pursue a second degree in another branch or discipline by taking fresh admission. Academicians supported the decision of the technical education regulator considering its intent but feared dilution in quality in implementation of this policy. Students seeking an additional BTech degree will get direct admission in second year through lateral entry, according to a circular issued last week by Dileep N. Malkhede, adviser-1, AICTE, to vice-chancellors of all technical universities and principals of all council-approved technical colleges. The executive committee of the AICTE approved the duration for completing the additional degree to be two years to three years without compromising on the credit requirements in the core discipline and attainment of learning outcomes of the new programme, the circular said. It asked the institutions to make necessary changes their statutes. The circular said a decision to this effect was taken in the executive committee meeting of the AICTE last month. AICTE chairman Anil Sahashrabudhe said the final decision to enrol students for the additional degree will depend on the respective institutions. “We received several requests from students for permission to study for an additional degree. No such provision was there. It was discussed in the executive committee meeting. The committee decided to create an enabling provision for such an additional degree. Now it is up to the universities and colleges to implement it,” Sahashrabudhe said. He said the first-year course is usually common across streams. Hence the BTech degree holders seeking an additional degree would directly get admission to second year. He said the additional degree will help students in professional development. Sunil Sarangi, former director of National Institute of Technology, Rourkela, said that the intention of the policy was welcome. “This is a well-intended policy. But it will be successful only if the students taking admission for a second degree attend classes and go through the academic rigour. I have doubts about that,” Sarangi said. He claimed that students of senior classes in Indian institutions feel “insulted” to sit with juniors in classrooms. “I have a feeling these students may not attend classes. They will try to manage attendance by manipulating the system,” he said. G.R.C. Reddy, former director of NIT Warangal, disapproved the concept of a second degree. “I find that 90 per cent of BTech degree holders in the country are poor in basic understanding of their subjects. They end up becoming glorified technicians. I would prefer the students to focus on the core areas of at least one subject. If they understood that well, they can do better and prosper in life,” Reddy said. Except IITs and some NITs, the quality of a majority of institutions is not good, he said. Another professor, who did not wish to be named, said that students would like to have two degrees in different branches only for the purpose of doing some mechanical or technical jobs. “People have done BTech in electrical (engineering). Later they may want to pursue computer science. Now computer science is the most sought after subject which has potential for technician kinds of jobs in American companies. So many people will take interest. This is not out of sincere interest for any subject. Such people are unlikely to contribute to the creation of new knowledge or bringing novelty in the preferred area,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
20-08-2021||India||Ramana orders 'discreet' inquiry into confidential information relating to SC collegium finding||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana has ordered a “discreet” inquiry into confidential information relating to the Supreme Court collegium finding its way into the media as sources said he was deeply “upset, anguished” and seething with rage over the purported “betrayal”. Except the five-member collegium comprising CJI Ramana and the four seniormost judges of the apex court — Justices U.U. Lalit, A.M. Khanwilkar, D.Y. Chandrachud and L. Nageswara Rao — very senior unidentified registry officials are privy to its meetings. The development comes after Tuesday’s collegium meeting at Justice Ramana’s residence which was held till 9.20pm where the decision was taken to recommend the names of nine judges/chief justices of high courts for elevation to the Supreme Court. The nine names cleared included three women judges — Karnataka High Court judge Justice B.V. Nagarathna, who will eventually become the country’s first woman Chief Justice of India in October 2027, although for a brief period of 40 days, Justice Hima Kohli, Chief Justice of Telangana High Court, and Justice Bela Trivedi, judge of Gujarat High Court. The other names cleared for elevation are Karnataka High Court Chief Justice A.S. Oka, Gujarat High Court Chief Justice Vikram Nath, Sikkim High Court Chief Justice J.K. Maheshwari, Kerala High Court judge Justice C.T. Ravi Kumar, Madras High Court judge M.M. Sundresh and senior advocate P.S. Narasimha. Sources said it was preposterous to suggest that action was proposed to be taken for the leak of confidential discussions in the collegium meeting, despite the fact that the names discussed were not finalised on Tuesday. It was stated that a couple of loose ends were to be sorted out the next day before sending the list to the Union government for approval. Sources said CJI Ramana and some of the collegium members were shocked over the alleged leak of the list on Wednesday in a section of the media, which was inferred as a deliberate plant in certain quarters. As a convention it was pointed out that unless the resolution is signed, the names are not made public. Yet the names were leaked to the media, sources said. On Wednesday, a livid Justice Ramana is said to have summoned a number of registry officials and expressed his deep anguish, anger and frustration over the alleged leak, particularly when the resolution was not signed or uploaded, much less forwarded to the government. Hence he is said to have ordered a discreet inquiry to fix accountability for the alleged leak, sources said. Justice Ramana’s frustration was visible when he deviated from the customary farewell speech to retiring judge Justice Navin Sinha on Wednesday by raising the issue of alleged leak of collegium-related matters in the media. “….On this occasion I want to take the liberty to express my concern about certain speculations and reports in the media. You are all aware we need to appoint judges to this court. The process is ongoing. Meetings will be held and decisions will be taken. The process of appointment of judges is sacrosanct and has certain dignity attached to it. “My media friends must understand and recognise the sanctity of this process. As an institution we hold the freedom of media and the rights of individuals in high esteem. Today’s reflections in some sections of the media, pending the process, even before formalising the resolution is counter-productive. There were instances of deserving career progression of bright talents getting marred because of such irresponsible reporting and speculation. This is very unfortunate and I am extremely upset about it,” Justice Ramana said. He added: “I must also place on record (the) tremendous amount of maturity and responsibility displayed by majority of the senior journalists and media houses in showing restraint and not speculating on such a serious matter. Such professional journalists and ethical media are the real strength of the Supreme Court in particular and democracy in general. You are part of our system. I expect all the stakeholders to uphold the integrity and dignity of this institution.” The reference to “stakeholders” is being interpreted in legal circles as a reference to some collegium member/s themselves leaking the news.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
20-08-2021||India||School online, children risk lives to earn livelihood||Antara Nat, a 10-year-old Class III student from Chhattisgarh, spends her days doing acrobatic stunts to entertain young and old in coastal Odisha’s villages. Her brother Ashis, 7, enrolled in Class I, too chips in with tightrope-walking acts. Their father Shameylal plays popular Hindi and Odia songs on a portable music player while their mother keeps a protective eye on the children lest they fall and suffer injuries. In the middle of the show, Shameylal asks: “Why are you attempting this risky stunt?” Antara replies: “For food. Please pay us Rs 10 or Rs 20 or give us some rice.” Shameylal then asks the onlookers not to disappoint the child. Under the Child and Adolescent Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, employment of children below 14 years in any occupation — even if it’s a family vocation — is illegal. Those aged below 18 are banned from hazardous occupations. But Antara’s parents are happy. They say they earn about Rs 250 from a performance at a village. The family, from Chhattisgarh’s Janjgir district, spends the nights in a tent. “My children are enrolled in a government school but we have no money. There’s no work available back home. We came to Odisha two months ago to earn a livelihood,” Shameylal said. Antara and her brother know nothing about the government’s National Child Labour Project, which aims to rescue and rehabilitate working children. Under this programme, surveys to identify working children are to be conducted at the district level and the rescued children enrolled in training centres to be provided bridge education and vocational training. Nor has the education ministry’s offer of free education, school uniforms and a midday meal done anything for the two tribal children. The rural job programme, MGNREGA, has not prevented Shameylal from moving out with his family. “This is our family occupation. We can stop this if we get sustained work and liveable wages,” Shameylal said. Data provided by junior labour minister Rameswar Teli in the Lok Sabha on August 9 showed a rise in the number of rescued child labourers but did not provide an estimate of the number of working children. In a written reply to a question from Congress member Vishnu Prasad MK, the minister gave a year-wise breakup of children rescued from workplaces since the financial year 2017-18. Under the National Child Labour Project, 47,635 children were rescued and rehabilitated in 2017-18, the number rising to 50,284 in 2018-19, to 54,894 in 2019-20 and to 58,289 in 2020-21. Mitra Ranjan, coordinator of the Right to Education Forum which raises issues of access to education, said that according to the 2011 census, India had 1.01 crore child labourers. “There should be proper mapping of child labourers. Most of them are from Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, backward classes and poor families and are likely to remain outside school. Their future is at risk,” Ranjan said. He said the RTE Act had not been implemented properly in the decade since its enactment. The shift to online education, necessitated by the pandemic, has further created a digital divide and made access to education more difficult for poor and rural children. “Such students are almost certain to be found working. During the period the schools remain closed, the government should provide them with digital devices and Internet facilities,” Ranjan said. “The best solution is for the schools to reopen at the earliest, with the observance of Covid protocols.” A report titled “Child labour: Global estimates 2020, trends and the road ahead”, release by the International Labour Organisation and Unicef in June, estimated that 16 crore children — 6.3 crore girls and 9.7 crore boys — were working globally at the beginning of 2020, accounting for almost 1 in 10 of all children worldwide. Nearly half of the child labourers — 7.9 crore — were in hazardous occupations. An analysis suggests that a further 89 lakh children will be in child labour by the end of 2022, as a result of rising poverty driven by the pandemic, unless urgent measures are taken, the report said. It recommended that governments help mitigate the poverty and economic uncertainty faced by these children’s families, and ensure free and quality schooling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
20-08-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath boasts of his 'excellent corona management'||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday boasted of his “excellent corona management” while comparing the situation in his state with other countries and states, failing to mention the bodies floating in the Ganga or buried in the sand on its banks or those queued up outside cremation grounds during the peak of the second wave in April and May. During the debate on the supplementary budget in the Assembly, the chief minister presented Covid-19 data of the UK and US as well as that of Maharashtra and Kerala to claim that his government had handled the pandemic well. He said: “While the population of Uttar Pradesh is 24 crore, there were 17.80 lakh Covid-19 cases and 22,783 people have died of the disease. The recovery rate in the state is 98.6 per cent. About 1.31 lakh Covid deaths were reported in Britain, which has a population of 6.60 crore, while about 18,000 people died of the disease in Kerala, which has a population of 3.45 crore.” The chief minister said he mentioned UK (also the US) because it was a developed country and Kerala because it had a high literacy rate. Senior Congress leader Dwijendra Tripathi said: “While the chief minister presented correct data of the countries of the world and states in India, he presented fake data about UP. There is not a single family in the state which has not lost a member to Covid-19. At least 100 bodies were brought every day to each cremation ground in the cities (75 cities). There is more than one cremation ground in each city. Starting from April 5, this influx of the dead continued till May 15. Adityanath should count this number in the cities, assuming that we will never be able to calculate the deaths in the rural areas of the state.” “The chief minister also didn’t mention the oxygen crisis, which had played a major role in deaths as a majority of the hospitals didn’t get enough of the life-saving gas to save the patients. The government took legal action against the hospitals instead of supplying oxygen to them,” he added. Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, Ram Govind Chaudhary of the Samajwadi Party, said: “The state government boasts of its works on the basis of fake data. The BJP is known for doing so from the Centre to UP.” “The government didn’t want to save lives and didn’t feel the pain of 24 crore people of the state. These people are waiting eagerly to throw the BJP out of power in 2022,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
20-08-2021||India||Conversion law setback to Gujarat govt in high court||Gujarat High Court on Thursday stayed the operation of some sections of the state’s new anti-conversion law, in a setback to the BJP-led government. A division bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice Biren Vaishnav said the interim order has been passed to protect people from unnecessary harassment. While the state government has so far not made any public statement on the high court’s order, legal experts and social activists welcomed the interim stay, saying the “entire law is against the spirit of the Constitution” and liberty of citizens to choose their religion. The Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Act, 2021, which penalises forcible or fraudulent religious conversion through marriage, was notified by the state government on June 15. Similar laws have also been enacted by BJP governments in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. Last month, the Gujarat chapter of the Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind filed a petition, saying some sections of the new law were unconstitutional. On Thursday, Chief Justice Nath said: “We are of the opinion that pending further hearing, rigors of Section 3, 4, 4a to 4c, 5, 6, and 6a shall not operate merely because the marriage is solemnised by a person of one religion with another religion without force, allurement or fraudulent means and such marriages cannot be termed as marriage for the purpose of unlawful conversion.” “This interim order is to protect the parties which solemnised interfaith marriages from unnecessary harassment,” he said. The stay on these sections effectively means that an FIR under this law cannot be lodged merely on the basis of his or her interfaith marriage. When state advocate general Kamal Trivedi sought a clarification, saying what if a marriage results in forceful conversion, Chief Justice Nath said: “There has to be a basic element of force or allurement or fraud. Without that you will not (proceed), that’s all we have said in the order.” Section 3 of the state’s new law defines what is “forcible conversion”. It says “no person shall convert or attempt to convert any person from one religion to another by use of force, or by allurement or by any fraudulent means or by marriage or by getting a person married or by aiding a person to get married, nor shall any person abet such conversion”. According to Section 4, people found guilty of violating the provisions of Section 3 will face up to three years of imprisonment and a fine of Rs 50,000. If the victim is a minor, a woman or from a Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe community, then the jail term will be four years with a fine of Rs 1 lakh. Section 4A specifically deals with “marriage by unlawful conversion” part of Section 3. It says “conversion by marriage or by getting a person married or by aiding a person to get married is concerned, shall be punished with imprisonment not less than three years, but may extend up to five years along with a fine of Rs 2 lakh”. According to Section 4B, any marriage that was done for the purpose of unlawful conversion “shall be declared void by family court”. Under Section 4C, institutions or organisations will be tried under this law if they are found involved in unlawful conversions, as defined under Section 3 of the law. Section 5 of the law mandates that religious priests must take permission from the district magistrate for converting any person from one religion to another. Moreover, the one who got converted also needs to “send an intimation” to the district magistrate in a prescribed form. According to Section 6, prior sanction of the district magistrate or a sub-divisional magistrate is necessary to start prosecution against the accused. However, according to Section 6A, the burden of proof is on the accused “who has caused the conversion”. Meanwhile, city-based legal expert Shamshad Pathan welcomed the high court’s order. “In my opinion, the high court should have taken up this issue suo motu (on its own) immediately after the original law was enacted in 2003. Not just the new sections, this entire Act is against the spirit of the Constitution and liberty of citizens to choose their religion. Law cannot decide which religion people should follow. I welcome today’s verdict,” the lawyer told PTI. Echoing similar views, social activist Dev Desai claimed the entire law was “unconstitutional” from the beginning. “Once a man and a woman attain adulthood, they are free to make decisions regarding their marriage or religion they want to follow. The government cannot have any role in it. Inter-caste or interfaith marriages are actually necessary to eliminate casteism from the society and create harmony among communities,” he said. “I believe the high court should scrap the entire law,” said Desai, who is associated with the NGO Act Now for Harmony and Democracy (Anhad), formed in the aftermath of the 2002 Gujarat riots. The BJP government had passed the Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Bill in the Assembly during the budget session earlier this year, and governor Acharya Devvrat gave his assent to it on May 22. The Gujarat chapter of the Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind filed a petition against the law last month. During a previous hearing, the petitioner’s lawyer, Mihir Joshi, claimed the amended law had vague terms which were against the basic principles of marriage and right to propagate, profess and practice religion, as enshrined in Article 25 of the Constitution. Since the law says no person shall be converted by use of force, allurement, fraudulent means and by marriage, Joshi had contended that it becomes an offence if two persons of different faiths get married according to the new law. In his response, advocate-general Trivedi, on behalf of the Gujarat government, told the bench on August 17 that people should not have any fear about the law. “Why this fear? So long as genuine conversion is there, people need not worry. (Inter-faith) marriage per se is not prohibited in this law. It only prohibits forcible conversion by marriage. The law says no person shall be converted by use of force, allurement, fraudulent means or by marriage for the purpose of conversion,” Trivedi told the court two days back. He had also said no FIR was lodged merely on the ground of interfaith marriage under this law, as it does not prohibit such marriages per se. “This is not the usual IPC section. The law mandates that the case must be investigated by a deputy SP (superintendent of police) rank officer, not by any constable or PSI (police sub-inspector). Further, prosecution will not start without the sanction of the district magistrate or the sub-divisional magistrate. These are the safety valves given by the law,” Trivedi had argued. He had also said the focus of the law was unlawful conversion and not marriages, as stated by the petitioner. Trivedi had also informed the court that only three complaints were registered across the state under this law so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
20-08-2021||India||Delhi police identifies three policemen who forced five Muslim youths to sing national anthem||Delhi police on Thursday claimed to have identified the three policemen who allegedly brutalised five Muslim youths and forced them to sing the national anthem “properly” during the Delhi riots in February last year. One of the youths, Faizan, 23, later died in hospital. Thursday’s police move comes eight months after a prod from Delhi High Court. Officers, however, declined to name the three accused policemen. Video clips had shown five young men lying on a street, one of them bleeding, while three men in police uniform poked at them with batons and kicked them. As the youths were heard trying to sing lines from the national anthem, a voice —purportedly belonging to a policeman — said: “Achchhi tarah ga (Sing properly)”. “The three personnel, posted with Delhi Armed Police, have been identified and will be subjected to a lie-detector test. They have not been arrested yet,” a Delhi police officer said. He declined comment on the one-and-a-half-year delay in identifying the suspects. A retired police officer described the decision to conduct lie-detector test on the trio as “ridiculous”. “The police have arrested over 1,000 people in the riot case and no one was ever subjected to a lie-detector test. Why are they doing this test on their own men?” he said. The officer said the results of lie-detector tests were not admissible in court but could be used to corroborate other evidence. For months after the violence, the police had denied any beating by cops, instead portraying the five youths as victims of rioters. Senior officials had, however, conceded that the policemen on the video should not have forced the youths to sing. Last December, Delhi High Court issued a notice to the police seeking a status report on the investigation into Faizan's death after his mother Kismatun, 61, moved a petition alleging police beat her son on the street and then in custody. Kismatun has sought a court-monitored probe into Faizan’s death by a special investigation team. Her petition said the police probe into the murder case — registered against “unknown people” — was a sham, aimed at shielding the guilty cops. Faizan’s family alleges that after the street beating, the five injured youths were taken to a lockup and brutalised again. Released after a couple of days, a severely injured Faizan died in the hospital where his family had admitted him. Several videos that had emerged during the Delhi riots appeared to show the police standing and watching the mobs run amok. Union home minister Amit Shah had defended the Delhi police's role during a Parliament debate, claiming they had contained the violence within 36 hours. The Delhi minority commission has accused the police of “complicity” with the rioters and a proclivity to arrest victims rather than perpetrators. It has underlined the provocative speeches delivered by Shah and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath in Delhi in the lead-up to the violence. Residents have asserted and journalists witnessed how the violence began on February 23 night last year after an inflammatory speech by BJP leader Kapil Mishra. Over the next 60 hours, 53 people were killed. A Delhi trial court had last month fined the police for their “callous and farcical” investigation into a riot case, saying the force had “miserably failed in their statutory duties”. A few months ago, a group of retired judges had castigated the police probe, noting it had “evoked extensive critical commentary in recent times”. Faizan’s family has suggested the police never recorded his detention. Elder brother Naeem said that when the police released Faizan, they neither asked the family to sign on a register nor issued a memo warning Faizan against repeating his alleged act, as is the usual practice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
20-08-2021||India||Puri to be connected with Vande Bharat Express soon||Railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw and Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan kicked off BJP’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra in Odisha on Thursday. Both the leaders visited Puri to pay obeisance to Lord Jagannath. Vaishnaw announced that Puri, which is one of the four holy places of Hindus and the spiritual centre of Odisha, would soon be connected with the Vande Bharat Express. Vaishnaw said: “Puri is one of the popular tourist and religious destinations in the world and has great cultural importance.  Work is on for the development of Puri railway station. Bringing Vande Bharat Express to Puri is on the cards and we hope it will materialise soon.” Puri remains a significant place in BJP’s roadmap to strengthen its base in the state. Though it won the Puri Assembly seat last time, the party failed to win the Puri Lok Sabha seat. The party had fielded its national spokesperson Sambit Patra from the Puri Lok Sabha seat. At Puri, a delegation led by Puri Vikash Parishad convenor Jagannath Bastia met the two Union ministers and demanded the construction of a 35km new railway line between Puri and Konark, where the Sun Temple is located. They pointed out that the East Coast Railway has already conducted the feasibility survey and chief minister Naveen Patnaik had earlier assured to bear 50 per cent of the cost of the new railway line. Vaishnaw and Pradhan will tour the state for three-days till August 22 covering about 420km. Both the ministers are scheduled to attend as many as 115 events in six Lok Sabha constituencies under seven districts. They will reach out to the public to create awareness on the various welfare schemes of the Centre. While Vaishnaw will attend 74 public meetings, Pradhan will address the remaining.  Vaishnaw, who had gone to the Rajya Sabha with the support of the BJD, would attend meetings at different places in Koraput,  Nabarangpur, Kalahandi, Bolangir and Raygada. He will travel by train to Raygada. Pradhan will address meetings in Khurda, Cuttack and Bhubaneswar. In order to connect with the masses, Vaishnaw tweeted: “Odisha is always my Karma Bhoomi.” The former IAS officer and private secretary to former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Vaishnaw had served as district collectors in Odisha and also served the state in different capacities. Through the Jan Ashirwad Yatra, the BJP is making a desperate attempt to bolster its campaign ahead of the panchayat elections scheduled to be held in February next year. The ruling BJD is not leaving any stone unturned to ensure that its base in the state becomes stronger. Ahead of the panchayat elections both the BJP and BJD are making all out efforts to reach to the public and build up a strong public network. Naveen will launch the government's smart health card scheme for 3.5 crore economically vulnerable people from Malkangiri on Friday.  Hoardings of the events have been put up across the state in advance. However, Pradhan on Thursday urged the state to implement the Centre’s health programme Ayushman Bharat in Odisha. The Odisha government has so far declined to implement it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
20-08-2021||India||Jaishankar dodges questions on any contact with Taliban fighters||External affairs minister S. Jaishankar on Wednesday dodged questions on any contact with the Taliban while stating that India’s historical relationship with the Afghan people would continue and guide New Delhi’s approach in the coming days. At a media stakeout in the UN, Jaishankar was asked the direct question whether India had had any contact with the Taliban in recent days. The minister’s response was evasive: “I think at this point of time, we are looking at what is the evolving situation in Kabul. Obviously, the Taliban and its representatives have come to Kabul. So, I think we need to take it on from there.” Although there have been uncontested reports over the past couple of months about India having opened back channels with the Taliban in anticipation of the group becoming part of the governance structure in Kabul, New Delhi has never publicly acknowledged such contact. On Tuesday, sources did indicate that some of these back channels had come in handy in ensuring the safe passage for the cavalcade of cars ferrying Indian diplomats, embassy staff and other Indians from the mission to the Kabul airport for evacuation. Asked if India would remain engaged in Afghanistan if there was a Taliban government or a Taliban-dominated government in Kabul, Jaishankar said India’s considerable investment in Afghanistan reflected a historical relationship with the Afghan people. “I think that relationship with the Afghan people obviously continues and that will guide our approach to Afghanistan in the coming days,” he said. Jaishankar did not allow himself to be drawn into discussing the increased threat perception for India after the Taliban takeover, given the group’s links with Pakistan. Instead, he chose to focus on India’s stated priority at the moment -– bringing back the remaining Indians stranded in Afghanistan at a time commercial operations at the Kabul airport remain suspended and New Delhi lacks a diplomatic presence in that country. “At the moment we are – like everybody else—very carefully following developments in Afghanistan. I think our focus is on ensuring the security in Afghanistan and the safe return of Indian nationals who are there.” That, he added, had been the focus of his engagements in New York in conversations with the UN Secretary-General and during a telephone call with US secretary of state Antony Blinken. India has been in constant touch with the US and has indicated that it would decide its course of action relating to the Taliban in consultation with other democracies. With an estimated 500-plus Indians still stranded in different parts of Afghanistan, the decision to close the embassy is increasingly being questioned. Academic and foreign policy expert Happymon Jacob tweeted: “Senior Indian diplomats should be back at the Indian embassy in Kabul promoting India’s interests there. Having local staff in Kabul providing consular services is not good enough.” This was a position articulated by retired diplomat M.K. Bhadrakumar earlier this week, describing the decision to pull out diplomatic staff as a mistake. “A closure of the mission in Kabul will be a Himalayan blunder when the wheels of diplomacy & politics are set to accelerate. Normal politics is poised to grow a little each day. Retrenchment will only damage India’s interests and isolate it in the region.” At the cabinet committee on security (CCS) meeting on Tuesday after the evacuation flight landed near Delhi, the Prime Minister is said to have emphasised bringing back the remaining Indians. But there has been no indication over the past 48 hours of any evacuation being planned. The external affairs ministry had on Tuesday, before the CCS meeting, indicated that the remaining Indians would be brought back once commercial operations resumed at Kabul airport. The UK high commissioner in India, Alex Ellis, said India and the UK had a prominent role to play in the international community’s response to the situation in Afghanistan. Unlike many of the other western countries, the British high commissioner to Afghanistan is still in Kabul. The high commission is assisting in the evacuation, which had till Wednesday facilitated the departure of 306 British and 2,052 Afghan nationals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
