21-08-2021||India||Former UP chief minister Kalyan Singh passes away at 89||Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister and BJP veteran Kalyan Singh, who was ailing for some time, breathed his last on Saturday night, the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) said in a statement here. He was 89.  Singh was admitted to SGPGI on July 4 in the Intensive Care Unit in critical condition.  He died due to sepsis and multi-organ failure, the hospital said in the statement.  Singh was the UP chief minister when the Babri mosque was demolished by a mob in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992.  He later also served as the governor of Rajasthan. Expressing deep pain at the death of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday that coming generations will remain forever grateful to him for his contributions towards India's "cultural regeneration".  Modi said he was saddened beyond words at his demise.  Singh was firmly rooted in Indian values and took pride in its centuries-old traditions, he said and lauded him as a "statesman, veteran administrator, grassroots level leader and great human".  He leaves behind an indelible contribution towards the development of Uttar Pradesh, the prime minister said.  Modi spoke to Singh's son Rajveer Singh, a Lok Sabha MP of the BJP, to convey his condolences.  "Kalyan Singh Ji gave voice to crores of people belonging to the marginalised sections of society. He made numerous efforts towards the empowerment of farmers, youngsters and women," he said.  Singh was closely associated with the Ram Janmabhoomi movement.  The Babri mosque in Ayodhya was demolished when he was the state's chief minister.  The Supreme Court had in 2019 handed over the disputed site to Hindu bodies, paving the way for the beginning of the construction of Ram temple there.  A backward caste leader, Singh was instrumental in the rise of the BJP to power in Uttar Pradesh in 1990s.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
21-08-2021||India||Mehbooba refers to Afghanistan crisis, asks Centre to restore J&K special status||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday asked the Centre to take a lesson out of Afghanistan where the Taliban seized power and made the US flee, and urged the government to hold dialogue in Jammu and Kashmir and return its special status which was revoked in 2019. Mehbooba's remarks drew a sharp reaction from the BJP which accused her of indulging in "politics of hatred" after losing ground in the Union Territory and said anyone who conspires against India will be destroyed. Referring to the Taliban seizing power in Afghanistan, the former chief minister warned the Centre to not test us" and asked the government to mend its ways, understand the situation, and see what is happening in your neighbourhood." "America, a superpower, had to pack their bags and flee. You (the Centre) still have the opportunity to start a dialogue process in J-K like (former PM) Vajpayee had and mend your mistake of snatching the J-K's identity illegally and unconstitutionally and splitting of J-K, otherwise it will be too late, she said, referring to the decisions of August 5, 2019. Addressing her party workers in Kulgam district of south Kashmir, Mehbooba also appealed to the youth not to pick up arms, saying the issue cannot be resolved with guns or stones. The Government of India should return what it has snatched from us and address the Kashmir issue according to the wishes and aspirations of the people of J-K, she said. Citing the example of Afghanistan, the PDP president said the issues cannot be resolved by guns or stones. The Taliban are now controlling Afghanistan and they made the US to flee. But, right now, they are saying the gun will not do. The whole world is watching them, how they will behave, whether they will do the same strictness or behave well with the people, she said. Mehbooba said there was a lesson for the people of J-K in the situation in Afghanistan. I request the youth to resist by staying alive and do not lose your lives. When you lose your lives, everything is over. The people at the other end do not understand that the youth of Kashmir should not sacrifice their lives. They are not bothered. So, I appeal to all the youngsters not to pick up guns or stones. If you cannot speak with your tongue, then remember the wounds in your heart, she said. She said America talked to the Taliban and the previous governments in New Delhi, including the BJP government led by A B Vajpayee, also talked to militants in J-K and a time will come when they will bend on their knees and ask us what we want . The US talked to the Taliban, India talked to Pakistan and a ceasefire happened. There is no other option but to talk. Whatever is happening behind the doors, God willing, a day will come and they will have to talk to everyone be it the people of J-K or the people across as Kashmir issue is alive, she said. Saying that India is an idea of various religions, diversities and ethnicities, Mehbooba said the Congress party saved the country and kept it together and accused the BJP of trying to divide it. What has been happening since the last five-seven years, it seems the BJP is trying to split this country and divide the people in the name of religion, she said. Referring to Jammu and Kashmir's accession with the Union of India, the PDP president said had the BJP been in power then, J-K might not have joined the country. "The accession did not take place because of the BJP. It happened when Jawaharlal Nehru was in power, who was secular and democratic and who believed in brotherhood. He assured the people of J-K, which was a Muslim majority, of a special status to accede to a Hindu majority India. The Congress had joined J-K with India on these conditions. Had the BJP been there, then I do not think J-K would have been a part of this country, she said. On the criticism that she did not talk about Article 370 at a virtual meet of 19 opposition parties called by Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday, Mehbooba said she talked about the issue and noted that it was the duty of the Congress to safeguard the people of J-K and see their situation and understand difficulties. Jammu and Kashmir BJP president Ravinder Raina lashed out at Mehbooba for her remarks, and said she "is under some misconception. India is a powerful country and our Prime Minister is Narendra Modi unlike (US president) Joe Biden who withdrew from Afghanistan. Whether it is the Taliban, Al-Qaeda, LeT, JeM, or Hizbul anyone who conspires against India will be destroyed." The PDP president has committed a great sin against the country. People of Jammu and Kashmir are patriots who love their nation and are keeping the national flag flying high. They are helping the police, Army and paramilitary forces in combating terrorism, he said. He further claimed that Mufti has lost ground in Jammu and Kashmir and the people have rejected her. Now, she is remembering the Taliban which has destroyed Afghanistan, killed innocent women and children, and trampling on the rights of people, including journalists and sportspersons, Raina said. Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill also condemned her remarks. "Mehbooba Mufti quoted speech is highly condemnable & provocative . Rather than preaching peace, exposing Govt on policy issues if your politics requires you to threaten the establishment with violent consequences then clearly you are steering to wrong path-Sad & Shameful," Shergill said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
21-08-2021||India||Nitish Kumar to lead all-party Bihar delegation to meet PM Modi on Aug 23 to discuss caste-based census||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday said he along with representatives of all the parties in the state will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 23 to discuss the issue of a caste-based census.  Tejashwi Yadav, the leader of opposition in the state assembly, will be part of the delegation, Kumar said.  I had sought an appointment with the PM to meet him along with an all-party delegation from Bihar, including RJD's Tejashwi Yadav, to discuss the issue of a caste-based census. I thank him for giving us time next Monday at 11 am," the CM told reporters here.  The caste-based census will benefit all sections of the society and facilitate more effective governance, he said.  Kumar had on August 3 written to PM Modi, seeking his appointment to discuss the demand for a caste-based census.  Leaders of the five-party opposition Grand Alliance, led by Yadav, had met the CM over the issue recently.  Kumar, who is the de facto leader of the JD(U), had asserted that divergent stands adopted by his party and the BJP, which heads the Union government, on the issue would not affect the coalition.  Notably, the Centre had recently informed Parliament that it was thinking of holding a census only for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, triggering vehement demand in Bihar that the same must include OBCs who dominate the state's politics.  Kumar had allayed fears that a census of all castes could lead to social tensions.  "When the legislature unanimously passed resolutions in support of a caste-based census on two occasions, members of all parties and from all castes and religions supported it. There should be no misgivings," he had said.  The bicameral Bihar legislature had unanimously passed resolutions in favour of a caste-based census in 2019 and also in 2020.  Caste-based census other than for SCs and STs has not been undertaken in the country after 1931.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
21-08-2021||India||Over 58 crore Covid vaccine shots administered in India, says govt||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has gone past 58 crore, the Union health ministry said on Saturday. More than 43 lakh vaccine doses were administered on Saturday, according to a provisional report compiled at 7 pm. The ministry said 20,88,547 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years received the first dose and 7,36,870 were administered the second dose of the vaccine on Saturday. Cumulatively, 21,60,58,123 people in the said age group have received the first dose and 1,92,54,925 have been administered the second dose of the vaccine since the start of the third phase of the vaccination drive across the states and Union territories. On the 218th day (August 21) of the inoculation drive, a total of 43,92,759 vaccine doses were given -- 27,77,409 beneficiaries received the first dose and 16,15,350 got the second dose -- according to the provisional report. The final report for the day would be compiled by late night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
21-08-2021||India||Nirmala Sitharaman launches Ubharte Sitaare Fund||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday said the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) are the backbone of the economy, and the Narendra Modi government has given the sector its rightful place. Addressing the launch of the ‘Ubharte Sitaare Fund’ here, Sitharaman said, "The government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given a proper identity to MSME. The place, which it had not got in decades, is being given to it, and it will be improved." "In the last two years, the Centre has done a number of different things. The government has changed the definition of MSME in a very flexible manner. Recently, a bill was tabled in the Parliament through which the MSME sector will directly benefit," she added. Sitharaman further said MSME businessmen will not have to undertake an audit for submission of their accounts. "The government has faith in them, and they can self-attest their accounts and certify them," she said. Speaking about the geographical indication (GI) tags for specialised products, she said while they are scattered across the country, in Uttar Pradesh, Banaras and its immediate surroundings alone boast of eight GIs. Sitharaman urged the state's MSME Minister Sidharth Nath Singh to establish an MSME chamber in every district, and hold awareness programmes about the 'Ubharte Sitaare Fund' so that entrepreneurs working under the One District, One Product (ODOP) scheme can know about its benefits. Uttar Pradesh has the highest number of MSMEs and has effectively implemented the One District One Product programme, which provides the ideal ecosystem for success of an initiative like the Ubharte Sitaare Fund. The fund will go a long way in making India a major exporting hub, she said. Meanwhile, a tweet by Sitharaman's office said MSMEs have been at the forefront of the Modi government's economic policy through policies like change in definition of MSMEs to ensure adequate flexibility, effective implementation of ECLGS and Factoring Bill increasing the number of designated NBFCs to 9,000. The 'Ubharte Sitaare Fund' has been set up by Exim Bank and SIDBI. The fund is expected to identify Indian enterprises with potential advantages by way of technology, products or processes along with export potential, but which are currently underperforming or unable to tap their latent potential to grow. Harsha Bangari, Deputy Managing Director, India Exim Bank, said the bank has developed a robust pipeline of over 100 potential proposals and supported several companies across a diverse range of sectors. In her Budget speech last year, Sitharaman had mentioned that MSMEs are vital to keep the wheels of economy moving. They also create jobs, innovate and are risk takers. Accordingly, India Exim Bank's Ubharte Sitaare Programme (USP) identifies Indian companies that have the potential to be future champions in the domestic arena while catering to global demands. The fund is a mix of structured support, both financial and advisory services through investments in equity or equity like instruments, debt (funded and non-funded) and technical assistance (advisory services, grants and soft loans) to the Indian companies. Exim Bank and SIDBI have developed a pipeline of over 100 potential companies, including those in Uttar Pradesh, across various sectors such as pharma, auto components, engineering solutions, agriculture, and software. Later speaking to reporters, the finance minister, when asked about the steps taken to reduce the impact of COVID-19, said, "Not only have we kept this in mind in the Budget, but have also taken steps from time to time to give relief to the economy. The effect of this is visible now. Industries have benefited from different credit schemes." On unemployment and giving relief to the jobless, she said, "Small jobs have been made available. The budget of MNREGS has been increased from Rs 66,000 crore to Rs 1 lakh crore. ODOP is a step in the right direction." On rising prices of petrol and diesel, Sitharaman said, "I had said earlier that this is not in our hands alone. From the price of crude oil to central and state taxes contribute to the prices of fuel." "The state taxes increase whenever the prices of petrol and diesel go up. In other words, there is a burden on the public. We are keeping a watch on this," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
21-08-2021||India||Mehbooba indulging in 'politics of hatred' after losing ground Kashmir says BJP||Jammu and Kashmir BJP president Ravinder Raina on Saturday lashed out at PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, accusing her of indulging in politics of hatred after losing ground in the Union Territory. Raina was reacting to an alleged statement of the PDP chief asking the Union government to learn lessons from the happenings in the neighbourhood -- apparently referring to the Taliban's takeover of Afghanistan -- and hold dialogue with the people of Jammu and Kashmir and restore its special status. The BJP leader, however, said India is a powerful country and capable of destroying terror groups like Taliban, Al-Qaeda, Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM), and Hizbul Mujahideen to maintain the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country. Mehbooba is under some misconception. India is a powerful country and our Prime Minister is Narendra Modi unlike (US president) Joe Biden who withdrew from Afghanistan. Whether it is the Taliban, Al-Qaeda, LeT, JeM, or Hizbul anyone who conspires against India will be destroyed, the BJP leader said. The PDP president has committed a great sin against the country. People of Jammu and Kashmir are patriots who love their nation and are keeping the national flag flying high. They are helping the police, Army and paramilitary forces in combating terrorism, he said. He further claimed that Mufti has lost ground in Jammu and Kashmir and the people have rejected her. "Now, she is remembering the Taliban which has destroyed Afghanistan, killed innocent women and children, and trampling on the rights of people, including journalists and sportspersons," Raina said. "We will not allow any conspiracy agenda to succeed. She (Mufti) is playing dirty politics, politics of hatred and poisoning the minds of the people," he alleged. He said the world is witness to how police and other security forces with the help of local people have tackled terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir since 1990. "We wiped out LeT, JeM and other terror groups in relentless operations which are continuing to ensure peace in Jammu and Kashmir," he said. "We will not accept any anti-national agenda and anyone working against the interests of the country will be dealt with strongl," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
21-08-2021||India||Delhi markets to to remain open beyond 8 pm from August 23||Markets in the national capital can stay open beyond 8 pm from August 23, with the Delhi government on Saturday announcing lifting of restrictions in view of a decline in COVID-19 cases in the city. No death due to COVID-19 was recorded in Delhi on Saturday, the second consecutive day the daily fatality count stood nil, while 19 fresh cases were reported, the lowest since April 15 last year, according to data shared by the city health department. "In view of the coronavirus situation, the markets were presently allowed to stay open till 8 pm. With the decline in COVID-19 cases, this time limit is being done away with from Monday. The markets can stay open according to their normal timing," Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a tweet in Hindi. This is the twelfth time since the starting of the second wave of the pandemic in the national capital that zero fatality has been logged in a day. On July 18, July 24, July 29, August 2, August 4, August 8, August 11, August 12, August 13, August 16 and August 20 too, no death due to COVID-19 was recorded, according to official data. On March 2 this year, the city had reported zero death due to the virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
21-08-2021||India||Production of one crore Zydus Cadila Covid vaccines a month from October, says Chief||Drug firm Zydus Cadila on Saturday said it is looking to supply its Covid-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D by the middle to end of September, adding the pricing of the dose will be announced in the next one or two weeks. The company's indigenously developed needle-free three-dose COVID-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D was granted emergency use authorisation (EUA) by the drug regulator on Friday, making it the first vaccine to be administered to beneficiaries in the age group of 12-18 years in the country. "Post the emergency use authorisation, now we will work closely with the regulatory authorities to work on the pricing and modality of delivery of the doses of our vaccine. In the next one or two weeks we will have better clarity on the pricing," Zydus Group Managing Director Sharvil Patel said in a virtual press conference. The company hopes to start supplying the vaccines by the middle to end of September. "As I said, we need to scale up to 1 crore doses and we believe by October we can achieve this. We believe by October we will start producing 1 crore doses and that would mean by end of Jan we can have 4 to 5 crore doses," he added. Asked if the company was considering partnering with other firms to scale up production of its vaccine, Patel said Zydus Cadila is actively looking at ramping up manufacturing both domestically through partnerships and also outside of the country. The company is also seeking approval for a two-dose regimen of the vaccine, he added. Describing the approval for Zydus Cadila's vaccine as a momentous feat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a tweet on Friday had said, "India is fighting COVID-19 with full vigour. The approval for world's first DNA based ''ZyCov-D'' vaccine of @ZydusUniverse is a testimony to the innovative zeal of India's scientists. A momentous feat indeed." ZyCoV-D is the sixth vaccine to get the emergency use authorisation in the country, after Serum Institute of India's Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, Russian vaccine Sputnik V and the vaccines of Moderna and Johnson and Johnson. Of these, Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V are currently in use in India. These vaccines are being given to only those above 18 years of age and unlike ZyCoV-D, which has three doses, these are administered in two doses. "This is a historic milestone with ZyCoV-D, a product of Indian innovation becoming the world's first DNA vaccine being offered for human use and supporting the world's largest immunization drive," Cadila Healthcare Chairman Pankaj R Patel had said on Friday. The company plans to manufacture 10-12 crore doses of ZyCoV-D annually, Zydus Cadila had said in a statement. "We are particularly happy that our vaccine will contribute to this fight against COVID-19 and enable the country to vaccinate a larger population especially in the age group of 12-18 years. "I would like to thank all the researchers, clinical trial investigators, volunteers and the regulators who have supported this endeavour," the Cadila Healthcare chairman had added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
21-08-2021||India||Central agencies given 15 names by PM to file 'fake' cases against them, alleges Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has shared the names of 15 people with Delhi Police, CBI and ED and asked them to "conduct raids and file fake FIRs" against those on the list and "ruin them before the next elections". During an online briefing, Sisodia claimed that many names on the list are from the Aam Aadmi Party. An immediate reaction was not available from the BJP or the central government. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal echoed similar sentiments and said nothing had come out of the earlier raids or fake cases. In a tweet in Hindi, Kejriwal said, "Do politics of votes and win the trust of people. There were so many fake cases filed against us and raids conducted but you got nothing. You want to file more fake cases and carry out raids? You are welcome." "We have learnt from reliable sources that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has handed over a list of 15 people to the CBI, the ED and the Delhi Police, asking them to conduct raids and file fake FIRs against them (people on the list) in order to ruin them before the next elections," Sisodia claimed. He claimed that Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana has promised to get the job done. "Rakesh Asthana is Modiji's 'brahmastra'. He has promised that come what may, he will get the job done," he claimed. Sisodia said the AAP does politics of truth and honesty. "You can send the CBI and the ED, we will welcome them," he said. Sisodia said there had been previous instances where AAP leaders were 'targeted' but nothing came out of it. "I want to ask -- What did you get in the earlier raids? There are 12 cases against Satyendar Jain. The CBI has raided my house and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's office. Police raided CM's house and even entered his bedroom. What came out of those raids?" he questioned. "There were 'fake' cases registered against 21 of our MLAs and the courts scolded the police for filing such cases. The Centre got the Shunglu Committee to scrutinise 450 files of our government but what came out of it. We have full faith in ourselves," he claimed. The deputy chief minister also claimed that AAP is gaining popularity in other states like Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and had even won 27 seats in the municipal corporation polls in Gujarat, which is the stronghold of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab will be going to polls next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
21-08-2021||India||Nadda lauds Modi for prioritising defence sector ||BJP president J P Nadda on Saturday credited Prime Minister Narendra Modi for prioritising the defence sector by increasing budgetary allocations for it manifold, giving a fresh impetus to the building of border infrastructure and boosting the morale of the armed forces by celebrating Diwali every year along with soldiers on the borders. "Everyone prefers to celebrate Diwali at home. But Modi ji celebrates it invariably with the jawans on some border or the other. He has not just boosted their morale by doing so but also given a message to the entire country that it is because of soldiers deployed along the borders that the rest of us can celebrate Diwali at home," Nadda said. "Modi ji has created a new enthusiasm and trust in the armed forces," Nadda said at an interactive programme with ex-servicemen at Raiwala where he also honoured them. He said budgetary allocation for defence has gone up manifold ever since Modi assumed office at the Centre and there is far greater emphasis today on the building of border roads and rail links in border areas. In 2011-12 the budgetary allocation for defence was Rs 1,45,000 crore which has risen to Rs 4,78,000 crore at present, he said. Measures like these have made it clear that defence is a priority for the prime minister, Nadda said. He said the world's longest highway tunnel of 9.02 km connecting Manali in Himachal Pradesh with Leh at a height of 10,000 feet, whose foundation stone was laid by former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, was implemented under Modi's leadership after hanging fire for 10 years under the UPA. It also connects Manali to Lahaul-Spiti valley throughout the year. Earlier the valley used to be cut off for about six months every year due to heavy snowfall. Nadda also spoke of new tunnel projects being built by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) on road and rail routes, and added 73 border roads and 3,812 km all-weather road being built under Modi's leadership. Speaking at the event, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami thanked the party leadership for giving the son of a retired army man like him the opportunity to serve the state as the "Mukhya Sevak".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
21-08-2021||India||Those who prize freedom must welcome pledge of unity by 19 parties, says Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Saturday said those who prize freedom above every other right must welcome the pledge of unity made by 19 political parties and supported by the Samajwadi Party. Chidambaram's remarks came a day after leaders of 19 Opposition parties announced that they would organise joint protests across the country from September 20 to 30, and urged people to save India for a better tomorrow. After a virtual meeting of the Opposition parties, where they stressed unitedly moving forward to defeat the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, the leaders also put out an 11-point charter of demands before the government. Referring to the development, Chidambaram said those who prize freedom above every other right must welcome the pledge of unity. "Bhakts and trolls will ridicule the show of unity, but they should remember the famous words of the German Lutheran pastor Martin Niemoller. Cynics will scoff at the effort, but they will realize one day that we are fighting for the liberty of all people, including the cynics," the former Union minister tweeted. On Friday, Congress president Sonia Gandhi urged the top Opposition leaders to rise above political compulsions to take on the BJP in the interest of the nation and start planning "systematically" to realise the "ultimate goal" of winning the 2024 Lok Sabha polls to provide a government that believes in the values of the freedom movement and provisions of the Constitution. Gandhi gave the clarion call at a virtual meeting of leaders of 19 Opposition parties including NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and four non-Congress chief ministers -- TMC's Mamata Banerjee (West Bengal), DMK's M K Stalin (Tamil Nadu), Shiv Sena's Uddhav Thackeray (Maharashtra) and JMM's Hemant Soren (Jharkhand) -- hosted by her. Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav wrote a letter to the Congress president, expressing his inability to join the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
21-08-2021||India||Maharashtra: One more extortion case filed against Param Bir Singh||Mumbai police have registered one more case of extortion against former city police commissioner Param Bir Singh, an official said on Saturday. This is the fourth such case against Singh and second in Mumbai. Two other cases were filed in Thane city. All these FIRs were registered within a span of one month. The latest FIR was filed on Friday night at Goregaon police station on the basis of a complaint lodged by 48-year-old builder Bimal Agarwal, the official said. In this case, dismissed police officer Sachin Waze and four others - Sumit Singh alias Chintu, Alpesh Patel, Vinay Singh alias Babloo and Riyaz Bhati - have also been named as accused, he said. As per the complaint by Agarwal, the accused extorted Rs 9 lakh from him for not conducting a raid on two bars and restaurants, which he ran in partnership, and also forced him to buy two smartphones worth around Rs 2.92 lakh for them. The incident occurred between January 2020 and March 2021, it said. Accordingly, the case was filed under IPC sections 384 and 385 (both pertaining to extortion) 34 (common intention) against the six accused and probe in the case is on, he said. Singh is currently posted as DG Home Guards and he has not been attending office since May as he is on sick leave. On July 22, Marine Drive police station in Mumbai had registered an FIR against Singh, five other police personnel, and two more persons for allegedly demanding Rs 15 crore from a builder. The next day, one more case of extortion was registered against him, some other police officers at Kopri police station in Thane. On July 30, another extortion case was filed against the senior IPS officer at Thane Nagar police station on the basis of a complaint lodged by businessman Ketan Tanna. The case registered at Marine Drive police station was recently handed over to state CID for investigation, while Thane police have issued lookout notices against Param Bir Singh and other accused persons in connection with the FIRs registered in Thane city. Singh was shunted out as Mumbai police commissioner in March this year after the arrest of dismissed police officer Sachin Waze in the case of an explosives-laden vehicle found near the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani in Mumbai. Singh later accused the then state home minister Anil Deshmukh of corruption, following which the latter resigned in April.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
21-08-2021||India||India records over 34,000 fresh Covid cases, 375 casualties in a day||A single-day rise of 34,457 COVID-19 cases pushed India's tally to 3,23,93,286 on Saturday, while the number of active cases declined to 3,61,340, the lowest in 151 days, according to Union health ministry data. India has reported less than 50,000 daily cases for 55 consecutive days. The death toll climbed to 4,33,964 with 375 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The 3,61,340 active cases comprise 1.12 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March last year. The national COVID-19 recovery rate stands at 97.54 per cent, the highest since March last year, the ministry said. A reduction of 2,265 cases has been recorded in the active caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate stands at 2 per cent. It has been less than 3 per cent for the last 26 days, according to the ministry. The weekly positivity rate stands at 1.98 per cent. It has been below 3 per cent for the last 57 days, the ministry said. As many as 17,21,205 COVID-19 tests were conducted on Friday, taking the total number of tests done so far in the country to 50,45,76,158. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,15,97,982, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. So far, 57.61 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India's caseload crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 375 new fatalities include 105 from Maharashtra and 99 from Kerala. Of the 4,33,964 deaths reported so far in the country, 1,35,672 were from Maharashtra, 37,105 from Karnataka, 34,663 from Tamil Nadu, 25,079 from Delhi, 22,791 from Uttar Pradesh, 19,345 from Kerala and 18,346 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
21-08-2021||India||Three JeM militants killed in encounter in Pulwama||Three Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) militants were killed in an encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama district on Saturday, officials said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in the upper reaches of forest area of Nagbaeran Tral in the south Kashmir district following inputs about the presence of militants there, the officials said. They said the search operation turned into an encounter after the militants fired upon the search party of the security forces, who retaliated. "In the ensuing gunfight, three terrorists affiliated with JeM outfit were killed," the officials said. The search operation is going on, they said. This is the second encounter in the district in as many days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
21-08-2021||India||Heavy rains cause waterlogging in Delhi||Heavy rains lashed Delhi on Saturday morning, leading to waterlogging in many parts of the city including underneath Minto Bridge, Moolchand underpass and at ITO. Due to the waterlogging, the Delhi Traffic Police closed several crucial underpasses and took to Twitter to inform commuters. Public Works Department (PWD) officials said the field staff was on the ground to address waterlogging complaints on priority. "Traffic movement on Minto Bridge (both carriageways) has been closed due to waterlogging. Please avoid (the) stretch," the traffic police said in a series of tweets. "Traffic is affected at Moolchand Underpass due to waterlogging. Inconvenience is regretted. Azad Market Underpass is closed due to 1.5 feet waterlogging, please avoid using this route. Sorry for the inconvenience," it said. Other areas that witnessed waterlogging due to heavy rains include Pul Prahladpur underpass, Lajpat Nagar, Jangpura, ITO, roads around Pragati Maidan, Sangam Vihar, Rohtak Road, Mangolpuri, Kirari and Malviya Nagar. Traffic movement was also disrupted on the Mehrauli-Badarpur road in south Delhi due to the waterlogging. "Waterlogging at Pul Prahladpur Underpass. Traffic interrupted at MB road diverted on mathura road. Kindly avoid (the) stretch," the traffic police tweeted. A PWD official said the department's field staff was working to resolve the issue. "The intensity of rain this morning was high, so a few areas of the city witnessed waterlogging. Our field staff is on the ground and we are closely monitoring the situation," the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
21-08-2021||India||SC: 32 years later, another judge can get elevated post retirement||Thirty-two years ago, a former high court judge was brought out of retirement to be elevated to the Supreme Court in an initiative without parallel in independent India. Justice Fathima Beevi’s extraordinary appointment has again become a topic of discussion in legal circles following the Supreme Court collegium’s recommendation on Wednesday to elevate nine judges to the apex court. One factor behind that is the Narendra Modi government’s proclivity to sit on the collegium’s recommendations, often for months. If the government does not decide on the latest recommendations by September 1 — a tight deadline by its standards — one of the candidates, Justice Hima Kohli, will have retired. The second factor is an expectation — corroborated by an apex court judge to this newspaper —that the collegium might then explore the possibility of elevating Justice Kohli the way Justice Fathima Beevi had been in 1989 in the pre-collegium era. Justice Kohli, now chief justice of Telangana High Court, will reach 62, the retirement age for high court judges, on September 1. However, she will get a tenure of three more years if appointed by then to the Supreme Court, where the retirement age is 65. Asked whether they expected the Centre to decide on the latest recommendations in another 12 days, legal experts said they hoped Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana’s “no-nonsense” approach and ability to assert himself would persuade the government to do so. But they also cited the government’s serial delays in clearing judicial appointments and tendency to object to certain candidates or seek clarifications about others. They contended that if the government didn’t play ball and Justice Kohli had to retire on September 1, the collegium could well exercise the same option that had led to Justice Fathima Beevi becoming the country’s first woman apex court judge. Justice Fathima Beevi had retired on April 29, 1989, as a Kerala High Court judge. She was elevated to the Supreme Court on October 6, 1989, at a time the government selected judges for appointment in consultation with the judiciary. She retired on April 29, 1992. While the Constitution has no provision for a judge being recalled from retirement and elevated to a higher court, Justice Fathima Beevi’s appointment was not challenged. One standout example of the Centre delaying judges’ appointments has been the six-month stalemate over Justice K.M. Joseph’s elevation to the Supreme Court after the collegium recommended him in January 2018. Political and legal circles had accused the government of victimising Justice Joseph because he had as an Uttarakhand High Court judge in April 2016 quashed the Centre’s imposition of President’s rule on the hill state, thus restoring a Congress government. Before the 2018 standoff, the Centre had also rejected a request Justice Joseph had made in May 2016 seeking a transfer to Andhra Pradesh High Court on health grounds. Another collegium recommendation that the Centre had blocked concerned Justice Akil Kureshi, who had in 2010 sent Amit Shah, now Union home minister, to CBI custody in the Sohrabuddin Sheikh “fake encounter” case. The collegium had sought Justice Kureshi’s transfer as chief justice of Madhya Pradesh High Court but the government’s stalling forced it to recommend him for chief justice of the much smaller Tripura High Court. This the government accepted. This apart, several Chief Justices of India such as Justice T.S. Thakur, Justice Ranjan Gogoi, Justice S.A. Bobde and Justice Ramana have often pulled up the Modi government, in the courtroom and outside, for sitting over judicial appointments, including those to the quasi-judicial tribunals. As recently as last week, an angry Justice Ramana had told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta to close down the tribunals if the government could not fill the vacancies. Currently, the high courts and tribunals face more than 40 per cent vacancies. However, government sources have often accused the collegium of tardiness in recommending candidates instead of abiding by the memorandum of procedure that says replacements should ideally be named six months before an incumbent judge’s retirement. Government sources have suggested the collegium often recommends a candidate six months or even a year after a vacancy arises.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
21-08-2021||India||Opposition leaders unite to prepare for 2024 general election||Senior Opposition leaders on Friday agreed to set aside their differences for a united effort to protect constitutional rule in India, stressing that preparations for the 2024 general election had to start now. Concerns were expressed about communication gaps and inadequate public action, but every leader stressed unity of purpose and appealed to citizens to thwart the designs to subvert constitutional rule. “We, the leaders of 19 Opposition parties, call upon the people of India to rise to the occasion to defend our secular, democratic, republican order with all our might. Save India today so that we can change it for a better tomorrow,” a joint statement adopted at the virtual meeting called by Congress president Sonia Gandhi said. Sonia recalled how sustained Opposition unity had cornered the Narendra Modi government during the just-concluded Parliament session. “But the larger political battle has to be fought outside. Of course, the ultimate goal is the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, for which we have to begin to plan systematically with the single-minded objective of giving to our country a government that believes in the values of the freedom movement and in the principles and provisions of our Constitution,” she said. “This is a challenge, but together we can and must rise to it because there is simply no alternative to working cohesively together.” Sonia added: “We all have our compulsions, but clearly a time has come when the interests of our nation demand that we rise above them.... Let me say for its part, the Indian National Congress will not be found wanting.” Trinamul leader and Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee made a forceful pitch for the shelving of personal and political differences, saying “the people should lead” the movement to save India. She said that instead of worrying about who should be its leader, the Opposition group should form a core group that would plan and execute its programmes. Nationalist Congress Party veteran Sharad Pawar appealed to people who believe in democratic principles to come together. He asked the parties to decide priorities and draw up an action plan to mobilise public opinion against the government. Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Yadav said that preparations for 2024 should start without wasting time. He referred to a communication deficit among Opposition parties and regretted that they had failed to cash in on the myriad issues troubling the nation. “The Opposition parties must stick to their own agenda and provide the nation with an alternative vision and governance scheme,” he said. “Regional parties that are strong in certain states should be put in the driver’s seat in their areas. Joint outreach programmes should be launched without delay.” The parties decided to jointly organise protests across the country from September 20 to 30. The parties’ state units will decide the forms of these protests keeping in mind the local Covid regulations and protocols. The joint statement presented a comprehensive critique of the government. “The destruction of the Indian economy, with deepening recession, is pushing crores of our people into joblessness, escalating the levels of poverty and hunger. The runaway inflation and price rise is adding to people’s woes and destroying livelihoods,” it said. “The historic struggle by our farmers continues into the ninth month now, with the government being obdurate in not repealing the three anti-farmer laws.” On the Pegasus snooping controversy, the parties said: “Procuring of the Pegasus military spyware for surveillance of people by the Government of India is extremely alarming. The government refuses to answer one straight question — has it or any of its agencies purchased the Pegasus spyware from the Israeli firm NSO, known for cyber military surveillance? “The government must answer and come clean. Such surveillance is not only a gross violation of people’s fundamental right to privacy but is an attack on Indian democracy and democratic institutions.” The joint statement also referred to what most Opposition leaders see as reckless privatisation by the government. “The destruction of the economy is accompanied by a mega loot of our national assets; large-scale privatisation of the public sector, including banks and financial services; the privatisation of our mineral resources and public utilities to benefit the cronies of the Prime Minister,” it said. The Opposition also voiced several demands. “1. Augment vaccine production capabilities, procure vaccines globally and speed up the free universal mass vaccination drive; provide adequate compensation for those who lost their lives due to Covid; 2. Implement free cash transfers of Rs 7,500 per month to all families outside the income tax bracket, distribute free food kits containing all essential commodities of daily consumption to all the needy; 3. Withdraw unprecedented hikes in central excise duties on petroleum products,” the statement said. “4. Repeal the three farm laws; 5. Stop and reverse the unbridled privatisation; 6. Stimulus packages for MSMEs; 7. Enlarge MGNREGA, bring urban employment guarantee scheme; 8. Prioritise vaccination of teachers, staff and students to ensure early reopening of educational institutions; 9. Hold Supreme Court-monitored judicial enquiry into the use of Pegasus spyware and the Rafale deal; 10. Release all political prisoners, including those (arrested) under draconian UAPA in Bhima Koregaon case and anti-CAA protests, stop using other draconian laws like sedition/ NSA to violate democratic rights and civil liberties of the people; 11. Release all political prisoners in J&K. Restore full statehood including J&K cadre of central services, conduct free and fair election at the earliest.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
21-08-2021||India||Delhi nod  to driving licence on DigiLocker platform||Motorists in the national capital need not carry their driving licence and registration certificate and can show these documents stored in the DigiLocker platform or the m-Parivahan mobile app when asked for by traffic police and the transport department. DigiLocker is a cloud-based platform for storage, sharing and verification of documents and certificates. Driving licences and registration certificates available in the digital form on the DigiLocker platform or the m-Parivahan app are valid documents under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, a notice issued by the transport department of the Delhi government said. These are legally recognised on a par with the certificates issued by the transport department, the notice added. “The traffic police and the enforcement wing of the transport department duly accept the electronic form of driving licence and registration certificate if shown in the DigiLocker and m-Parivahan app,” the notice said. However, soft copies of driving licence and registration certificate maintained in any other form is not acceptable as original record, it clarified. The electronic record of driving licence and registration certificate available on DigiLocker or m-Parivahan is also recognised as valid documents like the originals as per the provisions of the Information Technology Act, 2000, the notice stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
21-08-2021||India||Centre to hold meeting of Indian Labour Conference after 6 years ||The Centre is planning to hold a meeting of the Indian Labour Conference — a tripartite outfit of the government, employers and employees — after a gap of six years, two labour ministry officials have said. The government’s purported apathy to hold such three-way negotiations on emerging labour issues and receive advice from the ILC had earned it criticism from the trade unions at a time there has been delay in the implementation of an unorganised workers’ database and the workers’ opposition to the new labour laws. The two labour ministry officials said the government was planning to hold a meeting of the ILC. “There is a demand for an ILC meeting. This may be accepted,” one of them said. The tripartite ILC had last met in 2015. All the 12 central trade unions are members of the ILC, which has been meeting every year since 1942 barring a few breaks in between. The BJP government’s apparent lack of interest in the ILC had been skewered by all the trade unions, including the RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS). Last month, new labour minister Bhupender Yadav had held a courtesy meeting with all the trade unions where the labour outfits demanded the resumption of ILC meetings. BMS general secretary Binoy Kumar Sinha had last month written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to take steps to hold an ILC meeting at the earliest “to uphold the noble tradition of tripartism in the country”. Prime Ministers have been attending the inaugural programme of the ILC meetings since 1997. Modi had been present at the 2015 edition. Pawan Kumar, the BMS’s north zone secretary, said the ILC was an important forum where emerging labour issues were discussed. Labour database The Centre has decided to rely on existing data for the database it is to prepare on unorganised workers, who make up around 90 per cent of the country’s workforce. The Supreme Court has set a December deadline for putting in place the national database. The unorganised workers are among the hardest hit by the pandemic. The labour department officials said the government was planning to collate the existing data on workers compiled under different workers’ boards. “The plan is to take all the existing data already collected by the construction workers’ board, the beedi workers’ federation and so on. The states will be asked to collect data on the workers left out and feed them into the portal (on unorganised workers),” an official said. The labour minister has called a meeting of all trade unions on August 24 to discuss the matter. All India Trade Union Congress (Aituc) leader Amerjeet Kaur said the data maintained by different boards were incomplete. “The existing data cover only 15 to 20 per cent of workers in specific categories. Depending on such data will not help create a national database,” Kaur said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
21-08-2021||India||ED officer who probed UPA ‘scams’ eyes 2022 UP Assembly polls||Enforcement Directorate officer Rajeshwar Singh, who had helmed probes into UPA-era scam cases, has applied for retirement from government service and is expected to join the BJP and contest the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, official sources said on Friday. Singh had headed high-profile investigations such as the 2G spectrum allocation case, the 2010 Commonwealth Games irregularities and the money-laundering probes against former Union finance minister P. Chidambaram and his son Karti, Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and former Jharkhand chief minister Madhu Koda. He also headed the headquarters investigation unit of the ED located in the national capital that probes sensitive money-laundering and foreign exchange violation cases, including those with political links. Singh is currently posted as the joint director of the ED at its zonal office in Lucknow. Singh joined the agency in 2009. Singh, who hails from Sultanpur in Uttar Pradesh, was permanently absorbed into the ED cadre in 2015. Sources said Singh had applied for retirement from government service. They said there were chances of him joining the BJP in Uttar Pradesh and contesting the Assembly polls .The application is yet to be accepted, they added. His sister Abha Singh, a lawyer based in Mumbai, posted a message on Twitter with a photograph of her and Singh: “Congratulations to my brother #RajeshwarSingh of the #ED for opting for early retirement to serve the country. Nation needs you.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
21-08-2021||India||Covid: Nod for first jab developed by Zydus Cadila for 12-plus kids||India has approved a DNA vaccine against Covid-19 developed by the Ahmedabad-based pharmaceutical company Zydus Cadila, the country’s second homegrown vaccine against the infection and the first approved for use in children 12 years or older. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, India’s regulatory authority for drugs and vaccines, has granted emergency use authorisation for the three-dose vaccine named ZyCoV-D, the company and the department of biotechnology that funded its development said on Friday. The CDSCO’s approval represents a technical greenlight for the vaccine to be used in anyone 12 years or older. But the Centre’s vaccination policy makers will have to take a decision on when to actually open up the vaccination for children, taking into account the doses expected, and whether to prioritize certain groups of children considered at high risk for severe disease. Zydus Cadila has said it plans to produce 100-120 million doses annually. The Union health ministry has included 50 million doses of ZyCoV-D in its projected inventory of the 1,350 million doses India will require between August and December this year to vaccinate all adults. A company spokesperson told The Telegraph that the quantum of doses expected to be made available in the coming months would be announced soon. In clinical trials involving around 28,000 volunteers, the vaccine has shown 66.6 per cent protective efficacy against symptomatic Covid-19. Under globally adopted standards, a Covid-19 vaccine has to show at least 50 per cent efficacy to be considered for approval. The company had earlier this year said no moderate case of Covid-19 had been observed in the vaccine arm of the trial after three doses, indicating 100 per cent efficacy against moderate disease. No severe cases or deaths had occurred in the vaccine arm after the second dose. The CDSCO said it had approved the vaccine for use in recipients 12 years or older. Children aged between 12 and 18 years had made up around 1,000 of the 28,000 volunteers in the clinical trial. The health ministry is expected to take a decision on opening up the vaccination campaign for children based on recommendations from the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19, a technical advisory panel guiding the vaccination policy. A decision to offer Covid-19 vaccines to children would raise the number of eligible recipients by more than 220 million. The current estimated number of recipients aged 18 years or older is around 943 million. Sections of public health experts have suggested that given limited supplies, health authorities might need to prioritise vaccines for children with underlying health conditions that increase their risk for developing severe Covid. Vinod Paul, a senior paediatrician and chair of NEGVAC, has said a decision on whether to prioritise vaccines for children considered at high risk for severe Covid would be taken after it is clear what quantum of doses would be available. ZyCoV-D, administered on the skin through a needle-free applicator, is the world’s first vaccine against any human infection based on the platform using genetically-engineered DNA, a technology viewed by scientists as challenging with no commercial human DNA vaccines until now. Research groups across the world have explored candidate DNA vaccines against several other microbes, including hepatitis-B and rabies, but none entered the market. “Delivery and efficacy have been challenging issues with DNA vaccines,” said Sudanshu Vrati, a senior virologist and director of the Regional Centre for Biotechnology, Faridabad (Haryana), who was not associated with the vaccine development. “At three doses, the vaccine has demonstrated 66 per cent efficacy — this has been the major challenge,” Vrati told this newspaper. Medical experts believe as new vaccines enter the campaign, sections of the public are more likely to take into account the efficacy levels they have shown in clinical trials. The other vaccines used currently in India have shown higher efficacies — Covaxin’s 78 per cent, Covishield’s 81 per cent, and Sputnik V’s over 90 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
21-08-2021||India||Naveen Patnaik launches smart health cards in Odisha||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday launched the smart health cards under the Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana in Malkangiri, an initiative that can change the face of healthcare in the state. It’s a first of its kind service in the entire country, which will become effective from September 1. In order to send a message that his government is with the underprivileged and the tribals, Naveen handed the first health smart health card to a Bonda tribal community member, Sukri Dhangda Majhi. Bondas are one of the oldest tribal groups of the state with around 12,000 members of the community residing in the hill pockets of the Malkangiri district. Speaking on occasion at Malkangiri, Naveen said: “The smart health card will lessen your burden on treatment for health. The state government is spending money for your health. So money to be spent towards treatment of health could be saved and it could be utilised for the studies of children and improvement of the economic condition of the families.” He had announced the smart health card move on Independence Day. Under the scheme, each male member of a family of an economically vulnerable section of the society is entitled to get insurance coverage of Rs 5 lakh and woman of Rs 10 lakh per annum. As per the announcement about 96 lakh families covering a population of 3.5 crore people will avail the benefit of the health card. However, Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan has urged the chief minister to implement the Ayushman Bharat scheme in Odisha. The state has so far declined to accept it stating that its health scheme is better than the central scheme. Naveen has launched the scheme at a point when the BJP has begun the Jan Ashriwad Yatra in Odisha and its ministers including railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw and Pradhan are touring the state. However, the launching of Naveen’s smart health card scheme has triggered a fresh war of words in the social media between the BJP and the BJD. In a series of tweets, the BJD’s most powerful MLA Pranb Prakash Das compared the two schemes stating that Centre’s scheme is an insurance scheme whereas the Odisha government’s scheme is an assurance scheme and its much better than the Ayushman Bharat. “There are no specific benefits for women under the central scheme. But in our scheme, there is a provision for Rs 10 lakh per annum for women members of the family enrolled under the BSKY.” The Odisha government said the BSKY is available in more than 200 hospitals in the country including big private hospitals. Using the health card the people can get a range of benefits, including the treatment of cancer and dialysis. Meanwhile, the Congress has demanded that all people should be included in the BSKY.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
21-08-2021||India||IIT Bhubaneswar signs pact with Skill Development Institute||Indian Institute of Technology, Bhubaneswar, signed a memorandum of understanding with the Skill Development Institute here on Friday to provide support in skill development of the unemployed, under-employed and underprivileged youth with technical education relevant to the industry. The MoU was signed between IIT Bhubaneswar director R.V. Raja Kumar and SDI chairman Ranjan Kumar Mohapatra in the presence of Union minister for education and skill development Dharmendra Pradhan. The SDI is a philanthropic initiative of oil PSUs under the aegis of the ministry of petroleum and natural gas. “The collaboration will help the underprivileged sections of the society especially in the mineral rich state of Odisha for enhancing their skill set under the valuable expertise and guidance of IIT Bhubaneswar,” Pradhan said. The Union minister also inaugurated the Pushpagiri lecture hall complex and the Rishikulya halls of residence of IIT Bhubaneswar. Pradhan complemented the institute for its outstanding wellness, teaching excellence and research aura it has created. He further reiterated that the amalgamation of knowledge and technical skills at IIT Bhubaneswar will pave the path for innovative outcomes not only in a state like Odisha, but also across the globe. “IIT Bhubaneswar being a leading institute in the state of Odisha should take the lead in the effective implementation of the National Education Policy put forward by the Government of India,” Pradhan said. IIT director Raja Kumar said the inauguration of the state-of-the-art Educational Landscapes at the institute would add to the quality education and housing of the students thereby creating a world-class infrastructure. “We feel proud that the institute is constantly raising the standards on all fronts, including internationalisation of academic programmes and international collaborations on research of high industrial and societal relevance,” said Raja Kumar. Rajendra Prasad Singh, chairman of board of governors, IIT Bhubaneswar, sent his goodwill message.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
21-08-2021||India||Chhattisgarh govt transfers Rs 1,522 crore to 21 lakh peasants||The Chhattisgarh government under Bhupesh Baghel continued its support for farmers by transferring Rs 1,522 crore to the bank accounts of 21 lakh peasants of the state on the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi on Friday. Baghel also transferred online Rs 3 crore 49 lakh for the cow dung purchased from cattle rearers and to the Gauthan committees and women self-help groups under the Godhan Nyay Yojana. After making the funds transfer to farmers’ accounts under the Kisan Nyay Yojana, Baghel said that his government has adopted the vision of Rajiv to eradicate poverty and build a self-reliant India in Chhattisgarh. “Following the path shown by Rajivji, the state government has started many welfare programmes and schemes for all sections of the people including the poor, farmers and tribals. The Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana has been started to provide remunerative prices to the farmers for their produce,” said Baghel. The government has expanded the scope of this scheme from the 2021 kharif season to include paddy as well as other kharif crops. Along with this scheme, the Rajiv Gandhi Grameen Bhoomiheen Krishi Mazdoor Nyay Yojana has been started to provide financial help to the landless agricultural labourers of rural areas. Under this scheme, Rs 6,000 will be given annually to such rural families who do not have agricultural land and are associated with MGNREGA or agricultural wages. Under the Kisan Nyay Yojana, more than Rs 5,600 crore will be transferred to 21 lakh farmers of the state in four instalments as crop production incentive input assistance to paddy and sugarcane farmers. An amount of Rs 1,525 crore 97 lakh was paid to the farmers as the first instalment in their account. On Friday, Rs 1,522 crore 3 lakh was transferred to the farmers’ bank accounts as the second instalment. The Kisan Nyay Yojana was implemented in 2020 with the objective of providing a fair price to the farmers for their produce, promoting the productivity of kharif crops and crop diversification. In 2019-20, provision was made to give to the farmers selling paddy on support price and Rs 5,628 crore was given to the farmers. “This year also, the process of giving input assistance to farmers under this scheme is going on. On August 20, Rs 1,522 crore 3 lakh was paid to paddy and sugarcane farmers as the second instalment,” said a source in the chief minister’s office. In the last two-and-a-half years, the number of farmers in the state has increased from 15 lakh to 22 lakh and the area under paddy cultivation has increased from 22 lakh hectares to more than 27 lakh hectares. People who have turned away from agriculture have also started joining agriculture again, the source said. Under the Godhan Nyay Yojana, Rs 1 crore was paid to the cattle owners and villagers, Rs 1 crore 3 lakh as dividend to the self-help groups and Rs 1 crore 46 lakh to the Gauthan committees on Friday, making a total payment of Rs 3 crore 49 lakh. Under the Godhan Nyay Yojana started in the state from July 20, 2020, cow dung worth Rs 99 crore 8 lakh has been purchased so far. This amount is mostly contributed to cow dung sellers, cattle farmers, villagers and people belonging to backward classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. About 45 per cent of the benefited cow dung sellers are women. Among the beneficiaries, more than 78,000 people belong to landless families.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
21-08-2021||India||Varanasi court issues notices on shared shrine petition in Ayodhya||A Varanasi court has issued notices on a petition that seeks the right to worship round the year at a temple that shares premises with a mosque and where prayers have been restricted since the Babri Masjid demolition in Ayodhya. The petition relating to the Shringar Gauri temple, moved by a little-known outfit that seeks to “liberate” Hindu shrines, appears aimed at opening a new flank in the Gyanvapi mosque-Kashi Vishwanath temple controversy. The Shringar Gauri stands on the compound of Gyanvapi, which is adjacent to Kashi Vishwanath and, according to Sangh parivar outfits, was built after demolishing a part of the original Kashi Vishwanath temple. On Thursday, the civil judge (senior division) issued notices to the Uttar Pradesh government and the managements of the Kashi Vishwanath and Gyanvapi and asked the divisional commissioner to form a team of lawyers to advise the court. The Kashi Vishwanath temple and the Gyanvapi mosque, separated by a wall, are open to the public but the Shringar Gauri was closed in 1992 after the Babri demolition to ensure peace. Since 1995, it’s opened for worship just once a year, on the fourth day of Chaitra Navratri. Jitendra Singh Visen, head of the Delhi-based Vishva Vaidik Sanatan Sangh, who has moved the petition with five women residents of Varanasi city, wants the right to worship at the shrine “every day”. “There used to be Ganesh and Hanuman idols at the Shringar Gauri temple. We want to know whether all the idols are intact and whether we can worship there every day like before,” Visen told reporters. “Responses to the notices are to be filed by September 17, and the next hearing is on September 24.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
21-08-2021||India||Sidhu and Amarinder Singh set up 'strategic policy group'||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday agreed to set up a “strategic policy group” to ensure better coordination between the party and the government and expedite implementation of government projects, but party insiders claimed that the differences between the two leaders were far from over. The 10-member group headed by the chief minister will have three cabinet ministers — local government minister Brahm Mohindra, finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal and social security minister Aruna Chaudhary — Sidhu, four state Congress working presidents — Kuljit Singh Nagra, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Sangat Singh Gilzian and Pawan Goel — and MLA Pargat Singh. The group will hold weekly meetings in addition to ministers being asked to visit party offices by rotation to meet MLAs and political workers to discuss their concerns. The chief minister himself stressed the need for better coordination with the party, probably responding positively to the charge of being disconnected with the organisation for a good part of his tenure. The central leadership has made it clear that both the chief minister and the Punjab unit president will have to work together despite personal and political differences. Sidhu described Friday’s meeting with Amarinder as “highly positive” and put out the details of the roster duties of ministers at the party office. He also tweeted the letter he had written to Amarinder on the importance of Congress workers and demanding the ministers’ presence at the party office to listen to the grievances and concerns of people. Sources, however, said Sidhu and Amarinder continued to work at cross-purposes and that expecting a genuine rapport was futile now. A Congress leader told The Telegraph over the phone from Chandigarh: “The points raised by the state unit clearly expose the chief minister’s failure to attend to the political needs of the party. Why has the need for a demand and an agreement on better coordination arisen and is being worked out just before the (Assembly) elections (next year)? Sidhu has repeatedly said the promises made in the last election have not been fulfilled….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
21-08-2021||India||Two Indian Jesuit priests and a nun stranded in Afghanistan ||Two Jesuit priests and a nun are among the unknown number of people from Karnataka stranded in Afghanistan in the aftermath of the Taliban takeover. The two priests have been running schools in Afghanistan as part of the humanitarian activities of the Jesuit Refugee Service, an international Catholic organisation. The nun works at another school in Kabul. Fr Jerome Sequeira, in his sixties, took over the JRS operations in Afghanistan in January this year, while Fr Robert Rodrigues has been working in that country for over a year, a Jesuit priest told The Telegraph on Friday. “Our information is that both of them are safe. But we don’t know how they would manage to catch a flight out of Kabul,” said Fr Francis D’Souza, a senior Jesuit priest. Sources in the Bangalore Jesuit Province said Fr Sequeira, who hails from Dakshina Kannada district, had contacted his family on Sunday and was believed to be in a safe house somewhere near Kabul. Fr Rodrigues, who hails from Thirthahalli in Shimoga district, works at Bamiyan in central Afghanistan and had tried to catch a flight to Kabul on August 14 before the Taliban took control of the airfield. Karnataka government sources trying to trace the trio said Sr Theresa Crasta, who is part of the Sisters of Charity in Mangalore, was scheduled to return to India on August 17. But she got stranded after the Taliban took over the strife-torn country two days prior to her date of departure. Information the Karnataka government has received from her family members indicates that she could not reach Kabul airport to catch one of the flights out of Afghanistan apparently due to the multiple roadblocks laid by the Taliban. The Karnataka government on Wednesday appointed additional director-general of police, CID, Umesh Kumar, as the nodal officer to coordinate the safe evacuation of Kannadigas stuck in Afghanistan. Home minister Araga Jnanendra on Friday told reporters in Mangalore that the government was still to figure out how many Kannadigas were now in Afghanistan. “There is no information on how many Kannadigas are there. So we are telling relatives of those who might still be in Afghanistan to call the nodal office and pass on all details,” he said. The minister assured that everyone would be evacuated from the troubled nation. “The nodal officer is in regular touch with the Centre on the evacuation plans,” Jnanendra said. The minister had earlier said protection would be provided to the 339 Afghan nationals living in Karnataka. Around 192 of them are students. He had also pledged help to coordinate with the Union government to renew some of their visas that would be expiring soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
21-08-2021||India||Empires created through terror are never permanent: Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said empires created through terror were never permanent, against the backdrop of the Taliban’s takeover of Afghanistan. Modi, who has so far maintained silence on the developments in Afghanistan, made the remark while virtually laying the foundation stones for several projects at the Somnath temple in his home state Gujarat. He referred to how the Somnath temple had survived multiple attacks in the past and stressed its relevance in the modern world. “The Somnath temple faced attacks many times. Idols were desecrated several times and attempts were made to wipe out its existence. But it came up in its full glory after every destructive attack, which gives confidence to us,” Modi said, addressing the event from Delhi. “Forces that strive for destruction and those who follow the ideology of creating empires through terror can dominate for some time, but their existence is never permanent as they cannot suppress humanity,” he added. Modi said this was true when tyrants were demolishing the Somnath temple and even during the current times, appearing to make an oblique reference to the developments in Afghanistan. India has hurriedly closed its mission in Afghanistan and evacuated officials and journalists after the Taliban seized Kabul early this week. The government has so far dodged questions on any contact with the upcoming regime in Afghanistan where India is heavily invested. Politically, given the BJP’s Hindutva ideology, the government is wary of having any direct and official contact with the Taliban. BJP leaders have been using the Taliban surge for political and electoral gains. Home minister Amit Shah also joined Friday’s event virtually from Delhi. Veteran BJP leader L.K. Advani, too, was in attendance. Advani has a deep connection with the Somnath temple as he had undertaken a rath yatra from Somnath to Ayodhya in the early 90s that had contributed to the rise of the BJP as a formidable political force in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
