22-08-2021||India||BJP flag over Indian flag at Kalyan Singh's prayer meet triggers row||A photograph of the tribute ceremony to former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Kalyan Singh is rapidly becoming the eye of the storm on social media. Kalyan Singh -- the BJP veteran under whose watch the Babri Masjid was demolished -- died yesterday at the age of 89. Earlier today, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had visited Lucknow to pay his respects. Kalyan Singh was a valuable personality and a capable leader who became a "symbol of faith" for the common people, he had said. But later in the day, there was apparently some rearrangement of the bier. Its photo, tweeted by the BJP, shows Kalyan Singh's body lying in state, draped by the national flag. But half of it was seen to be covered up by the party flag of the BJP. "Is it ok to place party flag over Indian flag in New India?" questioned Srivivas BV, the chief of the Youth Congress. "India will not tolerate the insult to the national flag," the Youth Congress tweeted in Hindi from its official handle. "Party above the Nation.Flag above the Tricolor. BJP as usual : no regret, no repentance, no sorrow, no grief," tweeted Samajwadi Party spokesperson Ghanshyam Tiwari. Section 2 of the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act says, "Insults to Indian National Flag and Constitution of India", says: "Whoever in any public place or in any other place within public view burns, mutilates, defaces, defiles, disfigures, destroys, tramples upon or otherwise shows disrespect to or brings into contempt (whether by words, either spoken or written, or by acts) the Indian National Flag or the Constitution of India or any part thereof, shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both." Earlier this year, an instance of disrespect to the flag had taken place at the iconic Red Fort during the farmers' rally. After the farmers entered the forecourt of the fort, climbed its ramparts, and hoisted a religious flag on a mast outside, the Centre said it would "not tolerate disrespect to the flag".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
22-08-2021||India||Trying to convince farmers: UP on plea against road block||The Uttar Pradesh government has said that it is trying to convince farmers about the illegality, in light of a Supreme Court order from April, of blocking roads as part of their ongoing protest against three farm laws brought in by the Centre last year. In an affidavit filed in connection with a public interest litigation filed in the court by a resident of Noida seeking removal of road-blocks created by protesters, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's government has said that efforts were underway to "make farmers understand" the "grossly illegal act of blocking roads". "Most of the protesters are aged and old farmers," the affidavit has said. "Diversions have been created to allow for smooth movement of traffic between Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi via the Maharajpur and Hindon roads as NH 24 was still blocked." A hearing on the PIL by Monica Agarwal is scheduled to take place tomorrow before a bench of Justices SK Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy. The plea says "it has become a nightmare" to travel to Delhi from Noida which takes two hours instead of the usual 20 minutes. In an April 9 hearing related to the case, the Supreme Court had said that public roads should not be blocked, come what may. Without directly referring to the farmers' agitation, the court said, "We are not going into the larger issue but are referring to a limited issue. The larger issue can be solved judiciously, administratively, and politically. We have been repeatedly saying that the public roads should not be blocked." Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana, and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping around three border points of Delhi -- Singhu, Tikri, and Ghazipur – since last November, demanding a repeal of the three farm laws enacted by the Centre in September last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
22-08-2021||India||Amarinder Singh asks two of Sidhu's advisors to not speak on sensitive issues||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh asked state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday to "rein in" his advisers after two of them made "atrocious" comments recently on sensitive issues like Kashmir and Pakistan.  In a statement issued here, Singh warned against such "atrocious and ill-conceived comments that were potentially dangerous to the peace and stability of the state and the country".  The chief minister, who has been at loggerheads with Sidhu in the past, trained his guns on the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief's advisors.  He urged them to stick to giving advice to Sidhu and not speak on matters "of which they clearly had little or no knowledge and had no understanding of the implications of their comments".  Singh was reacting to the reported remarks of Pyare Lal Garg, questioning his criticism of Pakistan, as well as an earlier statement made by Malwinder Singh Mali on Kashmir. Both of them were recently appointed by Sidhu as his advisors.  In a recent social media post, Mali had waded into the issue of revocation of Article 370 of the Constitution, which gave a special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir.  He had reportedly said if Kashmir was a part of India, then what was the need to have Articles 370 and 35A.  Singh expressed shock at the "extraordinary statements" of Mali and Garg, which he claimed were totally misplaced and antagonistic to the stated position of India and the Congress on Pakistan and Kashmir.  "Kashmir was and is an inalienable part of India," the chief minister asserted, adding that with his "proclamation to the contrary", Mali had effectively and inexplicably toed Islamabad's line.  "This is totally anti-national," he said, also slamming Mali for failing to withdraw his statement, despite the widespread condemnation it had evoked not only from other political parties but also from within the Congress.  Ridiculing Garg's statement that Pakistan's criticism by him (Singh) was not in the interest of Punjab, the chief minister said Sidhu's advisor is clearly disconnected from the ground reality.  "The fact, which every Punjabi and in fact every Indian knows, is that Pakistan's threat to us is real. Every day they are pushing weapons and drugs into Punjab via drones in a brazen attempt to destabilise our state and our nation.  "Punjabi soldiers are dying at the borders at the hands of Pak-backed forces," he said, dubbing Garg's remarks as irrational and unjustified.  Singh said Garg may have forgotten about the thousands of Punjabi lives lost in the fire of Pak-backed terrorism in the 1980s and 1990s, "but I have not".  "Nor have the people of Punjab. And we will continue to do everything in our power to fight off Pakistan's dangerous games," he asserted, urging Garg not to undermine the sacrifices of Punjabis with his "outrageous, irresponsible and patently politically motivated" statements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
22-08-2021||India||Railways suffered loss of Rs36,000cr in pandemic: Union Minister||Union minister Raosaheb Danve on Sunday said the Railways has suffered losses to the tune of Rs 36,000 crore during the coronavirus pandemic, and termed goods trains as the real revenue generators for the national transporter. He also said that a bullet train project would be executed along the Mumbai-Nagpur Expressway, which is under construction at present. The Minister of State for Railways was speaking at the foundation stone laying ceremony of an underbridge at the Jalna railway station. "The passenger train segment always runs into losses. Since increasing the ticket fares affects the passengers, we cannot do so. During the pandemic, the Railways suffered losses of Rs 36,000 crore," he said. "Only goods trains generate revenue. During the pandemic, these trains played an important role in carrying goods and providing relief to people," the minister added. Speaking about bullet train, he said this project would be rolled out along the Mumbai-Nagpur Expressway as it is necessary for people. The Railways has undertaken the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor project, which will connect Navi Mumbai to Delhi, Danve said. He assured doubling of tracks between Nanded and Manmad stations, and said he would check if the Jalna-Khamgaon railway line was viable or not. Hitting out at his detractors, Danve said he was being attacked from all quarters. "But I become stronger after facing criticism," he said. Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope, who was also present at the event, said the state government has sanctioned a hospital in Jalna for treatment of those suffering from mental illnesses. He said the facility would benefit the Marathwada region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
22-08-2021||India||Rajnath Singh to felicitate armed forces personnel who participated in Olympics 2020||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will felicitate armed forces personnel who participated in this year's Olympics in Tokyo at the Army Sports Institute (ASI) in Pune on Tuesday. Earlier in the day, the Defence Ministry had said the felicitation event was going to take place on Monday. Later, it said the minister's visit has been deferred to Tuesday “due to unavoidable circumstances and any inconvenience is deeply regretted”. It noted that all armed forces personnel who represented India in the recently-concluded Tokyo Olympics, including gold medallist javelin thrower Subedar Neeraj Chopra, are likely to be present on the occasion. Singh will also interact with budding sportspersons of the ASI and troops during his visit, it stated. "He will visit the Headquarters of Southern Command. The Raksha Mantri will be accompanied by Chief of the Army Staff General M M Naravane and General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Southern Command Lieutenant General J S Nain," the ministry said on Sunday. ASI has produced 34 Olympians, 22 Commonwealth Games medallists, 21 Asian Games medallists, six Youth Games medallists and 13 Arjuna Awardees till date, it mentioned. "Indian Army has always been the backbone of Indian sports - from Major Dhyan Chand to Subedar Neeraj Chopra who etched their names in golden letters in the history of Indian sports," the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
22-08-2021||India||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij admitted to Chandigarh’s PGIMER||Haryana's Home and Health Minister Anil Vij was on Sunday admitted to the PGIMER here as his oxygen levels dipped. The 68-year-old Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader earlier could not attend the state Assembly's monsoon session on health grounds. He was admitted to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) here on Sunday evening, hospital sources said. The sources said Vij is under the supervision of doctors led by a pulmonary and respiratory medicine specialist. Vij had last week gone to Rohtak to attend the cremation of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar's younger brother. He had returned with the chief minister in a chopper and due to high altitude, his oxygen levels had dipped and have been fluctuating since, sources said. Vij had last year contracted Covid and was hospitalised for nearly a month. On November 20, Vij had offered to be the first volunteer in the phase 3 trials for anti-Covid vaccine Covaxin. He was administered the dose at the Civil Hospital in Ambala Cantonment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
22-08-2021||India||Taliban takeover hurts turban-makers of Bengal||With Taliban's takeover of Afghanistan dealing a severe blow to trade, a handful of turban-makers in West Bengal's Bankura district who had been supplying colourful silk headgears to Kabuliwallahs for over 40 years are now staring at an uncertain future. Since the Afghanistan crisis began, over 150 turban-makers in Sonamukhi town known for its exquisite silk weaves, are incurring huge losses as a Surat-based agency exporting headgears has stopped sending consignments, spokesman of local weavers organisation Shyamapada Dutta told PTI Sunday. "Due to the prevailing economic downturn, and the lockdowns, business had already received a blow with less than half of the turban-makers pulling on. The tumultuous situation in Afghanistan has dealt the final nail on the coffin in the past one week or so, Dutta said. Sonamukhi town in the state's western part, some 3,000 km from Kabul, had become a turban hub over four decades back when some Pakhtoons, locally known as Kabuliwallahs, used to visit Krishnabazar area to peddle spices, dry fruits, and for money lending purposes. As their rapport grew with local weavers, who were manufacturing items like sarees, the Pakhtoons placed orders for turbans and took the initiative in taking their products to Kolkata and from there to Surat, an old-timer of the place recalled. It became a flourishing business and around 150 weavers engaged themselves in the turban trade and the business continued for generations. Asked about the impact, Dutta, himself a turban maker, said with a headgear costing between Rs 350 and Rs 3,500, the craftsmen are suffering considerable losses. A turban-maker usually made around 20-50 turbans a month, another weaver said. Businessman Nimai Pal, who used to take the product from weavers and send them to Kolkata, said though it was difficult to hazard a guess, approximately a loss of Rs 1 crore has been incurred. "Though business had been down for quite some time due to factors like recession, lockdown, prolonged uncertainty in Afghanistan, trade was limping. The visit of Pakhtoons had also dwindled over the years. But now it has altogether stopped. The craftsmen will now be compelled to take up weaving other items," he added. A district official said if the weavers and traders approach the government documenting the losses and their previous income, the issue of financial support will be sympathetically considered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
22-08-2021||India||Afghanistan going through difficult times, says envoy to India||Asserting that the "suffering" of Afghanistan is man-made, the war-torn nation's Ambassador to India Farid Mamundzay on Sunday said his country is going through a difficult time, and only good leadership, compassionate attitude and international support to the Afghan people would bring an end to "miseries". Mamundzay also appreciated the words of sympathy and support messages from all "Indian friends" and the diplomatic missions in New Delhi over the suffering of Afghans in the past few weeks. His remarks come days after the Taliban swept across Afghanistan, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities, including capital Kabul, in the backdrop of the withdrawal of the US forces. "I appreciate the kind words of sympathy and support messages from all Indian friends and the diplomatic missions in New Delhi over the suffering of Afghans in the past few weeks, particularly the last seven to eight days," Mamundzay said on Twitter. "The avoidable suffering of Afghanistan is man-made and at a scale beyond all civilised contemplation," he said. Afghanistan is going through a difficult time, and only good leadership, compassionate attitude and international support to the Afghan people "would somewhat bring an end to these miseries", the envoy said. India on Sunday brought back nearly 400 people, including 329 of its nationals and two Afghan lawmakers, in three different flights as part of its efforts to evacuate its citizens from Kabul in the backdrop of the deteriorating situation in the city after its takeover by the Taliban. Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani fled the country as his US-backed government fell with the Taliban gaining control. In his first comments after he left Afghanistan, Ghani in a Facebook post on August 15 had said he was faced with a "hard choice" between the "armed Taliban" who wanted to enter the Presidential Palace or "leaving the dear country that I dedicated my life to protecting the past 20 years".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
22-08-2021||India||Maha engineer touring world to spread Mahatma’s message reaches Kargil||A 30-year-old engineer from Pune in Maharashtra who has been touring the world on foot or by bicycle to spread Mahatma Gandhi's message of truth and non-violence arrived here after covering 46 countries in five continents, an official spokesperson said on Sunday. Nitin Sonawane arrived in Kargil on Saturday. On Sunday, he called on Chairman and Chief Executive Councillor of the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (Kargil) Feroz Ahmad Khan, Deputy Commissioner and CEO of LAHDC (Kargil) Santosh Sukhadeve and Senior Superintendent of Police of Kargil Anayat Ali Choudhary, the spokesman said in a statement. According to the statement, Khan highly appreciated Sonawane's dedication and commitment in traversing different countries on foot or by bicycle to propagate Mahatma Gandhi's principles of truth, harmony and non-violence which remain relevant in the 21st century. Sukhadeve said Sonawane's extraordinary feat would prove to be an inspiration to people, especially the youth, to realise and dwell upon Gandhian principles and values. The SSP of Kargil said his journey should be an inspiration to many as to how "we can contribute in bringing peace and harmony in the world by promoting the values and principles of Mahatma Gandhi." According to the statement, Sonawane began his journey on November 18, 2016 from Sevagram Ashram in Wardha in Maharashtra and cycled in 20 countries, including India, Thailand, Cambodia, Vietnam, China, Hong Kong, Macau, South Korea, USA, Mexico, Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Costa Rica, Panama, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru. He also travelled on foot in 26 countries -- including Japan, South Africa, Zimbabwe, Zambia, Tanzania, Rwanda, Uganda, Kenya, Ethiopia, Sudan, Egypt, Scotland, England, North Ireland, Ireland, Germany, Spain, Georgia, Turkey, Serbia, Albania, Macedonia, Montenegro, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan and Afghanistan. So far, he has covered around 25,000 km by bicycle and around 11,000 km on foot, the statement noted. His journey will conclude at the Raj Ghat in Delhi on October 2 this year on the 152nd birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
22-08-2021||India||Ex-PM Deve Gowda rues unruly events inside Rajya Sabha||Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda on Sunday rued the unruly scenes in the Rajya Sabha and wastage of the recently concluded Parliament session without any debates on issues affecting people, saying he had not seen anything like it in his 30 years as a parliamentarian. After the conclusion of the monsoon session on August 11, he met the opposition leaders and asked them what they had achieved as none of the issues affecting the people was discussed, Gowda said. "I was not allowed to speak during the monsoon session due to the ruckus by members of the ruling and opposition parties. No business took place and the session was wasted," the JD(S) leader told reporters at the party office here. On the unruly behaviour of parliamentarians in the Rajya Sabha, he said, "I am disgusted with the behaviour of the ruling party, as well as the members of the opposition... People danced on the table in the well the house. In my 30 years as a parliamentarian, I have never witnessed any incident like this." Such behaviour was not good for society because it showed the degeneration of democratic values and was an insult to the great people who fought for the freedom of the country, he said. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu had suspended four TMC MPs on August 4 for the rest of the day for creating a ruckus over the Pegasus spying issue. Gowda said his party would launch a state-wide campaign after the conclusion of the legislature session on September 24, to resolve the water disputes in the state, including that pertaining to the Krishna and Mahadayi rivers and the Mekedatu balancing reservoir project across the river Cauvery. He said Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had spoken to NCP chief Sharad Pawar and other BJP leaders in a bid to find a solution to the Krishna and Mahadayi water sharing dispute between the state and Maharashtra. Regarding the Mekedatu issue, he said some leaders from Tamil Nadu he had spoken to had advocated a reservoir on the Cauvery river at Hogenakkal on the Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border, and not Mekedatu in Ramanagara district. "A reservoir at Hogenakkal would mean encompassing a large catchment area whereas in Mekedatu, the catchment area is small," Gowda said. The former PM said only a regional outfit like JD(S) could find a solution to these two river water disputes and not any national party. He said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi needed to 'walk the extra mile' to hone his political skills and wondered what he had achieved by taking out a bicycle rally recently to protest the hikes in fuel prices. To a question on his recent meeting with Bommai, Gowda said he assured him support on various issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
22-08-2021||India||India flawlessly evacuating people from Afghanistan, says minister||Union Minister V Muraleedharan on Sunday said the evacuation process of Indians from Kabul in Afghanistan, in the backdrop of the deteriorating situation in the city after its takeover by the Taliban, was happening in a flawless manner and the central government will bring back all Indian citizens, who want to come back. The Union Minister of State for External Affairs while speaking to media here, said there are around 500 people stranded there as per the preliminary estimation and the government will ensure their safe travel to the airport there. "The evacuation process is happening in a flawless manner. As per our estimation there will be around 500 people to return to India. The union government has taken steps to bring back all those Indians who want to come back. There are some issues related to the travel to the airport there. The government will take necessary steps to bring those stranded there safely to the airport," Muraleedharan said. Meanwhile, India brought back nearly 400 people, including 329 of its nationals and two Afghan lawmakers, in three different flights as part of its efforts to evacuate its citizens from Kabul on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
22-08-2021||India||People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration to meet on Tuesday regarding Jammu and Kashmir situation||The People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration is likely to meet here on Tuesday to discuss the prevailing situation in Jammu and Kashmir, and have wider consultations on the way forward. The PAGD is an alliance of six mainstream political parties seeking the restoration of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir, which was revoked by the Centre in August 2019. A leader said the meeting will take place at alliance chairman Farooq Abdullah's residence at Gupkar here at 11 am. "This meeting will be a different one from the earlier ones. This time it is not only the top leadership of the constituent parties which has been invited for consultations but the middle rung leadership as well," he said. The leader said it has been left to the alliance parties to select the party leaders for the meeting. "The participants will be from the length and breadth of the Valley and we expect around 150-200 leaders to take part in the meeting," he said. The meeting has been called to discuss the prevailing situation in Jammu and Kashmir and "have wider consultations on various issues", he said. "It (the meeting) will discuss the way forward and it is the first such attempt in the Kashmir valley by the alliance to get a broader perspective on the issues. We wanted to have this kind of consultation before but various factors like Covid prevented such a gathering," the leader added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
22-08-2021||India|| Over 720 children in care homes got infected by Covid, says RTI||Over 720 children in child care institutions in 11 states and Union Territories have contracted COVID-19 till now and no fatalities have been reported, according to data from the country's apex child rights body. The data, which was shared by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights in response to an RTI query from PTI, also stated that 686 children living in child care institutions (CCIs) have been infected with COVID-19 so far this year. Last year, Uttar Pradesh was the only state out of the 11 states and Union Territories (UTs) to report coronavirus cases among children in CCIs. It had reported 35 cases, according to the data. This year, no coronavirus case has been reported yet from such institutions in Uttar Pradesh, it stated. According to the commission's data, no death due to the coronavirus infection has been reported among children residing in CCIs from these 11 states and UTs. Out of 721 children in such institutions, who contracted the infection, the highest number was reported from Haryana (288) followed by Tamil Nadu (149) and Bihar (131), according to the data. It stated that the number of COVID-19 cases among children in CCIs in Mizoram was 46, Karnataka 37, Delhi 19, Telangana seven, Gujarat six, Chandigarh three. No case was reported from Andaman and Nicobar Islands, stated the data of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights for 11 states and UTs. There are 857 CCIs in these states and UTs and 33,695 beneficiaries reside in them, according to government data. In June, the Women and Child Development Ministry had asked states to make suitable arrangements for isolation facilities within CCIs to take care of children suffering from COVID-19 and prepare a roaster of child psychologists or counsellors to visit the facilities and interact with them. To ensure institutional support through CCIs, the ministry had also asked states and UTs to organise special inspection drives in collaboration with district magistrates, for assessment of quality care at all CCIs for ascertaining the wellbeing of children. CCIs were also directed to ensure proper facilities such as clean and hygienic living conditions, basic amenities, quality food and safety for all children from the infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
22-08-2021||India||All achievements of last 20 years lost, nothing left now, says Afghan lawmaker||"All achievements of the last 20 years in Afghanistan have been lost. Nothing is left. It's zero now," said Afghan lawmaker Narender Singh Khalsa soon after his arrival along with 167 others at the Hindon airbase on Sunday as part of India's evacuation mission from Taliban besieged Kabul. Khalsa and senator Anarkali Honaryar as well as their families were among those flown out of Kabul in a C-17 heavy-lift aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) this morning. The Sikh lawmaker thanked the Indian government for rescuing him, his family and several other members of his community following the Taliban's takeover of Kabul and most parts of Afghanistan. "India is our second home. Even if we are Afghans and live in that country, people often call us Hindustanis," the lawmaker told reporters at the airbase near Delhi. Asked about the current situation in Afghanistan and how he felt about the latest developments in the country, Khalsa, with tears in his eyes, said all the gains of the past 20 years have been undone. "I feel like crying. Everything is finished. It is a very difficult and painful decision to leave the country. We have not seen such a situation. Everything has been snatched away. It's all over," he said. The Taliban took control of Kabul and almost all major cities and provinces of Afghanistan 20 years after it was ousted by a US-led military coalition following the 9/11 attacks. Recalling the harrowing experience of the past seven days after the Taliban took control of Kabul, Khalsa said the situation is "very bad" and appealed to the Indian government to rescue the remaining stranded Hindus and Sikhs from the war-torn country. "Situation is very bad. We had to face a lot of difficulties. Thank God for saving our lives as we had to face harrowing times in the last few days. My expectation from the Indian government is that all those who are still stuck are brought back," he said. "The Taliban used to ask us to remain in Afghanistan saying your security is our responsibility. As there are so many groups of Taliban, we do not know whom to speak to and whom to believe. That's why we decided to leave as the situation is serious," he added. Khalsa said almost all Indians and Afghan Sikhs were taking shelter at gurudwaras in Kabul and elsewhere and that some 200 other Indians and Indian-origin people are waiting to be rescued. "The gurudwaras are serving people by providing shelter and food. We are worried about our people who are still staying there," he said. Asked about the brief detention of Indians and the Afghan Sikhs and Hindus on Saturday by the Taliban when they were on their way to the Kabul airport, he said all of them had to face harrowing experiences. "They separated us from the Indians...In each of the gates at the airport, 5000-6000 people were standing. Initially, we could not go inside," he said. "A person from Taliban harassed us. Then we left the place and came to a gurudwara. Our Indian friends were also harassed. It was difficult to understand who was a good person and who was bad. Then around 8 at night, we entered the airport by a VIP entry point," he added. Khalsa said the temples and gurudwaras in Afghanistan are unharmed and safe so far. India on Sunday brought back nearly 400 people, including 329 of its nationals, in three different flights as part of its efforts to evacuate its citizens from Kabul. A total of 168 people including 107 Indians and 23 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, were flown from Kabul to Hindon airbase near Delhi in a C-17 heavy-lift military transport aircraft of the IAF. Another group of 87 Indians and two Nepalese nationals were brought back in a special Air India flight from Dushanbe, a day after they were evacuated to the Tajikistan capital in an IAF aircraft, officials said. Separately, a group of 135 Indians who were earlier evacuated from Kabul to Doha in the last few days by the US and NATO aircraft, were flown back from Doha to Delhi on a special flight, they said. India carried out the evacuation missions in coordination with the US and several other friendly countries. Two days after the Taliban seized control of Kabul, India evacuated 200 people including the Indian envoy and other staffers of its embassy in Kabul in two C-17 heavy-lift transport aircraft of the IAF. The first evacuation flight brought back over 40 people, mostly staffers at the Indian embassy, on Monday last. The second C-17 aircraft evacuated around 150 people including Indian diplomats, officials, security personnel and some stranded Indians from Kabul on Tuesday. The Taliban swept across Afghanistan this month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities including Kabul in the backdrop of the withdrawal of the US forces. Following the evacuation, the MEA said the focus now would be to ensure the safe return of all Indian nationals from the Afghan capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
22-08-2021||India||Nearly 400 people evacuated from Afghanistan reach India||India on Sunday brought back nearly 400 people, including 329 of its nationals and two Afghan lawmakers, in three different flights as part of its efforts to evacuate its citizens from Kabul in the backdrop of the deteriorating situation in the city after its takeover by the Taliban. A total of 168 people including 107 Indians and 23 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, were flown from Kabul to the Hindon airbase near Delhi in a C-17 heavy-lift military transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF). Another group of 87 Indians and two Nepalese nationals were brought back in a special Air India flight from Dushanbe, a day after they were evacuated to the Tajikistan capital in an IAF aircraft, officials said. Separately, a group of 135 Indians, who were evacuated from Kabul to Doha in the last few days by the US and NATO aircraft, were flown back from Doha to Delhi on a special flight, they said. India carried out the evacuation missions in coordination with the US, Qatar, Tajikistan and several other friendly countries. The group of 168 people, who were evacuated from Kabul, included Afghan lawmakers Anarkali Honaryar and Narender Singh Khalsa and their families, people familiar with the evacuation mission said. "Evacuation continues! IAF special repatriation flight with 168 passengers on board, including 107 Indian nationals, is on its way to Delhi from Kabul," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi tweeted hours before the plane landed at Hindon. It is learnt that the Indians evacuated to Doha from Kabul were employees of a number of foreign companies that were operating in Afghanistan. "Bringing Indians home from Afghanistan! AI 1956 carrying 87 Indians departs from Tajikistan for New Delhi. Two Nepalese nationals also evacuated.Assisted and supported by our Embassy @IndEmbDushanbe. More evacuation flights to follow," Bagchi tweeted at around 1:20 am. India evacuated 200 people including the Indian envoy and other staffers of its embassy in Kabul in two C-17 heavy-lift transport aircraft of the IAF after the Taliban seized control of Kabul. The first evacuation flight brought back over 40 people, mostly staffers at the Indian embassy, on Monday last. The second C-17 aircraft evacuated around 150 people including Indian diplomats, officials, security personnel and some stranded Indians from Kabul on Tuesday. The Taliban swept across Afghanistan this month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities including Kabul in the backdrop of the withdrawal of the US forces. Following the evacuation, the MEA said the focus now would be to ensure the safe return of all Indian nationals from the Afghan capital. The MEA said the immediate priority for the government is to obtain accurate information about all Indian nationals currently staying in Afghanistan. It also requested the Indians as well as their employers to urgently share the relevant details with the special Afghanistan cell. According to a rough estimate last week, the number of Indians stranded in Afghanistan could be around 400 and India has been looking at ways to evacuate them including by coordinating with the US and other friendly countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
22-08-2021||India||Narendra Modi in Lucknow, pays last respects to Kalyan Singh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday paid his last respects to former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh here. Singh, who was ailing for some time, died at the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) in Lucknow on Saturday night. He was 89. Tributes poured in for the prominent backward caste leader with Modi hailing the two-time Uttar Pradesh chief minister's "indelible contribution" towards the development of the state and the "cultural regeneration" of India. The veteran BJP leader, who also served as the Rajasthan governor, was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit of the SGPGI in a critical condition on July 4. He died due to sepsis and multi-organ failure, the hospital said. Uttar Pradesh has announced three-day mourning and a holiday on Monday, when the former chief minister's last rites will be performed. Singh was the Uttar Pradesh chief minister when the Babri mosque was demolished by a mob of "karsevaks" in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992. Along with BJP veterans L K Advani and M M Joshi, he was among the 32 people acquitted in the demolition case in September last year. A Lodhi leader, Singh was instrumental in the rise of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to power in Uttar Pradesh in the 1990s. Singh is survived by his wife Ramvati Devi, son Rajveer Singh, who is the Lok Sabha MP from Etah, and grandson Sandeep Singh, who is the minister of state for finance, technical education and medical education in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
22-08-2021||India||Lion killed after getting run over by train in Gujarat||An Asiatic lion was killed after being run over by a goods train in Gir forest area of Gujarat's Amreli district, an official said on Sunday. The incident took place around 9.30 pm on Saturday near Khadkala village in Gir (East) forest division under Savarkundla forest range, Chief Conservator of Forests (Junagadh wildlife circle) Dushyant Vasavada said. The carcass of a male lion, aged around 5-6 years, was found on a railway track, he said, adding that collision with a double-decker goods train was the possible cause of the death. Forest officials reached the spot and sent the carcass for an autopsy, he added. In 2019 and 2020, a total of 313 lions died in Gujarat, with 23 fatalities due to unnatural causes, state Forest Minister Ganpat Vasava told the state Assembly in March this year. The unnatural causes included dying after falling into an open well, getting run over by vehicles or trains, or electrocution, he had said. The government was making efforts to mitigate lion deaths due to unnatural causes, the minister had said. The Gir Wildlife Sanctuary, part of the forest spread across several Gujarat districts, is the last abode of Asiatic lions in the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
22-08-2021||India||Rains lash some parts of Delhi, light precipitation likely||Rains lashed some parts of the city on Sunday morning, and the minimum temperature settled at 24.5 degrees Celsius, two notches below the season's normal, said a meteorological department official. The relative humidity recorded at 8.30 am was 92 per cent.In the last 24 hours, the city received 9.2 mm rainfall, they said. According to the weather office, the maximum temperature is expected to settle at 33 degrees Celsius. The MeT department has forecast generally cloudy sky with light rain later in the day. According to IMD officials, Saturday's rainfall of 138.8 mm is the ninth highest in the last 62 years for August.. The highest ever rainfall for August since 1961 is 184.0 mm. It was recorded on August 2, 1961. On Saturday, the maximum temperature settled at 32.6 degrees Celsius, a notch below the season's normal while the minimum temperature settled at around 23.8 degrees Celsius, three notches below the season's normal, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
22-08-2021||India||India records 30,948 Covid-19 cases, 403 deaths||India logged 30,948 new coronavirus infections, while the active cases declined to 3,53,398 comprising 1.09 per cent of the total infections, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The total tally of Covid-19 cases has increased to 3,24,24,234. The death toll has climbed to 4,34,367 with 403 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases have declined to 3,53,398, the lowest in 152 days, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has increased to 97.57 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the health ministry said. A reduction of 7,942 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 15,85,681 tests were conducted on Saturday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 50,62,56,239. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.95 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 27 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at two per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 58 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,16,36,469, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
22-08-2021||India||Heavy rain lashes New Delhi||Heavy rain lashed New Delhi on Saturday, crippling traffic movement and causing waterlogging in many parts of the national capital. Places such as Minto Bridge, Connaught Place and ITO were inundated after intense showers. The India Meteorological Department said Delhi recorded 139mm of rainfall, the highest single-day rain for August in at least 13 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
22-08-2021||India||Former CM Kalyan Singh passes away at 89||Kalyan Singh, who was chief minister of Uttar Pradesh when the Babri Masjid was demolished, died after a long illness on Saturday. He was 89. Kalyan failed in his duty as chief minister on December 6, 1992, and had to step down but his stature in his party, the BJP, rose. He was made chief minister again in 1997 and served till 1999, when the party replaced him with Ram Prakash Gupta. The last acceptable OBC face of the BJP, observers believe that even in death Kalyan could help the party electorally. The party is expected to invoke his memories in the 2022 election campaign. “Kalyan was useful for us when he was alive, he would remain useful for the party even after his death. There are leaders in Uttar Pradesh who represent one or the other OBC caste but Kalyan was a true representative of all the OBCs in the state,” said a senior BJP leader who didn’t want to be named. However, Vinay Katiyar, a less important OBC leader of the BJP, said: “Kalyan never invoked caste even though he was one who used to start his speeches with the mention of agre (upper caste), pichre (backward caste), Dalit (Scheduled Caste).” “He was a true hero of Ram Janmbhoomi movement,” Dinesh Sharma, deputy chief minister, said. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said: “The state will mourn Kalyan Singh’s death for three days and there would be general holiday in UP on August 23, when his last rites would be performed at Narora in Aligarh, his home district.” Kalyan was also known to lash out in public against his own party leaders, including then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, and was suspended. He later returned to the BJP and served as governor of Rajasthan between 2014 and 2019. Kalyan is survived by his wife Ramvati Devi, son Rajveer Singh, who is the Lok Sabha MP from Etah, and grandson Sandeep Singh, who is a junior minister in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
22-08-2021||India||Mehbooba Mufti warns Centre, asks to restore J&K special status||Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday warned the Centre it would face consequences if it did not correct its “mistake” in Jammu and Kashmir and asked it to see what was happening in the neighbourhood, in what appeared to be a reference to the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. “The people of Jammu and Kashmir are enduring a lot but the day the dam of patience bursts, you will not survive. You will be decimated,” the PDP leader said, addressing a gathering in south Kashmir. “I repeatedly say, don’t test us. Come to your senses, see what is happening in the neighbourhood. See what is happening in the neighbourhood. Such a big force like America has to pack its bags and flee,” Mehbooba said. Mehbooba said the Centre still had time and should initiate talks as former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had done. “And you should return what you have looted illegally and unconstitutionally and spoiled the identity of Jammu and Kashmir. You divided Jammu and Kashmir into parts. Rectify the mistake, otherwise it will be too late,” the former chief minister said. She cautioned the Centre against taking her words lightly, saying if an ant flies into the nose of an elephant, the insect could make the hulking animal’s life hell. Mehbooba clarified that Kashmir’s fight would be peaceful. “Jammu and Kashmir is a unique state. People here are not cowards, they are brave. Waving a green flag (signifying a peaceful struggle) needs more courage. As Gandhiji would say, it needs more courage to fight non-violently. You do not need courage if you pick up stones or guns,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
22-08-2021||India||Army jawan dies, 30 collapse during endurance run in Punjab||An army jawan died and over 30 soldiers collapsed because of heat and exhaustion during an endurance run at the Mamun military station near Pathankot in Punjab on Saturday. Sources in the army said 35 jawans had to be admitted to the military hospital in Pathankot. “The weather was very hot and humid when the training was taking place. The soldiers suffered heat stroke,” said an army official. “Five of the 35 jawans are said to be in critical condition,” the official added. The incident took place around 11.30am on Saturday. The army did not reveal the identities of the deceased or those taken ill. The training activity was organised, supervised and monitored by the 9 Corps of the Indian Army. It started on Thursday. The army said: “In an organised, supervised and monitored training activity undertaken by officers, JCOs and other ranks near Pathankot, due to severe weather conditions, there has been one fatal casualty. A few individuals including some officers/JCOs have been admitted to Military Hospital, Pathankot. The affected persons are being provided with requisite medical care. The training activity was being undertaken by 11 officers, 11 JCOs and 120 other ranks.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
22-08-2021||India||‘Land jihad’ egg on BJP leader Kavinder Gupta's face||A former BJP deputy chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir who had coined the term “land jihad” to vilify Muslims during a party campaign against encroachments had himself been in illegal possession of land, government documents suggest. Kavinder Gupta, who was deputy chief minister in the PDP-BJP government for a few months in 2018, had, along with Subhash Sharma and Shiv Rattan Gupta, held possession of nearly three acres of state land in Jammu under a now-scrapped law between 2010 and 2016, according to a Jammu and Kashmir government reply to an RTI query. Under the Roshni Act, 2001, which Jammu and Kashmir High Court struck down last year, the government had given ownership rights to illegal occupants of state land that had been encroached on since 1990. The rights were given against payment in some cases to raise money for power projects. Since Kavinder and the two others had held the land under the Roshni Act for six years, according to the government’s reply to the RTI query of lawyer Sheikh Shakeel Ahmad, it would suggest that the trio had been encroachers on the plot at some point before that. Kavinder denied having ever been in possession of the land and demanded an inquiry into how his name had entered government records related to the plot. The BJP leader was mayor of the Jammu Municipal Corporation in 2010, the year he is shown in government records to have been granted possession of the land. In 2017, after Kavinder’s possession of the land had ended according to the government records, there were allegations that Muslims had benefited disproportionately from the Roshni Act, or the Jammu and Kashmir State Land (Vesting of Ownership to the Occupants) Act, 2001. Last year, when the high court struck down the Act calling it unconstitutional and illegal, Kavinder had said the verdict was a “surgical strike on land jihad”, an alleged Muslim conspiracy to alter the Hindu-majority character of Jammu by encroaching on land. The BJP ecosystem had run a vociferous campaign alleging a Muslim plot to change the demography of Jammu. However, the drive backfired when documents studied during the case revealed that the majority of beneficiaries of the Roshni Act were Hindus. The Jammu and Kashmir government has since filed a review petition and has not implemented the court order to reclaim the land transferred to encroachers, apparently fearing a backlash from voters. The government has contended that the ruling might “unintentionally” affect a large number of common people. When The Telegraph contacted Kavinder on Saturday, he denied having ever held the land at Ghaink village in Bhalwal tehsil of Jammu. “I have no land there. Find out who has signed it (revenue records and made him a beneficiary). There should be an inquiry to find out (who did it),” he said. Told that the revenue records show his name, Kavinder said that “if somebody transfers the Taj Mahal to my possession, it will not become mine”. A revenue official said no land can be written in somebody’s name if the proposed beneficiary is not present in person. PDP leader and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, whose deputy Kavinder had been, said the BJP’s reaction to the Roshni Act was like “a thief threatening a police officer”. “They stopped it (reclamation of land) because they found a lot of BJP men were involved. They were involved in a lot of scams,” she said. BJP spokesman R.S. Pathania said it needed to be verified whether Kavinder had held the land.Pathania said the BJP stood by its stand that the Roshni Act was a scam. “But one thing came to light later (that several poor men had benefited) and a review petition was filed. The BJP sticks to the stand that prime land in the heart of (Jammu) city and municipalities had been leased out to influential people for peanuts,” the party spokesman said. “That is why we call it a scam. Government properties had been under-priced and given to influential people. It should be taken care of,” Pathania added. Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha’s administration had last year publicly named top politicians from the Valley, including former chief minister Farooq Abdullah, as beneficiaries of the act. The leaders have denied the allegation. Many believe the names of the politicians had been released just before the district body polls to tarnish those who had formed an alliance to contest the elections with a demand for the reinstatement of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status under Article 370. According to the government’s reply to lawyer Ahmad’s RTI query, Kavinder, Sharma, an Independent councillor in Jammu, and Shiv Rattan had jointly held Khasra No. 1,789 measuring nearly three acres at Ghaink village between 2010 and 2016. Khasra is a number given to a piece of land by the revenue department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
22-08-2021||India||Impressive show of Opposition unity in Parliament fails to dispel gloom in Congress||The impressive show of Opposition unity in the monsoon session of Parliament followed by Friday’s successful meeting called by Sonia Gandhi have failed to dispel the gloom in a Congress grappling with organisational disarray. Fear lurks that the much-awaited election of party president may be pushed further into 2022, allowing the few months left of the existing presidential term to run their course. Leaders and workers feel that the absence of a full-fledged Congress president is not only holding back a revamp of the party but also affecting Opposition politics in the country. Rahul Gandhi was elected Congress president in December 2017. The party constitution was amended to extend the president’s tenure from three years to five, and the next election is therefore due in 2022. A senior party functionary told The Telegraph: “Nothing has been decided so far but there is an opinion that the election should be delayed by a few months and the new president elected to a five-year term in 2022.” Confusion has persisted since the Congress Working Committee announced last year that the election of a new president — to fill the vacancy created by Rahul’s resignation in July 2019 following the rout in the general election — would be completed by the year-end. That deadline was pushed back by six months because of Covid and the Assembly elections in states like Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. The general secretary in charge of the organisation, K.C. Venugopal, declared at a news conference on January 22 this year that “there will be an elected Congress president by June”. It’s August now, and speculation about the election being held in 2022 has already begun, lengthening the period of uncertainty in this critical phase for the party. “Sonia Gandhi said at the meeting (of 19 Opposition parties on Friday) that the Congress will not be found wanting — the least we can do is to elect a leader,” a senior Congress politician said bitterly. “The entire parliamentary session saw Rahul emerge as the leader of the Opposition. He created ripples by taking the tractor to Parliament, riding a bicycle and forcing the washout of a session over Pegasus. Suddenly he is pushed aside and Sonia calls the Opposition meeting. Leadership doesn’t work in a switch-on, switch-off mode.” Another senior leader too rued the party’s tendency to procrastinate and failure to resolve contentious issues. “We have been hearing about a reshuffle in Rajasthan for three months now. We were told chief minister Ashok Gehlot was not listening to the central leadership,” the leader said. “Then came the tough decision in Punjab, where Navjot Singh Sidhu was installed (as state unit chief) against the wishes of chief minister Amarinder Singh. Now even Gehlot will be forced to fall in line. General secretary Ajay Maken went to Jaipur and returned with an agreed formula. Where is the reshuffle?” A rejig in Rajasthan is crucial to accommodating Sachin Pilot in the high command structure. Other critical decisions too are pending. Gujarat, which goes to the polls next year, has neither a state unit chief nor a general secretary in charge. In Maharashtra, every senior leader and minister is sulking, unhappy at the choice of Nana Patole as state Congress president. Ditto in Delhi, where the entrenched forces have refused to accept the young Anil Chaudhary as their leader. While the so-called “Group of 23” — now seen as enemies by the new loyalists — had raised questions about organisational weaknesses, many others too privately concede that more than two years have been wasted because of the absence of a functional head. Many senior leaders and state ministers are unhappy at not being able to convey their feelings to the central leadership because Sonia and Rahul are practically inaccessible. While Sonia has restricted her interactions because of Covid, Rahul says he has no authority to resolve issues and meets people selectively. With Rahul no longer party president, there’s no institutional arrangement for his interactions. Even leaders of other Opposition parties have privately expressed shock and disbelief at the continuing paralysis in the Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
22-08-2021||India||BJP in bind over Nitish Kumar’s Delhi visit for caste census||The BJP is in a bind in Bihar over the demand by ally and chief minister Nitish Kumar for a caste census. Nitish will be leading an all-party delegation comprising 11 members to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 23 in New Delhi to discuss the demand for a caste census. The BJP leaders in the state are in a dilemma over the meeting, especially in the light of the assertion by its top leadership that there would be no caste census in the country. If they do not accompany Nitish, they might be seen as working against the interests of the backward castes. They also stand the danger of annoying the BJP top brass if they decide to go with him. Asked about the issue, Bihar BJP vice-president and MLC Devesh Kumar told this newspaper: “We don’t know yet. It is for our central leadership to decide whether our leaders will be a part of the Nitish Kumar-led delegation.” However, sources said that BJP state president Sanjay Jaiswal or senior leader and deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad could be a part of the delegation to ensure that the party does not fall foul of the backward castes. A majority of the BJP leaders are of the view that “caste-oriented” politics is detrimental to their “nationalist” politics, and there was a need for states like Bihar to come out of caste and identity politics. They are also planning to counter Nitish by raking up the caste survey that his government conducted across all 243 Assembly constituencies in 2013-14 with the help of Bihar police’s special branch, which acts as the state’s intelligence agency. “This survey was clandestinely conducted by the special branch at the behest of the chief minister. Its focus was not on the entire population, but on people aged 18 and above who would serve as voters. The data was never made public, and the government later hushed up everything,” a senior BJP leader and a close associate of Nitish told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. The BJP leader added that the data thrown up by that caste survey was so alarming that the Nitish government thought it prudent to hide it. There were many discrepancies as well. “The figures pointed several things like mass exodus or migration of people, including the general category castes and the pachhpaniyas (55 castes) who are counted among the EBCs (Extremely Backward Castes), in search of work. The voters of a few dominant backward castes were more than anticipated. The data was against the existing notions,” the BJP leader said. However, the data was somehow leaked and came into the hands of the BJP also, which put it to good use during the elections that were conducted in the state since 2014 onwards. “Nitish keeps talking about the Centre not releasing caste-related data of the Socio-Economic Caste Census conducted in 2011, but never discusses the caste survey that he conducted. Maybe its accuracy was questionable, but he (Nitish) must have got an idea of the existing caste composition in the state. He should tell something about it,” another senior BJP leader said. The last caste census was conducted in 1931 during the British rule. It had put the backward caste population in the country at around 52 per cent. The data became the backbone of the reservation policy of the central and state governments. A socio-economic caste survey was conducted in 2011 by the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government, but the data on castes was not published due to various alleged discrepancies. Last month, minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai had told the Lok Sabha that there were no plans for a caste census. It prompted Nitish and Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal to profess their support for the caste census and ask the Centre to reconsider its decision. Nitish also pointed out that the Bihar legislature unanimously passed resolutions in its favour twice (February 2019 and February 2020) and sent them to the Centre, which should pay attention to it. RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has asserted that Nitish should consider conducting a caste census in Bihar on the lines of Karnataka if the central government refuses it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
22-08-2021||India||Odisha govt spent Rs 17 crore for repair, renovation of Raj Bhavan||The Odisha government has spent around Rs 17 crore for the repair and renovation of the Raj Bhavan, its adjoining buildings and official quarters during the last six years, according to its reply to a Right to Information query. The executive engineer, Bhubaneswar (roads and building) division-IV, said they had spent Rs 16,91,13,899 (approximately Rs 17 crore) for the repair and renovation work of the building in response to the query by RTI activist Pradip Pradhan. The works department undertook various works like new construction, renovation, maintenance of the governor’s house and adjoining buildings and quarters of officers and employees of the Raj Bhavan. The money was spent in this regard during a period of six years from 2015-16 to 2020-21, according to the reply. Of the total money spent, the expenses for the construction of the abhishek-cum-banquet hall at the Raj Bhavan were to the tune of Rs 3,95,53,299 (Rs 3.95 crore), Pradhan said quoting the department’s reply to his query. Ganja seized: Odisha police on Saturday seized 253kg of ganja valued at Rs 10.12 lakh during a raid near Tikarpada village in Boudh district of the state, an official said, according to a PTI report. The drug peddlers, however, managed to escape.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
22-08-2021||India||India resumes evacuation flights out of Kabul, brings out 80 Indians||India on Saturday resumed evacuation flights out of Kabul and brought out 80 Indians who were flown to Dushanbe, Tajikistan. Another 150 Indians were at the Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul by evening, awaiting evacuation. This third round of evacuation took place amid reports by Afghan media that 150 people, mostly Indians, had been captured by the Taliban near Kabul airport. It took about a couple of hours for government sources in New Delhi to confirm that all the Indians headed for the airport were safe and accounted for. Taliban spokesperson Suhail Shaheen told ABP News that the reports of his group kidnapping Indians were incorrect. “This is not true that they were taken into custody. Actually they were helped to the airport like diplomats or citizens of any country,” he said. Kabul Now, a news website, reported that a group of unarmed Taliban had approached the Indians as they headed to the airport in minivans around 1am to catch an evacuation flight. They were reportedly beaten and taken to a compound close to the airport. The passengers — who were told they would be taken into the airport from another gate — were interrogated and their documents verified, the media said. While the report could not be independently verified, it’s well established that the Taliban control the approach to the airport and that all those who have made it into the airport had to negotiate with the group’s soldiers manning the barricades. This was how the Indians who had got into the first two evacuation flights earlier this week had managed to enter the airport. Even the US, which still controls Kabul airport, has made it clear in security advisories that the American government cannot ensure safe passage to the airport to its own citizens. In a fresh advisory on Saturday, the US embassy in Kabul said: “Because of potential security threats outside the gates at the Kabul airport, we are advising US citizens to avoid travelling to the airport and to avoid airport gates at this time unless you receive individual instructions from a US government representative to do so.” The 80 Indians evacuated on Saturday arrived in Dushanbe on an Indian Air Force C-130 flight. Asked why they were not flown straight to India, sources cited operational issues and said some of them might reach Delhi on Sunday. Asked how the remaining 150 Indians who had made it to Kabul airport would be brought back, sources said this was yet to be worked out and that India was waiting for slots at Kabul airport for its flights. By resuming evacuation, India has signalled it has recalibrated its assessment of, and response to, the situation in Afghanistan. After the second evacuation flight — which brought back Indian diplomats and staff, including security personnel and their dogs attached to the Kabul embassy — the external affairs ministry had said: “Government of India is committed to the safe return of all Indian nationals and will institute flight arrangements once Kabul airport is open for commercial operations.” However, with the situation in Afghanistan worsening amid reports of the Taliban returning to their true form, the government appears to have decided not to wait for the resumption of commercial operations to bring back the remaining Indians. There is no official count of the Indians stranded in Afghanistan, but some estimates put the number around 500.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
22-08-2021||India||Dalits assaulted for seeking prasada in Karnataka||A Dalit teen’s request for prasada from a temple led to him and his parents being beaten up near Bangalore, and a Dalit labourer was burnt with a chemical elsewhere in Karnataka. The incidents happened on August 14 and August 17 but became public only on August 20, and just one of the eight people accused in the two cases has been arrested so far. Writer and Dalit activist Mahesh Chandra Guru said the delay in the two incidents coming to light reflected society’s attitude towards Dalits. “Hardly anyone is bothered when a Dalit is attacked. It’s a symptom of a deep-rooted sickness in our casteist society,” he said. A man named Kishore allegedly assaulted the Dalit teenager on August 14 when he asked for prasada from a special puja at the Anjaneya temple in Vishwanathapura village in Devanahalli, a few kilometres from Bangalore airport. Two days later, Kishore allegedly hurled caste abuses at the boy’s mother, Aruna, when she confronted him. When her husband Muninanjappa, a schoolteacher, tried to defend his wife, Kishore and two of his relatives allegedly beat up the couple. Local sub-inspector of police Venkatesh told The Telegraph on Saturday that none of the three accused had been arrested. “We are narrowing down on their hideout,” he said. At Hallihole village in Udupi, five members of a family including four women allegedly beat a 35-year-old day labourer, Venkataramana, with wooden logs and poured a chemical on him on August 17. Police sources said the accused had found Venkataramana working in a four-acre areca nut plantation whose ownership they claimed but which a court had handed to a man named Laxminarayana Chatra after a lengthy case. The suspects — Vijendra Chatra, Sushama, Shailaja, Greeshma and Suma — allegedly asked Venkataramana why he was working on the land and attacked him when he said the owner had hired him. Venkaratamana is being treated for burns at a hospital. Vijendra has been arrested but the four women are in hiding. Both cases have been booked under the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act apart from penal code sections. Mavalli Shankar, president of the Dalit Sangharsh Samiti (Ambedkar Vada), said it was “strange” that he had learnt about the atrocities only on Saturday. “Our group will provide all support to the victims,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
22-08-2021||India||Plight in Herat: Gunfire outside, scared children inside||Hiding in his home in Herat with his small children, Haider Abdullah (name changed on request) prays that the gunshots do not resume. “My children are scared. There was such terrible sound of weapons outside that they did not come out for three days,” the Afghan liver transplant patient in his mid-30s said when The Telegraph called him on Friday. Abdullah is one of the several Afghan patients whose treatment was done in India. “They are scared of the intruders on motorbikes with long beards and carbines.” It had been over a week since Herat, Afghanistan’s third-largest city, had fallen to the Taliban. “It happened on Thursday (August 12) evening. They entered on motorbikes. There were clashes everywhere — on the main road, near our house.” Since then, Abdullah, an employee of “a humanitarian organisation”, has not ventured into the city. Abdullah has been instrumental in tracing the forced marriage of underage girls or widows in Taliban-controlled areas. “If I go into the city, I might get recognised.” Abdullah has deleted his Facebook account. The biggest source of his insecurity is that it’s “no longer possible to know who is police, who is army and who is Taliban; all are with guns, using motorbikes or former military vehicles”. The anxiety of not knowing who to trust is so deep that Abdullah mentions this three times during the one-hour conversation. All businessmen and government employees are in hiding or have escaped to Iran or elsewhere. “My friends who worked with the embassies reached Kabul on Wednesday and are awaiting evacuation.” The economic situation is dire. “Exports and imports have stopped. Prices are rising. The exchange rate for the US dollar has shot up to 83-84 Afghanis. A month ago it was 67-68 Afghanis.” Abdullah does his shopping in his immediate neighbourhood, on the city’s outskirts. “In the city, there was Taliban everywhere; it was frightening.” The Taliban’s numbers have reduced since Muharram after the Taliban governor instructed the soldiers to return to their villages. They are present only in the town squares now, Abdullah said. He deeply resents Pakistan. “When the clashes started between the government and the Taliban, the Pakistan borders were open. Local people got evidence of an inflow of Pakistanis in Afghan clothes,” he said. “These former commandos of the Pakistani army provided leadership to the Taliban. We saw that in Herat. They often got lost as they didn’t know the local roads. Many of them were killed by the government forces. The government posted some of their faces on social media with proof of their identity, but the world never paid attention.” Abdullah flared up at the suggestion that the local army had caved in easily. “When the Taliban started entering, the army went back to their base about 10km outside the city, near the airport, and kept asking for instructions,” he said. “I was in touch with people across the city and men in the national army. With Pakistanis getting in, it was not an internal matter and they wanted to fight. But the government leadership was weak. They did not let them launch an operation.” Abdullah believes that Herat may not have fallen had the army been allowed to act. “Our army is very well-equipped. There were 8,000-10,000 of them against 500 Taliban. In each area, only five to 10 motorbikes had entered carrying two Taliban each. But the police were few and did not resist. Herat fell in two hours,” he said, bitterness apparent in his voice. Abdullah thinks the Taliban and Pakistan exerted influence on the political leadership. “The politicians are rich people, their families live in foreign countries and they have already fled there. What is it to them? The Taliban families also live in Pakistan. It’s we, the poor, who are stuck in our land and suffer.” He said a local warlord, Ismail Khan, had tried to resist. “There were uprisings (against the Taliban) in many areas but lacked leadership,” Abdullah said. “In Herat, Ismail Khan collected his former commandos and tried to build resistance, but he was not supported by the local government. The Taliban too sent him a message saying he would not be detained or harmed but he should not fight.” Abdullah sees no hope of US action. “All of us feel this was political play with the Afghan people. They had a deal in secret in Doha — the Americans, the Taliban and Pakistan.” He pointed to the water issue with Pakistan. “All our rivers flow into Pakistan. If we have a strong government, we will stop the water. There is also the border issue. So they do not want peace in our country,” he said. “Also, we import a lot of Pakistani goods. A strong government will make those things locally and stop import. Where will Imran (Khan, the Pakistani Prime Minister) sell his goods then?” Neither does he trust the Taliban to work for the country’s good. “They are under the influence of the Pakistani intelligence service. They transferred to Pakistan all the army tanks given by foreign countries. The army also had modern guns like the M4 and the M16, donated by the US. The Taliban looted the military bases and are just selling the guns. Everybody has a gun now,” Abdullah said. “The army men are angry that they could not fight. They are hiding and living in uncertainty. They have not been recalled by the Taliban. They don’t have a future. They were trained for 20 years. Now nobody values them.” Afghanistan Vice-President Amrullah Saleh has laid claim to the presidency in President Ashraf Ghani’s absence, but Abdullah does not want any internal fighting. “Saleh has gone back to Panjshir to start a resistance. This will lead to internal fighting and harm civilians. We will be back where we were 20 years ago. There will be no development. Instead, the Taliban should give all parties a share in power.” The schools reopened on Thursday. “The Taliban have said girls can wear decent clothes and attend school,” Abdullah said. He took his boys to school. “They passed an exam.” Girls have to wear a hijab, it has been ruled, though the burqa is not mandatory. Nor can women work in humanitarian organisations. “All such international organisations have asked their female staff to stay home. Donors who were supporting these organisations are not interested in a restart. They are waiting for a government to be formed. But the Taliban are not recognised by the international community,” Abdullah said. This also means he is jobless now. “Other than my wife and children, I support the niece who donated me her liver. I’m the sole earning member.” As a liver transplant patient, Abdullah needs protection against Covid-19 when he steps out. He also needs his medicines from India. “These expensive medicines are not sold in Afghanistan.” This is why his surgeon Ramdip Ray, who is now based in Calcutta (the operation was done in another Indian city), sent him a text message asking if he had medicines in stock. “My Afghan patients depend on their India trips for check-ups and medicines. It will be terrible if they cannot travel. Although my male patients responded, I failed to connect with a lady in Mazar-e-Sharif and am worried,” Dr Ray said. Abdullah wants to visit in December, which is when his medicines will run out. “But I need the Indian embassy to reopen to get my visa. Everything is uncertain,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
22-08-2021||India||Covid: Zydus Cadila expects to produce 30 to 40 million doses of vaccine by December||Zydus Cadila expects to produce 30 to 40 million doses of its Covid-19 vaccine by December instead of the 50 million doses the Centre hoped to receive from the Ahmedabad-based maker of India’s first Covid-19 vaccine approved for adolescents. The company has stockpiled 3 to 5 million doses through small-scale production and expects a new plant for large-scale production to start working by the second half of September, company managing director Sharvil Patel said on Saturday. “Our critical challenge is to scale up production, yields and efficiency,” Patel told reporters a day after the Centre announced that the country’s regulatory authority had granted emergency use authorisation for the Zydus vaccine, named ZyCoV-D. Patel said the company expected to produce around 10 million doses by October. By December, Patel said, Zydus expected to supply 30 to 40 million doses, and by January-end, 50 million doses. The company is yet to decide the price of the vaccine although, Patel said, there won’t be a huge difference with other vaccines. The Union health ministry had projected 50 million doses of ZyCoV-D by December. India needs around 1,350 million doses of the various vaccines to fully immunise its estimated 943 million adults, and hopes this will happen by year-end. The ministry has also projected the three vaccines currently used in the campaign — Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V — to make up 1,000 million of the 1,350 million doses by December. Adults still priority ZyCoV-D is the world’s first DNA vaccine for any human infection and the country’s first Covid-19 vaccine to be approved for adolescents 12 years or older, along with adults. Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V are approved only for adults, that is, people aged 18 years or older. But the vaccination campaign is unlikely to be opened up for adolescents in the immediate future as the first priority is to vaccinate adults, who are at greater risk of severe disease and death, a top vaccination policy maker said. A supply of 10 million doses of ZyCoV-D — a three-dose vaccine — per month will support the vaccination of roughly 3.3 million people — whether adolescents or adults. “Our first priority is to vaccinate adults. This is the logical approach, the World Health Organisation supports this approach,” Narendra Arora, a paediatric gastro-enterologist and adviser to the Centre on its vaccination policy, told The Telegraph. The bulk of the deaths during the first and second Covid-19 waves occurred in people aged between 18 and 60 years. Deaths among children have been negligible, with a sizeable proportion of these occurring among those with underlying health disorders. “Many adults are parents. We cannot let parents die,” Arora said, explaining why vaccination for adolescents was unlikely to open in the next three or four months. However, the Centre is expected to ask a panel of medical and paediatric experts to create a list of priority groups among adolescents who could be vaccinated ahead of others. An analysis of Covid-19 infections among children in India during the first and second waves suggests that 40 per cent of the children who died had underlying health disorders. “Children with chronic lung disease or kidney disease, or those with malignancies or other such disorders, or those receiving immunosuppressant drugs could be prioritised for vaccines,” Arora said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
