23-08-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir police kills two top militants of Lashkar-e-Toiba||In a swift operation, the Jammu and Kashmir Police on Monday eliminated two top commanders of The Resistance Force (TRF), a shadow outfit of Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT), who were responsible for several killings in the city and motivating the youth to join terror ranks, a senior police official said.  Abbas Sheikh, one of the longest surviving militants and chief of the TRF, and his deputy Saqib Manzoor were killed in a brief shootout with police personnel at Aloochi Bagh in the city, the official said.  "We had information about their presence in the area. Ten jawans of police dressed in civvies quickly surrounded the area and challenged the terrorists, who opened firing. In the retaliatory firing, the two were killed," Inspector General of Police Kashmir zone Vijay Kumar told reporters.  He said the killing of Sheikh and Manzoor was a major success for the security forces.  "At the behest of Abbas Sheikh, Saqib Manzoor had carried out several killings. They had spread terror in the area," Kumar said.  He said the people in the area were fed up as the two were motivating youngsters to join terror ranks.  "We appeal to the people to prevent their children from joining terrorists. If they have already joined, please bring them back (to the mainstream). We will welcome them," he added.  Abbas Sheikh, who was earlier with Hizbul Mujahideen, had defected to TRF two years ago.  According to security officials, Sheikh was the mastermind behind most of the killings undertaken by his outfit in the past one year.  Manzoor, a post-graduate student when he joined the TRF last year, quickly rose through the ranks as he was believed to have executed some of the killings in and around Srinagar at Sheikh's behest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
23-08-2021||India||Supreme Court asks Centre to find solution to road blockades due to farmers' protest||The Supreme Court Monday said the Centre and Delhi's neighbouring states should find a solution to road blockades on the national capital's borders due to farmers' protest against the three farm laws passed last year. At the outset of the hearing, a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Mukherjee told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, “What is happening Mr Mehta. Why can't you find a solution? You have to find a solution to this problem. They have the right to protest but at the designated places. Due to the protests, inflow and outflow of traffic cannot be disrupted”. The bench said this will have an impact on toll collection as well because vehicles will not be able to pass through due to the blockades. Mehta informed the bench that petitioner Monica Agrawal, a Noida resident, who has sought removal of blockade, is not available due to connectivity problems as she is in some rural area. The bench then ordered, “Solution lies in the hands of the Union of India and the concerned state governments. They have to coordinate to find a solution that when a protest takes place, roads are not blocked and traffic is not disrupted to cause inconvenience to the common people”. Mehta said that if the court is willing to pass some orders then two farmers unions can be made parties and he can give their names. The bench said that tomorrow another two unions will come forward and say they represent the farmers and this will go on. The top court asked Mehta during the brief hearing, “Please workout something and posted the matter for further hearing on September 20. On March 26, the top court had issued notice to Uttar Pradesh and Haryana on the plea. The Uttar Pradesh government has said in its affidavit that continuous efforts are being made to remove the blockade at the Delhi-UP border and there at present about 141 tents and 31 ‘langars’ around the area, and the protestors have installed a platform on the flyover from where the leaders give speeches, a media house has also been made below the flyover. “At present there are about 800-1000 protestors in the area, however, a crowd of up to 15,000 protestors collect on their calls within hours from adjoining towns and villages,” the affidavit said. It said protestors had organised a tractor march on January 7 up to Palwal in Haryana and then again on January 26 they went up to the Red Fort on tractors “without permission” and indulged in large scale violence with the police authorities in Delhi for which several criminal cases have been registered against them. “Thereafter, the Delhi police closed the road by putting barricades on the way from Delhi to Ghaziabad on NH-24/9,” the state government said, adding that after persistent efforts of the authorities, one lane from Delhi to Ghaziabad was cleared for movement on March 15. For incoming traffic, from Ghaziabad to Delhi, diversions have been made by Ghaziabad police and Delhi Police through alternate routes like Maharajpur Border and Hindon canal road, it said. “That pursuant to the orders dated March 26, passed by this court, the police and the state administration have approached the protestors/farmers with the orders passed by this court and have made tireless efforts to make them understand their grossly illegal act of blocking roads causing grave inconvenience to the travel,” it said. The state government further said that large numbers of the protesters are very old and aged farmers from various districts of the state who are required to take precautions during the COVID-19 wave and that the efforts of intervention are still in progress. Similarly, the Haryana government also told the top court that protesters staging dharna at Singhu border have been camping on about 6 kilometres stretch of lanes of NH-44 since November 27, last year. “All lanes were initially blocked by using tractors/ trolleys and other vehicles. At present at least one lane on both sides has been opened after efforts made by the district police for movement of public vehicles", it said, adding that suitable diversions of traffic are being made to divert traffic and it has been able to maintain public order at both the sites that is at Singhu border and Tikri border. “A large number of women including children along with the farmers are protesting and persuasive methods have been deemed more appropriate instead of use of force at both the sites,” the state government said, adding that appeals are being made to the farmers' organisations to vacate both the sites from time to time. The farmers are protesting against passage of three laws-Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020. Initially, the protests started from Punjab in November last year and later spread to Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh and some other parts of the country. Agrawal has claimed in her plea that it had become a nightmare to travel to Delhi from Noida, as it takes two hours’ time instead of the usual 20 minutes. She has sought the removal of blockades so that passenger traffic is not affected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
23-08-2021||India||Narendra Modi calls on Angela Merkel, talks on evolving situation in Afghanistan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday spoke to German Chancellor Angela Merkel and the two leaders discussed among issues the evolving situation in Afghanistan. Modi took to Twitter to post that he discussed bilateral, multilateral and regional issues with Chancellor Merkel. An official statement released by the Prime Minister's Office said the two leaders discussed the unfolding security situation in Afghanistan and its implications on the region and the world. “They emphasised the importance of maintaining peace and security, with the most urgent priority being the repatriation of stranded people,” it read. India deployed a special Air Force aircraft to evacuate its diplomats and nationals from Mazar-e-Sharif in northern Afghanistan on Tuesday after reports surfaced of the advance of Taliban fighters amid a violent assault by the group on key cities and urban centres. The Indian government also advised its citizens still in Afghanistan to make immediate travel arrangements to return before commercial air services are discontinued. India also repatriate around 400 people, including two Afghan lawmakers and two Nepalese citizens, back in three separate flights from Kabul on Sunday. Modi and Merkel also touched upon the bilateral agenda, including cooperation in vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), development cooperation with a focus on climate and energy, and fostering trade and economic relations. They exchanged views on issues of multilateral interest such as the forthcoming UN climate change conference (COP26) in Glasgow as well as India's initiative to promote a dialogue on maritime security at the United Nations Security Council. The discussion between the two heads of the state also included commonality of perspectives between both sides on promoting inclusive cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
23-08-2021||India||SC to hear Airtel's plea for AGR dues of Videocon dues tomorrow||Bharti Airtel's plea against the Centre's demand that it pay the AGR dues of Videocon, will be heard by the Supreme Court tomorrow. The firm, which is India's biggest mobile carrier, has a spectrum agreement with Videocon, so the Department of Telecommunications wants Airtel to pay Videocon's dues. Airtel entered a Rs 4,428 crore deal to buy Videocon Telecommunications' spectrum in six circles -- Bihar, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh (East), UP (West) and Gujarat -- in March 2016. Videocon owes the government Rs 1376 crore. Airtel, however, declined to pay, saying it could not be held responsible for Vodafone's past dues. The Telecom Department then went to court. In April this year, the government told Supreme Court that it had raised the demand in compliance with an earlier order of the top court but received a negative response from Airtel. During a hearing in September 2020, the top court had said that according to spectrum trading guidelines, AGR dues need to be met before trading of licenses and if the seller could not pay, the buyer will have to step up. Reports said after Airtel's refusal, the telecom department was also taking legal views on encashing Airtel's bank guarantee to raise the dues of Videocon. Last year, the Supreme Court had refused to stop the government from taking coercive action against telcos to raise AGR dues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
23-08-2021||India||Sitharaman unveils Rs 6 lakh crore National Monetisation Pipeline||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday unveiled an ambitious Rs 6 lakh crore National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) that included unlocking value by involving private companies across infrastructure sectors -- from passenger trains and railway stations to airports, roads and stadiums. As many as 25 Airports Authority of India (AAI) airports, including ones at Chennai, Bhopal, Varanasi and Vadodara, as well as 40 railway stations, 15 railway stadiums and an unidentified number of railway colonies have been identified for getting private investments. Under the plan, private companies can invest in projects for a fixed return using the InvIT route as well as operate and develop the assets for a certain period before transferring it back to the government agency. Some assets such as warehouses and stadiums can also be given on a long-term lease for operations. "The asset monetisation pipeline takes the NIP (National Infrastructure Pipeline) to the next phase where you are looking at public-private partnership," Sitharaman told a press conference. Stating that there is no transfer of ownership or land, she said "the NMP talks about brownfield infra assets where investments have already been made, where there is a completed asset which is either languishing or which is remaining not fully monetised or which is remaining underutilised." "So by bringing in private participation into this, you are going to be able to monetise it better, and with whatever resources you obtain through the monetisation, you will be able to put in further investment into infrastructure," she said. The total indicative value of NMP for core assets of the central government has been estimated at Rs 6 lakh crore over the four-year period FY22 to FY25. The estimated value corresponds to about 5.4 per cent of the total infrastructure investment envisaged under the NIP which is Rs 111 lakh crore and 14 per cent of the proposed outlay for the Centre (Rs 43 lakh crore). This pipeline of assets has been phased out over a four-year period starting FY 2022 up till FY 2025, she said. "The infrastructure NMP is talking about brownfield assets which need to be better monetised. The ownership of those assets remain with the government and there will be a mandatory hand-back after a certain time," she said. "So let there not be any confusion, 'oh this government is selling away'. No. These are brownfield assets which will still be under government ownership," the minister added. More than half of the monetisation plan is from the roads and railways sector. The biggest chunk of Rs 1.6 lakh crore will come from monetising 26,700-km of existing operation national highways and new roads. NHAI will take the InvIT (Infrastructure Investment Trust) route for monetising some of these assets. As many as 400 railway stations, 90 passenger trains, 741-km Konkan Railways and 15 railway stadiums and colonies are planned to be monetised for an estimated Rs 1.2 lakh crore. Monetising 28,608 circuit kilometres of power transmission lines is estimated to generate Rs 45,200 crore and another Rs 39,832 crore will come from 6 GW of power generation assets. The telecom sector will give Rs 35,100 crore from monetising 2.86 lakh km of BharatNet fiber and 14,917 signal towers of BSNL and MTNL. Close to Rs 29,000 crore each is estimated from monetising warehouses and coal mines. Monetising 8,154 kms of natural gas pipelines is estimated to give Rs 24,462 crore and 3,930-km product pipelines another Rs 22,504 crore. Airport monetisation will fetch Rs 20,782 crore and ports another Rs 12,828 crore. Monetising two national stadiums, including the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in New Delhi, and an equal number of regional centres (at Bengaluru and Zirakpur) is estimated to yield Rs 11,450 crore. Redevelopment of seven residential colonies in Delhi, including ones at Sarojini Nagar and Nauroji Nagaras well as development of residential/ commercial units on 240 acres of land in Ghitorni in Delhi has also been identified to garner Rs 15,000 crore. Commenting on the plan announced, Abhaya Agarwal, Partner, Infrastructure Practice, EY India, said: "A four-year National Monetization Pipeline (NMP) to monetize Rs 6 trillion of brownfield infrastructure assets across sectors will definitely boost investors' confidence by providing sufficient clarity on the number, size and type of assets that would be made available in the market." Success of the plan could also enable recycling of funds which will be critical for revival of the infrastructure investment in India. However, meticulous planning, project packaging, and coordination will be needed to address the underlying structural and legacy issues, Agarwal said. "It would be important for the government to get the first few projects in each sector right to set the ball rolling in the right direction. Therefore, smooth implementation of the first Rs 10,000 crore will determine the fate of Rs 6 lakh crore monetization plan," Agarwal added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
23-08-2021||India||Indian students travelling to US hit all-time record high    ||Over 55,000 Indian students and exchange visitors are travelling to study in the US this year and it is "an all-time record", the US embassy said on Monday. It said more visa applications were approved in the current year than ever before notwithstanding the coronavirus pandemic. "The US mission in India is pleased to announce that its embassy and consulates approved more student visa applicants in 2021 than ever before, despite the global Covid-19 pandemic," the embassy said. "Through these efforts, more than 55,000 students and exchange visitors are boarding planes to study in the US, and more students are being approved every day," it said in a statement. In a tweet, the embassy described it as an all-time record. "Huge congratulations to our hardworking consular teams across the U.S. Mission in India. This year, more than 55K students are boarding planes to study in the United States, an all-time record in India. Wishing all students a successful academic year!" it said. Ambassador Atul Keshap, the Charge d'Affaires at the US embassy, lauded the staff involved in the issuance of visas and said Indian students enrich US society, achieve high levels of academic success, and deepen the bonds of friendship between the two countries. "Studying in the US is a unique and often life-changing experience for Indian students, granting fresh, global perspectives and frequently leading to invaluable career opportunities," he said. "Indian students also enrich US society, achieve high levels of academic success, and deepen the bonds of friendship between our countries. The many hard-working women and men of the US Mission to India are proud to facilitate their travel and study," Keshap added. The embassy said the US missions typically begin interviewing fall semester students for a given year in May, but the second wave of Covid-19 forced a delay in the commencement of the student visa season by two months. "In July, as soon as conditions allowed for the resumption of visa services without endangering applicants' health and safety, consular teams worked not only to match, but surpass, their pre-Covid workload," it said. It said the US embassy and consulates opened additional hours for visa appointments and made every possible effort to ensure timely arrival for academic programmes for as many students as possible. "Ultimately, these efforts paid off, as more students than ever before received visas to study in the US," the embassy said. It said interested students can also participate in upcoming Education USA University Virtual Fairs to be held on August 27, for prospective graduate students and on September 3, for prospective undergraduate students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
23-08-2021||India||Covid: Experts warn of third wave between September and October ||An expert panel, set up by an institute under the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), has predicted a third wave of Covid-19 hitting the country anytime between September and October and suggested significantly ramping up vaccination pace. The committee of experts, constituted by the National Institute of Disaster Management (NIDM), also said that children will have a similar risk as adults since paediatric facilities, doctors and equipment like ventilators, ambulances, etc. are nowhere close to what may be required in case a large number of children become infected. The report, which has been submitted to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), observed that only around 7.6 per cent (10.4 cr) people are fully vaccinated in India and if the current vaccination rate is not increased, India can witness six lakh cases per day in the next wave. Leading experts have repeatedly warned of an imminent third COVID-19 wave in India. Epidemiologists predict a series of surges till we achieve herd immunity through infection or vaccination and the disease becomes endemic, the report said. The NIDM report quoted the prediction of experts from IIT Kanpur which suggested three likely scenarios for the third wave based on the level of unlocking. In scenario one, it said that the third wave could peak in October with 3.2 lakh positive cases per day. In scenario two, with the emergence of new and more virulent variants, the third wave could peak in September with likely five lakh positive cases per day. In scenario three, the experts predicted that the third wave could peak in late October with two lakh positive cases per day. According to the report, earlier, it was proposed that if 67 percent of the population became immune (a few by infection and rest through vaccination), herd immunity could be achieved. But this has now been complicated by the new and more virulent mutated variants of SARS Cov-2 that have the ability to escape immunity from earlier infections and in some cases even the prevalent vaccines, it said. This has pushed the target immune population for achieving herd immunity to 80-90 percent. Hence, our health system and vaccines are caught in a race against the virus and are trying to catch up with risks that are evolving every day creating uncertainty all over the world, it said. The NIDM is now taking a clue from several warnings indicating an imminent third wave, trying to understand them and prepare for the third wave. With this backdrop, it engaged with multiple stakeholders from diverse backgrounds in an attempt to formulate consolidated recommendations for actions that can prevent or mitigate an impending surge. The report said there isn't sufficient data to back widespread fears that children will be hit more severely in the anticipated third wave of the pandemic. However, as the virus continues to evolve, this is going to be a major challenge for children as there is no approved vaccine for children in India yet (first week of August). Children with Covid-19 infection have largely been seen to be asymptomatic or develop mild symptoms. But this becomes worrisome in case children have any comorbidity or other special needs. According to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, out of all the children hospitalised due to Covid, 60-70 percent had comorbidities or low immunity. Children have also been seen to develop MIS-C (Multi-system Inflammatory Syndrome) which is a rare but extremely serious condition developed post-Covid recovery, it said. According to a parliamentary standing committee report in 2015, there is an 82 percent shortage of paediatricians in India's primary health centres and up to 62.8 percent of positions for paediatricians in community health centres were vacant. The working group committee experts suggested a holistic home care model, immediate increase in paediatric medical capacities and prioritising mental health issues among children, the report said. According to the COVID vaccination dashboard of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, as of August 2, 2021, 47,85,44, 144 (over 47 crore) individuals have been administered at least one dose of COVID vaccine. According to a recent study done by professors and alumni from Pandit Deendayal Energy University (PDEU) in collaboration with Nirma University, the vaccination rate of India is currently 3.2 percent and if does not improve, India can witness six lakh cases per day in the third wave. But if the government's proposal to increase this rate by five times (1 crore doses per day) comes to fruition, India will see only 25 percent of the cases (seen in the second wave) during the third wave peak. According to data from the CoWin portal, out of the total 30.9 crore doses administered since January 2021 till 25 June 2021, 14.3 crore went to women vis-a-vis 16.7 crore to men. The proportion of vaccine coverage -- 856 doses to women for every 1,000 doses for men -- does not match India's current sex ratio of 924 women per 1,000 men. The largest state in India, Uttar Pradesh, has 42 percent vaccination of women, West Bengal has 44 percent female coverage, Dadra and Nagar Haveli (predominantly rural UT) 30 per cent. Only a few states- Kerala and Andhra Pradesh -- have more vaccine coverage for women than men. Rural women are even more marginally placed vaccination-wise, the report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
23-08-2021||India||Army selection board clears way for promoting five women officers to Colonel rank||An Army selection board has cleared the way for promotion of five women officers to Colonel rank after they completed 26 years of "reckonable service", the Defence Ministry said on Monday. This is the first time that women officers serving with the Corps of Signals, Corps of Electronic and Mechanical Engineers (EME) and the Corps of Engineers have been approved to the rank of Colonel, the ministry said. "A Selection Board of the Indian Army cleared the way for the promotion of five women officers to Colonel (Time Scale) rank, post completion of 26 years of reckonable service," it said in a statement. Previously, promotion to the rank of Colonel was only applicable for women officers in the Army Medical Corps (AMC), Judge Advocate General (JAG) and the Army Education Corps (AEC). The five women officers selected for "Colonel Time Scale" rank are Lt Col Sangeeta Sardana from the Corps of Signals, Lt Col Sonia Anand and Lt Col Navneet Duggal from the Corps of EME, and Lt Col Reenu Khanna and Lt Col Ritcha Sagar from the Corps of Engineers. The move to grant Colonel rank to five women officers came days after the Supreme Court allowed women candidates to sit for the National Defence Academy (NDA) entrance exam scheduled to be held on September 5, in an interim order. "The widening of promotion avenues to more branches of the Indian Army is a sign of increasing career opportunities for women officers," the ministry said. "Combined with the decision to grant permanent commission to women officers from a majority of branches of the Indian Army, this step defines the Indian Army's approach towards a gender-neutral Army," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
23-08-2021||India||Umar Khalid calls Delhi riots conspiracy case 'cooked up'||Former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the north-east Delhi riots conspiracy case, told a Delhi Court on Monday that there were various contradictions in the police's claims and called it a "cooked up" case. Khalid, along with several others, has been booked under the stringent anti-terror law UAPA. They are accused of being the "masterminds" of the February 2020 violence, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. He has sought bail in the case. Trideep Pais, Khalid's lawyer, told Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat that the FIR was cooked up and unnecessary, and was used selectively to target and frame them. The counsel pointed to two contradictions in Delhi Police's claims. Firstly, he showed the court a 21-minute video clip of Khalid's speech in Maharashtra, which the prosecution had allegedly labelled inflammatory. The lawyer, pursuant to showing the video, apprised the court that his client did not give any call for violence through the speech and in fact gave a message of unity to the people. "A message of unity based on Gandhi ji was given by Umar Khalid that day. It was termed as terror. Content is not seditious. He is talking about democratic power. He referred to Gandhi," Pais added. Secondly, he argued that as per the police case, Khalid conspired with other accused on January 8 to cause riots during former US President Donald Trump's visit, however, the news about his visit was announced only in February. "These are the kind of lies they are peddling. This is a joke. This FIR is a cooked-up theory. Is it that easy to prosecute people? Do you have no responsibility as a prosecution?" Pais said. Delhi Police had recently said that the bail plea has no merit and that it will demonstrate the prima facie case against him before the court by referring to the charge sheet filed in the case. In April, the former JNU student was granted bail in one of the riot cases. The court while granting him bail noted that he was not physically present at the scene of the crime on the date of the incident. Besides him, JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain and several others have also been booked under the stringent law in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
23-08-2021||India||Indian evacuated from Afghanistan recalls harrowing tale ||Jeet Bahadur Thapa shudders to recall how he and other Indians thought they might be killed by the Taliban gunmen any moment after they were made to sit on ground in an open area at Kabul airport for five hours by the militia before they could leave for India. Thapa, 30, a native of Chinore village here, was working as a supervisor in a consultancy company in Afghanistan for two and a half years and was among those evacuated after the Taliban took over Kabul. As many as 118 people from India worked in the company and all of them started on foot for the Denmark embassy, which was 30 km away, hoping that they will get a safe passage to India. "There was the fear of the Taliban. Some robbers stopped us and robbed us of about Rs one lakh and all the other belongings," he said. "Some Taliban members accosted us shortly before we arrived at the embassy and asked if we were Hindus. They let us go after we introduced ourselves as Indian citizens," Thapa said. When the Indians told them that they were robbed, the Taliban members claimed that local criminals might be involved and that the Taliban were not involved in such activities, according to Thapa. "Many people were injured after walking for so long in the dark," he said. On August 18, they reached the airport area in Kabul where lakhs of people had gathered in a desperate bid to escape from the country. They spent three days there with barely any food. "The Taliban gunmen present there made all the Indians sit on the ground in an open space for about five hours. We sat silently in fear that the Taliban who had modern weapons might kill us," he said. "When an Army plane arrived, we all left for Delhi on August 22 morning," he said. Thapa said there is an undeclared curfew in Afghanistan. "All companies and offices are closed. No one is leaving their house... Women and children in Afghanistan are very afraid and that's why no women are seen on the roads," he said. Replying to a question, he said he did not see the Taliban committing atrocities on women but people fear them due to their past actions. "The Taliban are on the streets due to which there is an atmosphere of fear. The Taliban are constantly appealing to the people of the country that no person should leave Afghanistan and that that they won't let anyone cause any trouble," he said. The Islamic militia seized control of Kabul on August 15 after taking over almost all key towns and cities, in the backdrop of the withdrawal of the US forces.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
23-08-2021||India||NHRC issues notices to Centre, Assam, Mizoram on border clash||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) issued notices to the Centre, Assam and Mizoram over the deadly border clash between the two Northeastern states in July, stating that "grave violation of human rights" took place. Acting on a complaint by one Md Injamul Haque of Assam, the NHRC on Sunday issued notices to the Union home secretary and the chief secretaries of Assam and Mizoram and asked them to file their reports within four weeks. "The Commission has considered the matter. The facts of the case are disturbing. The allegations made in the complaint are serious in nature involving deaths and injuries to public servants. "The case, therefore, involves a grave violation of Human Rights of the deceased and injured. Such types of cases are viewed very seriously by the Commission. In these circumstances, let a Notice be sent," as per the details of the proceedings. Accordingly, notices were issued and the matter will be put up before the full commission after four weeks. At least six Assam Police personnel and one civilian were killed and more than 50 people injured as the festering border dispute between the two Northeastern states erupted into a bloody conflict on July 26.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
23-08-2021||India||HC seeks Centre, Delhi govt's reply to plea for CBI probe into Covid patients death at Jaipur Hospital||The Delhi High Court Monday granted additional time of six weeks to the Centre and Delhi government to file replies on a plea seeking CBI probe into the death of 21 COVID-19 patients at Jaipur Golden Hospital here in April allegedly due to oxygen shortage. The court, which was hearing the plea filed by the families of some patients who died on the intervening night of April 23 and 24, also permitted the petitioners to file a rejoinder to the governments' responses. By that time things will be clearer. We will see. You have approached the MM (Metropolitan Magistrate) also, said Justice Rekha Palli as the matter was listed for further hearing on December 9. Senior advocate Rahul Mehra and standing counsel Kiritman Singh, appearing for Delhi government and the Centre respectively, sought to file their responses to the petition. The aspect of criminal investigation was pending consideration before a magisterial court, Mehra said. Advocate Utsav Bains, appearing for the petitioners, said that the aggrieved families before the high court and the magisterial court were not the same. Singh said the Supreme Court was also seized of the issue of granting ex gratia compensation. "File your counter. I'm not passing any interim order anyway," the judge said. On June 4, the court had issued notice to the Centre and Delhi government on the plea which contended that the cause of death of the patients was respiratory failure due to insufficient supply of oxygen and not comorbidities as stated by a Delhi government committee in its report. The petitioners claimed that the committee came out with an "erroneous" report that those who died did not suffer suffocation due to lack of oxygen supply. The petition thus sought quashing of the committee's report and a direction for a probe by CBI or an independent agency into the deaths "so that the truth can be brought to light and justice be given to the deceased persons and their families" and they be provided compensation. The plea alleged that the incident took place "due to deliberate inaction and failure of the respondents (Centre, Delhi government and the hospital) to provide adequate oxygen to the patients despite knowing that any shortage of oxygen supply would lead to their immediate death. "As a result, the respondents herein have rendered themselves not only liable to pay compensation to the families of the deceased victims but also for criminal prosecution" for culpable homicide, the plea has said. The petitioners also contended that the hospital did not even inform the family members about the shortage otherwise they would have arranged for at least high flow oxygen cylinders and this would have saved the life of their loved ones who died as the pressure in the cylinders was low. It has contended that the Centre, Delhi government and the hospital "were under a legal and moral obligation to ensure no-one dies due to non-supply of oxygen".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
23-08-2021||India||Puri outlines need for CAA citing Afghan crises ||With Hindus and Sikhs settled in Afghanistan fleeing the country after its takeover by the Taliban, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri has outlined the need for the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). In a tweet on Sunday, the senior BJP leader said, "Recent developments in our volatile neighbourhood & the way Sikhs & Hindus are going through a harrowing time are precisely why it was necessary to enact the Citizenship Amendment Act." The government of India has undertaken a massive evacuation exercise to airlift Hindus, Sikhs and natives from the neighbouring country passing through a phase of volatile uncertainty for its people. The Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019, which came into force from January 10, 2020, witnessed widespread protests across the country with Delhi emerging as a hub of resistance against the legislation. Most of the Opposition parties vociferously protested against the Citizenship Amendment Bill, introduced in Parliament by the Modi government, alleging it of being "communal" in nature. The CAA grants citizenship to non-Muslim refugees from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan on the ground of religious persecution faced by them in their native country. India on August 17 announced that it will issue an emergency e-visa to Afghan nationals who want to come to the country in view of the prevailing situation in Afghanistan. All Afghans, irrespective of their religion, can apply for the 'e-Emergency X-Misc Visa' online and the applications will be processed in New Delhi. "The Ministry of Home Affairs reviews visa provisions in view of the current situation in Afghanistan. A new category of electronic visa called 'e-Emergency X-Misc Visa' introduced to fast-track visa applications for entry into India," a home ministry spokesperson had said. The visa would initially be valid for six months, officials had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
23-08-2021||India||MEA to brief political parties on Afghanistan on Thursday||The Indian government will hold a meeting on Thursday to brief parliamentary leaders of various political parties on the developments in war-torn Afghanistan, Minister of Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi said. "Floor Leaders of Political Parties would be briefed by EAM @DrSJaishankar on the present situation in Afghanistan, on 26th August, 11am in Main Committee Room, PHA, New Delhi. Invites are being sent through email. All concerned are requested to attend." Joshi said in a tweet External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had previously mentioned that Prime Minister Narendra Modi instructed the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA)) to brief the floor leaders of the political parties. "In view of developments in Afghanistan, PM @narendramodi has instructed that MEA brief Floor Leaders of political parties. Minister of Parliamentary Affairs @JoshiPralhad will be intimating further details," Jaishankar tweeted. The government's briefing is expected to focus on its evacuation mission from Afghanistan as well as its assessment of the situation in that country. On August 17, PM Modi chaired a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Security and asked officials to ensure the safe evacuation of Indians stranded in Afghanistan. The foreign ministry has said the government is committed to their safe return, adding that the main challenge is the operational status of the Kabul airport. The Taliban swept across Afghanistan this month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities, including Kabul, following the withdrawal of the US forces from the country. As part of its evacuation mission from Afghanistan, India has already brought back around 730 people including members of the Afghan Sikh and Hindu communities. India on Monday brought back 146 of its nationals in four different flights from Qatar's capital Doha, days after they were evacuated from Afghanistan by NATO and American aircraft in view of the deteriorating security situation in the war-torn country. On Sunday, 392 people including two Afghan lawmakers were evacuated in three different flights under the evacuation mission. The Taliban seized control of Kabul on August 15. Within two days of the Taliban's capture of Kabul, India had evacuated 200 people, including the Indian envoy and other staffers of its embassy in the Afghan capital. The first evacuation flight brought back over 40 people, mostly staffers at the Indian embassy, on August 16. The second aircraft evacuated around 150 people including Indian diplomats, officials, security personnel and some stranded Indians from Kabul on August 17.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
23-08-2021||India||CAA protests: Sharjeel Imam denies inciting violence||JNU student Sharjeel Imam, arrested for allegedly making inflammatory speeches during the protests against CAA and NRC, told a Delhi court on Monday that he cannot be hammered with sedition as his speeches did not call for violence. Imam has moved the court seeking bail in a case related to speeches made by him at two universities in 2019, where he allegedly threatened to cut off Assam and the rest of the Northeast from India. He has been arrested under UAPA and sedition. During the hearing, advocate Tanveer Ahmed Mir, representing the accused, apprised Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat that no part of his speech called for any kind of violence to be initiated. "When Sharjeel Imam says that this piece of legislation (CAA/NRC) is unconstitutional, and seeks to persuade the government to rethink and says if you don't do it, we will be on the streets, he cannot be hammered by sedition," the counsel asserted. He further said that the right to protest, the right to blockade, and the right to bring the country to a standstill is not equal to an act of sedition. "The speech did not call for violence. He just called for a road blockade. He did not say that the northeast should become a different state and declare independence. That would have been seditious," advocate Mir added. He emphasised that Imam is not a member of any banned organisation or terrorist gang but is merely a student. The alleged inflammatory speeches were made at Jamia Millia Islamia on December 13, 2019, and at Aligarh Muslim University on December 16, 2019. He is in judicial custody since January 28, 2020. Imam is accused of offenses relating to sedition, promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, imputations prejudicial to national integration, and public mischief under the Indian Penal Code, and indulging in unlawful activities under the UAPA. Delhi Police had filed a charge sheet against Imam in the case, in which it alleged that he allegedly gave speeches inciting hatred, contempt, and disaffection towards the Central Government and instigated the people which led to the violence in December 2019. "In the garb of CAA, he (Imam) exhorted people of a particular community to block highways leading to major cities and resort to 'chakka jaam'. Also, in the name of opposing CAA, he openly threatened to cut off Assam and other Northeastern states from the rest of the country," the charge sheet had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
23-08-2021||India||India's first smog tower inaugurated in Delhi||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday inaugurated India's first smog tower in Delhi's Connaught Place that will purify 1,000 cubic metres of air per second within a radius of around 1 km. He said the tower has been set up as a pilot project and initial trends will be available within a month. If the pilot project is successful, more smog towers will be installed in the national capital. Earlier, officials had said that a two-year pilot study will be undertaken to ascertain the effectiveness of the smog tower after it becomes operational. A control room has been set up at the site to monitor the operations of the smog tower.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
23-08-2021||India||Bihar delegation meets Modi to press for caste census||Stepping up their campaign for a caste-based census, a delegation of 10 parties from Bihar headed by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday in support of the demand. Kumar said after the meeting that all parties from Bihar spoke in one voice on the need for a caste-based census, and asserted that statistics about different castes will help in formulating development schemes effectively as many of them have not benefitted so far in line with their actual population. RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav, who was part of the delegation, said such a census was in national interest and will be a historic measure and help the poor and the most deprived sections of the society. If animals and trees can be counted, so can people, he said. Kumar was joined by representatives of all major parties, including the BJP and Congress, as they submitted their demand to Modi. Asked about the prime minister's response, he said Modi gave all of them a patient hearing and "did not deny what we said (need for caste census)". BJP's Janak Ram, who was part of the delegation, said Modi heard out everyone's view like the "guardian of a family". Everyone was "satisfied" and the prime minister's decision will be acceptable to all, he added. With census being the Union's prerogative, it is now up to the Centre to take a call on the demand made by many parties, mostly those who draw their core support from the Other Backward Classes (OBCs). Speaking to reporters, both Kumar and Yadav referred to the statement of a Union minister, a reference to Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai's reply in Rajya Sabha that there was no proposal for releasing caste-based population data, with the chief minister saying it triggered "unrest" among people. A certain bonhomie between the two political rivals, who have been allies in the past, was also on display as Kumar credited the young RJD leader for making the proposal for an all-party delegation meeting the prime minister, and Yadav expressing thanks to the chief minister for working on it and seeking time from Modi. Asked if Kumar's JD(U), which is part of the BJP-led NDA, and the RJD are coming closer, Yadav said the opposition in Bihar has always supported the government over pro-people measures and those in national interest "Once caste census is carried out, then we will get to know actual information about all castes. Development work for them can then be taken up effectively," he said. Noting the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes are counted and census also includes data about different religions, Yadav asked why then others cannot be counted. With critics claiming that caste census may fuel casteism and animosity, he noted that census-based on people's religious affiliations had never caused any violence. A caste census will help the government find out who are the poorest people, and measures can be then taken to help them, the RJD leader said, adding that their demand was not specific to Bihar but for a nationwide counting of people of different castes. Kumar and Yadav also thanked Modi for the meeting. Asked about his brother Tej Pratap Yadav's angry outbursts against some RJD leaders for allegedly ignoring him in the party's affairs, Tejashwi Yadav parried the query, and said he will stick to speaking on the issues of "national interest". A census on caste lines can have huge political implications and a number of regional parties, including BJP's allies, have batted for it as they believe that it will strengthen the demand for raising quota for the OBCs, which are estimated by them to be over 50 per cent of the population and get 27 per cent of reservation. Though many OBC leaders of the BJP support the demand, the party has so far not taken a categorical stand on the fraught issue. There is a view that a caste census will bring the Mandal politics to the centre stage of politics and can be an effective weapon in the hands of regional parties to counter the BJP's Hindutva and welfare planks, the twin issues used by the saffron parties to make massive inroads into the OBC vote bank at the expense of state-based parties. BJP leader Janak Ram, who was part of the 10-party delegation that met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to push for a caste-based census, on Monday likened Modi to the "guardian of a family" and said whatever decision he takes on the issue will be "acceptable" to everyone. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Ram also took a swipe at rivals like the RJD's Tejashwi Yadav without naming them, saying many leaders advance their careers in the name of caste and community but later busy themselves in promoting their families. Ram, a minister in the Chief Minister Nitish Kumar-led government in Bihar, evaded a direct reply on whether he backs the demand for a caste-based census and said Modi fully understands as to how the country's all-round development can take place and has been working accordingly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
23-08-2021||India||Afghan crisis: India brings back 146 of its evacuated nationals from Doha||India on Monday brought back 146 of its nationals in four different flights from Qatar's capital Doha, days after they were evacuated from Afghanistan by NATO and American aircraft in view of the deteriorating security situation in the war-torn country. People familiar with the development said the Indians were flown back to Delhi as part of India's mission to evacuate its citizens and Afghan partners from Kabul following its takeover by the Taliban over a week back, they said. It was the second batch of Indians to be brought back from Doha after their evacuation from Kabul. A total of 135 Indians were flown back to Delhi from Doha in a special flight on Sunday. Out of the second batch of Indians who returned home from Doha, 104 people were brought back in a Vistara flight, 30 by a Qatar Airways flight and 11 of them returned by an Indigo flight. One person returned by an Air India flight, they said. India on Sunday brought back 392 people including two Afghan lawmakers in three different flights under the evacuation mission amid a continued scramble by various countries to rescue their citizens from Kabul. The total number of people evacuees included the first batch of 135 Indians who were flown back from Doha. It is learnt that the Indians evacuated to Doha from Kabul were employees of a number of foreign companies that were operating in Afghanistan and they were flown out of Kabul by NATO and American aircraft. The Taliban seized control of Kabul on August 15. Within two days of the Taliban's capture of Kabul, India evacuated 200 people, including the Indian envoy and other staffers of its embassy in the Afghan capital. The first evacuation flight brought back over 40 people, mostly staffers at the Indian embassy, on August 16. The second aircraft evacuated around 150 people including Indian diplomats, officials, security personnel and some stranded Indians from Kabul on August 17. The Taliban swept across Afghanistan this month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities, including Kabul, in the backdrop of the withdrawal of the US forces.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
23-08-2021||India||India sees single-day rise of 25,000 Covid cases, 389 casualties||India saw a single-day rise of 25,072 new COVID-19 cases, the lowest in 160 days, while active cases declined to 3,33,924, comprising 1.03 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Monday. The tally of COVID-19 cases has increased to 3,24,49,306, while the death toll has climbed to 4,34,756 with 389 daily fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases have declined to 3,33,924, the lowest in 155 days, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has increased to 97.63 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the health ministry said. A reduction of 19,474 cases has been recorded in the total number of active COVID-19 cases in a span of 24 hours. Also, 12,95,160 tests were conducted on Sunday, taking the cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 50,75,51,399. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.94 per cent. It has been less than 3 per cent for the last 28 days. Weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.91 per cent. It has been below 3 per cent for the last 59 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,16,80,626, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 58.25 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Monday morning. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 389 new fatalities include 145 from Maharashtra, 69 from Odisha and 66 from Kerala. A total of 4,34,756 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,35,962 from Maharashtra, 37,145 from Karnataka, 34,709 from Tamil Nadu, 25,079 from Delhi, 22,792 from Uttar Pradesh, 19,494 from Kerala and 18,364 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
23-08-2021||India||Elgar Parishad: NIA draft charges claim accused wanted to wage war against nation||The NIA in its draft charges submitted before a special court here in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case has claimed the accused persons wanted to establish their own government and "wage a war against the nation". The National Investigation Agency (NIA) submitted the draft earlier this month and a copy of it was made available on Monday. The draft lays down 17 charges against 15 accused, including human rights and civil liberties activists, and they have been sought to be charged under various sections of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The NIA has alleged that the accused persons were active members of the banned terror outfit CPI (Maoist). The arrested accused in the case include activists Sudha Bharadwaj, Vernon Gonsalves, Varavara Rao, Hany Babu, Anand Teltumbde, Shoma Sen, Gautam Navlakha and others. As per the draft charges, the main objective of the accused persons was to establish a "Jantana Sarkar (people's government) through revolution and armed struggle to seize power from the State". The draft also claimed that the accused attempted to "wage war against the Governments of India and Maharashtra". Framing of charges is the first step before trial commences in the case where the prosecution describes the charges against the accused along with the evidence to be relied upon. After the framing of charges, the court will ask the accused whether they plead guilty or not in the case. The draft further claimed the accused had been playing provocative songs, enacting short plays and skits in Pune during the Elgar Parishad meeting and distributing Naxal literature. "That the criminal conspiracy was an intention to bring about the secession of a part of the territory of India and incite individuals to bring about such a secession," it said. It further alleged that the accused had an intent to strike terror in the minds of people by using explosive substances. "That accused recruited students from various universities including the Jawaharlal Nehru University and Tata Institute of Social Science for commission of terrorist activity," it claimed. The accused have been charged under Indian Penal Code Sections 120-B (conspiracy), 115 (abetment of offence), 121, 121-A (waging war against state), 124-A (sedition), 153-A (arms in procession), 505(1)(B) (statements promoting mischief) and 34 (common intention). They have also been charged under UAPA Sections 13, 16, 17, 18, 18A, 18B, 20 (punishment for terrorist activities), 38, 39 and 40 (punishment for being part of terrorist organisation). The Elgar Parishad case is related to inflammatory speeches made at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The prosecution claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
23-08-2021||India||Police seek feedback from devotees as Jagannath Temple reopens from Monday||A day before the iconic Shree Jagannath Temple here reopens for the public after a gap of almost four months, police on Sunday urged devotees to share feedback in order to improve their experience of visiting the 12th-century shrine. Devotees can submit their feedback on police service at the temple either by submitting a form or through online QR code scanning systems installed at parking lots and other places, police sources said. "We urge all to give feedback and use this opportunity to further help us in improving the Hassle-Free Darshan Experience for devotees," the Puri Police said on Twitter. The temple has been closed for the public since April 24 in the wake of the second wave of COVID-19. Detailed briefing of the force and officers has been conducted before reopening the temple, a police officer said. As per the SOP, all devotees will be allowed entry to the shrine from 7 am to 7 pm, Monday to Friday. The temple will remain closed on Saturday and Sunday for the sanitisation of its premises. The shrine will also be shut during major festivals to avoid mass congregations. Devotees visiting the temple will have to produce a full vaccination certificate or a negative Covid test report not older than 96 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
23-08-2021||India||Thunderstorm, light to moderate rain likely in Delhi today||The national capital is likely to receive light to moderate rains with thunderstorm on Monday, the India Meteorological Department said. The city recorded a minimum temperature of 26.2 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature is expected to hover around 35 degrees Celsius, the weather department said. In the last 24 hours till 8.30 am, the city received 1 mm rainfall. The relative humidity was 89 per cent at 8.30 am, it said. The maximum temperature on Sunday settled at 34.3 degrees Celsius as rains lashed some parts of the city, and the minimum temperature settled at 24.5 degrees Celsius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
23-08-2021||India||Junior union minister refuses to increase paltry pension under NSAP||Sulochana Behera eagerly waits for her old-age pension of Rs 500 every month at her home in Garh Nipania village in Puri district, Odisha. Within hours of receiving the sum, the widowed Sulochana spends it all on medicine and food that barely last a week. She then starts counting the days for the next payment. For clothing, she depends on the earnings of her grandson Anil, a day labourer. The Dalit family has no land or other source of regular income. Sulochana’s son Bansidhar died three years ago. Her daughter-in-law Lata receives a widow pension of Rs 500 a month, and that too is spent in a few hours. Anil’s wife Pratima said the family lives perpetually in debt. “We have two elderly people at home. They cannot work any longer and fall ill regularly,” she said. “The monthly pension of Rs 500 is too little to help each of them manage their expenses even for a week. The pensions should be increased.” Any such hopes were, however, dashed by junior rural development minister Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti in Parliament this month. Basanta Kumar Panda, a BJP Lok Sabha member, had asked whether the Centre might double the pensions disbursed under its National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP). “No, Sir. There is no such proposal for consideration to double the amount under the NSAP,” Jyoti said in a written reply on August 3. Nikhil Dey, national convener of the Pension Parishad, a civil society organisation, described the government’s statement in Parliament as “callous”. Nepal, Bolivia and Botswana — with economies much smaller than India’s — provide better social security pensions to their elderly citizens in terms of percentage of the GDP. While India spends 0.04 per cent of its GDP on social security pension, Nepal, Bolivia and Botswana spend 0.7 per cent, 1.3 per cent and 0.3 per cent, respectively. The NSAP has three sub-schemes. The Indira Gandhi National Old Age Pension Scheme provides for a monthly pension of Rs 200 to people aged 60 to 79 and living below the poverty line. The Indira Gandhi National Disability Pension Scheme provides for a monthly pension of Rs 300 to adults with a disability level 80 per cent or higher. The Indira Gandhi National Widow Pension Scheme provides for a monthly pension of Rs 300 for widows aged over 40. Once a beneficiary attains the age of 80, he or she receives Rs 500 a month. Several states add to the pension from their own funds. The Odisha government gives Sulochana and Lata additional monthly sums of Rs 300 and Rs 200, respectively, bringing their pensions up to Rs 500 each. Sulochana claims she is 83 and is eligible for Rs 700 a month — Rs 500 under the central scheme and Odisha’s top-up of Rs 200 for octogenarians. She says her age must have been entered incorrectly under the scheme’s records. Lata is in her 50s. The Pension Parishad has been demanding that the social security pensions under the central programme be increased to half the state minimum wage, with an indexation to inflation. “Covid has devastated the elderly. There’s been no relief, nor any sign of concern for them. The Centre’s monthly pension of Rs 200 or Rs 300 has remained unchanged since 2007,” Dey, the convener of the Parishad, said. “Just imagine, the Centre has given 28 per cent dearness allowance this year to its employees, and not bothered about the elderly. It indicates callousness, cruelty and self-interest at the cost of the nation’s most vulnerable.” Nearly 3.39 crore elderly people receive social security pension under the National Social Assistance Programme. Dey said the old-age pension scheme should also include the vulnerable elderly living above the poverty line. Sulochana’s family lives in a thatched house. They applied for housing under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana two years ago and are on the waiting list. “I know how to operate a stitching machine but we haven’t got the money to buy one,” Pratima said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
23-08-2021||India||Bihar floods: Staff builds makeshift rafts with damaged vaccine boxes||When floodwaters cut off the community health centre at Dighwara in Bihar’s Saran district a week ago, its staff decided to think out of the box. Or rather, think about the boxes — the plastic crates in which Covid vaccine doses are stored. The staff tied these sturdy but light containers together to build makeshift rafts so they could row the patients across nearly a kilometre of four-to-five-feet-deep water to the community health centre, built in the middle of a vast field. The doctor in charge of the CHC, Roshan Kumar, told The Telegraph: “Our staff saw the plight of the people and realised it was futile to wait for the water to recede. “So they built the rafts using damaged vaccine boxes. It takes a 15-minute ride on these improvised boats to reach the hospital.” Sources said the CHC had built three rafts, each with four boxes, each capable of ferrying two or three patients at a time to the CHC across the floodwaters of the Gandak and its tributaries. “Over 20 patients of dog bites, snakebites or scorpion stings, or people injured in accidents and fights, are coming daily to the hospital,” Dr Kumar said. “Our doctors and other staff too are finding it easier to reach the hospital.” However, the handful of makeshift rafts being inadequate for the hundreds of Covid vaccine seekers who come to the CHC every day, the vaccination campaign has been shifted to a school built on higher ground at Dighwara Bazar. Still, the number of jabs administered daily has fallen to around 400 from the pre-flood figure of about 1,000, Dr Kumar said. A team of inspectors from the World Health Organisation, who arrived at the CHC on Saturday as part of a routine countrywide monitoring of the Covid vaccination campaign, however, objected to the vaccine cases being used to ferry patients and staff. The WHO inspectors feared that the use of these insulated “cold boxes” to build rafts would hit the CHC’s capacity to store the Covid vaccines. Dr Kumar, however, told this newspaper the CHC had built its rafts only with “damaged vaccine cases that had been declared unfit for reuse”. He said the CHC had enough cold boxes in good condition to store the vaccines. With the matter coming to light, the district administration gave the CHC a boat on Saturday but without a boatman. “The circle officer provided a boat after the (critical) remarks from WHO officials, but no boatman,” Dr Kumar said. A boat can carry seven to eight passengers at a time but Dr Kumar said the CHC staff were still using the rafts because rowing a boat is a specialised job. “There already was another boat around here but that too has been without a boatman. Using a boat on our own is very cumbersome and takes much time,” he said. While the CHC at Dighwara has partly solved its problem, hundreds of other primary health centres (PHCs), health sub-centres, CHCs and sub-divisional and district hospitals too are believed to have been affected by floods. At least 17 of Bihar’s 38 districts are flood-hit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
23-08-2021||India||Poet upholds need to value equality and contemporary issues in Onam||Malayalam poet K. Satchidanandan on Sunday said the ongoing Onam celebrations must become an occasion to uphold the value of equality and remember contemporary issues such as the agitations against the contentious farm laws and the new citizenship matrix. “Farmers have been engaged in an agitation for their rights. I think Onam is in some way linked to these farmers,” he said, addressing via a recorded video message the Onam celebrations organised by the Calcutta Malayalee Samajam. Onam is a harvest festival. Satchidanandan referred to how “some Hindus — or those who claim to be Hindus — are trying to convert Onam into Vamana Jayanti”. Onam celebrates the annual visit to Kerala by the mythological “Asura” king Mahabali whom Vamana — an incarnation of Vishnu — had banished to the netherworld following a conspiracy by the gods who detested his equitable rule and popularity. The Sangh parivar has been trying to refashion Onam as the birthday celebration of Vamana. Union home minister Amit Shah had wished Malayalis on “Vamana Jayanti” in 2016, attracting allegations of pushing the Hindutva agenda. “In one way, our rulers are representatives of Vamana,” Satchidanandan said. He drew on the Onam mythology to allude to the Citizenship Amendment Act. “This is a time when we are fast losing the values of Onam (equality) and the divide between the rich and poor keeps growing. This is also a time when people fear they would lose their citizenship,” he said. Kerala Assembly Speaker M.B. Rajesh inaugurated the event with a brief address. “I congratulate the Calcutta Kerala Samajam on celebrating Onam and keeping up with the traditions even while living far away from Kerala,” he said in a video message. CPM politburo member M.A. Baby said the world needed to work more for equality, which Mahabali’s governance represented and Onam celebrated. “We cannot forget that we are still not sufficiently utilising the opportunity to bring equality into the world,” Baby said in his video message. The event included classical dance recitals and music.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
23-08-2021||India||Govt survey portrays better job situation from July 2019- June 2020||A government survey has portrayed an improved unemployment situation between July 2019 and June 2020 on certain parameters, but experts say this is largely an illusion caused by a distressed population increasingly taking up low-paid informal jobs. Besides, while one standard of measurement in the survey appears to show an improvement, another — a more reliable one — shows none, they added. The National Statistical Office, an arm of the statistics and programme implementation ministry, released the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) report for 2019-20 last month. The sample survey covered 100,480 households: 55,291 in rural areas and 45,189 in urban areas. It showed an improvement in the unemployment situation under the “usual status” measure. A person is considered employed under this measure if he or she has worked at least an hour a day for more than 30 days in the preceding 365 days. The PLFS for 2017-18 (July 2017 to June 2018) had found the unemployment rate under the “usual status” to be 6.1 per cent — the highest in four decades. This had improved to 5.8 per cent in 2018-19 and further to 4.8 per cent in 2019-20. Another key indicator on employment — the Worker Population Ratio, or the percentage of people aged 15 and above who are already employed — too has shown an improvement. The national figure for 2017-18 was 46.8 per cent under the “usual status”: it rose to 47.3 per cent in 2018-19 and 50.9 per cent in 2019-20. Labour economist Santosh Mehrotra said the PLFS data established how India’s workforce had moved towards low-paid informal work, such as family work and farm work, in 2019-20. “The engagement of people increased in 2019-20; also, the share of people in unpaid family labour increased,” he said. “This means more people moved towards the informal sector and less remunerative jobs because of a decline of formal and secure jobs.” The PLFS shows that 15.9 per cent people were engaged as “helpers in household enterprises” in 2019-20, up from 13.3 per cent in 2018-19, with such work attracting more women than men. “Employment as helpers in household enterprises mainly refers to unpaid family work, such as helping one’s husband run a snacks stall or doing some sort of work on (the family’s) farmland,” Mehrotra said. “These people are considered employed but get no payment. Their (proportion) has increased while that of women working as regular employees in establishments has declined.” Among all the employed women, the percentage of those earning regular salaries or wages fell from 21.9 in 2018-19 to 20 in 2019-20. The percentage of employed women working as “helpers in household enterprises” rose to 35 in 2019-20 from 30.9 the previous year. Mehrotra said the unemployment rate under the “usual status” measure may have shown an improvement but this was not an international standard of measurement. Most developed and developing nations use the “current weekly status” (CWS) measure. Under the CWS, a person is considered employed if he or she has worked for over an hour in the preceding one week (from the time they are questioned for the survey). “Going by the CWS, the unemployment situation continues to be as grim in 2019-20 as in 2018-19 and 2017-18,” Mehrotra said. Labour economist Amitabh Kundu, currently adviser to Oxfam India, suggested that the “usual status” measure was unreliable in another way — many respondents might not clearly remember on how many days in the past one year they had worked at least an hour. “Under the current weekly status, the reference period is one week and there is no recall error,” he said. According to the PLFS, the unemployment rate under the CWS was 8.8 per cent for both 2019-20 and 2018-19. The unemployment rate in urban areas was 11 per cent in 2019-20 under the CWS against 9.5 per cent the previous year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
23-08-2021||India||Modi,  senior BJP leaders focus on Ayodhya in Kalyan Singh tributes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi repeatedly invoked Ram as he and other senior BJP leaders gathered in Lucknow on Sunday to pay tributes to Kalyan Singh, who had passed away on Saturday at the age of 89. Several BJP leaders underlined how the Babri Masjid was demolished in Ayodhya in 1992 on Kalyan’s watch as Uttar Pradesh chief minister — an occurrence that changed Indian politics and which the BJP turned into political capital while the courts exonerated its leaders. The under-construction Ram temple in Ayodhya is expected to be a key BJP plank during the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, whose results could be crucial to Modi’s fortunes in the 2024 general election. During an interaction with the media, Modi said: “I pray at the feet of Lord Shri Ram that he gives refuge to Kalyan Singh, gives his family the strength to bear this grief, and gives solace to all the suffering people of this country who believe in this country’s values, ideals, culture and tradition.” Earlier in the morning, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had tweeted (from @myogioffice) in Hindi: “Respected Kalyan Singhji didn’t hesitate to give up power for the construction of a magnificent temple to Maryada Purushottam Bhagwan Shri Ram at his holy birthplace. Taking moral responsibility for the demolition of the controversial structure on December 6, 1992, he had immediately resigned as chief minister.” Kalyan had assured the then Congress government of P.V. Narasimha Rao at the Centre that no harm would come to the Babri Masjid. However, an army of kar sevaks, egged on by Sangh parivar leaders, pulled the mosque down on December 6, 1992. Following this, the Kalyan government was dismissed and President’s rule imposed. Allahabad High Court later detained Kalyan for a day for allowing the destruction of the mosque after having submitted an affidavit saying nothing untoward would happen if the kar sevaks were allowed entry into Ayodhya. The Liberhan Commission, instituted by the Centre to probe the demolition, had alleged a conspiracy by Kalyan’s government and Sangh parivar leaders. However, a lower court in Lucknow acquitted Kalyan and the others in September 2020. Kalyan, however, used to openly claim credit for the demolition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
23-08-2021||India||ICMR to set up diagnostic centre for fungi at AIIMS, Bhubaneswar||The Indian Council of Medical Research will set up an advanced molecular diagnostic centre for fungi at AIIMS, Bhubaneswar. An amount of Rs 2.5 crore is being sanctioned by the ICMR for setting up the facility. AIIMS director Professor Gitanjali Batmanabane told The Telegraph: “The centre will undertake research on fungal diseases and will help other institutions in capacity building to fight fungal diseases.” “The money will be given over a period of three years for the capacity building of AIIMS. With the funds we will build up our infrastructure, train our men and provide them with necessary equipment,” she said. Stating that the facility will be used as a referral centre for the eastern part of the country, she said: “We will provide referral services in detection and control of fungal diseases.” The centre will set up a multi-disciplinary team comprising mycologists, pathologists, surgeons, haematologists and other experts to manage suspected fungal infections and conduct research on such infections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
