26-08-2021||India||Amid power tussle in Chhattisgarh Congress, CM Bhupesh Baghel called to Delhi again||Amid a power tussle in the ruling Congress in Chhattisgarh, the party's central leadership has called Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel to Delhi on Friday, just days after he had met Rahul Gandhi and other senior leaders in the national capital.  Sources said he will meet All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary K C Venugopal.  The sources said some Congress MLAs are also heading to Delhi in an apparent show of support to the chief minister amid talks of a change in leadership.  The Congress which returned to power in the state after 15 years in 2018 is witnessing a tussle between Baghel and Health Minister T S Singh Deo who has staked his claim to the post of chief minister citing a post-poll agreement on rotating chief ministership.  Baghel and Deo had met Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday. They again held discussions with Venugopal on Wednesday.  When contacted, AICC in-charge for Chhattisgarh P L Punia told PTI, "Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel will be in the national capital tomorrow as he had sought time from the AICC general secretary."  Punia, however, clarified that no MLA has been called to Delhi and rejected media reports to this effect.  Baghel had left Delhi on Wednesday and was accorded a rousing welcome in Raipur, where a large number of Congress leaders and MLAs were present in an apparent show of support.  Baghel has said that Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi have entrusted him with the responsibility of running the state government and he will quit the moment they ask him to do so.  On his return to Raipur, he also said that those seeking a rotating chief ministership are creating political instability in the state.  Baghel was in the eye of the storm recently after the state government brought a bill to take over a private medical college, whose management includes members from the family of his daughter's in-laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
26-08-2021||India||Show of strength: Amarinder meets 55 Congress MLAs, 8 MPs   	 ||In an apparent show of strength, Punjab CM Amarinder Singh met around 55 Congress MLAs and eight MPs over dinner at the home of a cabinet colleague here on Thursday. Earlier in the day, three of the four ministers who wanted that the CM be replaced for not keeping some of the party's poll promises skipped a meeting of council of ministers. The chief minister's meeting with party legislators has come amid the infighting between camps of the CM and state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, who once again reminded Amarinder Singh of his promise to slash power rates. “Congress Party stands by its resolve to give domestic power at 3 Rs per unit and industrial power at 5 Rs per unit through annulment of PPAs, along with the already provided Subsidy for over 10,000 Crores to Farmers and SC, BC, BPL families…This promise too must be fulfilled,” Sidhu said in a tweet tagging a video of the CM. The Punjab CM met around 55 party MLAs and eight MPs at the official residence of Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi who hosted the dinner, according to sources. Earlier in the day, Cabinet ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa skipped a virtual meeting of the state council of ministers chaired by Amarinder Singh, the sources said. However, minister Charanjit Singh Channi attended the meeting. Besides Bajwa, Randhawa, Sarkaria, Channi and three legislators Kulbir Singh Zira, Surjit Dhiman and Barindermeet Singh Pahra had gone to Dehradun to meet party general secretary Harish Rawat on Wednesday. Rawat, who is the in-charge of Punjab affairs at the AICC, had said the next year's Punjab Assembly polls will be fought under the leadership of Amarinder Singh, delivering a snub to the leaders wanting the removal of the CM. Rawat had also said that there was no threat to the Amarinder Singh-led government in Punjab and the party's victory prospects in the upcoming Assembly elections. The Congress has 80 MLAs and eight MPs in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
26-08-2021||India||Mandatory to register drones under new rules; will help identify rouge drones: Govt officials||The new rules on drones make it mandatory that these devices are registered and agencies will be able identify those which are rogue through tracking mechanisms, senior government officials said on Thursday. The Drone Rules, 2021, were issued on Wednesday and they supersede the Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS) Rules, 2021, which had come into force on March 12. In the absence of a drone policy, these devices were not registered and also there were no demarcations on where they should be flown, Principal Scientific Advisor K Vijay Raghavan said. The new norms prescribe registration of all drones and there will be a specific tracking mechanism, he said during a press conference. Responding to a question on misuse of drones and security risk, Civil Aviation Secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola said, "We have the facility to identify a rogue drone and this is what these rules provide for." He explained that every car has a registration number and there is a mechanism to know who owns it. "Something similar will happen with drones. The rules have a provision that in the future, each drone will have an identification. The first challenge is to identify a good drone and a bad drone," Kharola said. "Once a bad drone is identified there are protocols in place. It is not only the civil aviation ministry, but other ministries and agencies are working together to ensure that once such an identification is done how to deal with that," he said. The civil aviation ministry has eased rules regarding drone operations in the country by reducing the number of forms that need to be filled to operate them from 25 to 5 and decreasing the types of fee charged from the operator from 72 to 4.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
26-08-2021||India||Bommai condemns minister's comment saying rape survivor should not have gone to a deserted place||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj S Bommai on Thursday said his government will form a special team to investigate the case of gang-rape of a college student in Mysuru and asserted that the perpetrators will be caught soon and brought to justice. "Once the DGP (Director General of Police) and I reach Bengaluru, we will immediately form a special team," the chief minister, who was on a two-day visit to the national capital, told PTI. "We will not compromise (on the investigation)," he said. Bommai also disapproved of the comments made by Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra that the girl and her male friend should not have gone to the deserted place and that the opposition Congress was trying to "rape" him by targeting him over the incident. "I just don't agree with the comments made by my Home Minister regarding the gang-rape incident. I have advised him to give clarification," the chief minister said, adding "I have directed the officials to pursue the matter seriously and update me on the developments." Talking to reporters earlier, Bommai said, "It's an unfortunate incident. My government has taken it seriously. The perpetrators will be caught soon and brought to justice." The college girl was allegedly raped by five men near Chamundi Hill in Mysuru late on Tuesday and the incident came to light on Wednesday. The girl and her male friend, who was assaulted by the gang, are undergoing treatment at a private hospital. Reacting to the opposition Congress' criticism of the state government on the law and order situation, Home Minister Jnanendra said, "Rape has happened there, but the Congress was trying to rape me, they are trying to rape the Home Minister. They are trying to gain political mileage. it is an inhuman act." "Around 7-7:30 pm (on Tuesday) they (the girl and her male friend) had gone there. It is a deserted place, they should not have gone, but we can't stop anyone from going... It is a deserted place and no one usually goes there as no one will be there," Jnanendra said in response to a question.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
26-08-2021||India||Taliban's takeover of Afghanistan being used to spread Islamophobia: CPI(M)||The Taliban's takeover of Afghanistan is being used by the BJP and Hindutva forces to whip up feelings against Muslims and spread Islamophobia, the CPI(M) alleged on Thursday. The Left party in an editorial in its mouthpiece People's Democracy also claimed that there have been incidents in which people from the community have been victims of violence over the last few weeks. The stray voices of some fundamentalist Muslim clerics, who have praised the Taliban, have become the pretext for the "likes of (Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi) Adityanath to raise the bogey of Talibanism in India", the CPI(M) said. "The everyday violence against Muslims is showing a disturbing pattern. In the month of August, there have been at least four recorded cases of gratuitous violence against Muslims in the streets of some cities and small towns in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan.The targets of such attacks were poor Muslims such as street vendors, auto rickshaw drivers and even beggars," it said. The CPI(M) alleged that in all the attacks, videos were made and circulated. The purpose seems to be to publicise these acts of violence and glorify the "valour" of the attackers, it said. "Such casual violence directed against poor Muslims going about earning their livelihood are pathological symptoms of the fascistic activities of Hindutva outfits on the ground at a time when the leadership of the government in BJP- ruled states and at the Centre are becoming more "aggressive about implementing the Hindutva agenda," the party said. "The Taliban takeover of Afghanistan is being utilised by the BJP and the Hindutva forces as a golden opportunity to whip up feelings against Muslims and spread Islamophobia... If only the Hindutva zealots would look at the mirror and see themselves, they would find a mirror image of the Taliban," the CPI(M) said. The Taliban swept across Afghanistan this month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities in the backdrop of withdrawal of the US forces that began on May 1. On August 15, the capital city Kabul also fell to the Taliban, even as a large number of Afghans attempted in vain to flee the war-torn nation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-272
26-08-2021||India||Sexual intercourse with legally wedded wife not rape even if it's forced: Chhattisgarh HC||The Chhattisgarh High Court has discharged a 37-year-old man in a rape case filed against him by his wife after observing that sexual intercourse or any sexual act with a legally wedded wife is not rape even if done by force or against her wish. However, the HC did not grant any relief to the man who was also charged under IPC section 377 (unnatural offences). Justice NK Chandravanshi delivered the judgement on August 23 in a criminal revision plea filed by the man and his two family members, seeking to quash rape charge (against him) and other offences framed against them, their lawyer YC Sharma said on Thursday. As per the order, the victim married the man, a native of Changorabhata in Raipur, in 2017. After a few days of marriage, the woman's husband and her two in-laws allegedly started harassing her for dowry. The woman later lodged a complaint at the Bemetara police station of Bemetara district against the three. After investigation, a charge-sheet under section 498-A (dowry harassment), 377 (unnatural offences), 376 (rape), 34 (common intention) of the IPC was filed against them. After providing opportunity of hearing to counsels of both the parties, a trial court had framed charges against the applicants under these sections, the order said. The trio, including woman's husband, approached the High Court seeking to set aside the order of the trial court and discharge them from the charges, including that of rape against him. Counsel for the applicants submits that the complainant and the applicant No. 1 (man) are legally wedded wife and husband, therefore, none of the ingredients to constitute the offence punishable under Sections 376 and 377 of the IPC are spelt out against him, because, in India, marital rape is not recognized and the same is not an offence in view of Exception II of Section 375 of the IPC, the HC said. The counsel had prayed that the impugned order be set aside and the applicants be discharged from charges brought against them, it said. After hearing, the HC had reserved its order on August 13 and it was delivered on Monday (August 23). The order said, "Exception II of Section 375 of the IPC, referred to above, makes it clear that sexual intercourse or sexual act by a man with his own wife, the wife not being under eighteen years of age, is not rape." The judge said charge under IPC section 376 (rape) against the man was erroneous and illegal." "In this case, the complainant is legally wedded wife of applicant No. 1, therefore, sexual intercourse or any sexual act with her by the husband would not constitute an offence of rape, even if it was by force or against her wish. Therefore, charge under Section 376 of the IPC framed against the husband is erroneous and illegal. Hence, he is entitled to be discharged from the charge under Section 376 of the IPC ," it said. "In the instant case, the complainant has reported that the husband has many times, without her consent, made unnatural physical relation with her. Therefore, I do not find any infirmity or illegality committed by learned trial court in framing the charge under Section 377 of the IPC against the husband," the HC said. The HC said no illegality has been committed in framing other charges against the accused. "Consequently, the instant revision is partly allowed. The applicant No. 1 (husband) is discharged from the charge framed against him under Section 376 of the I.P.C. This Court finds that trial Court has not committed any illegality in framing the charge under Section 377 and 498-A/34 of the IPC against all the applicants", it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
26-08-2021||India||Kerala records over 30k Covid cases for second consecutive day||The surge in COVID-19 infections in Kerala continued with the daily cases soaring past 30,000 for the second consecutive day on Thursday, even as opposition and public health experts attacked the state government's alleged "carelessness" and "unwise" decisions for the spike. Kerala today clocked 30,007 fresh cases, which is slightly lower than yesterday's 31,445 virus infection. Kerala Health Minister Veena George, who reviewed the state's COVID-19 situation two days ago, today blamed the violation of home quarantine directives for the worsening situation and cautioned against the increased indoor transmission of coronavirus at homes. Taking a serious note of the situation in Kerala, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla on Thursday reviewed the situation and the steps taken to contain the alarming graph of the virus in the southern state. "The home secretary reviewed the COVID-19 situation and the steps taken to contain the spread of the virus in the southern state and gave a number of suggestions," a home ministry official said. The meeting in which Bhalla took stock of the situation in Kerala also discussed issues related to containment strategy and medical infrastructure, the official added. Several top officials of the Centre and the state government attended the meeting, which was held through a video-conference Amid concerns of rise in cases in Kerala, the central government said the southern state is the only one reporting over 1 lakh active COVID-19 cases, while four states have 10,000 to 1 lakh active cases and 31 states have less than 10,000 active cases. It noted that 58.4 per cent of the total COVID-19 cases last week were reported from Kerala. The central government said the months of September and October will be crucial in pandemic management and cautioned that festivals should be celebrated in accordance with COVID-19-appropriate behaviour. Addressing a media briefing in New Delhi today, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan reiterated that the country is still in the midst of the second wave. Quoting a recent study by the health department, Kerala Health Minister said 35 per cent of people in the state were found to have been infected with the disease from home. The present situation is that when one person in the house gets infected, the disease is transmitted to other members also, she said in a statement and urged people to strictly abide by the directives of the government to keep the disease at bay. The minister said only those who have the required facilities at houses should prefer home quarantine and others should shift to domiciliary COVID-care centres (DCCs). George advised those placed under home quarantine not to step out of their room and asked all members of the house to wear masks to avoid risk of indoor transmission. She also released a set of directives to be followed by the people to fight the disease Her statement came hours after the Kerala government faced flak from its political opponents and public health experts for its alleged "carelessness" and "unwise" decisions regarding COVID-19 management, which according to them has led to the rise in cases and TPR in the southern state. The TPR, which was 19.03 per cent on Wednesday, also showed a slight dip today at 18.03 per cent. The last time it had crossed the 19 per cent mark was three months back on May 26 when it was 19.95 per cent. Attacking the state's ruling CPI(M)-led LDF government, Union Minister of State for External Affairs and Parliamentary Affairs V Muraleedharan attributed this to the "carelessness" of the Left government, which according to him was more focused on celebrating the anniversary of the Moplah riots rather than managing COVID-19. "Carelessness of the state government was the reason for this," he said and added that the Left government was "more focused on celebrating the anniversary of the Moplah riots". "That is not the priority. Dealing with COVID-19 should be the priority," he said while addressing the media in New Delhi. A similar view was expressed by senior Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala, who on Thursday told reporters that the state government has failed to prevent spread of COVID-19 in the state and demanded that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan apologise to the people. The senior MLA in the state Assembly also alleged that the "carelessness" of the state was the reason behind the rise in COVID-19 cases in Kerala. Talking to PTI, well-known public health expert Dr S S Lal blamed the absence of a clear-cut COVID management strategy, the keeping of the scientific community away from decision making and the "unwise" decisions taken at the bureaucratic level for the present fast spreading of the disease. Lal, who unsuccessfully contested in the recent Assembly election on a Congress ticket, also urged the CPI(M)-led government to release the health data related to the virus infection to evaluate the actual situation prevailing in the state. "The government is hiding all data related to the COVID-19. We are unable to analyse the actual COVID situation in the state due to the unavailability of the data. If we are able to access it, we can figure out the basic facts like which age group is most affected and so on," he said. In their briefing in New Delhi, ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said vaccines are disease modifying and not disease preventing so it is very important to continue the use of masks even after vaccination. Bhushan said, "We are still in the midst of the second surge of COVID-19 in our country. The second surge has not yet concluded. It is not over and therefore, we have to maintain all necessary precautions, particularly in light of our experience that after every festival we see a spike." "The coming months of September and October are crucial for us because we would be celebrating a few festivals. Thus festivals have to be celebrated with Covid-appropriate behaviour," he added. The government said 41 districts in India were reporting a COVID-19 weekly positivity rate of more than 10 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
26-08-2021||India||Farmers' convention focuses on expanding protest movement across India||The first day of an all-India convention of farmers that began at the Singhu border here on Thursday focussed on expanding the protest against three agriculture laws of the Centre all over the country. The two-day convention that marks the completion of nine months of the farmers' agitation against the three contentious laws was inaugurated by Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait. "It is sad that even after nine months, the government is still not ready for talks (with the farmers). But we should not feel demotivated. During this convention, we will reflect on what we have lost and what we have gained over the last nine months," Tikait said. Delegates from 22 states representing 300 farmer and agricultural workers' unions and associations, 18 all-India trade unions, nine women's organisations and 17 student and youth organisations are participating in the convention. According to a statement issued by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), three sessions were organised on the first day of the convention -- one on the three farm laws, one dedicated to industrial workers and another pertaining to agricultural workers, the rural poor and tribal issues. "In all the three sessions, the speakers emphatically gave their suggestions for widening and expanding the movement involving farmers, workers, agricultural workers, adivasis and common people, thus widening the scope of the 'kisan andolan' so that it becomes a pan-India movement. "Ashish Mittal, convenor of the organising committee of the convention, placed the draft resolutions before the delegates, which called upon people to intensify and expand the ongoing struggle across the country so that the (Narendra) Modi government be forced to repeal the three anti-farm laws and give a legal guarantee on MSP," the statement said. Each session saw 15 speakers deliberating on a range of issues emphasising on the "deep transformations" that the farmers' movement has brought about and the "many positive outcomes" already being experienced due to the prolonged protest, it added. The convention also paid homage to the farmers who lost their lives while participating in the agitation. The event comes after nine months of persistent protests by farmers from across the country, who have been camping at Delhi's borders since November last year and agitating against the three farm laws that they claim will do away with the MSP system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. Over 10 rounds of talks with the government, which has been projecting the laws as major agriculture reforms, have failed to break the deadlock between the two sides.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
26-08-2021||India||India’s aviation regulator lifts ban on Boeing 737 Max aircraft after two-and-half years||India's aviation regulator DGCA on Thursday lifted the ban on Boeing 737 Max planes' commercial flight operations after almost two-and-half years. On March 13, 2019, all Boeing 737 Max planes were grounded in India by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) after the crash of an Ethiopian Airlines 737 Max plane on March 10 near Addis Ababa which had left 157 people, including four Indians, dead. Aircraft manufacturer Boeing has been modifying the 737 Max plane since March 2019 so that various countries' regulators, including the DGCA, permit its passenger flight operations again. In its order dated August 26, 2021, the DGCA stated that the operation of Boeing 737 Max planes are permitted "only upon satisfaction of applicable requirements for return to service". A senior DGCA official confirmed that the ban on 737 Max planes' commercial flight operations has been lifted. Currently, only SpiceJet airline in India has Boeing 737 Max aircraft in its fleet. No other airline in India uses Max plane. On March 13, 2019, SpiceJet had to ground 12 Max planes, forcing it to cancel a significant number of flights on that day as well as on the next day. Jet Airways also had five Max planes in its fleet but they were already grounded as on March 13, 2019 due to non-payment of dues to the lessors. A month later, the full-service carrier had shut down its operations due to lack of funds. In March 2019 itself, several countries grounded 737 Max planes. The March 10, 2019 accident near Addis Ababa was the second in a period of five months. In October 2018, a 737 Max plane operated by Lion Air had crashed in Indonesia, killing 180 people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
26-08-2021||India||Serum Institute to supply 20 crore Covishield doses in September, officials tell Centre||Serum Institute of India (SII) has informed the Centre that it will be able to supply around 20 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine Covishield in September itself to Government to India and private hospitals, official sources said. The Pune-based SII has already supplied 12 crore doses of the Covid-19 vaccine in August, they said. Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at SII, Prakash Kumar Singh has communicated to the Union Health Ministry that the firm has further enhanced its production capacity and it will be able to supply approximately 20 crore doses of Covishield in September itself to Government of India and private hospitals, an official source said. In a production plan submitted to the Centre in May, SII's director had communicated that the production of Covishield would be ramped up to 10 crore each in August and September, sources had said. Later in May-end, Singh communicated to Union Home Minister Amit Shah that Covishield production would be ramped up to 10 crore doses in June. "We are committed to enhancing the production capacity of our Covishield vaccine and have been working round-the-clock in spite of various challenges being faced by us because of the Covid-19 pandemic. "We are pleased to inform that in the month of June we will be able to manufacture and supply nine to 10 crore doses of our Covishield vaccine to our country as compared to our present production capacity of 6.5 crore doses in May," he had said in a communication to Shah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
26-08-2021||India||Air taxis will be possible in coming days under drone rules, says Scindia||Air taxis that will traverse the airspace instead of roads will be very much possible in the coming days under the drone rules announced on Thursday, Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said. "Air taxis are being researched and invented globally and many startups are coming up," the minister said during a press conference here. "That time is not far when taxis, like the ones of Uber etc that you see on roads, you will see in the air under the drone policy. I believe this is very much possible," he added. The minister said that the Defence Ministry, the Home Ministry and BCAS (Bureau of Civil Aviation Security) have been working together so that "counter rogue drone technology" can be developed and adopted quickly. In a notification dated August 25, the Ministry of Civil Aviation eased the rules regarding drone operations in the country by reducing the number of forms that need to be filled to operate them from 25 to 5 and decreasing the types of fees charged from the operator from 72 to 4.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
26-08-2021||India||Unitech founders used secret underground office, reveals ED in SC||Making a startling revelation in the Supreme Court, the Enforcement Directorate on Thursday said it has unearthed a secret underground office here which was being operated by erstwhile Unitech founder Ramesh Chandra and visited by his sons Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra when on parole or bail. ED, which has been investigating money laundering charges against the Chandras' and Unitech Ltd, said that both Sanjay and Ajay have rendered the entire judicial custody otiose as they have been freely communicating, instructing their officials and disposing of their properties from inside the jail. A bench of Justice D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah was told by Additional Solicitor General Madhavi Divan, appearing for the ED, that Chandras' have deputed their officials outside the jail to communicate their instructions to outside world. During one of our search and seizure operations, we have unearthed a secret underground office, which is being used by Ramesh Chandra and visited by his sons when they are out on parole or bail. "We have recovered hundreds of original sale deeds from that office, hundreds of digital signatures and several computers which contain sensitive data with regard to their properties in India and abroad, Divan told the bench. She said the probe agency has submitted two status reports in sealed cover to the court and have provisionally attached Unitech Ltd properties worth Rs 600 crore both in India and abroad. Divan pointed out that the agency has found a very intricate web of money trail through shell companies and the properties are being disposed of in real time, which is creating problem in the probe. They (Chandras') have been operating from inside the jail premises. They have rendered the entire judicial custody otiose. They are freely communicating and passing on instructions with the help of people deputed outside the jail premises. ED has found that they have even tried to influence a dummy director" when he was being interrogated by the agency, Divan said. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for the Chandras, said that nothing is done against the jail manual. The top court said it is not hearing the Chandras at present and would first hear the ED's submission. On June 4, the top court had granted 15-day interim bail to Sanjay Chandra to attend the last rites of his father-in-law after which he had surrendered. On August 14 last year, the top court had dismissed the bail plea of Chandra, who was a month earlier granted interim bail for 30 days on "humanitarian grounds" as both his parents had tested positive for Covid-19, and asked him to surrender within three days. The apex court had also dismissed the bail application of Chandra's brother Ajay Chandra, who is in jail since August 2017. Both Sanjay and Ajay are accused of allegedly siphoning home buyers' money. The top court in its October 2017 order had asked them to deposit Rs 750 crore with the apex court registry by December 31, 2017. The Chandras have claimed that they complied with the court's conditions and they have deposited an amount in excess of Rs 750 crore and therefore they are granted regular bail. The top court had noted that since the October 2017 order, significant events have taken place and the apex court had directed a forensic audit to be conducted by Grant Thornton. It said that the court had earlier directed the Centre to ensure that all aspects, which were adverted to in the forensic report, should be investigated by the competent agencies, including with regard to the aspect of money laundering. The matter pertains to a criminal case which started initially by one complaint lodged in 2015 and later joined by 173 other home buyers of Unitech projects' -- 'Wild Flower Country' and 'Anthea Project' -- situated in Gurugram. On January 20 last year, in a respite to over 11,000 hassled home buyers of Unitech, the top court had allowed the Centre to take total management control of the realty firm and appoint a new board of nominee directors. The apex court had approved the name of retired Haryana cadre IAS officer Yudvir Singh Malik as chairman and managing director (CMD) of the new board and directed that the existing board of directors of the company would stand superseded. In 2018, the top court had directed a forensic audit of Unitech Ltd and its sister concerns and subsidiaries by Samir Paranjpe, Partner, Forensic and Investigation Services in Grant Thornton India. The forensic auditors had submitted their report which said that Unitech Ltd received around Rs 14,270 crore from 29,800 home buyers from 2006-2014 and around Rs 1,805 crore from six financial institutions for the construction of 74 projects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
26-08-2021||India||Atmosphere 'extremely favourable' for Congress in Goa, feels Chidambaram||Union minister P Chidambaram on Thursday said the Congress was getting "battle-ready" to fight all 40 seats in the Goa Assembly elections due in February next year, and claimed that the political atmosphere in the state was "extremely favourable" for the party. Addressing a press conference, the newly-appointed AICC election observer for Goa also expressed confidence that the Congress would form the next government in the state after the polls, but any decision on aligning with the like-minded parties would be taken at an appropriate time. "Congress party is getting battle-ready for the Goa Legislative Assembly election scheduled next year. Initial assessment is that the political atmosphere is extremely favourable for Congress in all the constituencies. There are indications that there will be change in government and the new government will be led by Congress party," he said. The people of Goa expect that there should be a change in the government and the Congress party will not disappoint them, he added. Chidambaram said the party will field such candidates, who are "loyal and faithful to the ideology of the party, hardworking and ready to serve the interest of the people of Goa". He also said that the party will find many aspirants in each constituency, but the decision about giving candidature will be taken only after consulting the active members of each block in the constituency, including those belonging to the Youth Congress, Mahila Congress, Seva Dal and other wings. When asked about the change in party leadership in the state and whether Goa Pradesh Congress Committee President Girish Chodankar would be replaced, the party veteran said, "I am not here to replace anyone. Such organisational matters are discussed and decided at the appropriate time." As per speculation, Chodankar is likely to be replaced with another senior leader in the run-up to the Assembly polls. Chidambaram also maintained silence on whether the party's chief ministerial candidate would be announced in advance. "The battle of Congress would be fought by 40 commanders in all the 40 constituencies," he said. He added that the candidates will not be announced "months in advance", but they would get enough time to campaign in their respective constituencies. The Congress had won the highest 17 seats in the 40-member House in the 2017 Goa Assembly elections, restricting the main opponent BJP to 13. But the saffron party moved swiftly to ally with regional parties and came to power under the leadership of senior leader Manohar Parrikar, now deceased. Over the years, Congress's strength in the Legislative Assembly dwindled to five after many of its MLAs switched sides and joined the ruling BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
26-08-2021||India||India evacuates 35 people from Kabul ||India on Thursday evacuated 24 of its citizens and 11 Nepalese nationals in a military aircraft from Kabul in the backdrop of further deterioration in the security situation in the Afghan capital. People familiar with the evacuation mission said a plan was firmed up to bring back over 180 people but only 35 could be airlifted as the rest of them could not reach the Kabul airport to board the C-17 aircraft of the Indian Air Force in view of multiple check posts and other restrictions imposed by the Taliban in the city. "Op Devi Shakti in action! @IAF_MC flight with 24 Indian and 11 Nepalese evacuees from Kabul is on its way to Delhi. #DeviShakti," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi tweeted in the morning. The people cited above said the security situation around the Kabul airport deteriorated further in the last couple of days due to which the Afghans and other people could not reach it. There has been a scramble by various countries to evacuate their citizens from Kabul before the August 31 deadline for the withdrawal of American troops from the war-ravaged country. American forces have been handling the security at the Hamid Karzai international airport in Kabul. Under its mission "Operation Devi Shakti", India has already evacuated over 800 people after Kabul was captured by the Taliban on August 15. Thousands of Afghans have been crowding around the Kabul airport for over a week, in a desperate attempt to flee the country fearing the Taliban's brutality. Several G-7 leaders requested US President Joe Biden to extend the August 31 deadline for the withdrawal of American troops. However, Biden said the US is trying to stick to the timetable. In the last few days, India has stepped up efforts to evacuate its citizens as well as its Afghan partners from Kabul in view of the deteriorating security situation in the Afghan capital and other parts of the country. On Tuesday, 78 people, including 25 Indian nationals and a number of Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, were airlifted to Delhi from Dushanbe, a day after they were evacuated from Kabul to the Tajik city. India evacuated 392 people including two Afghan lawmakers in three different flights on Sunday. The Taliban seized control of Kabul on August 15. Within two days of the Taliban's capture of Kabul, India evacuated 200 people, including the Indian envoy and other staffers of its embassy in the Afghan capital. The first evacuation flight brought back over 40 people, mostly staffers at the Indian embassy on August 16. The second aircraft evacuated around 150 people including Indian diplomats, officials, security personnel and some stranded Indians from Kabul on August 17.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
26-08-2021||India||Amid concerns for imminent third wave, parents divided on Delhi schools reopening||Amid concerns of a possible third wave of Covid-19 in coming months, parents are divided over the plan to reopen schools in the national capital. An expert committee set up by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has recommended a phase-wise reopening of schools in the national capital beginning September. While few believe its high time the schools are reopened as the learning loss is huge, others feel there is no harm in waiting for few more weeks or a month as experts have been warning of a possible third wave. "The risk is not over yet. Reopening schools right before October-November during which the third wave has been predicted by experts, is not a wise decision. A system for online learning is already in place and extending it for few weeks or a month more will not cause any major harm when schools have been closed for so long already," said Aparajita Gautam, President, Delhi Parents' Association. Deeksha Verma, mother of a nine-year-old, said, "A flexible plan is a better option. If schools have to be reopened, they should not resume full time classes. There can be blended learning in beginning. We all know several countries are seeing resurgence in cases and we could be next". The All India Parents' Association (AIPA), however, has been demanding reopening of schools. "What is the justification in indefinitely delaying reopening of schools in Delhi? Like 2020-21, 2021-22 is also becoming zero academic year," AIPA President Ashok Agarwal said. Echoing his views, Nishant Bhardwaj, father of twins studying in class 8 said, "The government has already indicated that parental consent will be necessary for children to attend school and those who do not want will be able to attend online classes. What is the issue then? If some parents are not in favour, they can choose not to send their wards." Several school principals and education experts, however, are in favour of reopening schools. "School plays a requisite role in the holistic development of a child and it has been over 16 months since these institutions have been shut due to the Covid pandemic. The schools should reopen and physical classes should start in a graded manner keeping in mind the wellbeing of each and every stakeholder," said Anshu Mittal, Principal, MRG School, Rohini. "It's high time we should welcome students back to school to break the monotonous cycle of remote learning. This will help schools to traverse the learning gaps and students to cope with the learning outcomes," Mittal said. Anirudh Khaitan, Treasurer, FICCI ARISE, a collegium of stakeholders aimed at promoting quality education, said Covid-19 has had a dire impact on students across the country. "Apart from learning loss, they are suffering from a lack of social skills. There is also an increase in the impact on their academic skill set, mental health and emotional well-being too," he said. "However, there are critics who are concerned about the imminent third wave coming in and the reopening of schools. Therefore, to ensure utmost safety of the students, schools need to take bold decisions about reopening with strict protocols in place," he added. In its report submitted on Wednesday, the DDMA panel recommended that students from senior classes be called in the first phase followed by the middle-grade students and ultimately the primary classes. The committee has also said that willing parents should have the option of sending their child to school and others can opt for online classes. Schools in the national capital were ordered shut last year in March ahead of a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus. While several states started partial reopening of schools in October last year, the Delhi government allowed physical classes only for grades 9-12 in January this year, which were again suspended following the exponential rise in Covid-19 cases during the aggressive second wave. Currently, students of classes 10, 11 and 12 can visit schools with the consent of parents for admission and board exam-related activities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-273
26-08-2021||India||Centre reiterates second wave caution, urges people to celebrate festivals safely||The central government on Thursday said the months of September and October will be crucial in pandemic management and cautioned that festivals should be celebrated in accordance with Covid-19-appropriate behaviour. Addressing a media briefing, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan reiterated that the country is still in the midst of the second wave. ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said vaccines are disease modifying and not disease preventing so it is very important to continue the use of masks even after vaccination. Bhushan said, "We are still in the midst of the second surge of Covid-19 in our country. The second surge has not yet concluded. It is not over and therefore, we have to maintain all necessary precautions, particularly in light of our experience that after every festival we see a spike." "The coming months of September and October are crucial for us because we would be celebrating a few festivals. Thus festivals have to be celebrated with Covid-appropriate behaviour," he added. The government said 41 districts in India were reporting a Covid-19 weekly positivity rate of more than 10 per cent. According to the government, 58.4 per cent of the total Covid-19 cases last week were reported from Kerala. "Kerala is the only state reporting over 1 lakh active Covid-19 cases, while four states have 10,000 to 1 lakh active cases and 31 states have less than 10,000 active cases," it said. Kerala alone on Wednesday recorded 31,445 fresh cases, which is 68.11 per cent of the national total of new infections in the last 24 hours. In this regard, the government faced flak from its political opponents and public health experts for its alleged "carelessness" and "foolish" decisions regarding Covid-19 management, which according to them has led to the rise in cases and TPR in the southern state which is presently accounting for nearly 70 per cent of the national total of daily infections. The government said over 400 evacuees were brought back from Afghanistan so far and that some of them have tested positive for Covid-19. The infected people have been isolated and are being treated. With 46,164 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases has increased to 3,25,58,530, while the active cases rose to 3,33,725, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll climbed to 4,36,365 with 607 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 1.03 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.63 per cent, the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
26-08-2021||India||Nine new judges appointed to Supreme Court||Nine new judges, including three women, were on Thursday appointed to the Supreme Court, making Justice B V Nagarathna in line to be the first woman Chief Justice of India (CJI) in September 2027. President Ram Nath Kovind signed their warrants of appointment. With a sanctioned strength of 34 judges, the Supreme Court as of now has ten vacancies. Once the new judges take oath in the coming days, the top court will have only one vacancy. Formal notifications by the Law Ministry announcing their appointments would be issued shortly, sources said. In a first, the Supreme Court Collegium had last week recommended for appointment to the apex court three women judges. Besides Justice Nagarathna, the third senior-most judge of the Karnataka High Court, the other women judges who have been appointed to the apex court are Justice Hima Kohli, the Chief Justice of the Telangana High Court, and Justice Bela M Trivedi, the fifth senior-most judge of the Gujarat High Court. Justice Kohli was to retire on September 1 on attaining the age of 62. While high court judges retire at the age of 62, the retirement age of Supreme Court judges is 65. Besides them, Justice C T Ravikumar of the Kerala High Court, and Justice M M Sundresh of the Madras High Court have also been appointed to the top court. Senior advocate and former Additional Solicitor General P S Narasimha has became the sixth lawyer to be elevated to the apex court bench directly from the Bar. The chief justices of different high courts who have made it to the Supreme Court are Justices Abhay Shreeniwas Oka (Chief Justice of the Karnataka High Court), Vikram Nath (Chief Justice of the Gujarat High Court), Jitendra Kumar Maheshwari (Chief Justice of the Sikkim High Court). Justice Nagarathna, born on October 30, 1962, is the daughter of former CJI E S Venkataramiah. She enrolled as an advocate on October 28,1987 at Bangalore and practised in the fields pertaining to the Constitution, commerce, insurance and service. She was appointed as an Additional Judge of the High Court of Karnataka on February 18, 2008 and became a permanent Judge on February 17, 2010. She will have a tenure as an SC judge till October 29, 2027 and may have a tenure of over one month as the first woman CJI after September 23, 2027. Born on September 2, 1959 in Delhi, Justice Kohli did her LLB from the Campus Law Centre in Delhi University and was the standing counsel and legal advisor of the New Delhi Municipal Council in the High Court of Delhi from 1999-2004. She was appointed as an Additional Judge of the High Court of Delhi on May 29, 2006 and took oath as a permanent judge on August 29, 2007 and later became the Chief Justice of the Telangana High Court on January 7, 2021. Justice Trivedi, born on June 10, 1960, is the judge of the Gujarat High Court since February 9, 2016 and belongs to the judicial service category. Besides Fathima Beevi, who became an apex court judge on October 6, 1989, seven more women judges have been appointed till now. They are Justices Sujata Vasant Manohar, Ruma Pal, Gyan Sudha Mishra, Ranjana Desai, R Bhanumathi, Indu Malhotra and Indira Banerjee. Justice Banerjee would demit office on September 23 next year. Judicial appointments in the Supreme Court have remained frozen since September 2019. The first of the 10 vacancies in the Supreme Court arose following the retirement of Justice Ranjan Gogoi in November 2019 as the chief justice of India. The latest vacancy was created following the retirement of Justice Navin Sinha on August 18 this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
26-08-2021||India||Kerala government faces flak for 'foolish', 'careless' Covid-19 management||The Kerala government on Thursday faced flak from its political opponents and public health experts for its alleged "carelessness" and "foolish" decisions regarding COVID-19 management, which according to them has led to the rise in cases and TPR in the southern state which is presently accounting for nearly 70 per cent of the national total of daily infections. Kerala on Wednesday recorded 31,445 fresh cases, which is 68.11 per cent of the national total -- 46,164 -- of new infections in the last 24 hours. The TPR was 19.03 per cent on Wednesday. The last time it had crossed the 19 per cent mark was three months back on May 26 when it was 19.95 per cent. Union Minister of State for External Affairs and Parliamentary Affairs V Muraleedharan attributed this to the "carelessness" of the Kerala government, which according to him was more focused on celebrating the anniversary of the Moplah riots rather than managing COVID-19. "Carelessness of the state government was the reason for this," he said and added that the Left government was "more focused on celebrating the anniversary of the Moplah riots". "That is not the priority. Dealing with COVID-19 should be the priority," he said while addressing the media in New Delhi. A similar view was expressed by Congress MLA Ramesh Chennithala who on Thursday told the media that the state government has failed to prevent spread of COVID-19 in the state and demanded that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan apologise to the people. He also alleged that the "carelessness" of the state was the reason behind the rise in COVID-19 cases in Kerala. The senior Congress leader said that presently the state was accounting for around 70 per cent of the daily national total of fresh infections. Well-known public health expert Dr S S Lal blamed the absence of a clear-cut COVID management strategy, the keeping of the scientific community away from decision making and the "foolish" decisions taken at the bureaucratic level for the present fast spreading of the disease. Lal, who unsuccessfully contested in the recent Assembly election on a Congress ticket, also urged the Left government to release the health data related to the virus infection to evaluate the actual situation prevailing in the state. "The government is hiding all data related to the COVID-19. We are unable to analyse the actual COVID situation in the state due to the unavailability of the data. If we are able to access it, we can figure out the basic facts like which age group is most affected and so on," Lal told PTI. A similar accusation was levelled, on Wednesday, by Leader of the Opposition in the state Assembly V D Satheesan, who had alleged that the COVID control system in the state had failed and wanted the government to revive its existing strategies and methodology for disease management. "Though the total number of COVID patients has crossed the 38 lakh mark in the state, the government is still hiding the health data related to it. This will prevent evolving strategies to fight the third wave of the disease," he had said at a press meet here. The lack of data analysis has seriously affected even the research activities in the southern state, the leader had added. Speaking to PTI, Lal said that the state government has to increase the pace of vaccination to cover the maximum number of people possible and further expand the testing process to prepare people to fight the impending third wave of COVID-19. The state is witnessing a "high level of fast severe spreading" of the virus infection now-a-days and the high test positivity rate indicates this, he said. Though the death rate and severity of the disease is low due to vaccination, the disease is spreading fast in the southern state, Lal said. To fight the impending third wave, vaccination should be further increased and urgent steps should be taken to avoid crowds in public places and vehicles like state-run KSRTC buses, he added. He further said that the number of RT-PCR tests should be increased as the state still relies more on antigen. "We are missing several infected persons as we are not focusing on RT-PCR," the expert said, adding that the testing and vaccination should be expanded in private hospitals to reach out to the maximum number of people. Recently, some other public health experts, including Dr Amar Fettle, had said that relaxations during the festival season coupled with people not following COVID guidelines are behind Kerala's rising TPR and the state accounting for more than half of the country's virus caseload. "You cannot hold a gun to the people's head and make them follow the guidelines. They need to modify their behaviour on their own," Dr Fettle, the state nodal officer for COVID-19, said. The experts had predicted that the TPR would go beyond 20 per cent and the number of infections would rise further in the weeks after the Onam festivities. Since July 27, after the Bakrid celebrations when restrictions were relaxed for a few days, Kerala has been logging more than or close to 20,000 cases almost every day. The numbers rose to more than 24,000 on August 24 and then crossed 30,000 on August 25. Back in July, after the state government eased restrictions in the days running upto Bakrid, the Supreme Court had severely criticised the move and had called it "wholly uncalled for". It had warned that it will take action if the easing of curbs leads to further spread of the virus. Subsequently, close to the Onam festival, even as the state was recording close to or more than 20,000 cases almost daily, the Kerala government further eased restrictions on opening of shops, markets, banks, public and private offices, etc. It also said that instead of the two-day lockdown during the weekend, the restriction on movement will be applicable only on Sundays except on August 15 and August 22 when there will be no such bar. In an effort to reduce overcrowding, the government issued guidelines which said that people who have received at least one dose of vaccine or had a negative RT-PCR report not older than 72 hours or having a COVID-19 positive result more than a month old, would be allowed in shops, markets, banks, public and private offices, etc. However, as the cases and TPR rose post Onam, the state government responded by announcing that testing would be maximised in areas where vaccination rate was low. It also said that it aims to inoculate with the first dose as many people above 18 years of age as possible by the end of September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
26-08-2021||India||Armed forces won't let political turmoil in any other country affect India, says Om Birla||The armed forces would not let political turmoil in any other country affect India, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said on Thursday in a reference to the crisis in Afghanistan. Birla is on a week-long trip to Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh as part of the 'parliamentary outreach programme for the empowerment of panchayati raj institutions'. Birla said he is visiting the region to strengthen the panchayati raj system and democratic institutions. Asked about recent political crisis in Afghanistan, Birla said India favours democratic system flourishing in all countries. "We have full faith on our armed forces that they wouldn't let political turmoil in any other country (Afghanistan) affect India," Birla said. On the recent tensions on the LAC, Birla said, "India is capable of safeguarding its borders and people. And the country is against expansionism and cross-border terrorism." He further said border tensions arise due to the expansionist approach of few countries. Birla is scheduled to visit far-flung areas of Ladakh region including Pangaong Lake and Nubra Valley. He will also visit Pahalgaon and Srinagar and interact with panchayat leaders from all these places.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
26-08-2021||India||Yogi makes slew of pro-farmer announcements ahead of UP polls||In an apparent bid to woo farmers ahead of the assembly polls early next year, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has made several pro-farmers announcements including withdrawing cases against them for stubble burning and launching a one-time settlement (OTS) scheme for interest waiver on their electricity dues. According to a senior official, the chief minister while interacting with a delegation of progressive farmers the previous day said, All the cases of stubble burning against the farmers will be withdrawn and decision will also be taken to revoke the fine imposed on them. The government will also ensure that because of power dues, no electricity connection of the farmers will be snapped and OTS scheme will be brought to waive interest on the power dues," he said. The chief minister also said cane price will be increased and a decision in this regard will be taken after talks with all the stakeholders. He said sugar mills of western region will start functioning from October 20 while mills of Eastern region will begin operation from October 25. The chief minister said dues of cane to the tune of Rs 1.42 lakh crore pending since 2010 were paid by the government and before the start of the next crushing season, all pending payments will be cleared. The state had done a record 56 lakh MT purchase of wheat from farmers on the minimum support price despite the adverse conditions due to the pandemic. For the last few years, the Supreme Court has been prodding the Centre and the state governments to stamp out stubble burning, especially in Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan and western Uttar Pradesh, which aggravates air pollution in Delhi every year in October-November. The government move to revoke stubble burning cases is seen as an attempt to woo farmers to counter their agitation against the new farm laws. Farmers particularly from western Uttar Pradesh along with those from other states are on the warpath with the BJP-led government at the Centre over three agri legislations. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which is spearheading the stir at the borders of Delhi, has declared that it will mobilise support against the saffron party in the upcoming state polls in Uttar Pradesh. The announcements made by the chief minister are being seen as part of efforts to pacify the agitating farmers, who are a key factor on many seats particularly in the western part of the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
26-08-2021||India||Yahoo shuts down news websites in India due to FDI rules||Yahoo has shut down its news websites in India due to the new foreign direct investment (FDI) rules that limit foreign ownership of media companies that operate and publish digital content in India. This includes Yahoo News, Yahoo Cricket, Finance, Entertainment and MAKERS India. This, however, will not affect users' Yahoo e-mail, and search experiences in India. "As of August 26th, 2021 Yahoo India will no longer be publishing content. Your Yahoo Account, Mail and Search experiences will not be affected in any way and will operate as usual. We thank you for your support and readership," a notice on the Yahoo website said. US tech major Verizon had acquired Yahoo in 2017. In the FAQ section, Yahoo said effective August 26, 2021, the company has ceased publication of content in India and has shut down Yahoo's content operations in the country. "We did not come to this decision lightly. However, Yahoo India has been impacted by changes to regulatory laws in India that now limit the foreign ownership of media companies that operate and publish digital content in India. Yahoo has had a long association with India and we're really proud of the premium, local content we have provided our users here for the last 20 years," it said. It added that given that Yahoo Cricket has a 'news' component, "it was impacted under the new FDI regulations that limit foreign ownership of media companies that operate and publish digital content in India in the 'News and Current Affairs' space". Thanking all its users in India for the "support and trust" over the past two decades, it noted that it remains "open to opportunities that connect us to users here". As per the new FDI regulations that will come into effect in October, digital media companies in India can accept up to 26 per cent investment in the form of foreign investment, subject to approval from the central government. "In case you are a Yahoo Mail user, this change does not affect you in any way. This development does not impact our products Yahoo Mail and Yahoo Search, where we will continue to serve users in India as before, without any change," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
26-08-2021||India||Take care of yourself as Govt busy with sales: Rahul to people as Covid cases rise||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday voiced concern over the rise in coronavirus cases in the country, and said people should take care of themselves as the government is "busy in sales". Gandhi has been accusing the BJP government of selling out the country's assets built in the last 70 years, after it announced its asset monetisation pipeline plan. "Rising COVID numbers are worrying. Vaccination must pick up pace to avoid serious outcomes in the next wave," he said on Twitter. "Please take care of yourselves because GOI is busy with sales," he also said. India saw a single day rise of 46,164 COVID-19 infections with 607 fatalities in the last 24 hours, pushing the country's total number of cases so far to 3,25,58,530 and death toll to 4,36,365. The active COVID-19 cases in country have increased to 3,33,725.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
26-08-2021||India||National convention to mark 9 months of farmers' protest begins at Singhu border||The national convention by farmers to mark the completion of nine months of their agitation against the three contentious farm laws began at the Singhu border on Thursday. The two-day event that will see participation from 1,500 delegates across organisations of farmers, women, youth, and labourers, is aimed at intensification and expansion of the ongoing movement against the Centre's farm laws. As part of the convention, three sessions will be organised on Thursday, including the inaugural session, and one each on industrial workers;agriculture labour, rural, poor and tribal people. Among the topics that the convention is expected to discuss are repeal of all three pro-corporate farm laws, legal guarantee for MSP of all crops, repeal of Electricity Bill, 2021, and no prosecution of farmers under the Commission of Air Quality Management in NCR and Adjoining Areas Bill 2021. Farmers have been agitating at the Delhi borders demanding the repeal of the three laws since November last year. They have repeatedly expressed fear over the laws doing away with the minimum support price (MSP), leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. Over 10 rounds of talks with the government that has been projecting the laws as major agricultural reforms have failed to break the deadlock between the two parties. It is sad that it's been nine months but the government is still not ready to talk. But we should not feel demotivated. During this convention we will reflect on what we have lost and what we have gained over the last nine months, said Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait while addressing the protesters at the Singhu border.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
26-08-2021||India||Evacuating Indians from Afghanistan top priority, govt tells parties ||The government is committed to "full evacuation" of Indians from Afghanistan, where the situation is "critical", External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday after briefing the leaders at an all-party meet on the Afghan situation. During the meeting, which lasted for about three and a half hours, Jaishankar said the government has adopted a "wait and watch" approach in dealing with the Taliban, depending on the evolving situation, and later told reporters in an answer to a similar question that let the situation settle down there. "Let the situation settle...You will have to keep patience on the question of our future policy," he said when asked about the government's approach towards the Taliban. Later in a tweet, Jaishankar said,"our immediate concern and task is evacuation and long term interest is the friendship for the Afghan people". Besides Jaishankar, Union minister and Leader of the House in Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi were also present during the briefing on the latest situation in Afghanistan after the Taliban captured power there last week. Senior officials of the external affairs ministry, including Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla also participated in the meeting. As per the evacuation data shared among the participants at the meet, the government has evacuated --175 Embassy Personnel, 263 other Indian Nationals, 112 Afghan Nationals including Hindus and Sikhs, 15 third country nationals and the total figure stood at 565. The document further said the government also facilitated the evacuation of Indians by other agencies. NCP leader Sharad Pawar, Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, Leader of Congress party in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, DMK's T R Baalu, former prime minister H D Deve Gowda, Apna Dal's Anupriya Patel were among those who attended the meet. "We have a strong national position on Afghanistan. The friendship with the Afghan people is something which matters to all of us. So we (all parties) approached this situation very much in a spirit of national unity," he told reporters. Under Operation 'Devi Shakti', the government has undertaken six flights and brought back most of the Indians but not all of them, he said, noting that a few Indians are still there. "Some of them could not make the flight yesterday. But definitely we will try and bring everybody. We have also brought out some Afghan citizens who wanted to come to india at this point of time. We have tried to address many of the other issues by instituting an E-visa policy. So the overall sense was that the government is very very strongly committed to ensuring the full evacuation as soon as possible," he said. With the situation in Afghanistan fluid, he said there will be a lot of activity on this front but at the moment India's "focus is on evacuation and the government is doing every thing to ensure that we bring back our people". On the all-party meet, he tweeted "Briefed the floor leaders of all political parties today on Afghanistan and 37 leaders from 31 parties attended. Thank them all." He said India's strong friendship with the people of Afghanistan is reflected in the more than 500 projects it has there and that the friendship will continue to guide New Delhi. Jaishankar said India's footprint and activities naturally keep in mind the ongoing change. "We have undertaken evacuation operations in extremely difficult conditions especially at the airport. Our immediate concern and task is evacuation and long term interest is the friendship for the Afghan people," he said. Sources said Jaishankar apprised the floor leaders about the pre-emptive measures taken by India including the temporary withdrawal of Indian personnel from its consulates in Herat and Jalalabad in April last year, scaling down of the strength of the embassy in Kabul in June this year. Last year in February, Taliban leaders and the US inked a pact in Doha in February 2020 which envisaged religious freedom and democracy, with a government in Kabul that represented all sections of Afghan society after the withdrawal of American troops. Jaishankar also cited the evacuation of Indian staff from the Indian consulates in Kandahar on July 10-11 and from Mazar-e-Sharif on August 10-11, besides mentioning series of security advisories issued between June 29 and August 12, urging Indian nationals to leave the country immediately. The external affairs minister said India's priorities following the recent developments included the evacuation of Indian nationals, ensuring the safety of its diplomatic staff, extending assistance to Afghan nationals in distress and providing some leadership as part of the 'Neighbourhood-First' policy, the sources said. He said India's other priorities in view of the situation in Afghanistan included international coordination and humanitarian efforts. India's diplomacy and interests are recognised by other countries and the government is in touch with many partners, Jaishankar told reporters. The external affairs minister referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's recent conversations with Russian President Vladimir Putin and German Chancellor Angela Merkel, and said there will be many more communication in the coming days. He also referred to India chairing the UN Security Council special Session on Afghanistan and the UN Human Rights Commission in Geneva. Referring to challenges faced while evacuating people from Kabul, Jaishankar cited frequent incidents of firing near the airport and inside Kabul, putting up multiple checkpoints by various groups and certain issues at the airport, sources said. Delays in landing permissions for aircraft, overflight clearances from relevant countries and coordination on the ground were some other challenges flagged by the external affairs minister, they said. Listing immediate measures, Jaishankar said a 24X7 special Afghanistan Cell was established in the Ministry of External Affairs to coordinate repatriation and other requests from that country in a streamlined manner, the sources said. According to sources, manned by more than 20 MEA officials, the Afghanistan evacuation cell has received 3,014 phone calls, responded to 7,826 Whatsapp messages and answered 3,101 Emails.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
26-08-2021||India||India adds over 46,000 fresh Covid cases, 607 casualties in a day||With 46,164 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases has increased to 3,25,58,530, while the active cases rose to 3,33,725, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll climbed to 4,36,365 with 607 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 1.03 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.63 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 11,398 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 17,87,283 tests were conducted on Wednesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 51,31,29,378. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.58 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 31 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.02 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 62 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,17,88,440 and the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 60.38 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Thursday morning. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crores on May 4 and three crores on June 23. The 607 new fatalities include 216 from Maharashtra and 215 from Kerala. A total of 4,36,365 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,36,571 from Maharashtra, 37,206 from Karnataka, 34,788 from Tamil Nadu, 25,080 from Delhi, 22,794 from Uttar Pradesh, 19,972 from Kerala and 18,393 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-274
26-08-2021||India||Fresh spell of rain expected in Delhi from August 29||A fresh spell of rain is expected in the national capital and adjoining areas in northwest India from August 29 as the monsoon trough is expected to shift towards the plains from the foothills of the Himalayas, according to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). Delhi and other areas in northwest India are currently witnessing a partial "break monsoon" phase, weather experts said. "The entire monsoon trough lies close to the foothills of the Himalayas. It is likely to remain there till tomorrow (August 26)," the IMD had said in a statement on Wednesday. R K Jenamani, a senior scientist at the IMD, said the region is experiencing a "weak monsoon" at present. "If the monsoon trough shifts close to the foothills of the Himalayas and remains there for two to three consecutive days, we call it a break monsoon phase," he said. During the monsoon season, there are spells when the trough shifts closer to the foothills of the Himalayas, leading to a sharp decline in rainfall over most parts of the country. This is called a "break monsoon" phase. However, rainfall increases along the foothills of the Himalayas, northeast India and parts of the southern peninsula. In July, the monsoon had entered the first break phase even before reaching most parts of northwest India, including Delhi. The national capital and adjoining areas in northwest India entered a "break monsoon" phase again on August 10 that continued up to August 19. The IMD said a cyclonic circulation is expected over northwest and adjoining the west-central Bay of Bengal on August 27. It is likely to pull down the western end of the monsoon trough from August 29, leading to rains in northwest India, including Delhi. Light rain is predicted in the capital, starting August 29. The city has gauged 214.5mm rainfall against the normal of 221.8 mm this month so far. Normally, Delhi records 247.7mm precipitation in August. Of the 214.5 mm rainfall this month, 138.8mm came in 24 hours ending 8:30 am on Saturday, which was the highest on a day in August in 14 years. The capital had gauged an unusual 507.1 mm rainfall this July, which was nearly 141 per cent above normal. It was also the maximum rainfall in the month since July 2003, and the second-highest ever. Owing to the intense bursts of rains in July, the capital has gauged 756.4 mm rainfall since June 1, when the monsoon season starts, against the normal of 497.9 mm -- 52 per cent more precipitation than normal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
26-08-2021||India||Law while changing with social needs must recognise technological advancements, says Kerala HC||Law must not only change with changing social needs, it must recognise technological advancements, the Kerala High Court has said while referring to a larger bench the question -- whether a wedding under the Special Marriage Act (SMA) can be solemnised online via video conferencing. Justice P B Suresh Kumar said that the Supreme Court in National Textile Workers' Union vs. P R Ramakrishnan case had observed that "if the law fails to respond to the needs of changing society, then either it will stifle the growth of the society and choke its progress, or if the society is vigorous enough, it will cast away the law, which stands in the way of its growth." The high court said it was constrained to quote the apex court's observation as there were large number of cases before it involving situations where one or both the parties to an intended marriage had to leave the country, after giving notice of the wedding as required under the SMA, on account of inevitable social requirements and could not, consequently, solemnise the marriage. "Cases involving situations where parties to the marriage who have left India after giving notice of the intended marriage, could not come back to India due to reasons beyond their control and could not consequently solemnise the marriage, have also come to the notice of this court," Justice Kumar said. The high court said a "pragmatic interpretation" of the provisions of the SMA "would redress the grievances of many such people". It also termed as incorrect the views expressed by two other single judge benches of the high court that solemnisation of marriages under SMA via videoconferencing would dilute the provisions of the Act and that physical presence of both parties is mandatory. "The law must not only change with the changing social needs, it must also acknowledge and recognise technological advancements," it added. The high court also referred to the provisions of the Information Technology Act and said that proposal and acceptance made by parties to marriage through videoconferencing cannot be said to be invalid. "If it is valid and permissible, there is absolutely no reason why the parties to a marriage under the Act (SMA) shall not be permitted to solemnise the marriage by exchange of words through video conferencing," it said. The high court also said that the SMA does not prescribe the formal act to be performed by the parties for solemnisation of the marriage and the parties are given the freedom to choose the act. "In other words, the act to be performed for solemnizing the marriage need not be a physical act. The marriage can be solemnised by exchange of words as well," the high court said. Justice Kumar also said,"... if a witness in a criminal case can be permitted to depose before the court under oath through video conferencing, according to me, the parties to an intended marriage can certainly be permitted to solemnise the marriage by exchange of words through video conferencing. "The order came on the pleas by several petitioners who have contended that personal physical presence of the bride and groom is not necessary for solemnisation of nuptials under the law. The state government, on the other hand, is not in favour of online solemnisation of marriages under the Act. It has contended that solemnization of marriage was mandatory prior to registering it under the SMA and therefore, presence of the two sides and the witnesses is required before the Marriage Officer. It has further contended that another requirement for solemnisation of the marriage was that at least one of the two parties has to be a resident of the area within the territorial limits of the Marriage Officer for minimum 30 days prior to issuing the notice of the intended nuptials. Therefore, two persons living abroad cannot have their marriage solemnised online if they do not satisfy the residence requirement. The petitioners, represented by advocates A Ahzar, Jawahar Jose and V Ajith Narayanan have contended that when marriages under SMA can be registered online, therefore, solemnisation too does not need physical presence of the parties involved. They have claimed that there are various judgments which say that appearing via video conferencing is akin to being present in person with the sole difference that parties cannot be touched. They said that under SMA the marriage can be solemnised by any means, like exchange of garlands or shaking of hands, as long as both parties make the declaration that they take each other as the lawfully wedded husband and wife. They also said that signatures can be submitted via digital format and the same was recognised under the Information Technology Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
26-08-2021||India||Face of anti-Taliban resistance cut her teeth in activism at DU||A week ago when Gifty Sehrawat from Delhi University saw a video shot in Afghanistan, she gasped: “Oh my God! That’s my classmate!” On the screen was Crystal Bayat, who, at 24, has emerged as the face of the peaceful resistance to the new Taliban regime in Afghanistan. Bayat had cut her teeth in activism at Delhi University — a testimony to the vibrancy of Indian campuses that has fallen prey to vicious attacks after the Narendra Modi government came to power. A human rights activist, entrepreneur and aspiring diplomat, Bayat had studied political science at the DU-affiliated Daulat Ram College (DRC) between 2016 and 2019, during which she had taken part in multiple movements although the causes did not have a direct bearing on her. Bayat was filmed by The New York Times leading a march with the Afghan national flag on August 19, the country’s Independence Day. Taliban militants prevented their attempt to fly the flag atop a hill with threats, assault and finally gunfire that injured at least three people, she told The Telegraph on Wednesday. Currently at an undisclosed location outside Kabul, Bayat fondly remembered her time at DRC where friends encouraged her not to give up studies or her dreams even when the going got tough. She told this newspaper over an Internet call: “My teachers supported me. My friends Deeksha Gulia and Kalpana Rawat showed me a new face of life. They were most helpful and gave me the strength to stay on to complete my studies in India even when I faced difficulties…. My friends continue to ask about me now.” Bayat added: “I expect India to show friendship at this time of crisis. I don’t think they are helping very much right now. Refugees must be given good facilities and avenues for employment.” Bayat said she had opportunities to move to India, the United Arab Emirates or Turkey, but chose to stay back in her country for now. “I want to resist this violence. I want to show that we women will not give up so easily the rights that we fought for.” One of Bayat’s teachers at DRC, Deepak Bhaskar, said she often attended Delhi University Teachers’ Association protests to show solidarity, as well as agitations on campus. “I once saw her at a demonstration of students from the Northeast near the Vivekananda statue (on the DU campus). I asked what she was doing there, and she replied that she was standing with people fighting for a good cause. She chose her causes, and did not go to every protest,” Bhaskar said. He said some of the things Bayat had said stuck with him. “People can realise their goals when there is order in society. Human beings are not trained to be in chaos rather than order. Therefore, we need order, not chaos,” Bhaskar recalled Bayat as telling him as a student. Bayat had gifted Bhaskar a yellow hand-woven Afghan stole. DRC, a women’s college, attracts several Afghan students. The political science class has at least two students from that country every year. Bayat was on a scholarship from the Indian Council for Cultural Relations — the route of choice to India for most Afghan students. “She spoke little, but was vocal when something happened and would participate as well as organise, like she did during the protests against the sexual harassment of a student by a bank employee (in 2017). The political science department is a vibrant space and she is trying to practise what she learnt here,” Bhaskar said. After returning to Afghanistan in 2020, Bayat started a number of initiatives like the Justice and Equality Trend — a civil rights group — the Crystal Charity Foundation and a logistics firm. She also began studying to join diplomatic service and obtained a master’s degree from an Iranian university. “The last 19 years, I am studying to achieve my goals, but today unfortunately all my dreams have died,” Bayat told the Times, choking. Bayat’s faith in democracy was strengthened by early victories in her career as an activist. She was part of a movement for the recognition of the Bayat ethnic minority of Turkic Shias by the previous Afghan government last year. Seeing her gynaecologist mother and bureaucrat father unable to work after the Taliban takeover, Bayat organised friends and associates of the Justice and Equality Trend for a march to the Wazi Akbar Khan hill, which overlooks the capital Kabul, to hoist the national flag on August 19. “The Talib flag is illegal, so I asked many to come with me to hoist our national flag on Independence Day. My family was supportive but neighbours said it was wrong and unsafe for me to take a stand against terrorists…. When we were shouting ‘Zindabad Afghanistan’, the Talib opened fire. They argued with me, saying I was a woman and I should be indoors, and that we had just 20 days of freedom. They beat up the men with us,” she said. Bayat added: “I want to tell the world that ‘look, the Taliban haven’t changed. They don’t want us women in politics or the economy. They don’t allow the arts. They have declared music as haram. They will be resisted’.” Bayat’s classmate Sehrawat told this newspaper: “We have sat together in protest in college.… After things went bad in Afghanistan, I knew she wanted to leave as she also knew it was risky. But when I saw her in a video, I was shocked. I said, ‘Oh my God! That’s my classmate.’ We are proud of her.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
26-08-2021||India||DU to drop Mahasweta Devi's short story 'Draupadi'  from BA syllabus||The academic council of Delhi University has decided to drop Maheswata Devi’s short story Draupadi and the autobiographical works of two Dalit writers from the BA English Honours syllabus. A section of teachers has called the decision “arbitrary”. The oversight  committee head, M.K. Pandit, said parts of the syllabus were continuing for years and the changes were routine The academic council on Tuesday took up the recommendations of the oversight committee on syllabus change. Fifteen elected members of the council, which has 130 members, gave a dissent note against the move to drop Draupadi, which deals with the struggle of a tribal woman against oppression. The autobiographical works of Dalit Tamil writer Bama and Dalit Telugu writer Sukartharini were replaced by the works of Ramabai, a writer from a dominant caste. The decision of the academic council will have to be passed by the executive council. The authorities propose to implement the new syllabus from the current academic session. Biswajit Mohanty, a faculty member of Deshbandhu College and an elected academic member, said the decision to drop the works showed an anti-tribal, anti-Dalit and patriarchal mindset. Rudrashish Chakraborty, a faculty member of English from Kirori Mal College under DU, said the oversight committee was guilty of not only undermining the laid-down academic processes of the university, they had also abdicated their responsibility towards the students by delaying the notification of the syllabus in every semester. “It is unbecoming of a university having stature like DU to notify the syllabus five weeks after the commencement of the semester. The fact that students/teachers don’t know which texts to study/teach speaks volumes about the academic apathy and the irresponsibility of the Oversight Committee towards the teaching-learning process. Coupled with this is the overreach of the arbitrary addition/deletion of texts without the consent of the Committee of Courses -- the only statutory body to frame the syllabus," Chakraborty said. Pandit said that the committee had gone by academic merit and taken the decision.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
26-08-2021||India||PMO clears list of nine names for elevation as Supreme Court judges||The Prime Minister’s Office on Wednesday evening cleared the names of all the nine judges recommended by the Supreme Court collegium for elevation as judges of the apex court. Sources said the government wanted some names to be reconsidered but Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana declined to concede the request. All the recommended names should be cleared, the CJI is learnt to have insisted, following which the PMO did so, the sources added. With Wednesday’s approval, the number of apex court judges has gone up to 33, including the CJI, against the sanctioned strength of 34. The recommendations made by the collegium were cleared within a week by the Narendra Modi government despite its constant friction with sections of the judiciary. The sources said the swift approval of all the recommended names was expected to help usher in a thaw between the executive and the judiciary. What is perceived to have been a key irritant had already been removed as the recommended names did not include that of Justice Akil Kureshi, one of the most senior high court chief justices. Justice Kureshi, now heading Tripura High Court, had sent Amit Shah, the current Union home minister, to CBI custody in 2010. This is the first time that the names of nine judges were recommended for elevation at one go by the collegium, now headed by CJI Ramana. The sources said the PMO, after approving the names, forwarded the list to the Union law ministry for its onward transit to the President for issuing the necessary warrant of appointment. The nine names cleared include those of three women judges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
26-08-2021||India||Pegasus: Bengal government puts state-appointed probe on hold||The Bengal government on Wednesday suggested it would keep on hold a state-appointed commission’s probe into the Pegasus snooping allegations, heeding the Supreme Court’s call for “restraint” and advice to “wait” as it was already hearing the matter. Announced by chief minister Mamata Banerjee on July 26, the country’s first commission to probe the Pegasus controversy was scheduled to submit its findings and recommendations within six months. The panel is made up of former Supreme Court judge Justice Madan B. Lokur and former Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court Justice Jyotirmay Bhattacharya. During Wednesday’s hearing, senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, appearing for the Bengal government, assured the Supreme Court that the commission’s investigation would be kept in abeyance for now. The bench of Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and Justice Surya Kant had expressed its reservations about a parallel inquiry. The state, however, said the NGO Global Village Foundation Public Charitable Trust, which has approached the apex court seeking the cancellation of the commission, was associated with the RSS and that its petition was politically motivated and aimed at scuttling an independent inquiry. CJI Ramana told Singhvi that the bench was already hearing petitions seeking a court-monitored investigation into the Pegasus allegations and that it would tag the Bengal government’s plea against the NGO’s appeal with them. “If we are hearing other matters (related to Pegasus), we expect some restraint…. The present issue is connected to other issues (associated with Pegasus). In all fairness, we expect you to show restraint. You can wait. We will hear it with the other matters sometime next week,” Chief Justice Ramana told Singhvi. Singhvi initially said “heavens would not fall” if the committee was allowed to proceed with the inquiry. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for the NGO, contended: “You can’t have two parallel inquiries. Please see nothing is done in the proceedings there while the court is hearing the matter.” Justice Surya Kant agreed, saying if a parallel inquiry was allowed to proceed, it would have pan-India implications. “These matters are likely to have pan-India implications. We will have advantage of your (the Bengal government’s) assistance in those matters also,” the judge said. Singhvi urged the court not to pass any order or make observations. “Between now and next week, nothing earth shattering is happening. Your Lordship’s word will create a splash,” he submitted. CJI Ramana replied: “Mr Singhvi, you are not listening to us. All we were saying was we will list this with other matters. You’re forcing us to pass order.” The senior counsel said: “Please say nothing, I will convey it (to the Bengal government).” The comment implies that the committee’s probe will be kept on hold for now. The bench issued a formal notice to the Bengal government on the NGO’s petition and tagged it with the batch of pleas filed by journalists and civil liberties activists seeking a court-monitored SIT probe into the allegation that the Israeli spyware Pegasus had been used to snoop on judges, journalists, activists, politicians and others. ‘RSS link’ In a counter-affidavit on the NGO’s public interest litigation petition, the Bengal government linked it with the RSS. “It is submitted that the motive behind the filing of the instant Writ Petition is nebulous to say the least. The answering respondent believes that the Petitioner’s intent behind filing this writ petition is to divert this Hon’ble Court’s attention away from the seminal issues it is being confronted with in the main batch of writ petitions filed by reputed journalists, members of civil society and persons allegedly affected by the ‘Pegasus’ software, by drawing the State of West Bengal into the centre of the controversy,” the affidavit stated. “The said apprehension is neither remote nor unfounded. It is necessary to mention that the Trustee and Chairman of the Petitioner, one Mr Balram Nandwani, has close associations with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and the Swadeshi Jagran Manch, an affiliate of the RSS,” the affidavit, filed through additional chief secretary B.P. Gopalika, alleged. According to the Mamata government, the intent behind the state’s decision to appoint a commission of inquiry was neither to have a parallel probe nor to overreach the proceedings pending before the apex court. “It cannot be disputed that the RSS and the Swadeshi Jagran Manch and the ruling party at the Centre, the BJP, are affiliates and have often vilified the State Government for political gains,” the Bengal government added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
26-08-2021||India||World Health Organisation revises blood pressure control guidelines ||New guidelines for blood pressure control released by the World Health Organisation on Wednesday recommend 130 as the upper number threshold for starting medicines for anyone with risk factors or a history of cardiovascular disease and 140/90 for others. The guidelines on when to start treatment, which medicines to use and the frequency of doctor-patient follow-ups also recommend that adults with high blood pressure should preferably start with a combination of two drugs instead of a single drug. The new guidelines deviate in subtle yet significant ways from the standard treatment protocol for hypertension released by India’s health ministry in February 2016. The protocol required people with blood pressure readings 130-139/80-89 to be advised a recheck after a year and sooner if they have other cardiovascular risk factors. The WHO’s hypertension  guidelines — the first from the organisation in 21 years — come amid concerns that over 1.4 billion people worldwide have high blood pressure but only 14 per cent have it under control despite available cost-effective treatment options. Several studies in India have suggested that a vast majority of people with high blood pressure either receive inappropriate therapy or fail to adhere to prescribed therapy and thus have poor control. One nationwide review had estimated that only a third of patients have successful control. “Through the guidelines, we want to maximise the number of patients who benefit from proven pharmacological treatment,” K. Srinath Reddy, a senior Indian cardiologist and chair of WHO’s hypertension guidelines development group, told The Telegraph. WHO recommends pharmacological treatment at any level of systolic blood pressure (the upper number) above a threshold of 130 for people who have existing cardiovascular disease, or are at high risk through diabetes or chronic kidney disease. “The upper number (130) alone may be used for the treatment decision,” Reddy said. For other individuals without such underlying risk factors, the new guidelines recommend treatment for confirmed blood pressure readings above 140/90, in line with India’s existing protocol. But while India’s protocol recommends treatment initiation with a single drug for patients with blood pressure readings lower than 180/110, WHO recommends a two-drug combination therapy for adults requiring pharmacological therapy for hypertension. The guidelines development group has said one major reason for poor blood pressure control is that most patients receive only monotherapy (single-drug treatment), while evidence suggests that most patients require two drugs to “achieve optimal and sustained control”. The rationale for combination therapy is also based on evidence that a combination of two drugs with complementary actions yields greater blood pressure reduction efficacy and that lower doses of each drug also reduces the potential side effects. “Combination therapy is preferable to achieve good results with less side effects compared to those from high doses of a single drug,” Reddy said. However, in patients who have not been adequately tested for other health parameters, a single drug is advised. The target of treatment should be to achieve an upper number less than 130 in high-risk patients and below 140/90 in others. The guidelines recommend a monthly follow-up after start of therapy until the target is achieved and a follow-up in three to six months for blood pressure under control. Some cardiologists in India have over the past three years argued for a reduction in the diagnostic thresholds for blood pressure from 140/90 to 130/80. However, others believe that while 130/80 is an ideal target, people with levels between 130-39/80-89 need not be prescribed drugs immediately, but first asked to reduce salt intake, lose weight and stop smoking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
26-08-2021||India||Delay in IIT Bhubaneswar director appointment exposes opacity||The delay in the appointment of a director for IIT Bhubaneswar more than a year after the conduct of the interview has exposed the opacity associated with key appointments in elite educational institutions and rampant ad-hocism in their functioning. The education ministry had advertised the posts of directors for IIT Bhubaneswar, IIT Patna and IIT Ropar in November 2019. A panel headed by then education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal had conducted the interviews on July 14 last year through video-conferencing. The IIT council headed by the Union education minister appointed the director of IIT Ropar in January after approval by the President — the Visitor of central universities and the IITs. On Tuesday, the council appointed Prof T.N. Singh, a faculty member from IIT Bombay, as director of IIT Patna. But IIT Bhubaneswar’s wait continues for a regular director since April 25, 2020, when the incumbent Prof R.V. ended his five-year tenure. Rajakumar has been continuing as in-charge director for the last 16 months. “This kind of delay in appointment of directors in IITs has never happened in the past. Here, the case is even intriguing. The interviews were held together for the three IITs. One IIT waited for six months, another waited for 13 months and the third one is still waiting for its director. This process is completely opaque,” said a senior faculty of IIT Bombay. It usually takes one to two weeks for the recruitment after the interviews are held. The ministry is supposed to send the panel of selected candidates to the President for approval. According to an education ministry official, in the current NDA regime, the files are unofficially sent to the Prime Minister’s Office. After green signal from the PMO, the files are forwarded to the President. “If no suitable candidate was found, the process should have been cancelled and fresh advertisement should have come. But in this case, it is unclear as what the reasons are for the delay. Lack of transparency in appointment will discourage talented persons from applying for IIT directors,” the faculty member said. Apart from delay, ad-hocism has become a new normal in the functioning of these elite institutions. The absence of a regular director is affecting recruitment of faculty and planning of academic and developmental activities, an IIT Bhubaneswar faculty member said. The absence of a regular director helps the Centre to push its agenda, too. Last year, the education ministry asked each IIT to prepare a presentation on their research activities related to Covid, which Pokhriyal would tweet. The ministry unofficially wanted all faculty members in the respective IITs to retweet the minister’s tweet. The unofficial expectation was officially communicated by the IIT Bhubaneswar PRO to its staff and was withdrawn after sometime. “The MHRD (ministry of human resource development) wants maximum momentum to HRD minister’s tweets and has asked that from our institute end, all the deans, heads of schools including all the faculty members and all students to retweet the same tweet from their individual Twitter handles,” said the email from PRO Shalin Sasidharan Nair. In another email, the PRO stated that the matter was wrongly sent to all while he intended to discuss the issue with the dean of students’ affairs and the dean of faculty planning. This newspaper had sent an email to the education ministry to understand its perspectives on the delay and opacity associated with the appointment of IIT directors. No response could be obtained. In November 2020, the education ministry had cancelled the appointment process for the directors of IIT Mandi and IIT Indore after holding interviews on December 26, 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
26-08-2021||India||Bihar lifts Covid curbs, reopens businesses, schools and colleges ||Bihar on Wednesday lifted most Covid restrictions, and announced the reopening of educational institutions and business establishments, as the state prepares for panchayat polls to be held over three months. Although Bihar has been reporting a negligible number of Covid cases of late, health experts expressed dismay at the government appearing to throw all caution to the wind at a time the highly infectious Delta variant has kept the country on tenterhooks and a third wave seems imminent. The 11-phase panchayat elections are to be held from September 24 to December 12. The schedule was announced on Tuesday. Elections will be held to 2.55 lakh posts in the three-tier panchayati raj system. There are 6.39 crore voters in the state. The polls were expected to be held in April but were postponed due to the pandemic. Covid cases had gone up exponentially in Bengal, Kerala and other states and fuelled the devastating second wave of the pandemic earlier this year after Assembly elections. The decision to lift most restrictions came after Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar chaired a meeting of the crisis management group consisting of several ministers and officials to review the Covid-19 situation. All business and educational institutions can now function normally. Social, political, cultural and sports events can be organised without any curbs. Religious places, closed since April 10, have also been allowed to reopen. “We reviewed the Covid situation. All shops, establishments, shopping malls, parks, gardens and religious places can now open in a normal manner due to improvement in the spread of the coronavirus infection,” Nitish tweeted after the meeting. “All kinds of social, political, entertainment, sports, cultural and religious events can be organised with necessary precautions and the permission of the district administration concerned. All universities, colleges, technical education institutions, schools and coaching centres can open in a normal manner and examinations can also be held,” Nitish added. However, cinemas, clubs, gyms, swimming pools, restaurants and other eateries will be able to operate with 50 per cent occupancy. “We the people of Bihar need to practise Covid-appropriate behaviour and precautions in the light of the expected third wave,” Nitish tweeted. Later in the day, chief secretary Tripurari Sharan issued detailed instructions on the lifting of restrictions. Bihar had imposed most of them in April, but was forced to go for complete lockdown on May 5 after the second wave of the pandemic wreaked havoc in the state. The government guidelines mention that only those who have taken at least one dose of Covid vaccine will be allowed to work in business establishments, restaurants and coaching centres, and avail themselves of the facilities at clubs, swimming pools and gyms. Only those inoculated with at least one dose will be permitted to enter government offices. The Bihar government will conduct rapid antigen tests on people coming from states that are reporting a large number of Covid cases or Delta variant cases. People with RT-PCR negative reports not older than 72 hours will not need to get tested while entering Bihar. Medical experts expressed shock at the removal of most restrictions. Indian Medical Association Bihar unit secretary Dr Sunil Kumar told The Telegraph: “Bihar is bhagwan bharose (at the mercy of God)…. Everybody knows that only the first lockdown that was imposed towards the end of March 2020 and continued till April-end was effective in the state. Thereafter none of the lockdowns were successful.” “We rarely see Covid-appropriate behaviour in the state. Enforcement is dismal. More precautions are needed at a time when the third wave of the pandemic is expected.” Men and women died like animals during the second wave here. There was no oxygen and beds in hospitals, people had to wait for hours in queues outside cremation grounds to perform the last rites of their relatives,” he added. IMA national president-elect Dr Sahajanand Singh, however, said unlocking was “needed to ensure that people do not die of hunger and the economy improves. Even otherwise, Covid cases across the country are low right now”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
26-08-2021||India||Supreme Court keeps stated salary and agriculture out of creamy layer||The Supreme Court has held as sacrosanct a central government order of 1993 that stated salary and agriculture cannot be considered as part of gross income for determining the creamy layer. Lawyers and experts said Tuesday’s judgment would have significant bearing on a case pending in the apex court related to the consideration of salary income to decide who would fall under the creamy layer. The creamy layer is a term used to refer to those among the backward classes who are socially, economically and educationally advanced and are not eligible for reservation benefits. A division bench of Justices L. Nageswar Rao and Anuradha Bose on Tuesday struck down a 2016 Haryana government notification that stated that children of persons having a gross annual income less than Rs 3 lakh shall be the first to receive benefits of reservation in government jobs and education. Those with family incomes between Rs 3 lakh and Rs 6 lakh will be considered next, according to the Haryana government notification, while those with annual incomes above Rs 6 lakh will come under the creamy layer. This distinction on the basis of income led the Supreme Court to strike down the order. The state government had passed another order in 2018, including salary and all other incomes in gross annual earnings. Earlier in 1995, the Haryana government had issued a notification following central government criteria laid down in 1993, considering those holding constitutional posts and working as Class A employees as creamy layer. The Haryana notification of 1995 and the central order of 1993 had laid down that salary income and earnings from agriculture would not be considered while deciding the creamy layer, while stating that those with annual income over Rs 1 lakh would come under the creamy layer. However, in 2004, the central government’s department of personnel and training (DoPT) issued a clarification that said salary may be included in creamy layer considerations. Madras High Court and Delhi High Court ruled against this. The DoPT has challenged the Madras High Court judgment in the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court’s ruling upholding the 1993 criteria, while hearing a petition from students, could have a bearing on the pending case. “The notification dated 17.08.2016 (of the Haryana government) is in flagrant violation of the directions issued by this Court in Indra Sawhney-I and is at variance with the memorandum dated 08.09.1993 issued by the Union of India,” the Supreme Court said. The court struck down the notification of August 2016 and held that the second notification of the Haryana government, issued in 2018, stood automatically nullified. Advocate Vikram Hegde said the court had considered the 1993 order of the central government to be sacrosanct. “The judgment in the Haryana creamy layer case paves the way to resolve many ongoing unnecessary litigations. This judgment clearly states that as per the 1993 order, income alone cannot be the criteria to adjudge creamy layer, if that income does not necessarily bring in social advancement. It’s only the business income which is the criteria to define creamy layer, while incomes from salary and agriculture are excluded for the purposes of creamy layer,” Hegde said. Advocate Shashank Ratnoo, an expert on OBC reservations, said Tuesday’s judgment further accentuated that the creamy layer concept was to exclude socially advanced persons and it was not based on poverty or income alone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-275
26-08-2021||India||SC directs Delhi HC to dispose the Asthana plea in two weeks||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed Delhi High Court to dispose of within two weeks a plea challenging the appointment of IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as the Delhi police commissioner. The non-profit Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL) has argued in the Supreme Court that Asthana was given the new assignment just four days before his retirement in violation of previous apex court directives. The CPIL has sought quashing of the appointment. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana and Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Surya Kant permitted the CPIL to move Delhi High Court to intervene in the pending plea against Asthana’s appointment. “We request Delhi High Court to consider the matter as early as possible in two weeks for us to have the benefit of the high court’s judgment. The petitioner (CPIL) is at liberty to file an intervention application (before Delhi High Court),” the Supreme Court said. Justice Ramana offered to recuse on the ground that he had been part of the high-powered committee that had examinedthe possibility of Asthana’s appointment as CBI director. However, advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the CPIL, said he had no objection to the CJI hearing the matter. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, told the bench that the high court should be allowed to deal with the issue since a similar petition seeking the quashing of Asthana’s appointment was pending before it. Bhushan, however, alleged foul play, pointing out that sometimes “ambush petitions” were filed, by simply resorting to “cut-paste”, in collusion with the government. “Today we find ambush petitions being filed, filed in collusion with the government to get a dismissal of the genuine petition,” Bhushan said. The top court then gave Bhushan the liberty to intervene in the petition pending in Delhi High Court or file a fresh one. Justice Chandrachud told Bhushan: “To obviate your apprehension, we can give you liberty to not just intervene but file an appeal. So you won’t have to depend on that petitioner (in the high court) as you may or may not trust them.” Mehta countered Bhushan, saying: “So far as ambush petitions are concerned, the less said the better. We have professional PIL litigants who file surrogate pleas at the behest of people who have lost out in the race.” Assailing Asthana’s appointment, Bhushan said: “It’s an egregious case. I’ve never seen a case where the government shows such brazen violation of the rule of law. He is given an extension in violation of each and every rule and just four days before retirement he is appointed a police chief.” The advocate added: “Every rule is thrown to the vents just to accommodate him.” Asthana was appointed Delhi police commissioner on July 27, four days ahead of his retirement on July 31, and was given a year’s extension. The Supreme Court had earlier ruled that no officer who has less than six months’ service left will be appointed as a director-general of police (DGP). The commissioner of Delhi police, which report to the Union home ministry, has a rank equivalent to that of DGP. Asthana’s cadre was changed from Gujarat to AGMUT (Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram, Union Territories), from which Delhi police commissioners are usually selected. Advocate M.L. Sharma had filed another petition in the Supreme Court seeking the cancellation of Asthana’s appointment and contempt proceedings against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who headed the appointments committee of the cabinet that recommended the officer’s selection, and Union home minister Amit Shah. The CPIL has also sought a direction to the Centre to initiate fresh steps for appointing a new police commissioner for Delhi, strictly in accordance with the directions of the apex court in the Prakash Singh case (2006) under which no officer who has less than six months of service left can be appointed to a DGP-rank post. The CPIL argued that the July 27 orders of the central government and the appointments committee were illegal on the following grounds: ⚫ Violation of the directions issued by the apex court in the Prakash Singh case. ⚫ Violation of Fundamental Rule 56(d), which stipulates that “no government servant shall be granted extension in service beyond the age of retirement of sixty years”. ⚫ The Centre does not have the power under Rule 3 of the All India Services (Conditions of Service — Residuary Matters) Rules, 1960, to relax Rule 16(1) of the All India Services (Death-Cum-Retirement Benefits) Rules, 1958, in order to give extension of service to Asthana. ⚫ Violation of the policy regarding inter-cadre deputation of all-India service officers as prescribed under the department of personnel and training’s office memorandum dated November 8, 2004. ⚫ No UPSC panel was formed for the appointment of the Delhi police commissioner, and the criterion of having a minimum tenure of two years had been ignored. Bhushan pointed out that the high-powered committee of the Chief Justice of India, Prime Minister and the leader of the Opposition had in a meeting on May 24 rejected the central government’s attempt to appoint Asthana as CBI director on the ground that he did not have six months of service left.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
26-08-2021||India||Muzaffarnagar riots: Adityanath government withdraws 77 cases ||As many as 77 cases related to the Muzaffarnagar riots have been withdrawn by the Yogi Adityanath government, the Supreme Court was informed on Wednesday. The figure emerged during a hearing into a petition seeking the setting up of special courts to try criminal cases against current and former lawmakers. As many as 510 cases relating to the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots, in which over 50 people were killed and 50,000 affected, had been registered in five districts of the Meerut zone against 6,869 people. Of these, chargesheets have been filed in 175 cases, final reports have been submitted in 165 cases and 170 cases have been expunged. Around 77 cases have been withdrawn by the Uttar Pradesh government under CrPC Section 321, according to a report filed by senior advocate Vijay Hansaria, who has been appointed amicus curiae. Sources in Lucknow said many of the 77 cases were lodged against politicians and their associates. Earlier, the names of at least two Uttar Pradesh ministers and an MLA figured among those who stand to benefit from the withdrawals. “The government orders do not give any reason for withdrawal of the cases under Section 321 of CrPC. It merely states that the administration, after full consideration, has taken the decision to withdraw the particular cases. Many of such cases relate to offence of dacoity under Section 397 IPC, punishable with imprisonment for life,” the report said. The figures are based on information provided by the standing counsel of the Uttar Pradesh government to the amicus curiae. Section 321 of the CrPC enables the public prosecutor or the assistant public prosecutor to withdraw the prosecution of any person. The Supreme Court bench clarified that the court’s earlier observation that governments cannot withdraw criminal cases against the lawmakers did not mean that there was a blanket ban on such an option. The court said withdrawal was permissible, provided it was approved by the high court concerned. “We aren’t against withdrawal of cases but it must be examined. If the high court (concerned) is satisfied, they can allow the government to withdraw,” Chief Justice N.V. Ramana said during the hearing. The Enforcement Directorate informed the court that trials relating to 51 MPs and former parliamentarians accused in money-laundering cases involving over Rs 485 crore were pending adjudication for periods between two and 10 years. The ED report also said that 71 MLAs and former lawmakers were currently accused in cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. Of these, 48 cases are still being investigated. In a separate status report, the CBI stated that out of the 151 criminal cases pending trial before the agency’s special courts, 58 involved charges punishable with life imprisonment. The oldest of these 58 cases dates back to 2012. In 45 cases, charges have not been framed although the offences are alleged to have been committed several years ago, the CBI said. “Don’t keep things hanging like this. Do something. If a case has to be closed, then take a decision and if a case has to be continued, please do that,” Chief Justice Ramana told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre. The bench also has Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Surya Kant. The PIL has been filed by advocate Ashwini Upadhyaya. Justice Chandrachud clarified that the orders being passed by the bench for expediting the criminal cases against politicians does not mean that their cases should be heard out of turn. “High courts shouldn’t treat our order as a mandate that cases of MPs and MLAs have to be heard out of turn,” Justice Chandrachud said. The bench made the observation after advocate Kamini Jaiswal complained that some current and former MPs facing criminal cases were asking for out-of-turn hearing of their appeals against their conviction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
26-08-2021||India||Amarinder Singh to lead Congress in Punjab Assembly elections ||Amarinder Singh will lead the Congress in the Punjab Assembly elections, the party said on Wednesday, a day after several MLAs had demanded his replacement. “We will fight the elections in 2022 under the leadership of Amarinder Singh,” said Harish Rawat, the AICC general secretary in charge of the state. This came as a jolt to the dissident group — seven of whom had driven to Dehradun to meet Rawat — but the central leadership’s hand appears to have been strengthened by the clamour inside and outside the party against the allegedly “pro-Pakistan” remarks made by Malwinder Mali and Pyarelal Garg, who are advisers to state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Given the speed with which the BJP latched on to Mali’s and Garg’s remarks, Sidhu’s failure to publicly reprimand them has upset many in the Congress who see this as gifting the Opposition a stick to beat the party with. Rawat’s statement came ahead of his meeting with the dissident group representatives. After the three-hour meeting with four Punjab ministers and three MLAs, the general secretary said they were not against anyone and were only concerned about the party’s election prospects. “They want to go to the polls with a clear road map so that we can win,” he said. Possibly reassured that seven of the 20-plus MLAs who had held a meeting on Tuesday in the presence of Sidhu later distanced themselves from claims of a revolt and a couple of others backtracked on Wednesday, Rawat further said: “There’s no threat to the party or government. There’s no threat to chances of our victory either.’’ At the same time, Rawat admitted that a section in the Punjab Congress had serious concerns about the functioning of the state government. Known detractors of Amarinder, some of the rebel leaders fear the district administration might work against them during the elections, sources said. This is their case for pushing for a leadership change. The next stop of the dissident group of seven could be Delhi, to attempt to meet the party high command. Rawat is also expected to come to Delhi. On Wednesday, PTI quoted Rawat as saying: “Navjot Singh Sidhu comes from a different background. We made him the Punjab Congress president with an eye on the future. But that doesn’t mean the entire party has been left to him.” “Sidhu ji is there, Amarinder Singh is there, Rajinder Singh Bajwa is there, Sukhjindher Randhava is there and, above all, a stalwart like Ambika Soni is there. They will all be taken into confidence to resolve the issue,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
26-08-2021||India||Afghan nationals must travel to India only on an e-visa: Centre||The Centre on Wednesday said all Afghan nationals must travel to India only on an e-visa and invalidated visas issued previously to Afghan nationals who are currently not in India. “Owing to the prevailing security situation in Afghanistan and streamlining of the visa process by the introduction of the ‘e-Emergency X-Misc visa’, it has been decided that all Afghan nationals henceforth must travel to India only on e-visa,” the Union home ministry said. “Keeping in view some reports that certain passports of Afghan nationals have been misplaced, the previously issued visas to all Afghan nationals who are presently not in India stand invalidated with immediate effect,” the ministry added. Afghan nationals wishing to travel to India can apply for the e-visa at www.indianvisaonline.gov.in.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
26-08-2021||India||Bihar hooch tragedy: Three dead and several others battling for life||At least three persons were killed and several others were battling for their lives in Bihar’s Vaishali district on Wednesday in yet another hooch tragedy in the state, which was declared dry by chief minister Nitish Kumar’s government in April 2016. The incident occurred at Chaksinghar village under Jurawanpur police station located in the Raghopur diara (riverine) area. Incidentally, Raghopur is the legislative Assembly constituency of RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. “Altogether three persons have died in the incident while four others are undergoing medical treatment in the hooch tragedy,” Hajipur sub-divisional officer (SDO) Arun Kumar told The Telegraph. The deceased have been identified as Jitendra Ram, Ramji Ram and Uday Ram — all belonging to the Dalit community. The toll could go up, as the condition of those admitted to hospital was critical. Villagers said that around 10 people organised a fish and liquor party at the premises of a government primary school at Chaksingar on Tuesday night. The condition of several of those who participated in it deteriorated in a couple of hours with complains of vomiting, diarrhoea disorientation, and vision loss. Three of them succumbed on Wednesday morning. Angry over the incident, the people of the area shouted slogans against the government and the local administration. They alleged that illicit liquor trade was thriving under the patronage of the police. “We lost three of our people. They had consumed liquor and died after vomiting a few times. Everybody here knows that liquor is sold all around and police turn a blind eye to it,” villager Lalita Devi said. Hajipur Sadar SDPO Raghav Dayal told this newspaper: “Nobody has been arrested so far.” Around 16 people had died while four others had lost their vision after consuming illicit liquor in West Champaran district in July. At least 38 people have lost their lives in hooch tragedies in Kaimur, Nawada, Muzaffarpur and West Champaran districts this year. There have been a series of such incidents since Nitish imposed prohibition in the state, claiming that it will help cut down on crime, road accidents, and domestic violence, and at the same time will boost expenditure on health, food, clothes, education and lifestyle accessories. However, majority of the people believe that none of the objectives of the liquor ban were achieved. Sources in the government assert that lacklustre policing and a nexus between liquor mafia and law enforcement agencies have been the main reasons behind the failure of prohibition in Bihar. Senior police officers have confided that the focus of the police has shifted to liquor ban instead of controlling crime, due to which law and order situation in the state has deteriorated sharply. Notwithstanding raids and seizure of illicit liquor in raids by the police and excise department, the mafia has opened supply lines from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bengal and Nepal. It has also established a liquor distribution network for the people. Nitish had expected to gain politically from prohibition, especially the votes of women. But the jury is still out on the issue as he just managed to scrape through and retain the chief minister’s post in the 2020 Assembly elections. Economically, the state has been losing over Rs 5,000 crore annual revenue it used to get from the sale of liquor during the pre-prohibition era. It has also led to a loss of a large number of small jobs and businesses that thrived around liquor shops, bars and restaurants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
26-08-2021||India||Elderly  man jumps into wife’s pyre, dies in Odisha’s Kalahandi district||An elderly man in Odisha’s Kalahandi district died by suicide by jumping into the funeral pyre of his wife. The incident took place on Tuesday night at Sialajodi under Golamunda block of the tribal-dominated district, about 490km from here. Police have registered a case of unnatural death on Wednesday. Sources said that Nilamani Sabar, a 68-year-old farmer, could not bear the loss of his wife, Raibati, 62, who died on Tuesday after having fever for a few days. Unable to come to terms with this personal tragedy Nilamani, jumped into the funeral pyre of Raibati even before those present could realise what was happening. The couple had four sons and a daughter, all married. While their three sons lived in the same village, the fourth son was settled in the neighbouring village. But Nilamani and Raibati lived in a separate house and earned their livelihood independently. While Raibati worked as a ward member of Sialajodi village, Nilamani grew crops on his land and also dabbled in astrology. Local Chahaka gram panchayat sarpanch Danara Bag told The Telegraph: “Raibati was suffering from fever for two days. Later, she was admitted to the hospital. After she recovered she came back home but suddenly her health deteriorated on Tuesday and she died.” “The cremation rituals began around 8pm. As per the rituals, after the pyre was lit all those taking part in the cremation went to the village pond for a bath leaving the body under the care of just one of the relatives to collect the bones. Nilamani, who was sitting all alone in a corner on the cremation ground, suddenly got up, ran and jumped into the burning pyre,” said Bag. The sarpanch said: “The couple used to get an old age allowance of Rs 500 each. They were also getting 10kg of rice under subsidised rice schemes. Besides, they used to sell chicken and goats. They never depended on their children. But Nilamani was distraught after his wife’s death and was also worried about his future. He might not have wanted to depend on his children.” Some local journalists visited the cremation site and confirmed the incident. “None of the sons of the couple are ready to comment on the issue. They have switched off their phones. Police today visited the site and registered a case,” said Sudhir Sahu. Dr Seema Parija, assistant professor, department of psychiatry, SCB Medical College and Hospital Cuttack, told The Telegraph: “Nuclear family structure has destroyed the social support system which existed for the elderly. Often the elderly land up in old age homes or are victims of abuse and neglect in their homes. When a spouse dies, the living partner often feels helpless and considers life a burden. Loneliness and isolation often lead to depression, anxiety and stress and may at times lead to suicide which they perceive as their only way of escape from misery.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-276
