28-08-2021||India||Will make Delhi a world leader in skill training, says Sisodia||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday said the city government is making efforts to make the national capital a world leader in skills training. Sisodia and Vice-Chancellor of Delhi Skill and Entrepreneurship University (DSEU) Prof. (Dr.) Neharika Vohra visited the varsity campus in Dwarka and Industrial Training Institute (ITI) at Nizamuddin to inspect the on-ground events of Delhi's first-ever state level competitions for 'WorldSkills' to be held Shanghai in 2022. The 'WorldSkills' Competition in Shanghai will feature over 1,400 competitors from more than 60 countries and regions, competing in over 60 skills. Some of the skills include bakery, 3D digital game art, aircraft maintenance, autobody repair, automobile technology, etc. "The youth of Delhi earlier had to travel to different states to participate in the biggest skill competition of the world. We are proud to have Delhi government's DSEU hosting the inaugural state-level competitions for the selection of candidates who will represent the state in the regional rounds," he said. While stressing that Delhi has many budding young stars who need such platforms to showcase their talent, he said emphasis has to be laid on skills to ensure that the youth is ready to move forward in the industry. "The Kejriwal government is making its best possible efforts to make Delhi a world leader in skilling. We are trying to raise the standard of skills in the state by providing this platform to students. "I am happy to see such young faces amongst the participants, working on machines and utilising an integration of their hands, mind and heart to not just complete the projects but also add a personal touch to them while also managing time," he said. Vohra said India first participated in the 'WorldSkills' in 2007 and since then has won multiple medals at each event. "We are hopeful that after qualifying the state competitions, the skill stars of Delhi will qualify the following stages and represent both Delhi and India in 'WorldSkills' Shanghai 2022," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
28-08-2021||India||Maha governor takes a swipe at Rahul Gandhi||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari took a swipe at Rahul Gandhi on Saturday as he recalled that the Congress leader believed that the black cap, a traditional headwear from Uttarakhand, he wears was linked to the RSS and thought Hindutva ideologue Veer Savarkar was from the Sangh. Speaking on the launch of his book “Bhartiya Sansad Main Bhagat Singh Koshyari”, the former Uttarakhand chief minister, who has been associated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, also said the government will have to deal with the kind of situation witnessed in Parliament's last session when people like him, a reference to Gandhi, are leading the opposition. Before Koshyari's speech, Union minister Piyush Goyal had slammed the opposition's conduct in the session as he lauded the Maharashtra governor's ‘sincere and dignified’ role as an MP in Parliament. He must be feeling pained at what happened in Parliament, Goyal said. The Monsoon Session was a virtual washout as a united opposition disrupted its proceedings through except for the discussion on a bill linked to the Other Backward Classes. Rajya Sabha also witnessed a debate on Covid-19. Noting that opposition members torn papers, threw papers at the Chair and allegedly manhandled marshals, the government has accused them of unruly conduct never seen before. The opposition has accused the government's unparliamentary conduct for the impasse. In his speech, Koshyari said many people would react seeing his black cap in a same way as a bull does when shown a red cloth. "Rahul Gandhi asked me (then BJP MP) why do you wear a black cap? I told him people wear it in Uttarakhand. He says 'no, no, you are from the RSS'. I said I am from the RSS but the cap is from Uttarakhand. People have been wearing it there before the RSS was born," he said. A few months later, the Congress leader again enquired him about the cap while he was chatting with some MPs in Parliament, Koshyari said. "He again asked me why you wear a black cap... He said this is a RSS cap. I told him that I had said earlier too this is not a RSS cap. He still insisted. I asked him have you read anything about the RSS? He said 'yes, yes, I have read Savarkar'... Piyush ji you will have to live with this din and everything when such people are in leadership," he added. Though Savarkar is a Hindutva ideologue, he was never in the RSS. While the 79-year-old leader mocked at Gandhi, he praised Congress leader Jairam Ramesh. During a parliamentary debate on environment, Ramesh, who was the environment minister then, urged the Chair to give him more time to speak as he liked the content, Koshyari recalled. When the Chair disallowed the request, forcing the BJP MP to wrap up his speech, Ramesh came to him and said that he would reply to debate the next day instead of the same day as scheduled. He told Koshyari to speak what he could not say during the speech while seeking clarification on his reply, the former BJP leader said. While he feels disappointed at the state of Parliament, Koshyari said and named several leaders, many former opposition stalwarts, for their rich contribution to debates in the past and expressed confidence that people will elect members who will restore its earlier glory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
28-08-2021||India||Night curfew in Kerala from next week to contain Covid-19 transmission||The Kerala government on Saturday declared that night curfew would be enforced in the state from next week to prevent the spread of Covid-19. A review meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan decided to impose night curfew from 10 pm to 6 am from next week. “In areas where the weekly infection population ratio is above seven per cent, the government has decided to implement a lockdown. From next week, there will be night curfew from 10 pm to 6 am. Night curfew has already been issued for tomorrow,” Vijayan said at a press conference here. Fresh Covid-19 cases crossed the 30,000 mark for the fourth consecutive day in the state on Saturday. Since July 27, when restrictions were relaxed in the state for a few days on account of two festivals, the state has been logging more than or close to 20,000 case almost every day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
28-08-2021||India||Narendra Modi inaugurates renovated Jallianwala Bagh memorial complex||Stressing that it is a country's duty to protect its history, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday that events of the past "teach us and give us direction to move forward", as he dedicated to the nation the renovated complex of Jallianwala Bagh memorial. Modi, who inaugurated the complex virtually, paid homage to the Jallianwala Bagh martyrs. "The global developments remind us of the importance of self-reliance and self-confidence. "At a time when we are celebrating Amrut Mahotsav, we should strengthen our nation's foundation and take pride in it," the prime minister said. "Today, if any Indian is in trouble anywhere in the world, then India stands up to help him with all its might. Be it the Corona period or the crisis of Afghanistan, the world has experienced it continuously. Hundreds of people from Afghanistan are being brought to India under Operation Devi Shakti," the prime minister said. He said the dedication of the renovated complex in the country's 75th year of freedom is a matter of inspiration for all. "It is the duty of every country to protect its history. Events of past teach us and give direction to move forward," he said. Horrors like the Jallianwala Bagh massacre and the Partition speak of the sacrifices made for India's freedom and should not be forgotten as they inspire to keep the country above all, the prime minister said. "It is not right for any country to ignore such horrors of its past," he said, noting August 14 is now being observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day. "This place will inspire future generations about the journey of our Independence movement, the sacrifices and countless struggles of our ancestors. "What should be our duty towards our nation and how we should keep the country above all in everything we do, the inspiration for this will come from this place," the PM said. Quoting Gurbani, the prime minister said happiness emanates from empathy and service. For the all-round progress of Punjab and the country, a combined effort is needed, he said, adding "virasat (heritage) and vikaas (development) must coexist". A wreath-laying ceremony was held and a two-minute silence was observed in the memory of martyrs of the Jallianwala massacre. Museum galleries have been developed at the memorial and the event showcased multiple development initiatives taken by the government to upgrade the complex. A sound and light show has been set up to display the events of April 13, 1919. Four museum galleries have been created through adaptive reuse of redundant and underutilised buildings. They showcase the historical value of events that unfolded in Punjab during that period, with the fusion of audio-visual technology, including projection mapping and 3D representation, as well as art and sculptural installations. Over 1,000 people were killed and hundreds wounded on April 13, 1919 when British troops fired indiscriminately on an unarmed gathering of thousands who had assembled in Jallianwala Bagh in Punjab amid nationwide protests against the Rowlatt Act which had extended wartime repressive measures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
28-08-2021||India||Delhi Police file chargesheet against 4 in Dalit minor rape case||The Delhi police filed a charge sheet in a court here on Saturday against a crematorium priest and three others for alleged rape and murder of a nine-year-old girl in the Delhi Cantonment area earlier this month. The 400-page final report named Radhey Shyam, the 55-year-old priest of the crematorium in South-West district, and its employees - Kuldeep Singh, Salim Ahmad and Laxmi Narayan as accused - claiming there was sufficient evidence against them. The accused were charged under sections 302 (murder), 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 376D (gang rape), 342 (wrongful confinement), 506 (criminal intimidation), 201 (destruction of evidence) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC. The four have also been charge-sheeted under Section 6 (aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act and Section 3 (offences of atrocities) of SC/ST Act. All the accused are currently in judicial custody. The report was filed before Duty Magistrate Manu Shree, who kept it for the consideration of the court concerned for August 31. The case was transferred to the Crime Branch of Delhi police on August 5. The final report has also included a report by the special investigating team, which was formed by the crime branch for expeditious and professional investigation. During the investigation, scientific, technical and other evidence was gathered and analysed, besides recording testimonies of relevant witnesses. Assistance was taken from Forensic Science Laboratory, Rohini as well as Delhi Police's Forensic Experts on Biology and Odontology, the police said. It said that forensic psychologists were also engaged during the interrogation of the accused and a report has been included in the final report. The Delhi Police registered a case against the four on the basis of the statement of the minor's mother, who alleged that her daughter was raped and murdered and later cremated without the family's consent on August 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
28-08-2021||India||Congress likens BJP government to General Dyer regime as Haryana Police lathicharge farmers||The Congress on Saturday condemned the lathicharge on farmers protesting at Karnal and likened the BJP-LJP regime in Haryana to the "General Dyer government". Congress leader Rahul Gandhi shared a picture on Twitter of a farmer with blood-soaked clothes after the lathicharge and said the image has shamed India. "Once again the blood of farmers is shed, India's head bows in shame," he said in a tweet in Hindi, using the hashtags "#FarmersProtest" and "Anti-farmer BJP". Congress's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala condemned the attack and dubbed the BJP-JJP regime as the "General Dyer government". He shared pictures of injured farmers in blood-soaked clothes on Twitter and put out a video of an officer purportedly giving instructions to policemen to beat up the farmers. Surjewala claimed the officer was the duty magistrate of Karnal. "CM-Dy CM's conspiracy to attack farmers in Karnal is clear from the orders of the Duty Magistrate, who is ordering the police to break the heads of farmers and lash them with sticks. BJP-JJP is the 'General Dyer' government," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "Khattar Sahib, Today in Karnal sticks have been blown on the soul of every Haryanvi. The oppression of the sinful BJP government that bleeds farmers is like demons. The coming generations will remember the blood from farmers' bodies flown on the streets," the Congress leader said in another tweet. "No more pleas, now there will be war - till life or death," he said. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra shared pictures of the injured farmers on Facebook. "Farmers with their hard work grow bountiful crops in their fields and when ask for their rights, the BJP government bleeds them by wielding batons. Every blow dealt to farmers will serve as a nail in the coffin of the BJP," she wrote on the social media platform. Another Congress spokesperson, Jaiveer Shergill, tweeted, "The manner in which farmers of Haryana were brutally beaten and order to break their heads were given no doubt that BJP Government should be called 'General Dyer Government'." Scores of people were killed on the orders of Brigadier General Reginald Dyre of the British army on April 13, 1919 in Punjab's Jalliwanwala Bagh. Around 10 people were injured on Saturday as police allegedly lathicharged a group of farmers disrupting traffic movement on a highway while heading towards Karnal to protest against a Bharatiya Janata Party meeting attended by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, state BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar and other leaders. Farmers protesting against three farm laws of the Centre have been opposing the public functions of the ruling BJP-JJP combine in Haryana. Several farmers had gathered at the Bastara toll plaza near Karnal, responding to a call given by the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). The state police drew severe criticism for the action against the farmers and several roads were blockaded at different places in protest. The police, however, said only mild force was used as the protesters were blocking the highway, affecting traffic movement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
28-08-2021||India||Volume on cultural treasures of India inscribed on UNESCO launched||Containing rich text illustrated with spectacular photographs, including archival images, a volume that encapsulates the rich cultural treasures of India inscribed on the UNESCO world heritage list has been launched, officials said on Saturday. The publication, titled 'Incredible Treasures', was unveiled on Friday evening during an online event, they said. India at present has 40 world heritage sites, both cultural and natural, spanning across the country, including the the Ramappa Temple, a 13th century engineering marvel in Telangana and ancient Dholavira site in Gujarat, both of which earned the coveted tag in July this year. UNESCO and MAPIN publishing house have joined hands for this volume. "INCREDIBLE TREASURES is an eloquent homage to India's long history, bearing witness to its rich biodiversity and influence of multiple communities, crafts & religious traditions, published in collaboration with @mapin_india," the UNESCO New Delhi Office tweeted on Friday night. India's world heritage sites spans magnificent structures ranging from the Mughal-era Red Fort in Delhi to the ancient Mahabodhi Temple complex in Bodh Gaya in Bihar, and breathtaking natural sites. "India is truly incredible and the world heritage sites presented here span the entire history and geography of the country. We believe that this book will be a definitive reference and will help build greater awareness about India's World Heritage sites among specialists and other readers alike. "We also hope it will encourage them to support efforts to protect and safeguard the world's cultural and natural heritage," a statement issued by the world body quoting Eric Falt, UNESCO New Delhi Director and Representative here, said. Though the sites across India have been inscribed individually, they collectively contribute to a cohesive historical narrative of India's extremely diverse archaeological and architectural spectrum, as well as natural sites, the statement said. The publication offers a stunning view of all world heritage sites of India two more sites were recently added in July - described together for the first time with informative, accessible commentary and spectacular photographs, the UNESCO had said ahead of the launch. "NITI Aayog has initiated a nationwide effort to understand the current challenges for heritage management in India and to provide a future roadmap along with an appropriate branding of India's invaluable archaeological and built heritage,"Amitabh Kant, CEO, NITI Aayog, was quoted as saying in the statement. "We are also ensuring guidance to the concerned heritage custodians of these world heritage sites, including the nodal agency Archaeological Survey of India, to further enhance, conserve and promote these locations for local communities as well as visitors," he said. 'Incredible Treasures' has benefited immensely from the research and contributions of many experts in the fields of architecture, cultural conservation, sustainable heritage development, wildlife and ecology, the UNESCO said. It is available for sale in English at selected book stores, or on Amazon in India, and most of Europe and the US. Other language editions are expected soon, it said. The project was started in August 2019 and took one year to complete. As the Ramappa Temple and Dholavira sites were added to the UNESCO list in July, brochures for these two sites have been added inside the pocket with the book, said conservation architect Shikha Jain, who co-edited the volume. In the 167 countries where they are currently listed, UNESCO's world heritage sites are landmarks of outstanding historical, cultural and natural significance, the statement said. UNESCO seeks to encourage the identification, protection, and preservation of cultural and natural heritage around the world considered to be of outstanding value to humanity. This is embodied in an international treaty called the Convention concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage, adopted by UNESCO in 1972.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
28-08-2021||India||Police lathicharge protesting farmers near Karnal||Around 10 people were injured Saturday as police allegedly lathicharged a group of farmers disrupting traffic movement on a highway while heading towards Karnal to protest against a BJP meeting. Besides Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, state BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar and other senior leaders of the party were present at the meeting. The state police drew severe criticism for the action against the farmers, and several roads were blockaded at different places in protest. The affected routes included the Fatehabad-Chandigarh, Gohana-Panipat and the Jind-Patiala highways, and the Ambala-Chandigarh and the Hisar-Chandigarh national highways. Haryana Bhartiya Kisan Union (Chaduni) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni alleged that the police brutally lathicharged the protesting farmers, leaving many injured. Several protesters present at the site near the Bastara toll plaza around 15 km from Karnal claimed to have witnessed 8-10 people sustain injuries in the police action. The police, however, said only mild force was used as the protesters were blocking the highway, affecting traffic movement. Farmers protesting the central farm laws have been opposing public functions of the BJP-JJP combine in Haryana. Several farmers had gathered at the Bastara toll plaza near Karnal, responding to a call given by the BKU. Citing section 144 of the CrPC imposed in the area banning assembly of five or more people, the police made several announcements over loudspeakers, declaring the gathering by the protesters "unlawful". Initially, they asked the farmers to disperse, but resorted to force as the protesters refused to budge. The police said the protesters were bent on moving towards the venue of the BJP meeting in Karnal. All roads leading to the venue had been heavily barricaded. "Many farmers were injured after police brutally lathicharged them without any provocation. Some even could be seen with blood all over their clothes," Chaduni said, strongly condemning the police action. He said that as part of their ongoing agitation against the farm laws, the farmers had decided to hold a peaceful protest against BJP leaders, for which they had assembled at the Bastara toll plaza. The use of force by the police invited severe criticism from various political parties. Strongly condemning the action, senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala tweeted, "Khattar Sahab, today you have rained lathis on Haryanvis' soul coming generations will remember the blood of farmers which has been spilled on the roads." Indian National Lok Dal senior leader Abhay Singh Chautala also strongly condemned the police action. Swaraj India president and key leader of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha Yogendra Yadav said the lathicharge exposed the true face of the Haryana Police. "They (farmers) were protesting against the visit of CM Khattar and other BJP leaders to Karnal. This is the true face of Haryana police," Yadav tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
28-08-2021||India||Narendra Modi motivated scientists to make Covid vaccines, says Union minister||Prime Minister Narendra Modi motivated scientists and doctors to conduct medical research which led to the development of an anti-coronavirus vaccine in India, Union minister Virendra Kumar Khatik said on Saturday. "It is for the first time that we need not have to depend on any other country to procure vaccines to fight against a virus," the Social Justice and Empowerment Minister told reporters. Khatik is in Jabalpur to launch the BJP's 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra', which is aimed at reaching out to the masses. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi took the initiative to motivate scientists and doctors to conduct medical research which led to the development of an anti-coronavirus vaccine in the country," he added. "In contrast, anti-polio vaccination in India was launched three to four years after vaccination against polio almost got completed in many countries," he said. As of now, around 60 crore anti-Covid-19 shots have been given in the country," he said. Speaking on Central schemes, the minister said a roadmap titled "Amrit Kaal" worth Rs 100 lakh crore has been drawn under the leadership of the prime minister for the next 25 years to make India self-reliant by strengthening the roads, industry and railway infrastructure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
28-08-2021||India||PM expert at renaming, relaunching schemes, accuses Jairam Ramesh||Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Saturday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of being an expert at renaming and relaunching schemes. His remarks came on the 7th anniversary of the Jan Dhan Yojna which, he claimed, was renaming of UPA's 'savings bank deposit' scheme. "The PM has hailed the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana on its 7th anniversary. It is actually the 7th anniversary of the renaming of the UPA's Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account," he said on Twitter. "What an expert in renaming, repackaging and relaunching," he said. The government is celebrating the 7th anniversary of the Jan Dhan scheme. Taking to Twitter, the prime minister said, "Today we mark seven years of #PMJanDhan, an initiative that has forever transformed India's development trajectory. It has ensured financial inclusion and a life of dignity as well as empowerment for countless Indians. Jan Dhan Yojana has also helped further transparency." He also lauded the untiring efforts of all those who have worked to make the scheme a success, saying their efforts have ensured that the people of India lead a better quality of life.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
28-08-2021||India||If previously Covid infected, single Covaxin dose draws same antibody response as two doses||A single dose of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin in previously COVID-19-infected individuals elicits a similar antibody response as obtained with two doses of the vaccine in those without a previous history of the disease, according to an ICMR study. The study was published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research on Saturday. "If our preliminary findings are confirmed in large population studies, a single dose of BBV152 vaccine may be recommended to previously confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infected individuals so that the naive individuals could attain the larger benefit of a limited vaccine supply," it said. India's first indigenous COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin, codenamed BBV152, was approved by the government for emergency use in January. Two doses are given with a gap of four to six weeks. The study was undertaken to examine SARS-CoV-2 specific antibody responses after day zero (baseline, before vaccination), day 28 plus/minus two days post-first dose (month 1) and day 56 plus/minus two days post-first dose (month 2) of BBV152 in a group of healthcare professionals as well as frontline workers. The antibody response of individuals with confirmed pre-vaccination SARSCoV-2 infection was compared with those individuals without prior evidence of infection. As a part of the study, blood samples were collected from 114 healthcare professionals and frontline workers who received Covaxin at vaccination centres in Chennai from February to May 2021. "Overall, good vaccine-induced antibody responses were seen in prior SARS-CoV-2 infected individuals, except in two, who received a single dose of BBV152 vaccine that was similar to antibody responses seen after a two-dose vaccination course administered to infection-naive individuals," the study stated. "Our results in a varied group of healthcare professionals and frontline workers lend support to the previous studies (albeit mainly focused on mRNA vaccines) that increased levels of SARS-CoV-2 binding and neutralizing antibodies are present after a single vaccine dose in previously infected individuals and are comparable to the levels seen after two doses in those without prior infection," it added. The study offers evidence in support of public health-oriented and immunologically sustained vaccine strategies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
28-08-2021||India||Punjab Congress crisis: Harish Rawat to visit state soon||Amid the continued infighting in the Punjab Congress, AICC general secretary Harish Rawat Saturday said he would visit the state soon as he briefed former party president Rahul Gandhi on the situation. Rawat apprised Gandhi of the latest developments as factions supporting Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and state unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu engaged in a war of words. "I have briefed him on whatever the situation in Punjab is," Rawat, also the in-charge of party affairs in the state, told reporters after meeting Gandhi here. "In the next two-three days, I will visit Punjab and will meet party leaders. I will also meet Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu," he said. The Punjab Congress finds itself as a divided lot a few months ahead of assembly elections, with Singh and Sidhu being at loggerheads. The infighting refuse to die down even after the former cricketer was appointed the PCC chief. Sidhu has also urged the party leadership to give him freedom in decision-making, telling them that he does not want to be a dummy party chief. He said this after one of his advisers -- Malvinder Singh Mali -- had to quit following pressure from the chief minister's camp over his alleged controversial remarks on Kashmir. After this, some dissident ministers and MLAs had met Rawat at Dehradun and demanded the chief minister's removal. However, Rawat made it clear that the next assembly elections would be fought under Singh's leadership. The chief minister's camp also sought action against Sidhu over Mali's remarks on Kashmir and Pakistan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
28-08-2021||India||Mysore University circular restricting movement of girls withdrawn||The circular of the University of Mysore imposing curbs on movement of girl students alone on its Manasagangotri campus after 6.30 pm has been withdrawn, Higher Education Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said on Saturday. He said it's true that generally campuses of Universities are vast but to bar the movement of girl students is not correct. Narayan directed Vice-Chancellors of Universities to take security measures and create safe campuses. The University of Mysore's move on Friday was prompted by the gang-rape of a college student near Chamundi foothills on the outskirts of Mysuru on August 24 which has created a scare. Entry of visitors to the Kukkarahalli lake premises has also been prohibited after 6.30 pm, said sources in University which has issued the circular announcing the measures. The steps were taken as part of "safety and precautionary measure" following verbal instructions by police, the sources said. Security guards have been asked to patrol the campus from 6 pm to 9 pm, they said. Narayan termed the rape incident as 'condemnable' and said one should not snatch the freedom of girl students because of this case. "It's our responsibility to give them protection without violating their freedom", the Minister said. "Wherever required, Closed-circuit cameras should be installed". "There should be greater vigil in University campuses. Already, steps have been taken by the Government in this regard. Measures will be tightened by leveraging technology", he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-265
28-08-2021||India||Five arrested in Mysore gang rape case,  says Karnataka DGP||Five labourers allegedly involved in the rape of a college student near Mysuru earlier this week have been arrested, Karnataka DG and IGP Praveen Sood said on Saturday. The five, who frequented Mysuru often, are from the "labour class" doing jobs like wiring, carpentry and driving, he said, adding, they hailed from Tirupur in Tamil Nadu. "As per preliminary interrogation, one of them is a juvenile -- a 17-year-old -- subject to confirmation", he said. The sixth one is absconding. They accosted the college student and her male friend near the Chamundi foothills on the outskirts of Mysuru on August 24 and tried to rob them. When they did not succeed, they allegedly assaulted him and raped her, police sources said. "It's a case of robbery first", Sood said, adding, the culprits also demanded Rs three lakh but declined to go into details. However, he said there was no blackmail angle to the incident so far. Sood said the arrested used to come to Mysuru for some work with their friends to Bandipalya APMC yard, a wholesale vegetable market, from the neighbouring state. "Before going back (home to Tamil Nadu), they had the habit of drinking (alcohol) and partying. They were there on that day (August 24). What happened thereafter all of you know", Sood said. Police sources said the victim was so traumatised that she was not in a position to give statement to police on the incident. "We have to be sensitive to the trauma she is suffering", Sood said, adding, police could gather information from her male friend but it was "limited" as he was unconscious and the incident happened between 7 pm and 8 pm (when it was dark). There is information that some of the accused had "criminal background" and were involved in cases in Tamil Nadu but it needed to be verified, according to him. "We will file the charge-sheet as soon as possible", Sood said, adding, Forensic Science Laboratory teams are working "full-time" as part of the investigation. He requested the High Court to expedite trial in the case. Sood said a special prosecutor would be appointed if required and efforts would be made to see that the perpetrators get punishment as soon as possible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
28-08-2021||India||Vaccination, ration distribution in schools to continue after classes start from September 1||Vaccination and ration distribution centres set up in schools in the national capital will still be operational after they reopen for classes 9 to 12 from September 1, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday. Following a marked improvement in the COVID-19 situation in the city, the Delhi government on Friday announced that schools for classes 9 to 12, colleges and coaching institutions will reopen from September 1. "There are plenty of classrooms and no dearth of space. Vaccination and ration distribution will continue in schools where it is underway," Kejriwal said, responding to a question on the subject. "Since students of only four classes are being called in the first phase, space will not be a major issue. The vaccination area will be kept separate from where students are allowed," he told reporters on the sidelines of an event here. Asked about concerns of a possible third wave of the pandemic, the chief minister said, "Today the Covid situation in Delhi is under control. Earlier, parents were reluctant too but now parents also want their children to go to schools and study in a classroom setup." "We will be reopening schools slowly. If the need to close them arises again, we will see," he added. Following the decision by the government to reopen schools, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia reiterated that no student will be forced to attend physical classes. "We will soon issue detailed SOP and guidelines for reopening. No student will be forced to attend physical classes, they will have the option to continue with online classes," he said. While the majority of schools have welcomed the decision to reopen, parents are still divided about the idea amid concerns of an imminent third wave of COVID-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
28-08-2021||India||Minor differences in Punjab will be sorted out, says senior Congress leader||Amid an ongoing tussle within the Punjab Congress camp, senior party leader Rajinder Kaur Bhattal has said all are united, asserting that minor differences will be sorted out. She termed Chief Minister Amarinder Singh's visit to her residence on Friday a courtesy visit. Singh's visit to his one-time bete noire's residence came a day after he met around 55 Congress MLAs and eight MPs over dinner at a cabinet colleague's home in an apparent show of strength. Asked about the developments in the party's state unit after her meeting with the chief minister, Bhattal said, We all are united... minor differences will be sorted out we all have to work for the party's win in the upcoming polls." The party leadership picked cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu a few weeks back as the Punjab Congress chief, ignoring opposition from Amarinder Singh. But the two camps in the state Congress have not yet called a truce. Bhattal, however, declined to comment on Sidhu's remarks made during his meeting with traders and industrialists in Amritsar on Thursday. "I haven't gone through what he has said," she said. In what could be seen as a dare to the Congress high command, Sidhu has asked it to allow him the freedom to take decisions or he will give a devastating reply. He said he didn't want to remain just a show horse. On Saturday, Congress leader Manish Tewari took to Twitter to make a veiled attack on Sidhu's comment. He posted a short video clip of the new Punjab Congress chief making the comments in Amritsar. Borrowing lines from a famous poet, Tewari, a former Union minister, wrote, "Hum aah bhi bharte hai to ho jaate hai badnaam, who katal bhi karte hain toh charcha nahi hota (Even if we sigh, we become infamous, even if they kill, there is no discussion)." Bhattal, a former chief minister who currently is the vice-chairperson of the State Planning Board, said, "Our aim is to ensure Congress again comes to power in the state." She said Amarinder Singh paid her a visit along with his daughter. "Various leaders meet me from time to time, and I meet them too. I always say that we have to unitedly move, and whatever differences exist should be resolved like a family, and we should strengthen the party," she told reporters, replying to a related question. Asked to further comment on the ongoing developments within the state unit, Bhattal said, All issues are before the high command, and we have to abide by whatever they say.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
28-08-2021||India||Talks on secularism will last as long as India remains Hindu majority country: Gujarat Deputy CM||Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel has said that talks about India's Constitution, laws and secularism will last only as long as Hindus are in majority in the country, and none of the country's "courts, Lok Sabha, Constitution, secularism" will remain in case Hindus are reduced to a minority. "Those talking about the Constitution, laws, secularism will continue to do so only as long as Hindus are in majority in this country. May god prevent this from happening, but if in another 1,000-2,000 years, the number of Hindus reduces, and (the number of) people from another religion increases, there will be no courts, Lok Sabha, Constitution, secularism...they will all vanish in thin air, nothing will remain," he said. Addressing an event on Friday to mark the idol installation ceremony at a temple of goddess Bharat Mata in Gandhinagar organised by Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP), he added that he was not talking about all the Muslims or Christians, as a large number of them are patriots. "I do not talk about all of them. Thousands and lakhs of Muslims, Christians are patriots. Thousands of Muslims are in the Indian Army, hundreds of Muslims are in Gujarat police force. They are all patriots. But (I am talking about those) who are not," he said. Patel criticised a Muslim organisation (Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind) for challenging the Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Act, 2021 - that seeks to stop religious conversions through interfaith marriages using force - and wondered why it was troubled by the law even when it is not religion-specific. He said that the government brought an amendment to the Act after much deliberation due to the concerns raised over cases of "love jihad". "I have to ask those who have moved writ in the court, will you still challenge the Act if somebody (from another religion) takes away your daughter (for forcible marriage and converts her religion)?...I have to ask that organisation as to what is their objection to Hindu girls marrying Hindus, Muslim girls marrying Muslims, Christian girls marrying Christians, Sikh girls marrying Sikhs," he said. Patel said that when the law applies equally to a Hindu boy forcibly entering into a marriage and converting a Muslim girl, then why only the Muslim organisation was troubled by the law. The Gujarat High Court had recently stayed several sections of the controversial Act till the pendency of the case. "People of their community should (rather) issue public statements, hold press conferences, and thank (state Home minister) Pradipsinh (Jadeja), the BJP government, and say they support and welcome the law for ensuring the unity, safety of Gujarat and protection of its daughters from every religion. Why are they troubled, this I do not understand," he said. The BJP leader said that because of the landmark works of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah at the Centre, like removing Article 370, ensuring construction of Lord Ram temple, strengthening every religion. Patel also thanked Jadeja for ensuring that Lord Jagannath Yatra in Ahmedabad and 157 other Yatras across Gujarat were taken out this year by taking precautions so that the number of Covid-19 cases do not go up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
28-08-2021||India||Covid-19: Centre asks states to prevent large gatherings during upcoming festive season||Ahead of the festival season, the Centre Saturday asked all states and union territories to ensure there is no large gathering and that they take pro-active measures to check the spread of coronavirus. Extending the ongoing COVID-19 guidelines for one more month till September 30, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said the overall pandemic situation now appears to be largely stable at the national level, except for the localised spread observed in a few states. The total number of active cases and high case positivity in some districts continue to remain a matter of concern, he told the chief secretaries of all states and UTs in identical letters. According to the Union Health Ministry data updated at 8 am Saturday, 46,759 people tested positive for COVID-19 in the country in the previous 24 hours. "The state governments and UT administrations concerned, having high positivity in their districts, should take pro-active containment measures so as to effectively arrest the spike in cases and to contain the spread of transmission. "It is important to identify warning signs of potential surges early on and to take appropriate measures to curb the spread. This would require a localised approach, as has been mentioned in Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) advisories dated April 25 and June 28," he said. The home secretary further advised them to take suitable measures to avoid large gatherings during the coming festive season and, if required, impose local restrictions to prevent such gatherings. A number of major festivals, including Diwali and Chhath, will be celebrated in the coming months. Covid-appropriate behaviour should be strictly enforced at all crowded places, he said. There is a need to continue focus on the five-fold strategy -- test-track-treat-vaccination and adherence to COVID-appropriate behaviour -- for an effective management of COVID-19, the home secretary added. Adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour is essential for tackling the pandemic on a sustained basis, he said, adding that weekly data from states and UTs regarding wearing of facemask, maintaining social distancing, imposition of fines etc indicates a downward trend in enforcement. "States and UTs are requested to augment their enforcement efforts for effectively checking transmission of the disease," he said. Bhalla said the country has made significant progress in vaccination and state governments and UT administrations should continue their drive so as to inoculate maximum number of eligible people. Further, the home secretary said, it must be ensured that areas having no virus or low transmission are adequately protected by progressively ramping up testing and other measures such as monitoring for ILI and SARI (Influenza-Like Illness and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection), and market surveillance. "I would, therefore, urge you to issue strict directions to the district and all other local authorities concerned, to take necessary measures for management of COVID- 19. The officers concerned should be made personally responsible for any laxity in strict enforcement of COVID Appropriate Behaviour. "I would also advise that orders issued by the respective state governments and UT administrations and district authorities in this regard should be widely disseminated to the public and to the field functionaries, for their proper implementation," he said. India's infection tally rose to 3,26,49,947 Saturday as the number of active cases registered an increase for the fourth consecutive day, according to Union Health Ministry data. The death toll has climbed to 4,37,370 with 509 more fatalities being recorded, according to the updated data. The number of active cases has now increased to 3,59,775 which comprises 1.10 per cent of the total infections. The national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.56 per cent, the health ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
28-08-2021||India||Farm laws to benefit BJP's billionaire friends, says Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday alleged that the three farm laws were framed to benefit the BJP's billionaire friends. Citing a report on Adani reducing apple procurement rates in Himachal Pradesh by Rs 16 which has led to a distress in the markets, she alleged this would happen if the right to decide rates of farmer's produce is given to "billionaire friends" of the ruling party. "Why are the farmers opposing the three 'black' farm laws? Because if the right to decide the price and other things for crops grown by the hard work of farmers is given to BJP's billionaire friends, then this will happen," the Congress leader said in a tweet in Hindi. "The black agriculture laws are for the benefit of BJP's billionaire friends," she added. Congress has been supporting the farmers' agitation against the three new farm laws and demanding their withdrawal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
28-08-2021||India||Hate speech: Court dismisses bail plea of organiser of Jantar Mantar event||A Delhi court has dismissed the bail application of one of the organisers of an event near Jantar Mantar where communal slogans were raised earlier this month. Additional Sessions Judge Anil Antil denied relief to Preet Singh, arrested by the Delhi Police in the case, saying right to assemble and freedom to air one's thoughts are cherished under the Constitution, however, these are not absolute and have to be exercised with inherent reasonable restrictions. Singh was accused of creating enmity between different groups and inciting the youth to propagate against a particular religion at a rally at Jantar Mantar on August 8. The judge, on the basis of the material placed on record and submissions put forth by the prosecution, observed that prima facie there had been active participation by the accused in his individual capacity and also as the main organiser of the event itself. In its order passed on August 27, the court also noted that the event was conducted at Jantar Mantar in spite of the denial of permission by the Delhi Police and in total disregard to Covid protocol issued by the Union government. "It is apposite to mention that the applicant not only voluntarily organised the event but also actively participated and provided support to the views and contents of inflammatory speeches, which were being made by the participants/accused persons at that time, by acknowledging and endorsing via gestures and clapping intermittently," the judge observed in the order. He said given the stature of the accused, it was expected that he ought to have exercised his authority, in these circumstances, and prevented participants from airing such inflammatory opinions in the larger interest of the public and committee welfare. "On the other hand, the applicant is clearly seen actively participating in the incendiary speeches along with his other associates," he said. "In addition, on prima facie analysis of the inflammatory and incendiary content of the speeches or interviews of the participants members of the event, comments especially those pertaining in express pejorative references to a religious community, and keeping in view that the applicant was an active organiser of the event, he can not later absolve himself of the responsibility of the content or consequences arising therefrom," he said. The court also noted that an anticipatory bail application moved by co-accused and president of Hindu Raksha Dal, Pinki Chaudhary, on a similar ground was dismissed earlier. The court also held that being an active, main organiser of the event, the accused was an influential personality and there was a possibility of him interfering with the investigation and influencing the witnesses of the case, if released on bail. While opposing the application, the prosecution told the court that the accusations were severity in nature and the investigation was still at a nascent stage. It also said a number of accused people were absconding and evading the process of law and the entire incriminating material is yet to be recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
28-08-2021||India||Centre introduces BH-series for seamless transfer of personal vehicles across states||To ensure seamless transfer of personal vehicles across states, the road transport ministry has come up with a new registration mark for new vehicles - Bharat Series (BH-series). In this regard, the government has notified a new vehicle registration regime that will free vehicle owners from re-registration process when they shift from one state/union territory to another. "This vehicle registration facility under 'Bharat series (BH-series)' will be available on voluntary basis to defense personnel, employees of central government/ state government/ central/ state public sector undertakings and private sector companies/organisations, which have their offices in four or more states/union territories," the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) said in a statement. This scheme, it said, will facilitate free movement of personal vehicles across states/union territories of India upon relocation. The statement further said that an IT-based solution for vehicle registration is one such effort as "one of the pain points in the vehicle registration process that needed attention was re-registration of a vehicle while moving to another state". The format of BH-series registration mark will be YY BH #### XX. YY denotes the year of first registration, BH is code for Bharat Series, #### is the randomised four digit number and XX are two alphabets. The MORTH through a "notification dated 26th August 2021, has introduced a new registration mark for new vehicles i.e. 'Bharat series (BH-series)'. A vehicle bearing this registration mark shall not require assignment of a new registration mark when the owner of the vehicle shifts from one state to another", the statement further explained. According to the notification, the motor vehicle tax levied by the state and union territories at the time of registration in respect to BH-series non-transport vehicle will be 8 per cent in case of vehicles costing up to Rs 10 lakh, 10 per cent in case of vehicles costing between Rs 10-20 lakh and 12 per cent in case of vehicles costing above 20 lakh. It further said that 2 per cent extra charge will be levied for diesel vehicles, while electric vehicles will be charged 2 per cent less tax. In case, where the vehicle bears BH-series registration mark, the motor vehicle tax shall be levied electronically. The new rules also called Central Motor Vehicles (Twentieth Amendment) Rules, 2021, shall come into force with effect from September 15, 2021. The registration mark for BH-series vehicle will be generated randomly through the portal. Currently, a person is allowed to keep vehicle for a maximum of 12 months in any state other than the state where it is registered. The owners has to get such vehicles re-registered before the expiry of 12 months. At present, a passenger vehicle owner for re-registration of vehicle has to take no objection certificate from the parent state for assignment of a new registration mark in another state. Also, the assignment of new registration mark is done after the road tax on prorata basis is paid in the new state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
28-08-2021||India||Tamil Nadu Assembly demands repeal of three new farm laws||The Tamil Nadu Assembly on Saturday passed a resolution demanding the repeal of the three new central farm laws, which agitating farmers believe would leave them to be exploited by big companies. Earlier, several Assemblies in non-BJP states such as Punjab, Delhi, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Puducherry and Bengal had passed similar resolutions. Barring the AIADMK and ally BJP, who walked out of the House in protest, all other Tamil Nadu parties supported the resolution, which termed the three farm laws “anti-farmer and anti-federal” and was adopted by a voice vote. The DMK government had brought in the resolution to fulfil one of the ruling party’s key election promises. Moving the resolution, chief minister M.K. Stalin said the three farm laws neither ensured agricultural development nor promoted farmer welfare but were “ruinous of agriculture”. He stressed that agriculture was a state subject and said the Centre’s act of getting the farm laws enacted without consulting the states went against the principles of cooperative federalism. “We are forced to reject these three laws as the rights of the states are being usurped. The legislations have undermined federalism and destroyed the kernel of democratic bodies,” Stalin said. Referring to the nine-month-old farmers’ agitation on Delhi’s borders, he said independent India had hardly ever seen such an upsurge. Stalin also announced the withdrawal of all the cases registered against those who protested against the farm laws in the state. Farmers’ organisations welcomed the Assembly resolution. Before walking out of the House, deputy leader of the Opposition O. Panneerselvam of the AIADMK said the state government should have convened an all-party meeting before moving such a resolution. The AIADMK had supported the passage of the three farm laws in Parliament.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
28-08-2021||India||11 hours after emergency landing in Nagpur, Biman Bangladesh plane flies to Dhaka||The Dhaka-bound Biman Bangladesh Airlines plane that made an emergency landing at the Nagpur airport, left for the destination with the stranded passengers 11 hours later, although its pilot, who had suffered a heart attack mid-air, is critical and undergoing treatment at a private hospital here, an official said on Saturday. The plane, which was carrying 126 passengers to the Bangladesh capital from Muscat, had made an emergency landing in Nagpur around 11.40 am on Friday as the pilot suffered a heart attack mid-air. Talking to PTI, a senior official of the Nagpur airport said, "Biman Bangladesh arranged alternative crew, who flew to Nagpur. After that, the stranded flight departed for the destination along with the passengers at 10.37 pm on Friday." The condition of the pilot is still critical and he is undergoing treatment in a private hospital in Nagpur, he said. Sources said the pilot was taken to Kingsway Hospital, which is located around 10 kms from the Nagpur airport. On Friday, when the plane was near Raipur it had contacted the Kolkata ATC for an emergency landing and was advised to land at the nearest airport Nagpur. The co-pilot landed the plane in Nagpur, the sources said. Biman Bangladesh had recently resumed flight services with India after air travel between the two countries was suspended during the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-266
28-08-2021||India||Civic body chief says South Mumbai to be submerged underwater by 2050||Mumbai municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal has made a sinister prediction for the city, saying that by 2050, a major portion of south Mumbai, including the business district of Nariman Point and state secretariat Mantralaya, will go underwater due to the rising sea level. Speaking at the launch of Mumbai Climate Action Plan and its website at the hands of Maharashtra Environment and Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray on Friday, Chahal said about 70 per cent of the city's A, B, C and D wards in south Mumbai will be underwater due to climate change. He said that nature has been giving warnings, but if people do not "wake up" then the situation would turn "dangerous". "Eighty per cent of the areas like Cuffe Parade, Nariman Point and Mantralaya will be underwater...Means going to disappear," he said. The civic chief also said that it is a matter of just 25-30 years as 2050 is not too far. "We are getting warnings from nature and if we do not wake up, it will be a dangerous situation for the next 25 years. And it will not only be the next generation but the current generation will also suffer," Chahal warned. He said that Mumbai is the first city in South Asia that is preparing its climate action plan and acting on it. "Earlier, we used to hear about climate change events like melting glaciers, but not directly affecting us. But now it has come to our doorstep," he added. Chahal said that last year for the first time in 129 years, a cyclone (Nisarga) hit Mumbai and thereafter in the last 15 months, there have been three cyclones. After that, on August 5, 2020, about 5 to 5.5 feet water was accumulated at Nariman point. "There was no cyclone warning that day, but considering the parameters, it was a cyclone," Chahal said. Highlighting that the city has witnessed some extreme weather condictions recently, he said that the city faced Tauktae cyclone in Mumbai and witnessed 214 mm rain on May 17, though monsoon arrives here on June 6 or 7. Before June 9, Mumbai recorded 84 per cent of the June rainfall and in July, 70 per cent of month's average rainfall was received in just four days from July 17 to 20, he said. Under the Mumbai Climate Action Plan (MCAP), the data assessment has identified areas and communities most vulnerable given increasing climate uncertainty, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said in a release. Data from across BMC's 37 automatic weather stations (AWS) over the past 10 years suggests that on an average, Mumbai has seen six heavy, five very heavy, and four extremely heavy rainfall days per year. And for all the rainfall that occurs during the monsoon season in Mumbai, each year, approximately 10 per cent falls under the heavy category, nine per cent very heavy, and six per cent extremely heavy. According to the India Meteorological Department's (IMD) classification, daily rainfall from 64.5 mm to 115.5 mm is considered 'heavy', 115.6 mm to 204.4mm 'very heavy' and more than 204.5mm is 'extreme'. "The four-year period between 2017 and 2020 has seen a steady increase in the extremely heavy rainfall events. This indicates that the frequency of such extreme weather events is increasing for the city of Mumbai especially over the past four years," said Lubaina Rangwala, Associate Director, WRI India Ross Center for Sustainable Cities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
28-08-2021||India||Delta variant doubles risk of hospitalisation, shows large UK study ||The delta coronavirus variant that was first detected in India and has spread across the world doubles the risk of hospitalisation compared with the alpha variant, UK researchers said on Friday after the largest study yet linking genome sequences and hospital admissions. The researchers who analysed the coronavirus genome sequences and illness outcomes of over 43,300 patients have found that those infected with the delta virus have approximately two times the risk of hospital admission compared with patients with the alpha virus. The findings based on Covid-19 patients in England from March 29 and May 23 this year help explain why India’s second Covid-19 wave driven by the delta variant was much harder than its first, as evident through higher demand for emergency and hospital care. “In the absence of vaccination, any delta outbreaks will impose a greater burden on healthcare than an alpha epidemic,” Anne Presanis, a senior statistician at the University of Cambridge and senior author of the study said in a media release. The study was published in The Lancet, a peer-reviewed medical journal, on Friday. The alpha variant emerged in the UK last year, but delta has rapidly replaced alpha and over 98 per cent of Covid-19 cases in the UK are now delta. “Getting fully vaccinated is crucial for reducing an individual’s risk of symptomatic infection with the delta (variant) in the first place and, importantly, of reducing a delta-(infected) patient’s risk of severe disease or (needing) hospital admission,” she said. Genome sequencing efforts have shown that the proportion of delta variants in samples sequenced in India increased from 2 per cent in February this year to 8 per cent in March, 58 per cent in April and more than 80 per cent by May-June. At least two studies in India released in July this year have established that the country’s second wave was fiercer than the first, with hospitalised patients more likely to need oxygen and at a greater risk of dying than those during the first wave. But both Indian studies examined already hospitalised patients. The lack of comprehensive data in India on hospitalisation rates has hampered efforts at understanding how key epidemiological factors, including variants, might impact hospitalisation. “What we saw as the second surge was almost all delta,” said Oommen John, a physician and senior researcher at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. Health researchers say India almost certainly has had more delta cases than the UK, but the lack of data hospital admission rates and low level of genome sequencing has precluded such analyses in India. “Correlations between hospitalisation during the second surge and genome sequences on a representative sample could have helped us explore the connection here in India,” John said. "Population level data on hospitalisation will tell us what proportion of people had severe illness and what were their outcomes." The UK researchers analysed healthcare data from 43,338 Covid-19 positive patients, including hospital admissions, emergency care requirement, and vaccination status. They noted 764 (2.2 per cent) hospital admissions among 34,656 cases infected with alpha, first detected in the UK last year and 196 (2.3 per cent) hospital admissions among 8,682 delta cases. After accounting for factors that can influence severe illness such as age and vaccination status, the researchers found that the risk of being admitted to hospital more than doubled with the delta variant compared with the alpha variant. “We know that vaccination offers excellent protection against delta … It is vital that those who have not received two doses of vaccine do so as soon as possible,” said Gavin Dabrera, the study’s lead author and a consultant epidemiologist with Public Health England.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
28-08-2021||India||Delhi govt directs private, unaided schools to vaccinate staff ahead of reopening||The Delhi government has directed private aided and unaided schools to vaccinate their teachers and staff ahead of the reopening for classes 9-12 from September 1. A circular was issued in this connection by the Directorate of Education of the city government. "It is the prime concern of Directorate of Education, GNCT of Delhi to ensure the vaccination of all teachers and staff working in schools of Delhi. Therefore, all the HOS/managers of private aided/unaided schools in Delhi, are hereby directed to ensure that their teachers and staff get vaccinated immediately," it read. "In the above context, all the private aided/unaided schools are also advised to facilitate their teachers and staff by making special arrangements for vaccination at schools/cluster levels in consultation and coordination with concerned authorities," the circular said. Following a marked improvement in the COVID-19 situation here, the Delhi government on Friday announced that schools for classes 9 to 12, colleges and coaching institutions will reopen from September 1. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). A panel set up by the DDMA had earlier this week submitted its report recommending a phase-wise reopening of schools in the national capital. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said a final decision was yet to be made regarding junior classes, adding that a call would be taken after analysing the effect of reopening schools for senior classes. However, sources indicated that schools for classes 6 to 8 may reopen from September 8.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
28-08-2021||India||India logs over 46,000 fresh Covid cases, 509 casualties in a day||With 46,759 people testing positive for COVID-19 in a span of 24 hours, India's infection tally rose to 3,26,49,947 on Saturday, while the count of active cases registered an increase for the fourth consecutive day, according to Union Health Ministry data. The death toll has climbed to 4,37,370 with 509 more fatalities being recorded, according to the data updated at 8 am. The number of active cases has now increased to 3,59,775 which comprises 1.10 per cent of the total infections. The national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.56 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 14,876 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The count of daily new cases has stayed below 50,000 for 62 consecutive days now, the ministry said. Also, 17,61,110 coronavirus tests were conducted in the country on Friday, taking the cumulative number of such examinations done so far to 51,68,87,602. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.66 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 33 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.19 per cent. This has been below three per cent for 64 days now, according to the Health Ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,18,52,802, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. India administered a record 1,03,35,290 COVID-19 vaccine doses on Friday. With this, the coronavirus vaccination coverage in the country surpassed 62.29 crore, as per provisional reports till 7 am on Saturday, the ministry said. This has been achieved through 67,19,042 sessions, it added. India's COVID-19 infection tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore infections on May 4 this year and three crores on June 23. The 509 new fatalities include 179 from Kerala and 170 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,37,370 deaths due to the disease have been reported so far in the country, including 1,36,900 from Maharashtra, 37,248 from Karnataka, 34,835 from Tamil Nadu, 25,080 from Delhi, 22,796 from Uttar Pradesh, 20,313 from Kerala and 18,410 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
28-08-2021||India||Delhi records minimum temperature of 27 degrees Celsius||Delhiites woke up to a pleasant Saturday morning with the minimum temperature settling at 27 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal. According to meteorological department officials, the relative humidity was 73 per cent at 8.30 am. They said the maximum temperature is expected to hover around 35 degrees Celsius. The department predicted generally cloudy skies with a possibility of light rain or drizzle during the day. On Friday, the maximum temperature in the national capital settled at 36 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal, while the minimum was recorded at 25.4 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
28-08-2021||India||Fire at Greater Noida paper mill||A fire ripped through a paper mill in Greater Noida Saturday morning, gutting raw material in a large quantity although no individual was hurt in the blaze, officials said. "Fire-fighting is underway. Around a dozen fire tenders are pressed into service to control the blaze at the R S Paper mills in the Site 5 area of Kasna, an industrial hub," Chief Fire Officer Arun Kumar Singh said around 7.30 am. Singh, who was leading the operations at the site, said no person was hurt in the blaze, which spread on the ground floor of the mill where raw material was stored. "A tin shade has fallen down, making fire-fighting a little challenging at the moment but efforts are on to control the blaze," he said. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
28-08-2021||India||Premature to expect policy on recognising Taliban: MEA||The external affairs ministry on Friday said it was premature to expect a policy on whether or not to recognise the Taliban at this moment, pointing out that the situation on the ground was too fluid with no government in place in Kabul. Asked if India has made up its mind on recognising the Taliban, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said: “The situation on the ground is uncertain.... Currently there is no clarity about any entity forming a government in Kabul. I think we are jumping the gun here regarding recognition. We continue to monitor the situation.” Asked why there is no clarity when the Taliban have control over much of Afghanistan, Bagchi said there had been a lot of reports on who would be represented in the government, if it would be inclusive and whether other elements of Afghan polity would find representation. Bagchi said: “That’s why I don’t want to speculate. There was a peace process and there are discussions going on right now. Let’s wait and see how it develops. That’s why we said this.” The spokesperson did not respond to a question on whether India has any caveats for recognising the Taliban as has been spelt out by some other countries. Soon after the fall of Kabul on August 15, India had said at a meeting of the UN Security Council on the situation in Afghanistan that an inclusive government would help the arrangement gain legitimacy. “We also hope that there is an inclusive dispensation which represents all sections of Afghan society. Voices of Afghan women, aspirations of Afghan children and the rights of minorities must be respected. A broader representation would help the arrangement gain more acceptability and legitimacy,” India’s permanent representative to the UN, T.S. Tirumurti, had said. India is not alone in taking such a stance. Several other leading democracies with stakes in Afghanistan have articulated similar positions. Bagchi pointed out that most other countries are also in the frame of “wait and watch”, adding that India is monitoring the situation closely and talking to friendly nations. As for the evacuation process, the spokesperson said the vast majority of Indians who wished to return had been evacuated but was quick to add that some more were likely to be in Afghanistan. On the status of the Afghans who have been evacuated, he said they were coming in on an e-visa that is valid for six months. What their status will be, he added, will be decided in due course, pointing out that this is essentially the domain of the home ministry. Likewise, to a question on the fate of the Afghan nationals who were already in India on medical/student visas that were nearing expiry, Bagchi said the home ministry would be looking into it. Deportation Bagchi described as unfortunate the case of an Afghan woman MP being deported from India last week. Responding to questions on the MP, Rangina Kargar, being deported, he attributed it to the state of high alert that had been sounded after the government had learnt about the loss of Afghan passports with Indian visas. “There were reports right in the beginning, around the 15th, of groups of people who raided one of our outsourcing agencies which had Afghan passports with Indian visas. In light of the loss of Afghan passports containing Indian visas, our authorities were in a state of high alert. We were also moving the e-visa system. It appears all this could have led to some confusion, which in turn led to the unfortunate incident of denial of entry to the particular Afghan national.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
28-08-2021||India||JNU proposes to introduce a range of undergraduate courses||Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) proposes to introduce a range of undergraduate courses, dismaying its teachers who say this would change the institution’s character from a research-intensive university to an ordinary teaching institute. Currently, JNU offers master’s and PhD courses along with a handful of undergraduate courses in foreign languages — such as Chinese — and a couple of BTech programmes. A meeting of JNU’s academic council on August 17 approved the recommendation to start undergraduate courses in a gamut of subjects from the sciences and arts to law and education. The proposal is expected to be approved by the executive council on September 2. The recommendations came from an apex committee headed by Mazhar Asif, a professor from the Centre of Persian and Central Asian Studies. The committee was set up last December to suggest ways of implementing the National Education Policy. The JNU Act 1966 says: “The objects of the University shall be to disseminate and advance knowledge,wisdom and understanding by teaching and research and by the example and influence of its corporate life.” “The National Education Policy clearly envisions two kinds of universities — namely, teaching-intensive and research-intensive universities,” the JNU teachers’ association said. “However, the apex committee of JNU without appreciating the policy in proper perspective has recommended starting of several integrated teaching programmes across the centres and schools in the university which would result in conversion of the country’s premier research-intensive university into a teaching-intensive university.” Some of the recommendations: ⚫ The School of Language, Literature and Culture Studies is to be restructured to create two schools — the School of Foreign Language, Literature and Culture Studies, and the School of Indian Language, Literature and Culture Studies. The foreign language school will start a five-year integrated BA-MA programme in foreign languages with multiple entry and exit points. A certificate, diploma, advanced diploma, graduate degree or a postgraduate degree will be awarded depending on whether the student exits after one, two, three, four or five years. ⚫  The schools on liberal arts will introduce five-year integrated BA-MA programmes with multiple entry and exit points. ⚫  The Zakir Husain Centre for Educational Studies is to be upgraded to a School for Education and Planning and Management, which will start a four-year integrated BEd programme. ⚫  The Centre for the Study of Law and Governance will be upgraded to a School of Law Governance, which will offer a bilingual five-year integrated “BA-LLB dual degree and post-graduation in law” programme. ⚫  A new School of Open and E-Learning will be opened. It will provide distance learning and online education, and develop e-content in Hindi and English. ⚫  Three new schools — on the chemical, mathematical and physical sciences, respectively — will teach five-year integrated BSc-MSc programmes with multiple entry and exit points. They will implement the choice-based credit system, which allows students to do different parts of the syllabus from different universities. ⚫  A School of Library and Information Sciences will come up and offer a five-year integrated BLib-MLib programme. ⚫  JNU will also open a Centre for Mentoring for teachers; a Centre for Vocational Studies that will offer credit courses on various vocations, soft skills and personality development; a Centre for Professional and Career Counselling; and a Centre for Artificial Intelligence. ⚫  All the schools and centres will design online courses and lectures. “The Centre for the Study of Law and Governance and the Zakir Husain Centre for Educational Studies have always focused on research. They do not produce LLB graduates or BEd graduates,” JNU teachers’ association secretary Moushumi Basu said. “There are so many institutions offering such undergraduate courses. These proposals have not been thought through.” An email sent to vice-chancellor Jagadesh Kumar seeking his reactions to the teacher body’s concerns, and calls to his mobile, remained unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
28-08-2021||India||Adityanath's critic arrested on charge of abetting suicide||A retired IPS officer who had accused chief minister Yogi Adityanath of promoting corruption and threatened to contest next year’s election against him was on Friday arrested on the charge of abetting the suicide of a rape complainant. Amitabh Thakur, an outspoken former inspector-general who had angered several chief ministers and administrations and was sent to forced retirement in March this year, alleged a conspiracy by Adityanath. “Adityanath may have hatched a conspiracy to kill me. This could be the reason for my arrest. The cops thrashed me at the police station,” he told reporters at Hazratganj police station. The police said Thakur had been arrested on the basis of a special investigation team (SIT) report on the suicide of a 24-year-old rape complainant from Ghazipur who had, before immolating herself outside the Supreme Court, implicated the officer on Facebook. Two months ago, Thakur had told reporters that Adityanath's government was promoting corruption and anarchy. “I shall contest and defeat the failed chief minister of Uttar Pradesh from wherever he contests,” the 53-year-old Lucknow resident had declared. The Ghazipur woman had accused Bahujan Samaj Party MP Atul Rai of raping her in 2019. She and a male friend set themselves on fire in front of the Supreme Court in New Delhi on August 16, and both died during treatment. Before the suicide, the woman had recorded a Facebook live video where she alleged that Rai and Thakur were pressuring her to withdraw the case. Earlier in March, the woman had petitioned the Supreme Court requesting the case be shifted to Delhi and alleging Rai was intimidating her and her family. Rai, MP from Ghosi, has been in judicial custody in the case since 2019. Khyati Garg, deputy commissioner of police, Lucknow central, said the SIT inquiry had found that “Atul Rai and Amitabh Thakur were prima facie guilty of abetting the suicide of the woman and her friend”. She said Rai and Thakur had been booked for framing records and documents to cause injury, threatening a person to induce them to give false evidence, abetment to suicide, criminal intimidation, intentional insult and criminal conspiracy. Garg did not explain what the “framing” charge was about. Police have said the Varanasi trial court had earlier in August booked the rape complainant and the male friend in a forgery case for furnishing false proof of age in the rape case, and issued non-bailable arrest warrants against them. On Friday, Thakur told reporters outside the police station while being taken in: “In early November 2020, when I was still in service, I got a video clip in which the male friend of the woman was saying he would commit suicide if the woman didn’t get justice. I casually forwarded it to a police officer to see it and act to save him. Then the woman and the man came to my residence in Lucknow on November 20, 2020. They said they had wanted to talk to me but soon they started shouting at me, used foul words…. “So I registered a case against them at Gomti Nagar police station for threatening me and my wife. However, no action was initiated against them. This is all of my involvement in the case. But UP police are twisting the facts behind a video of the dead girl. There is no genuine case of abetting that stands against me.” Thakur had been inspector-general and joint director, civil defence, in Lucknow when he was forced to retire in March, five years ahead of time. The Union home ministry letter to Thakur said his services were “not useful in public interest” and he had been sent into “retirement before the completion of his service with immediate effect in the public interest”. Thakur now works with his wife Nutan, a Right to Information activist. The couple have filed several cases with the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court alleging corruption at government offices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
28-08-2021||India||Gujarat High Court quashes extern order over protest||Gujarat High Court has observed that citizens cannot be externed for raising their grievance against the government. The observation came as the court quashed the police’s externment order against the organiser of an anti-CAA protest. Justice Paresh Upadhyay on Thursday set aside an externment order issued by Ahmedabad city police against 39-year-old activist Kaleem Siddiqui, who along with a few others had organised a sit-in in January and March 2020 against the new citizenship regime. According to the order, issued in November 2020, Siddiqui was barred from entering Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar, Kheda and Mehsana districts for a year. Siddiqui challenged the order in the high court, which in March stayed its execution. “A citizen cannot be subjected to externment for raising his grievance against the government,” Justice Upadhyay said, quashing the order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-267
28-08-2021||India||SC issues notices on alleged ostracisation of Parsi women||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notices to the Centre and others on a petition challenging the alleged discrimination and ostracisation of Parsi women who marry outside the community. The petitioners — a minor named Rian R. Kishnani and his mother Sanayaa Dalal — have alleged that women marrying non-Parsis, and their offspring, are not allowed to participate in the community’s religious, social and other activities, besides being derided on social media. The bench of Justices Abdul Nazeer and A.S. Bopanna sought the response of the Centre and the Parsee Central Association Co-operative Housing Society Ltd after it heard that such discrimination was a violation of Articles 14 (right to equality) and 21 (life and personal liberty) of the Constitution and that Parsi men who marry outside the community are not subjected to such harassment. The petitioners sought the following directions from the apex court: ⚫ Declaration of any discrimination against the petitioners on grounds of race, ethnicity or parentage as unconstitutional. ⚫ A directive to community leaders to ensure that there is no discrimination against the petitioners on communal or racial grounds, and they are not excluded from the Parsi community and the society at large. ⚫ Deletion of social media posts, by two groups of orthodox Parsis, that are racist, hateful, derogatory and vituperative. The posts, the petitioners have alleged, target Parsi women married outside the community, and their children, as well as all non-Parsis in general. The petition said: “The petitioners’ fundamental rights are circumvented because they face social and religious ostracisation owing solely to factors of lineage, ethnicity and race consequential to the fact that Petitioner No 2 (Sanayaa Dalal) is married to a man considered to be a non-Parsi. “Parsis are a race and ethnic group and ostracisation of a Parsi Zoroastrian and her offspring on the ground of her marriage to an individual of a different lineage, race or religion is contrary to basic human rights and the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution of India.” The petition, filed through advocate Jasmine Damkewala, contended that marriage being a personal choice, women should be free to exercise it without having to face ostracisation. It was submitted that a section of Parsis believes that the community is racially superior being of Aryan descent and insist that intermarriage of Parsis with other races “dilutes” and “contaminates” the ethnicity of the Parsis. “This is contrary to the human rights of young impressionable children who are victimised simply because their mother is a Parsi but did not marry a Parsi. While some also discriminate against children born of inter-community marriages where the father is a Parsi married to a non-Parsi, the discrimination is prevalent and accepted as the norm where the child’s mother is a Parsi but not the father,” the petition said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
28-08-2021||India||BCI pledges to formulate rules to punish striking advocates||The Supreme Court on Friday recorded an undertaking from the Bar Council of India that the BCI was formulating rules to punish advocates going on frequent strikes over petty issues and subjecting litigants to indefinite delay. BCI chairperson and senior advocate Manan Kumar Mishra gave the assurance to a bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah. The bench appreciated the stand of the regulatory body and adjourned the matter till September 20 to enable the BCI to file an affidavit. “We propose to frame rules to curb strikes and boycotts and rules to punish members of Bar Associations who go on strike without proper justification. A meeting has been convened with all Bar Councils. The Bar Council of India proposes to form rules to curtail strikes by advocates and propose action against Bar Associations that act in breach, and propose action against advocates who promote strikes on social media,” Mishra told the court in his undertaking, seeking time to submit details. The BCI’s submission follows a notice issued by the Supreme Court on February 28 last year for framing of rules to curb the rising instances of advocates striking work in different parts of the country. The court said in its order on Friday: “…Mr Mishra submits that compliance with the directions contained in the judgment dated 28 February 2020 was delayed because of the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, it has been stated that a meeting has been convened by the Bar Council of India of all the State Bar Councils on 4 September 2021. “The Bar Council of India proposes to formulate a rule (i) to curtail strikes by advocates; (ii) to take action against erring members of Bar Associations who act in breach; and (iii) to take action against advocates who instigate strikes on social media.” “Since the Bar Council of India is now seized of the matter, we adjourn the hearing of these proceedings to the third week of September 2021, by which date, the Bar Council of India shall file an affidavit indicating the steps that have been taken. “We appreciate the proactive steps which are being taken by the Bar Council of India in this regard. List the Miscellaneous Application on 20 September 2021.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
28-08-2021||India||Karnataka gang-rape: Ministers face heat for comments||Two senior Karnataka ministers’ intemperate comments in connection with a gang-rape case have triggered a furore and forced the chief minister to publicly express his disapproval. The BJP government in the southern state has been facing criticism for failing to arrest the accused three days after the gang rape of the MBA student near Mysore. Home minister Araga Jnanendra and tourism minister Anand Singh had on Thursday said the young woman should not have gone so late in the evening to an isolated place. The 23-year-old MBA student from another state was gang-raped by four men who overpowered her male friend at a secluded area near Lalithadripura on the way to the Chamundi Hills near Mysore city around 7.30pm on Tuesday. The assailants allegedly assaulted the male companion, also a student, before taking turns to rape the woman. The two had apparently gone there on a motorbike to spend some time together when they were confronted by the bike-borne attackers who first demanded money and then overpowered them and raped the woman. However, ministers Jnanendra and Singh faced charges of insensitivity when they commented on the crime. “The girl should not have visited such an isolated place so late. She should not have gone to that kind of a place so late,” said home minister Jnanendra, whose job it is to prevent such crimes and ensure justice. He did not stop at that, appearing to trivialise the crime of rape while commenting on the Opposition Congress’s criticism of the government over the incident in Mysore. “The rape happened in Mysore but the Congress is raping me to take political mileage,” he said. Tourism minister Singh had said: “Young lovers or newlywed couples should not visit such places.” The ministers’ remarks soon kicked up a storm. New chief minister Basavaraj Bommai had to step in for damage control. He told reporters late on Thursday: “I don’t approve of such statements and I have urged him (Jnanendra) to withdraw them.” Sources close to Bommai said he was “very upset” with the ministers’ remarks and had cautioned everyone against making such utterances. Soon, the home minister withdrew his comments and claimed that he had no intention to hurt anyone. “I have withdrawn the statements and had meant no harm to anyone,” he said. Singh is yet to comment on the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
28-08-2021||India||Adityanath government to rename Sultanpur as Kush Bhawanpur||The Yogi Adityanath government plans to rename Sultanpur district after Ram’s son Kush, a senior official told The Telegraph. “We were asked to send a report on the possibility of renaming Sultanpur as Kush Bhawanpur,” the official from the state revenue board said on the condition of anonymity. “We have given our consent. The rest of the work is to be done by the cabinet.” Dev Mani Dwivedi, BJP politician and MLA from Lambhua in Sultanpur, had raised the subject in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly last week. He had cited the gazetteer for Sultanpur, last published two decades ago, which claimed that Sultanpur was the capital of Kush’s kingdom and was known as Kush Bhawanpur. “Kush and his descendants ruled from there from Treta Yuga to Dwapar Yuga,” Dwivedi had said. It’s believed the place was called Sultanpur when Alauddin Khilji invaded it seven centuries ago to punish two Bhar chieftains who had killed two horse traders. Several places in Uttar Pradesh that bore “Muslim” names have been renamed since Yogi Adityanath came to power in March 2017, among them Allahabad (now Prayagraj), Mughalsarai (Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Nagar) and Faizabad (Ayodhya). The trend has prompted BJP leaders to keep demanding the renaming of many more places. Gulab Devi, minister of state for secondary education, has sent a proposal to the chief minister to rename Sambhal as Prithviraj Nagar after the 12th-century Chauhan ruler. Brijesh Singh, a party MLA, wants Deoband renamed as Dev Vrind; party spokesperson Naveen Srivastava has demanded that Ghazipur be rechristened Gadhipur. Recently, the Miyanganj village panchayat in Unnao district sent a resolution to the state government to rename itself as Mayaganj. When Adityanath was Gorakhpur MP from 1998 to 2017, he had organised several marches and sit-ins to demand unsuccessfully that the city’s Urdu Bazar locality be renamed as Hindi Bazar, Ali Nagar as Arya Nagar and Miyan Bazar as Maya Bazar. He has not, however, got these places renamed after becoming chief minister. Samajwadi Party spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said the latest renaming efforts were gimmicks by a party that had no achievement to showcase ahead of the Assembly polls, due in March. “The BJP did nothing for the state’s development. All they can do now is stoke communal sentiments to win votes,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
28-08-2021||India||Congress: Baghel, Amarinder ahead in loyalty test amid infighting||The Congress on Friday continued to grapple with infighting in Chhattisgarh and Punjab, but chief ministers Bhupesh Baghel and Amarinder Singh have so far held onto the support of the majority of the legislators. Over the past 24 hours, both Baghel and Amarinder have put up a show of strength but that does not seem to have put a lid on the power struggle in either state. Baghel returned to the national capital on Friday afternoon and held a three-hour meeting with Rahul Gandhi, the second time the leaders have met this week. Baghel said Rahul had accepted his invitation to visit Chhattisgarh next week, seen as an indication that for now a change in chief minister was unlikely. Asked if he would step down to make way for senior minister and bugbear T.S. Singh Deo, Baghel said AICC general secretary in-charge P.L. Punia had already cleared the air on the matter. Punia had said there had been no agreement on rotation of chief ministers at the time of government formation in 2018. Rahul had met Singh Deo, the Chhattisgarh health minister who has been pressing for a change of guard due to differences with the chief minister, on Tuesday. In making out a case for replacing Baghel, Singh Deo has been claiming that there had been a power-sharing agreement according to which he should be made chief minister now as the state government is at the half-way point of its five-year term. The majority of the Chhattisgarh Congress legislators, including ministers, have been camping in Delhi since Thursday to show their support to Baghel. In Punjab, chief minister Amarinder attended a dinner on Thursday organised by a loyalist where 58 MLAs and eight MPs were present. The Congress has managed to force Malwinder Singh Mali, whose controversial remarks on Kashmir had put the party in a tight spot, to quit as adviser to state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Sidhu, who has had testy ties with Amarinder, lashed out saying he cannot be expected to be a dummy chief who is not allowed to take decisions. Addressing supporters in Amritsar, he said if given a free hand he would ensure the Congress stayed in power in Punjab for the next two decades, but he would not be able to do anything if he was not allowed to take decisions. The party in-charge of the state, Harish Rawat, was quick to respond that PCC chiefs were free to take decisions as per the Congress’s constitution and norms. “If they will not take decisions, then who will?” Rawat said. Gehlot angioplasty Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has been hospitalised for angioplasty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
28-08-2021||India||Nine ECMO machines installed in Cuttack hospital||Critical Covid-19 patients in Odisha now won’t need to be airlifted to places like Calcutta or Hyderabad for the costly but crucial ECMO treatment. They can now avail of this facility at the SCB Medical College and Hospital, Cuttack, where nine ECMO machines were installed. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik dedicated them to the people of the state on Friday. ECMO (Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation) machines are used for the treatment of critically ill Covid patients, who can’t survive without continued ventilator support due to severe lung damage. It is also required for the treatment of patients with post-Covid complications. ECMO replaces the functions of the heart and lungs when the lungs cannot provide enough oxygen or get rid of enough carbon dioxide from the body, and when the heart cannot pump enough blood into the body. With nine ECMO machines the unit at the SCB Medical College and Hospital has become the biggest ECMO unit in eastern India in the government sector. The Odisha government decided to set up the ECMO treatment facility in Odisha after losing some eminent people to Covid-19 such as director Vigilance Debasis Panigrahi and eminent educationist and advisor of  Odisha Adarsha Vidyalaya Sangathan, Bijay Kumar Sahoo. Both had to be airlifted outside the state in critical condition for ECMO treatment but still succumbed to the disease. Dedicating the ECMO machines to the state at the SCB Medical College, Naveen said, “The ECMO treatment is very costly. But the state will provide the treatment free of cost to the patients. Patients will not have to pay a single pie.” Naveen also visited the ECMO units and doctors explained to him how it worked. He also warned people not to be casual while adhering to the Covid guidelines. “The pandemic is yet to be over. All need to remain cautious for the impending third wave.” Naveen also said that experts have warned about the high vulnerability of children to the disease during the third wave. Additional chief secretary (Health) P.K. Mohapatra told The Telegraph, “ECMO treatment is very costly. We have information about private hospitals charging Rs 1 lakh per day for this treatment. But here patients will get treatment free of cost. We have trained our people to run the ECMO machines. On Saturday, five critically ill patients will be admitted to SCB for ECMO treatment.” Sources said the patient at least needs to spend around Rs 10 lakh for this treatment. The AIIMs Bhubaneswar has also set up two ECMO machines to cater to the needs of critical patients. Anticipating a third wave of Covid-19, the state government has approved an emergency Covid response plan. It has asked the district collectors to set up dedicated pediatric care units at different public health care facilities and establish 50-bedded hospitals at selected health care units. “Under the Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness Package (Phase 11), the state focuses on preparing to meet the situation arising out of the Covid emergency and strengthening the public health system for epidemic preparedness,” said officials. The state had already experienced a severe second wave of Covid-19. Collectors have been instructed to ensure availability of antigen and RTPCR test kits and to establish RT-PCR labs and procure essential drugs and stock them in the different medical hospitals. However, high Covid-19 death rate in Odisha remains a cause of concern for the state government even though the number of positive cases are on the decline. The state recorded 69 more deaths due to the pandemic in the last 24 hours taking the total number of deaths in the state to 7,697 However, social activists have alleged that there was a huge mismatch between the death figures cited by the government and actual casualties during the last one year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-268
