29-08-2021||India||Police lathi-charge on farmers in Karnal triggers protests in Punjab||Farmers in Punjab blocked highways for two hours on Sunday in protest against the police lathi-charge on their Haryana counterparts as the neighbouring state government defended the police action, which a farm union alleged led to one death. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday defended the police action against protesting farmers in Karnal, saying they promised a peaceful protest but hurled stones at police and blocked highways. Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala too condemned farmers’ violence in Karnal but promised action against a duty magistrate who was caught on camera telling police to “break farmers’ heads” during their protest. A day after the police action in Karnal, a farm union leader accused police of causing death to a farmer, allegedly injured in the lathi-charge, but Karnal Inspector General of Police Mamta Singh refuted the allegation, saying that he died of natural causes. Owing allegiance to various farmer bodies, the protesters in Punjab burnt effigies of the BJP-led Haryana government for using "force" on farmers in Karnal. Around 10 people were allegedly injured on Saturday as police lathi-charged a group of farmers disrupting traffic movement on a national highway while heading towards Karnal to protest against a BJP meeting. The two-hour-long agitation in Punjab that started at 12 noon also inconvenienced commuters, who got stuck in traffic snarls at several places. The protest disrupted vehicular traffic at many places and affected routes along the Jalandhar-Pathankot highway, Ludhiana-Chandigarh highway, Amritsar-Ganganagar highway and Ferozepur-Zira road. Khattar on Sunday defended the police action against protesting farmers in Karnal, saying they promised a peaceful protest but hurled stones at police and blocked highways. Khattar made the assertion in Karnal amid the opposition’s attack on his government over the police lathi-charge. “If they had to protest, they should have done it peacefully, no one would have any objection to that. They had earlier assured that they will hold peaceful protests. But if they hurl stones at police, block highways, the police have to take steps to maintain law and order,” said Khattar. Among the Opposition leaders, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu also condemned the police action in Karnal against the farmers, saying it was an attack on the fundamental rights of every Indian. “Deplorable assault on the protesting farmers is an attack on Fundamental Rights of every Indian … earned after innumerable sacrifices during the freedom struggle, It impinges and impedes on the spirit of the Constitution and Breaks the Backbone of India''s democracy !!,” Sidhu tweeted. Haryana BKU (Chaduni) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni, meanwhile, claimed a farmer, Sushil, died of a heart attack after suffering injuries in the lathi-charge in Karnal. Karnal IGP Mamta Singh, however, refuted Chaduni’s allegations, saying the deceased farmer was not among the injured. The farmer had his food at his home in the evening and went to sleep but was found dead in the morning, she said. “The family did not even lodge any complaint nor was any postmortem done. The cremation was done by the family,” she added. Chaduni, meanwhile, on Sunday said a meeting of farmer leaders will be held in Karnal on Monday to discuss the future course of action in reply to the police lathi-charge. BKU leader Rakesh Tikait too met some of the injured protesters in a Karnal hospital on Monday. Condemning farmers’ violence in Karnal, Chautala also promised action against a duty magistrate, a 2018-batch IAS officer, who was caught on camera telling police to “break farmers’ heads” during their protest. “The IAS officer''s video has gone viral. Using such language by an IAS officer is condemnable,” said Chautala. “Definitely, whatever action is deemed fit, the government will take it,” he said. The deputy chief minister, however, also condemned the farmers'' violence, including stone-pelting, during their protest in Karnal. “The kind of action which was seen from the other side (by protesting farmers), do you support that?” he asked reporters. He said he was “saddened by the events”, but questioned the ultimate motive of farmer leaders. “I am saddened by the events, but I want to ask through the media where are those 40 (farmer union) leaders…after all what is their ultimate motive,” Dushyant asked reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
29-08-2021||India||Police investigation standard 'very poor' in large number of Delhi riots cases, observes court||A court here has said that the standard of investigation in a large number of 2020 northeast riots cases is “very poor” and sought the intervention of the Delhi Police Commissioner. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav made the observations while framing charges against one Ashraf Ali for allegedly attacking police officials with acid, glass bottles and bricks during the communal violence on February 25, 2020. “It is painful to note that in a large number of cases of riots, the standard of investigation is very poor,” the Additional Sessions Judge (ASJ) said, adding that in a majority of cases investigating officers (IOs) have not been appearing in court.                 Furthermore, ASJ Yadav said the police hardly bother about taking the investigation to a logical end after filing half-baked charge sheets, due to which the accused, who have been named in multiple cases, continue to languish in jails. “This case is a glaring example, wherein victims are police personnel itself, yet the IO did not bother to collect the sample of acid and to have its chemical analysis. The IO has further not bothered to collect the opinion about the nature of injuries,” he noted in an order dated August 28. Besides this, the judge said that IOs of the riot case have not been briefing the prosecutors for arguments on charges and are merely e-mailing pdf of the charge sheet to them on the morning of the hearing. He also directed the copy of the order in this matter to be sent to the Commissioner of Delhi Police “for his reference and directing the taking of remedial steps”. The sessions judge further said that it is high time that the DCP of North-East District and other higher officers take notice of the observations taken by him and take immediate remedial action required in the matters. “They are free to seek the assistance of experts in this regard, failing which there is a likelihood of injustice being caused to the persons involved in these cases,” Vinod Yadav added. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi in February 2020, after violence between those supporting and opposing the Citizenship (Amendment) Act spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and over 700 injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
29-08-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi attacks Centre with hashtag ‘IndiaOnSale’ on Twitter||Upping the ante against the government over its asset monetisation pipeline scheme, the Congress plans to take the issue to the grassroots level with a series of press conferences by its leaders across the country. The opposition party alleged the Union Government resorting to selling "family silver" proves the "gross incompetence" of the Modi Cabinet in effectively managing the Indian economy. "The country is talking about friend-monopoly," Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said with the hashtag "IndiaOnSale" on Twitter to attack the government. Speaking in the same vein, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is committed to the welfare of his "crony friends". "The aim is to profit crony friends. Modi ji is committed to welfare of his friends and the assets of the country are no more in safe hands," he said. He also alleged that to rub salt on the wounds of common people who are suffering amid a declining GDP growth, the prime minister has been extracting hard-earned money from their pockets and filling his own coffers. "He has now decided to sell the country's valuable assets worth Rs 6 lakh crore -- roads, rail, mines, telecom, power, gas, airports, ports, sports stadium and whatnot," the Congress spokesperson alleged. As part of its nationwide plan to take the issue to the common people, Congress leader Mukul Wasnik will address the media in Guwahati in Assam on August 31 and Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge on September 1 in Hyderabad, party sources said, The series of press conferences started with Rahul Gandhi holding the first in Delhi earlier this week. Besides Wasnik, another prominent member of the 'Group of 23' leaders who wrote to Sonia Gandhi seeking a Congress overhaul - Shashi Tharoor - has also been roped in and he will address the media in Kashmir. Another leader Sachin Pilot, who revolted against the party's own government in Rajasthan, will address the media in Bangalore, while Milind Deora will hold a press conference in Cochin. Senior leader and former finance minister P Chidambaram will hold a press conference on September 3 in Mumbai while Ajay Maken in Raipur on the same day. A host of other Congress leaders will address the media including Bhupesh Baghel in Lucknow and Digivjaya Singh in Patna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
29-08-2021||India||Bengal logs 650 new Covid-19 cases, 6 fresh fatalities||West Bengal's Covid-19 tally rose to 15,47,548 on Sunday as 650 more people tested positive for the infection, while six fresh fatalities pushed the state's coronavirus death toll to 18,423, a health bulletin said. North 24 Parganas district registered the highest number of new cases at 88, followed by Calcutta (87) and South 24 Parganas (59). Two fresh fatalities were recorded in Hooghly, and one each in Calcutta, North 24 Parganas, Nadia and Kalimpong districts, it said. The state now has 9,070 active cases, while 15,20,055 people have been cured of the disease so far, including 683 in the last 24 hours, the bulletin said, adding that the recovery rate improved to 98.22 per cent. Bengal has tested over 1.69 crore samples for Covid-19 to date, it said, adding that the positivity rate stood at 1.58 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
29-08-2021||India||Start-up culture now vibrant in India, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that the start-up culture has become very vibrant in India with youngsters in even smaller cities embracing it, and asserted that it is a sign of India's bright future. In his monthly 'Mann ki Baat' radio broadcast, Modi also noted that space sector reforms in the country have caught the people's imagination and expressed confidence that a large number of satellites in the coming days will be developed by youngsters from universities, labs and other sectors. The prime minister touched upon a host of topics, including India's rich spiritual tradition and the boost the sporting culture has received after the performance in the Tokyo Olympics, in the address and also paid glowing tributes to hockey legend Dhyan Chand, saying he conquered the world of hockey for the country. The National Sports Day is celebrated every year on August 29 to mark Dhyan Chand's birthday. Noting that India won an Olympic medal in men's hockey after over four decades, he said youths are now drawn towards sports and their parents are happy to back them. “This itself is a great tribute to Dhyan Chand,” Modi said. Asserting that the young population's mindset has undergone a sweeping change, he said it is now keen on "new destinations and new goals by taking new paths and having new aspirations". The momentum the sporting culture has received must be further advanced, he said, calling for sports competitions at the village level. "Let us all countrymen strive to further this momentum as much as we can, contributing whatever we can. Let us transform the mantra of 'Sabka Prayas' (everyone's effort) into reality," he said. Modi said the Tokyo Olympics have created a major impact, and India's achievements may not be a lot compared to some countries but are enough to bolster the people's belief. "Today, it is not that the youth is just watching sports. The youth is also looking at possibilities associated with sports...They now want to surpass conventional ways and adopt new disciplines," he said. Similarly, young persons are moving away from family traditions, expressing the wish to launch or join a start-up and are willing to take risks. He said, "Today, the startup culture is expanding even to smaller cities and I am seeing it as an indication of a bright future. Just a few days ago, toys in our country were being discussed. Within no time this caught the attention of our youth and they too resolutely decided to work towards positioning Indian toys in the world with a distinct identity." Acceptance of mediocrity had crept into people's mindset earlier but the young minds are now focusing on excellence, he said. Noting that the world has been paying heed to Indian spiritual traditions and philosophy, the prime minister said people also have a responsibility to carry forward these great traditions. "Whatever was temporary and perished has to be left behind, but what is timeless has to be carried forward. Let us celebrate our festivals, understand their scientific meaning, and the connotation behind them. There is an underlying message in every festival," he said, wishing people a happy Janmashtami, which falls on Monday. Noting that the Vishwakarma Puja will be observed in the coming days, he said the festival is essentially an ancient Indian practice of paying tributes to different skills Modi also mentioned an FM radio station in Gujarat's Kevadiya through which radio jockeys are working to promote Sanskrit. He said the ancient language, through its thoughts and medium of literary texts, nurtures knowledge and also strengthens national unity. The prime minister also urged people to continue to maintain COVID-19 precautions. "More than 62 crore vaccine doses have been administered in the country, but still we have to be careful, be vigilant," he said. In the broadcast, he also played his conversation with an American woman, Jadurani Dasi, who is connected to ISKCON and specialises in Bhakti Arts. The prime minister also mentioned the 'Water Plus City' campaign going on in Indore, which has consistently topped the ranking in the Swachh Bharat campaign. 'Water Plus City' means a city where no sewage is dumped into any public water source without treatment, he noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
29-08-2021||India||Govt extends deadline for various tax compliances, VsV payments||The income tax department on Sunday extended the deadline for various compliances, including filing of statement for equalisation levy and remittances. The deadline for filing the Equalisation Levy statement in Form-1 for the Financial Year 2020-21 has been extended till December 31, against the original due date of June 30. The quarterly statement in Form 15CC to be furnished by authorised dealers in respect of remittances made for June and September quarter, can now be filed by November 30 and December 31 respectively. The original due date for filing this statement was July 15 and October 15 respectively. In a statement, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said on consideration of difficulties reported by the taxpayers and other stakeholders in electronic filing of certain forms it has been decided to further extend the due dates for e-filing of these forms. In a separate statement, the CBDT announced extending the deadline for making payments under the direct tax dispute resolution scheme Vivad Se Vishwas (VsV) by a month till September 30. However, taxpayers have the option to make payments till October 31, with an additional amount of interest. Also, the due dates for electronic filing of forms related to intimation by pension funds and sovereign wealth funds too have been extended. Intimation to be made by Pension Fund and sovereign wealth fund in respect of investment made in India for the June and September quarter, which is required to be furnished by July 31 and October 31, would now have to be furnished by November 30 and December 31 respectively. The CBDT also extended the due date for uploading of declarations received in Form 15G/15Hfor the June and September quarter till November 30 and December 31 respectively. The original due dates were July 15 and October 15 respectively. The deadlines are being extended as glitches marred the functioning of new income tax portal 'www.incometax.gov.in', launched on June 7. The Finance Ministry had last week ‘summoned’ Infosys CEO Salil Parekh to explain why issues continued to plague the portal developed by the software major. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, in the meeting with Parekh on August 23, expressed ‘deep disappointment’ over persisting glitches for more than two months after portal launch and gave him time till September 15 to resolve all issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
29-08-2021||India||Amit Shah’s plan to remit all cases through ED to harass opposition, says Derek O'Brien||Trinamool Congress MP Derek O'Brien on Sunday slammed the Centre for harassing the opposition, alleging that the Union home minister has drawn up a plan for remitting all cases through the Enforcement Directorate. O'Brien's comments came a day after the ED summoned TMC's Diamond Harbour MP and national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and his wife for questioning in a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal scam. "A sparrow in Delhi tells me that new CBI chief may have directed a few top officials not to act too brazenly. Harassing the opposition only benefits one party. So HeMan (HM) has a new plan. He is now remitting all cases through the Extremely Dedicated (ED) director who obeys HM, the TMC national spokesman said on Twitter. Reacting to his remarks, BJP West Bengal spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said O'Brien was casting aspersions on the CBI in an unfair manner. He also said the ED is a highly credible independent organisation. "The TMC sees the invisible hand of the BJP in everything," Bhattacharya said. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had on Saturday also accused the Centre of letting loose its agencies on her nephew Abhishek in the coal scam case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
29-08-2021||India||Changing power situation in Afghanistan challenge for India, says Rajnath||The changing power equation in Afghanistan is a challenge for India, prompting a rethink of strategy and the Quad initiative underscored it, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Sunday. The Defence Ministry is seriously considering the formation of Integrated Battle Groups (IBGs) as quick decision-making is a key aspect during war time, he said addressing the Defence Servicee and Staff College at nearby Wellington. "The changing equation in Afghanistan is a challenge for us...These situations have forced our country to rethink its strategy. We are changing our strategy and the formation of Quad underlines this strategy," he said. Quad (Quadrilateral security dialogue) comprises India, the US, Japan and Australia. The Taliban insurgents stormed Afghanistan days ago capturing all major cities in a matter of days, two weeks before the US was set to complete its troop withdrawal after a vexatious two-decade war and the Kabul airport attack has left dozens dead and many injured. On IBGs, the Minister said these groups would not only facilitate faster decision-making but also increase the number of integrated fighting units. A reform initiative, 'Tour of Duty' was being considered by the government and it would be a game changing reform as it would help reduce the average age of military and make it more agile. Without naming Pakistan, Singh said, "After losing two wars, one of our neighbouring countries has started resorting to proxy war, and terrorism has become an integral part of its state policy." "If the ceasefire (between India and Pakistan) succeeds today, it is because of our strength. The cross-border attacks in 2016 changed our reactionary mindset to a proactive mindset, which was declared in 2019. It was further strengthened by the Balakot air strike," he added. On the India-China border standoff, the Defence Minister lauded the Army for behaving intelligently and the security forces once again proved that the nation is committed to face any enemy at any time and in any situation, to ensure national security regardless of the cost. An unilateral attempt was made last year to change the status quo on the border. "There too, we faced our adversary with a new dynamism," Singh said. Changes in spheres like the military power, trade, communication, economy and political equation could be clearly seen. In this era of globalisation, no nation could be left untouched by these changes happening around the world, he said. In such a situation, keeping the nation's security preparedness in proportion to these changes or a step ahead of them is the need. "Ever since our country became independent it has been the endeavour of enemy forces to create an atmosphere of instability within the country through one or the other means. Taking the history of the last 75 years, it seems that we have inherited the challenges," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
29-08-2021||India||Focus on Covid-19, staff shortage affected patients most, says Maha health survey||Focus on the Covid-19 pandemic, led to the postponement of several types of surgeries, staff shortage at hospitals were among the factors that affected patients in Maharashtra, as per a recently concluded survey. In a release issued on Saturday, the Jan Arogya Abhiyan, a non-profit public health campaign involving activists, experts and NGOs, which carried out the survey, said, “Cesarean section procedures, trauma care etc took a hit, especially in rural parts of the state.” The survey was carried out in July this year and covered 122 primary health centres (PHCs), 24 rural hospitals and 14 sub-district hospitals in 17 Maharashtra districts, namely Akola, Amravati, Ahmednagar, Osmanabad, Aurangabad, Kolhapur, Gadchiroli, Chandrapur, Thane, Nandurbar, Parbhani, Palghar, Pune, Beed, Yavatmal, Solapur and Hingoli, the JAA release informed. At least 11 hospitals that were surveyed did not treat accident cases due to the pandemic, 22 rural and sub-district hospitals stopped performing C-section procedures and and 12 did not perform a wide range of surgeries, forcing many to rush to private hospitals and bear the resultant high costs, it said, adding that cataract operations, minor surgeries and sterilisation procedures were also postponed. Highlighting the shortage of staff at health facilities, the survey report informed that only 51 per cent of the surveyed PHCs had one permanent medical officer, which meant only one doctor for around 30,000 people, and only 53 per cent had permanent nurses. "Around 46 per cent rural hospitals and 30 per cent sub-districts hospitals do not have specialist doctors. As many as 81 per cent posts for psychiatrists, 63 per cent posts for surgeons, 47 per cent posts for anesthetists, 26 per cent posts for gynecologists, 23 per cent posts for pediatricians and 47 per cent posts for dentists are lying vacant in rural hospitals, the report said. JAA activist Girish Bhave said poor rural health infrastructure was a matter of concern as people there are excessively depended on government facilities, while activist Shailaja Aralkar said the pandemic showed public sector health facilities are the mainstay of people, especially in rural and tribal areas, and these must be strengthened.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
29-08-2021||India||Bharat Biotech scouts international partners for Covaxin manufacture||Indian vaccine maker Bharat Biotech is seeking international manufacturing partners as it targets a billion doses of its COVID-19 vaccine each year, the company said on Sunday. COVAXIN, the company's home-grown COVID-19 vaccine approved for emergency use in India, is one of two shots driving the country's massive vaccination programme. But Bharat Biotech has struggled to boost output, missing supply commitments to the Indian government, which is also relying on a version of the AstraZeneca vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India and Russia's Sputnik V vaccine. On Sunday, the company rolled out the first batch of COVAXIN shots from a facility in Ankleshwar in western India that has the capacity to produce more than 10 million doses per month. Bharat Biotech said it was exploring opportunities with its international partners who have expertise in commercial-scale manufacturing of inactivated viral vaccines. "We want to ensure that Bharat Biotech can ably meet the demand for COVAXIN such that individuals across the country, and the globe, have access to the vaccine," chairman and managing director Krishna Ella said in a statement. Last month, Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya told parliament that Bharat Biotech would supply 25 million doses in July and 35 million in August, less than half what the government had initially expected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
29-08-2021||India||DGCA extend suspension of scheduled international passenger flights till September 30||The suspension of scheduled international passenger flights due to the coronavirus outbreak has been extended till September 30, aviation regulator DGCA said on Sunday. “However, international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case-to-case basis,” it added. Scheduled international passenger services have been suspended in India since March 23, 2020 due to the coronavirus pandemic. But special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May 2020 and under bilateral "air bubble" arrangements with selected countries since July 2020. India has formed air-bubble pacts with around 28 countries, including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. Under an air-bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories. The circular issued by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) also said the suspension does not affect the operations of international all-cargo services and flights specifically approved by it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
29-08-2021||India||Weatherman fears below-normal monsoon this year, less rainfall in August too||The rainfall in August has been deficient by 26 per cent so far, with shortfalls in two successive months triggering fear of a below-normal monsoon this year. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD) data, the rainfall in July was seven per cent less than normal. "August recorded 26 per cent deficiency till yesterday (August 28)," IMD Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra said, adding that the shortfall has been recorded in north and central India. June recorded 10 per cent more rainfall. The IMD will soon release a forecast for September, he said. The shortfalls in two successive months in the four-month Southwest Monsoon season from June 1 to September 30 have triggered fear of a below-normal monsoon this year. The IMD had earlier predicted a normal monsoon this year. Skymet Weather, a private weather forecasting agency, has downgraded their forecast to a below normal monsoon this year. According to the IMD data, the country received 10 per cent less rainfall from June 1 to August 28. The IMD had predicted normal rainfall for August (94 to 106 per cent of Long Period Average or LPA), but it appears that the forecast will be off the mark. Rainfall over the country as a whole during the second half (August to September) of the 2021 Southwest Monsoon season is most likely to be normal with a tendency to be in the positive side of the normal, the IMD had said earlier this month. Data released by the Agriculture Ministry on Friday showed that the area of paddy cultivation was marginally down by 1.23 per cent to 388.56 lakh hectare so far in the 2021-22 kharif season due to deficit rains in some states. The IMD has four meteorological divisions covering different parts of the country. Northwest India which covers the north Indian plains and the hill states has recorded 13 per cent less rainfall than normal. The central India division which encompasses Gujarat, Goa, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha and Maharashtra has recorded 14 per cent deficiency. The east and northeast India division that includes Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and the northeastern states has recorded eight per cent deficiency. The south peninsula division which covers all the southern states has recorded 5 per cent more rainfall than normal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
29-08-2021||India||Muslim dosa seller threatened for naming kiosk after Hindu deity in Mathura||Police here have filed an FIR after some people threatened a Muslim dosa seller and vandalised his cart because his business was named after a Hindu deity. A video clip of the incident circulating on social media showed the men tearing down the board which said Shrinath dosa corner. One of the men was heard saying Hindu people will mistakenly come to eat his stall. Another man was heard in the purported video asking the dosa seller why he was not using a Muslim name for the stall. The group also chanted a slogan calling "Krishna devotees" to "purify" Mathura. The incident took place on August 18 at Vikas Bazar under Kotwali Police Station area, when a few men accosted Irfan, the dosa seller. The police registered a case on Saturday under section 427 (mischief causing damage) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code against unknown people. Deterrent action would be taken against the law breakers, SP city Martand Prakash Singh said, adding the hunt for the accused is on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-262
29-08-2021||India||How cops nabbed Mysore gang rape culprits||Bus tickets and liquor bottles near the crime scene and call detail records from mobile towers are said to have led the police to the gang that was allegedly involved in the rape of a college student near here on August 24, official sources said on Sunday. Police on Saturday announced the arrest of five people from neighboring Tamil Nadu, including a juvenile, while they are on the lookout for a sixth suspect. According to sources, police had begun the investigation based on the information provided by the victim's male friend, who was assaulted during the crime, that the culprits were speaking in Tamil. During a search of the crime scene, police stumbled upon bus tickets from Talwadi in Tamil Nadu to Chamarajanagar in Karnataka, and also some liquor bottles found at the scene bore the seal of Tamil Nadu excise department. Besides, analysis of the call detail record from mobile towers close to the scene of the crime, Chamarajanagar and Tamil Nadu, led them to finally zero in on the suspects, they added. With all these leads, police left for Tamil Nadu on Friday and upon reaching there in the mid-night, they swung into action which resulted in the arrest of the five suspects early on Saturday, sources said. The five, who frequented Mysuru often for labour jobs, even did loading and unloading at the APMC yard, and were reportedly involved in robbing lone travellers, young couples and women, before returning to their native place. They accosted the college student and her male friend near the Chamundi foothills on the outskirts of Mysuru on August 24 and tried to rob them. When they did not succeed, they allegedly assaulted him and raped her, police sources said. Meanwhile, the court has remanded the accused to 10 days police custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
29-08-2021||India||Other poster will have Nehru’s image, says ICHR official||Facing flak from opposition parties for excluding Jawaharlal Nehru from a poster celebrating the 75th year of independence, the Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR) said the controversy over the issue is "unnecessary" as other posters being released in the coming days will feature Nehru. "We are not trying to undermine anyone's role in the movement," a top ICHR official said, dismissing criticism on the issue, and added the poster was one of the many released as part of the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations. ICHR, an autonomous body under the Ministry of Education, has been running a series of lectures and seminars on the theme of the Independence struggle under the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' celebration. "This is only one of the posters released as part of the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations. There will be several others and Nehru will be featured in them... controversy around this is unnecessary," the ICHR official told. As part of the lecture series, the council has invited various historians and academicians to speak on different topics related to India's freedom movement. Opposition parties had targeted the government for the exclusion of the image of the country's first prime minister from the poster and suggested that it had been done deliberately. Jairam Ramesh, Shashi Tharoor and Pawan Khera were among the Congress leaders, who took to social media and shared the screenshot of the ICHR website showing photographs of Mahatma Gandhi, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Bhagat Singh, B R Ambedkar, Sardar Vallabhai Patel, Rajendra Prasad, Madan Mohan Malviya and Veer Savarkar while Nehru's picture was missing. Congress leader P Chidambaram on Sunday hit out at the ICHR, accusing it of bowing to hate and prejudice, and asked whether it would omit Henry Ford while celebrating the birth of the motor car or Wright brothers while celebrating the birth of aviation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
29-08-2021||India||Pensioners seek Narendra Modi's intervention in income tax exemption||Pensioners' body Bharatiya Pensioners Manch has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to exempt pension from income tax to provide relief to the senior citizens in the country. In a letter shot off to the prime minister on August 25 this year, the body argued that if the pensions of the Members of Parliament and Members of Legislative Assemblies are not taxable, then why does the government levy income tax on the pension of retired employees. "Every retired person is paid pension as a superannuation fund for his/her livelihood on account of serving the nation for so many years. "Now, the question is raised why the income tax is levied on pension (of retired employees). This is not an income for any service or work. If MPs and MLAs pension is not taxable, why our pension is taxed?" the body stated in the letter. The body in its first all-India conference held at Shirdi (Maharashtra) on July 23, 2018 has resolved that pension should be exempted from income tax. Since then, this issue is continuously being raised by this organisation with the finance minister, but there is no response from the ministry, it stated. In the letter to the PM, the body added, "Bharatiya Pensioners Manch urges upon you to kindly intervene into the matter and direct the Ministry of Finance to consider this long pending genuine demand of pensioners. An early and immediate action with a line of reply to this organisation will be highly appreciated." The body also stated that it wrote to the Minister of Finance on the issue on August 23, 2018, on December 14, 2018 and on February 25, 2021. Referring to their earlier letters written to the Minister of Finance, the body said, "We are sorry to say that nothing has been done so far in this regard." The body also referred to an apex court order where the Supreme Court had held that pension is valuable right vested in a government servant and that the right to receive pension is a property under Article 31 of the Constitution. If it is denied to an employee, a writ of mandamus could be issued to the state to properly consider the claim of the pensioner for payment of pension according to law, it added referring to the SC ruling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
29-08-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh: Minor boy falls ill after getting Covid jab, probe ordered||A 16-year-old boy fell ill after he was allegedly administered a Covid-19 vaccine in Bagh Ka Pura locality in Ambah tehsil of Morena district in Madhya Pradesh, prompting authorities to order a probe on Sunday. A senior health official said the probe will find out how the teenager was given the shot even though the government is yet to roll out any anti-Covid 19 vaccination programme for minors. Pillu, son of Kamlesh Kushwaha, was administered the jab at a vaccination centre, nearly 35 km away from the Morena district headquarters, on Saturday following which his head spun and he started frothing from the mouth, sources said. Doctors in Ambah referred him to Gwalior for treatment, they said. After Pillu fell ill, his family created a scene at the vaccination centre. "We are checking whether Pillu reached Gwalior or not. According to unconfirmed reports he returned to his house instead of going to Gwalior," Morena District Chief Medical and Health Officer (CM&HO) Dr AD Sharma told PTI. He said a team was sent to Pillu's house this morning. "We are checking whether Pillu was suffering from epilepsy," he added. Dr Sharma said "An inquiry has been ordered to ascertain how the minor boy was given the COVID-19 shot". Pillu's Aadhaar card will be checked, Dr Sharma added. According to Pillu's Aadhaar card, he is 16-year-old and a resident of Kok Singh Ka Pura. His date of birth mentioned on the card is January 1, 2005, said people who know the boy's family. Indigenously developed Zydus Cadila Covid-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D, which received approval for Emergency Use Authorisation from the Drug Controller General of India recently, will be administered to people 12 years and above, the Department of Biotechnology had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
29-08-2021||India||Ayodhya is nothing without lord Ram, says Kovind||Ayodhya is nothing without Lord Ram, President Ram Nath Kovind said on Sunday as he visited the city, where a Ram temple is under construction. "Without Ram, Ayodhya is not Ayodhya. Ayodhya exists where there is Ram. Lord Ram resides permanently in this city, and hence in the true sense, this place is Ayodhya," the president said while inaugurating a Ramayan conclave there. He was also scheduled to visit the Ram Janmabhoomi construction site where the temple is coming up, after a historic verdict by the Supreme Court in 2019. Apparently referring to his name, Kovind said, "I feel that when my family members named me, they were possibly having the feeling of respect and affection towards Ram Katha and Lord Ram, which is seen in the common public." Elaborating further on Ayodhya, the President said, "The literal meaning of Ayodhya is the one with whom it is impossible to wage a war. Owing to the courage and power of Raghuvanshi kings Raghu, Dileep, Aj, Dashrath and Ram, their capital was considered unconquerable. Therefore, the name of this city as 'Ayodhya' will always remain relevant." Highlighting the love of Lord Ram towards tribals, he said, "During his days of exile, Lord Ram did not call armies of Ayodhya and Mithila to fight the war. He gathered the Kols, Bheels, Vaanars and formed his army. In his campaign, he included 'Jatayu (vulture)'. He strengthened love and friendship with the tribals." A postal cover of the Ramayan conclave was also unveiled by the President on the occasion. Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Deputy Chief Ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma, and Union Minister of State for Railways and Textiles Darshana Vikram Jardosh were also present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
29-08-2021||India||Delhi Metro authorities build separate toilets for transgenders||In a bid to enhance accessibility to passengers belonging to the transgender community, the DMRC has allowed them access to separate toilet facilities at its metro stations, which were hitherto meant only for persons with disability, officials said on Sunday. Besides, any transgender who wishes to use gender-based toilet as per self-identified gender can also continue to do so, they say. At present, Delhi Metro has 347 such separate toilets across its stations, a senior official said. "In its efforts to provide safe space and prevent gender discrimination against transgenders, Delhi Metro on a priority basis has designated its existing toilets meant only for 'Divyangjans' so far, to be accessible for the transgenders too," the DMRC said in a statement. To guide transgenders to these toilets, bilingual signages (English and Hindi both), along with symbols for both categories -- 'Persons with Disability' and 'Transgenders' -- have been installed adjacent to these toilets. The provisions of section 22 of the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019, mandates adequate welfare measures for the transgender persons at all public buildings including public toilet facilities. The Delhi Metro network spans about 390 km with 285 stations (including the Noida Greater Noida Metro Corridor and Rapid Metro, Gurgaon).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
29-08-2021||India||Manohar Lal Khattar accuses farmers of hurling stones at cops||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has defended the police action against protesting farmers in Karnal, saying assurances of a peaceful protest were given, but stones were hurled at cops and a highway was blocked. Around 10 people were injured on Saturday as police allegedly lathicharged a group of farmers disrupting traffic movement on a national highway while heading towards Karnal to protest against a BJP meeting. Talking to reporters in Karnal on Saturday evening after the meeting, Khattar said the protesting farmers had earlier assured the government that their protests will be peaceful. If they had to protest, they should have done so in a peaceful manner, no one would have any objection to that. They had earlier assured that they will hold peaceful protests. But if they hurl stones at police, block highway, then police will take steps to maintain law and order, said Khattar. Referring to the BJP meeting in Karnal, Khattar said it was a state-level meeting of the party and I condemn the call which they (farmers' outfits) had given to oppose it." "Obstructing the function of any organisation, on account of any reason, in itself is anti-democratic, he added. Haryana's Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Navdeep Singh Virk had earlier said only four protesters were injured, while ten cops sustained injuries in the incident. He said some protesters pelted stones at the cops and tried to attack them. Karnal Police IG Mamta Singh had said, We used mild force because they were blocking the highway. Some stones were also pelted towards the police. Mild force was used to disperse the protesters . Meanwhile, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday met some of the injured protesters in a hospital in Karnal and condemned the brutal lathicharge by police. Tikait said the conspiracy to attack the farmers in Karnal is clear from the orders of the Duty Magistrate, who is ordering the police to break the heads of farmers and lash them with sticks . The government is using lathis to suppress the voice of farmers, but it is mistaken, Tikait said. Haryana BKU (Chaduni) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni said a meeting of farmers' outfits will be held in Karnal on Monday to discuss future course of action in the wake of the alleged lathicharge. To protest the lathicharge incident, he said the call for road blockade was until Saturday evening and added further course will be decided on Monday. Farmers protesting against the central farm laws have been opposing public functions of the BJP-JJP combine in Haryana. Several farmers had gathered at the Bastara toll plaza near Karnal, responding to a call given by the BKU. The use of force by police had invited severe criticism from Opposition parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
29-08-2021||India||Start-up culture becoming vibrant in India, says Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that the start-up culture has become very vibrant in India with youngsters in even smaller cities embracing it, and asserted that it is a sign of India's bright future. In his monthly 'Mann ki Baat' radio broadcast, Modi also added that the space sector reforms in the country have caught people's imagination and expressed confidence that a large number of satellites in the coming days will be those on which youngsters from universities, labs and other sectors would have worked upon. The prime minister touched upon a host of topics, including India's rich spiritual tradition and the boost the sporting culture has received after its performance in the Tokyo Olympics, in the address and also paid glowing tributes to hockey legend Dhyan Chand, saying he conquered the world of hockey for the country. The National Sports Day is celebrated every year on August 29 to mark Dhyan Chand's birthday. Noting that India won an Olympic medal in the men's hockey after over four decades, he said the youth is now drawn towards sports and their parents are happy to back them. This itself is a great tribute to Dhyan Chand, Modi said. Asserting the young population's mindset has undergone a sweeping change, he said it is now keen on new destinations and new goals by taking new paths and having new aspirations. The momentum sporting culture has received must be further advanced, he said, calling for having sport competitions at the village level. "Let us all countrymen strive to further this momentum as much as we can, contributing whatever we can. Let us transform the mantra of Sabka Prayas (everyone's effort) into reality," he said. Noting that the world has been paying heed to Indian spiritual traditions and philosophy, the prime minister said people then also have a responsibility to carry forward these great traditions. "That which was temporary and has perished has to be left behind but what is timeless has to be carried forward. Let us celebrate our festivals, understand their scientific meaning, and the connotation behind them. There is an underlying message in every festival," he said, wishing people a happy Janmashtami, which falls on Monday. Noting that the Vishwakarma Puja will be observed in the coming days, he said the festival is essentially an ancient Indian practice of paying tributes to different skills Modi also mentioned an FM radio station in Gujarat's Kevadiya through which radio jockeys are working to promote Sanskrit, and said the ancient language through its thoughts and medium of literary texts nurtures knowledge and also strengthens national unity. Modi also urged people to continue to maintain Covid-19 precautions. "More than 62 crore vaccine doses have been administered in the country, but still we have to be careful, be vigilant," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
29-08-2021||India||Chidambaram slams Indian Council for Historical Research for omitting Nehru's image||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Sunday hit out at the ICHR for omitting the photograph of Jawaharlal Nehru from the first digital poster to celebrate the 75th year of India's Independence, and said the explanation given is ludicrous. He accused the member secretary of the Indian Council for Historical Research (ICHR) of bowing to hate and prejudice and asked him whether he would omit Henry Ford while celebrating the birth of the motor car or Wright brothers while celebrating the birth of aviation. Ford was the first to invent the motor car and the Wright brothers were credited for building and flying the world's first aircraft. "ICHR Member-Secretary's explanation for the omission of Jawaharlal Nehru from the first digital poster to celebrate 75 years of independence is ludicrous," he said on Twitter. "After bowing down to prejudice and hate, it is best the Member-Secretary shuts his mouth," he also said. "If he was celebrating the birth of the motor car, will he omit Henry Ford? If he was celebrating the birth of aviation, will he omit the Wright brothers? If he was celebrating Indian science, will he omit C V Raman," Chidambaram asked in a series of tweets. The exclusion of Nehru's image from the poster of the 'Azaadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' celebrations by the ICHR has triggered a controversy with opposition parties slamming the government for it and dubbing it as "petty and atrocious".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
29-08-2021||India||NCB arrests actor Armaan Kohli in drugs case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday arrested actor Armaan Kohli in connection with a drugs case, an official said. Kohli was questioned by the NCB on Saturday after banned drugs were allegedly recovered from his house here. An NCB team raided Kohli's house on Sunday evening and later took him to the agency's office in south Mumbai as some narcotics were found at his house, an official had said. Sources on Sunday said a small quantity of cocaine was found at Kohli's residence, following which a case was registered against him and he was arrested. A drug peddler, Ajay Raju Singh, was also arrested under the NDPS Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-263
29-08-2021||India||India records over 45,000 new Covid-19 cases, active infections rise||India added 45,083 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,26,95,030, while active cases registered an increase for the fifth consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll has climbed to 4,37,830 with 460 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases have increased to 3,68,558 comprising 1.13 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.53 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 8,783 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 17,55,327 tests were conducted on Saturday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 51,86,42,929. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.57 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 34 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.28 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 65 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,18,88,642, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 63.09 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Sunday morning. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. More than 73.8 lakh doses have been administered in a 24 hours span, according to the ministry. The 460 new fatalities include 153 from Kerala and 126 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,37,830 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,37,026 from Maharashtra, 37,261 from Karnataka, 34,856 from Tamil Nadu, 25,080 from Delhi, 22,807 from Uttar Pradesh, 20,466 from Kerala and 18,417 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
29-08-2021||India||Police lathicharge protesting farmers in Karnal, several injured||Several farmers agitating against the farm laws suffered head injuries in a lathi-charge ordered by the Haryana administration in Karnal on Saturday to break their protest against a visit by chief minister and BJP leader Manohar Lal Khattar to his constituency. A video captured a person resembling the Karnal City sub-divisional magistrate, Ayush Sinha, purportedly giving instructions to police that no one should be allowed to breach the barricades and they can “break heads” if needed. As Prime Minister Narendra Modi was dedicating to the nation the renovated memorial to the Jallianwala massacre of 1919 on Saturday evening, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) was quick to draw a parallel. The Congress described the BJP-JJP government in Haryana as “General Dyer government”. Reginald Dyer was the army officer who ordered the shooting of peaceful protesters in Jallianwala Bagh, Amritsar, in 1919. The video clip, tweeted by many including BJP parliamentarian Varun Gandhi, showed a man in a white shirt purportedly instructing the police to beat up the farmers, and the cops chorusing “Yes, Sir”. Excerpts from the video: Man in white shirt: It’s simple. No matter what, no one should pass from here – I’m making it clear. Break his head. (People) will not pass. I’m the duty magistrate. I’m giving it in writing. Hit with the lathi straightaway. Any doubts? Will you hit? Chorus: Yes, Sir. Man: Will anyone breach this (barricade)? Chorus: No, Sir. Man: Raise your lathis and hit straightaway. There’s no room for doubt, no need for a direction. Under no circumstances should this barricade be breached. We have adequate forces... there’s no issue. Will you hit them with your lathis? Chorus: Yes, Sir. Man: Wear helmets. Not one person should pass from here. If they do, their head should be broken. Asked by reporters about the video that has gone viral, SDM Sinha said: “I have not seen the video.” Referring to the police action near the toll plaza, he said: “They had begun throwing stones, and the CrPC provides for the use of proportionate force.” Asked about the nature of the directives attributed to him, the SDM said he would check the video and respond. The Telegraph tried contacting him and sent him a message but there was no response. The briefing recorded on the video appeared to have taken place near Gurdwara Dera Kar Sewa in Karnal where the farmers had decided to converge before leaving for the protest against the arrival of legislators to attend the meeting called by Khattar. In order to prevent this gathering, the district administration had barricaded all the roads leading to the gurdwara. The lathi-charge took place near the Bastara toll plaza. The police said only mild force was used but pictures on social media showed people in blood-soaked clothes. The police action saw the Samyukta Kisan Morcha – spearheading the agitation – call for an impromptu blockade of all the highways in Haryana till evening to press for the release of the farmers who had been rounded up. By evening, 15 detained farmers had been let off. According to the SKM, the farmers were protesting against the visit by Khattar and other BJP leaders to Karnal as has been the practice since the protests began. In both Haryana and Punjab, the protesting farmers have been organising protests against the BJP and its allies, making it difficult for the ruling party legislators and workers to visit their areas for political work. In a statement later in the evening, the SKM said: “The government’s brutal action, and the completely illegal and atrocious orders of the SDM to the police force deployed in Karnal today to ‘break the heads’ of the protesters are condemnable and bring disgrace and shame to our democracy. While PM Modi was doing a Jallianwala Bagh virtual rally, the Jallianwala Bagh unleashed in Karnal is doubly shameful.” The SKM demanded the immediate dismissal of Sinha. Khattar sought to justify the police action, saying that if people blocked roads, the police would act. “They are free to raise their issues in a democratic and peaceful manner. If they block highways and throw stones at the police, the police will also take steps to maintain law and order. We will look into it and take necessary action,” Khattar told reporters after the lathi-charge. Haryana’s additional DGP (law and order), Navdeep S. Virk, said some protesting farmers present at the Bastara toll plaza had blocked the Karnal highway and tried to head to the city. “When the officials present told them they could not proceed further, they got aggressive and some of them threw stones at the police. After that, as per provisions of the law, the police used light force and removed them from there. Four farmers and 10 police personnel sustained injuries,” Virk said. Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Phir khoon bahaya hai kisan ka, sharm se sar jhukaya hai Hindustan ka (Again they have shed farmers’ blood and forced India to hang her head in shame).” Tweeting in Hindi, CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury said: “This is the dictatorship of the BJP government. We condemn it. Such a brutal attack on the farmers is a reflection of the government’s failures. There is still time, Modi government, agree to the farmers’ demands and repeal the three farm laws and enact a law guaranteeing an MSP. The government should apologise to the farmers and provide them free treatment.” The BJP’s Varun Gandhi posted the video and tweeted: “I hope this video is edited and the DM did not say this…. Otherwise, this is unacceptable in democratic India to do to our own citizens.” Additional reporting by PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
29-08-2021||India||Delhi University clears proposal to name new colleges after Savarkar, Sushma Swaraj and Arun Jaitley||The Delhi University vice-chancellor is poised to acquire the sole authority to name new colleges and centres established under the varsity after any member of an approved list of personalities that includes Hindutva icon V.D. Savarkar and late BJP leaders Sushma Swaraj and Arun Jaitley. The list of personalities and the proposal to vest the VC with the absolute authority to name new institutions has triggered controversy, with several academics saying it was aimed at pleasing the government of the day. So far, new institutions were named after consultations in the university’s academic council and executive council. If the new proposal, approved by the academic council, gets the green light from the executive council that will discuss it on Tuesday, the VC will be able to take unilateral decisions on the matter. University sources said the proposal was likely to be approved. The proposal comes at a time Delhi University has allotted 16 acres of land in the Najafgarh area and 40 bighas in Fatehpur in south Delhi for the establishment of new colleges. Apart from Savarkar, Sushma and Jaitley, the personalities after whom the VC can name new institutions are Swami Vivekananda, Vallabhbhai Patel, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, social reformer Savitribai Phule, former Delhi chief minister Choudhary Brahm Prakash and former Reserve Bank governor and one-time Delhi University vice-chancellor C.D. Deshmukh. “This list is politically biased. It seems it has been prepared to appease the ruling party of the day,” Rajesh Jha, a former executive council member, said in allusion to some of the names. He questioned the vesting of absolute naming powers with the VC. “Usually, the names are chosen (after discussions) on the basis of local conditions, the connections the personalities had to the area, and suggestions received from funding agencies such as the Delhi government,” Jha said. “But a fixed list is unprecedented. Has the government got any fixed list for naming development projects?” Santosh Kumar Rai, a history professor with Delhi University, said the naming of institutions had always been tied to political preferences. “Naming is always a political act.... However, it’s always history that judges the personalities, and the justification and symbolism associated with the naming of institutions,” Rai said. An email sent to vice-chancellor P.C. Joshi about the concerns expressed by critics of the proposal was unanswered. Nehru missing Savarkar’s picture has found a place alongside leaders of the freedom struggle in an online poster published by the Indian Council of Historical Research, but Jawaharlal Nehru has been excluded. The poster on “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav” — the yearlong celebrations of the 75th anniversary of Independence — features pictures of Mahatma Gandhi, Rajendra Prasad, Vallabhbhai Patel, Madan Mohan Malaviya, Bhagat Singh, Savarkar, B.R. Ambedkar and Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. A historian of the independence movement who didn’t want to be quoted said the ruling dispensation’s “harshness to Nehru” was a way of getting back at Gandhi indirectly. “Gandhi is so tall that he cannot be touched or targeted even now. Targeting Nehru is as good as attacking Gandhi. After all, Nehru was Gandhi’s choice to lead the nation after Independence,” he said. “Also, Nehru is identified with western culture, scientific knowledge, etc, which are unacceptable to the diehard ‘India lovers’.” The historian said Savarkar had started out as a robust nationalist before “his personality changed”. “Savarkar wrote boldly wrote about the rebellion of 1857 when the early nationalists, especially the moderates, had not gathered courage to overtly criticise the British. He called it the First War of Independence,” he said. “Savarkar had differences with Gandhi’s method of non-violence. But his personality changed after he was imprisoned.” He underlined how Savarkar had apologised to the British to secure his freedom and never done anything against the Raj after that. “He started Hindutva politics. The Hindu Mahasabha and Savarkar are as responsible for the Partition as the Muslim League and Muhammad Ali Jinnah. Savarkar believed that Hindus and Muslims cannot live together — and that if they do, one must accept a subordinate position,” the academic said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
29-08-2021||India||Single Covaxin dose equivalent to two doses in uninfected persons after Covid: ICMR||A single dose of the homegrown Covaxin in people already infected with Covid-19 is equivalent to two doses in uninfected persons, the country’s health research agency said on Saturday after a preliminary study. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said if these findings are confirmed through large population studies, a single dose of Covaxin may be recommended to previously infected people so that uninfected individuals may benefit under limited vaccine supplies. A natural infection with SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, triggers a range of immune responses, including virus-neutralising antibodies, that last for many months. The ICMR research is part of efforts to understand how natural immune responses might influence response to vaccines. Studies in the UK and the US had earlier this year found elevated immune responses in previously infected recipients of the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines and comparable to the levels seen after two doses in people without prior infections. Similarly, the AstraZeneca vaccine — Covishield in India — also elicits increased levels of neutralising antibodies in people with a history of Covid-19. But there was no similar data on Covaxin until now. The ICMR study has indicated that a single jab of Covaxin in previously infected persons serves as a powerful immune booster dose. Although based on a small sample of recipients, the study has found that a single dose in prior-infected individuals generates an even stronger response than two doses in uninfected individuals. The levels of one set of antibodies, for instance, increased in prior infected recipients from an average of 48 units before the first dose to 167 units after the first dose and to 211 after the second dose. In persons without prior infections, the levels rose to 2 units after the first and to 86 units after the second dose. Another set of antibodies increased to 76 units after the first dose in previously infected recipients and to 56 units after the second dose in uninfected recipients. The ICMR study examined immune responses in subsets of 30 Covaxin recipients with a history of prior Covid-19 infection and 80 recipients who had not had infections. “The number of participants in the study is small. One should be guarded in extrapolating its inferences at the population level,” said Samiran Panda, the chief of epidemiology at the ICMR and a senior author of the study published on Saturday in the Indian Journal of Medical Research. The findings, however, bolster evidence for suggestions that the Covid-19 vaccination policy could be tweaked to offer only a single dose to Covid-19-recovered individuals as this would free up vaccine doses to prioritise two shots to all uninfected individuals. “Our study provides scientific data,” Panda told The Telegraph. “A policy change now will be a too quick expectation and premature at this stage,” he added, saying the results would need to be corroborated through large population studies. India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign has administered more than 620 million doses, but only about 142 million (or 15 per cent) of the estimated 943 million adults have received two doses required for full immunisation. The campaign, whose pace has been constrained by limited supplies of vaccine doses, on Friday for the first time achieved a record 1 crore doses administered in a single day. Health experts have said the campaign needs to administer 1 crore doses every day to fully immunise all adults by December-end.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
29-08-2021||India||Five labourers arrested for raping college student in Mysore||Five labourers allegedly involved in the rape of a college student near Mysore earlier this week have been arrested, Karnataka director-general and inspector-general of police Praveen Sood said on Saturday. The five, who frequented Mysore, are from the “labour class” engaged in jobs such as wiring, carpentry and driving, Sood said, adding that they hailed from Tirupur in Tamil Nadu. “According to preliminary interrogation, one of them is a juvenile — a 17-year-old — subject to confirmation,” he said. The sixth suspect is absconding. They accosted the college student and her male friend near the Chamundi foothills on the outskirts of Mysore on August 24 and tried to rob them. When they did not succeed, they allegedly assaulted him and raped her, police sources said. “It’s a case of robbery first,” Sood said, adding that the culprits also demanded Rs 3 lakh. However, he said there was no blackmail angle to the incident so far. Sood said the accused persons used to come to Mysore for some work at Bandipalya APMC yard, a wholesale vegetable market, from the neighbouring state. “Before going back (home to Tamil Nadu), they had the habit of drinking (alcohol) and partying. They were there on that day (August 24). What happened thereafter is known to all,” Sood said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
29-08-2021||India||Modi govt’s attempts to break unity between Kargil and Leh trigger shutdown in Ladakh||The Narendra Modi government’s alleged attempts to break the fledgling unity between Muslim-majority Kargil and Buddhist-dominated Leh triggered a shutdown in the Union Territory of Ladakh on Saturday, forcing the Centre to invite the top leadership of the region for talks. A key Kargil leader claimed that Union home minister Amit Shah had to step in to pacify the Ladakh leadership. Ladakh has emerged as a major worry for the Centre after the rival Buddhist and Muslim leaderships joined hands early this month to demand full statehood for Ladakh with special status akin to that the undivided and erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir used to enjoy before August 2019. Ladakh’s Buddhists, most of whom live in Leh, had cheered the August 5, 2019, dilution of Article 370 and the bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir into two Union Territories. Their age-old demand for a Union Territory was fulfilled but they immediately raised a fresh call for “Ladakh for Ladakhis”, seeking exclusive rights for Ladakh residents over the region’s land and jobs. Ladakh’s Muslims, who live mostly in Kargil and are wary of domination by the more influential Buddhists, had bitterly opposed the August 5, 2019, decisions and had been fighting for the restoration of statehood and Article 370 provisions. The two districts have floated the Leh Apex Body and the Kargil Democratic Alliance to fight for their rights. The fresh crisis erupted on Friday when Union minister of state for home Nityanand Rai arrived in Leh for an outreach and invited for separate rounds of talks the political, student, social and religious bodies that make up the two alliances but did not call the apex leadership as a whole. Barring the BJP, no other party or prominent group met the minister on Friday. The Leh Apex Body and the Kargil Democratic Alliance also asked all organisations to boycott the minister and observe a Ladakh bandh on Saturday. Appearing taken aback by the decision, Rai invited both groups for talks on Friday night but the call for a shutdown was not withdrawn. The Leh Apex Body and the Kargil Democratic Alliance, however, jointly met Rai on Saturday. The bandh paralysed life in Leh and Kargil. Asgar Karbalai, co-chairman of the Kargil alliance, said it was the decision to boycott the minister and call for a shutdown that had forced the Centre to invite them for talks. “As a result of the shutdown call, Union home minister Amit Shahji personally called up Mr Thupstan Chewang, the chairman of the apex body (in Leh) and told him that the government had no intention to ignore it or the Kargil Democratic Alliance. He said there was some confusion and that he would tell the MoS (home) to contact Chewang,” Karbalai said. Chewang, a former BJP MP who left the party last year to fight for special status for Ladakh, on Saturday told reporters that they “suddenly” learnt on Friday that the junior home minister was in Leh and had invited the various groups individually while ignoring the apex leadership. “This made us suspicious of the intention of the government. We had made it clear that whatever solution was to come should come through talks with the Leh Apex Body and the Kargil Democratic Alliance. Perhaps (by ignoring the two apex outfits and inviting the constituents separately), there was an attempt to break our unity, create a wedge between Leh and Kargil or between the various groups (in Leh and Kargil),” Chewang said. After meeting minister Rai on Saturday, the Ladakh leadership tried to play down the objections they had voiced earlier and pointed to “vested interests”. “Some vested interests are creating a divide. We could see at the meeting today that the (home) ministry had no role (in not inviting the leadership earlier). The meeting was cordial and we raised all our demands,” co-chairman of the Kargil Democratic Alliance and former Kargil MLA Qamar Ali Akhoon said. He said Rai had given them firm assurance that a committee would be set up soon to look into their demands. The joint leadership is fighting for full statehood for Ladakh, exclusive rights over land and jobs for Ladakhis, filing up of thousands of vacancies in government departments and granting two Lok Sabha and two Rajya Sabha seats to the region. Ladakh, which was home to just 2 per cent of the population of undivided Jammu and Kashmir, now has one MP in the Lok Sabha and none in the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
29-08-2021||India||Bihar braces for fourth round of deluge with major rivers in spate following heavy rainfall||Bihar braced for the fourth round of deluge on Saturday with major rivers in spate following heavy rain across the state and neighbouring Nepal. The previous rounds of floods have hit 27 out of the 38 districts, affecting and displacing several lakhs of people and killing at least 43. The situation started worsening after the barrages built along the Indo-Nepal border started releasing excess water in the rivers flowing into Bihar since Friday morning. Around 3.5 lakh to 4 lakh cusecs was released continuously from the Valmikinagar barrage into the Gandak river in West Champaran district, while 1.73 to 2.25 lakh cusecs was released from the Birpur barrage into the Kosi in Supaul district on Friday. The discharge level decreased on Saturday but was still considered high. It was in the range of 2.5 to 3 lakh cusecs in the Gandak and 1.9 to 2.1 lakh cusecs in the Kosi. One cusec (cubic feet per second) is the flow of 28.32 litres of water per second at any particular point of reference.The huge discharge into the Gandak and Kosi increased their flow above the danger level at several places, bringing fresh floods in West Champaran, Supaul and other districts. The local administrations have started evacuating people from villages located in the low-lying areas. The floodwaters are expected to spread again in many districts where people were gathering themselves up after suffering over the last three months. The water will slowly make its way to the Ganga and also increase its level. Other rivers including the Adhwara, Kamla Balan, Burhi Gandak, Lal Bakeya and Mahananda are still flowing above the danger level. West Champaran, East Champaran, Sheohar, Gopalganj, Siwan, Araria, Supaul, Begusarai, Madhubani, Madhepura, Jehanabad and Nalanda districts were severely affected by the deluge in June, July and August. At present, Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Khagaria, Saharsa, Patna, Vaishali, Lakhisarai, Bhagalpur, Saran, Katihar, Munger, Samastipur, Purnea, Sitamarhi and Kishanganj districts are flood-hit, affecting around 30 lakh people and displacing over 2 lakh. The 43 people who lost their lives in the floods this year are from these districts. “Much water is being released into the Gandak and Kosi rivers. We are keeping a watch on the development. We will have to assess the situation further to find out the areas where the floodwaters spread,” deputy chief minister Renu Devi, who also holds the disaster management portfolio, told The Telegraph. She said the state government was taking all steps to provide relief to the flood-affected by deploying the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) in the affected areas, while engineers from the water resources department are working to protect the embankments along the rivers. “We are running 327 community kitchens for the flood-hit people. Altogether 17 teams of the NDRF and 12 teams of the SDRF are conducting rescue and relief operations in the affected areas. We are also giving Rs 6,000 each to the affected families,” she added. The state government is also assessing the damage to crops and infrastructure in the flooded areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-264
