30-08-2021||India||Covid: Early indication of third wave in some states, says senior govt doctor||A senior doctor of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said there were early indications of a third wave of the coronavirus pandemic in some states that did not experience the severity of the second wave of the viral disease that wreaked havoc in several places across the country, including Delhi. Dr Samiran Panda, head of the ICMR’s Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases, said many states had imposed restrictions early, learning from the crisis witnessed in Delhi and Maharashtra earlier this year. “So, they did not see many transmissions,” Dr panda was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. He further spoke about the fourth national serological survey that revealed more than 50 per cent of children in the country were infected by the virus, a figure slightly less than adults. Amid widespread fears of an imminent third wave hitting the younger generation hard, Dr Panda said there was no need to panic unnecessarily. “States have that examined their epidemiology and vaccinated their adults can slowly open schools,” he added. The country registered 42,909 new cases on Monday, taking the cumulative infection tally has risen to 32,737,939. A lot of states have gradually started resuming physical classes for students even as concerns over transmission of the virus remained high. Several experts have predicted a peak in the third wave between October and November this year and cautioned against relaxations of curbs, while calling for preparing the healthcare infrastructure to deal with the crisis if it arose. India has so far administered 64 crore vaccines against the deadly virus with more than 14,74,02,213 crore eligible adults having received both doses of the jab. Besides Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Serum Institute’s Covishield, Russia-made Sputnik V has been administered in small numbers, while Johnson & Johnson and Moderna Inc are negotiating for legal indemnity. The government recently approved the emergency use of Zydus Cadila's vaccine, ZyCoV-D children above 12 years of age and the doses are likely to become available by October.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
30-08-2021||India||Khattar, Amarinder exchange words over farmers' protest||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday accused the Congress government in Punjab of fuelling farmers' unrest in his state, provoking a sharp response from his Punjab counterpart. The exchange took place two days after farmers protesting over laws enacted at the Centre several months back clashed with the Haryana Police in Karnal. Addressing a press conference on the completion of 2,500 days of a BJP-led government in Haryana, Khattar blamed Punjab for the farmers' picking his state for their protests. There is a clear hand of the Punjab government in it, the CM charged. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh hit back a little later, accusing the BJP, including the Haryana CM, of taking refuge in shameful lies over the horrendous attacks on protesting farmers. Repeal the farm laws instead of blaming Punjab for the mess your party has put the farming sector in, Singh said in a statement. Also on Monday, a kisan mahapanchayat at Gharaunda in Karnal issued an ultimatum to the Haryana government. The meeting demanded the registration of cases by September 6 against those responsible for Saturday's lathi-charge. Otherwise, on September 7, farmers will lay siege at the secretariat in Karnal, a farm leader warned. Khattar admitted that the choice of words by Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha, who was caught on camera purportedly telling police to "break the heads" of agitating farmers if they crossed the line, was wrong. But he defended the police action itself. About 10 farmers were injured in the clash. Police said several of their men too were hurt. Haryana Deputy CM and Jannayak Janta Party leader Dushyant Chautala had earlier said the magistrate will face action. But Khattar said, "We will see whether action has to be taken. The DGP is probing the matter and will submit his report. But the officer should have not used such words." In Karnal, Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni demanded a compensation of Rs 25 lakh and a government job for the family of a farmer who allegedly died after suffering injuries in the lathi-charge. But the state government maintained that he died at his home and was not among the injured. While issuing the "ultimatum" to the Haryana government, Chaduni also demanded Rs 2 lakh as compensation for each of the injured farmers Apart from the Punjab government, Khattar blamed Congress leaders like former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and the Left for the farmers' protests. He slammed Amarinder Singh for seeking his resignation over the police action in Karnal. He said it should be Singh who should quit as around 80 per cent of farmers protesting at Delhi's borders appeared to be from his state. Farmers are happy in Haryana," he claimed. Cautioning farmers against violent protests, the CM claimed that society at large was turning against them. There are limitations on every freedom. There is no absolute freedom," he said. Amarinder Singh trashed Khattar's claim that Haryana police used force only after the farmers disturbed law and order, and pointed at the SDM's controversial instructions. He accused Khattar of defending the "criminal assault" on farmers and warned that the BJP would pay for its "sins" in the upcoming assembly elections in various states. Recalling that farmers had held protests across Punjab for two months before shifting focus to the Delhi border, the CM said there had been no violence in the state. Even recently, when sugarcane farmers staged protests, we negotiated with them and resolved the issue instead of using brute force to try and subjugate them, he added. Responding to Khattar's remark that farmers gave Amarinder Singh ladoos' after the resolution of the sugarcane issue, the Punjab CM said, You repeal the farm laws and not just the farmers but even I will share ladoos with you.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
30-08-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath imposes complete ban on meat and liquor trade in Mathura||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday imposed a complete ban on the sale of liquor and meat in Mathura.  The officers concerned are directed to make plans for the ban as well as for the engagement of people involved in such activities in some other trade, he said.  The chief minister was speaking at the Krishnotsava 2021 programme here.  He suggested that those engaged in liquor and meat trade may take up selling milk in order to revive the glory of Mathura, that was known for producing huge quantity of animal milk.  Adityanath also prayed to Lord Krishna to eliminate the novel coronavirus infection.  Every effort will be made to develop Brij Bhumi and there will be no dearth of funds for this. We are looking at a blend of modern technology and the cultural and spiritual heritage for the development of the region, he said.  The priest-turned-politician also complimented Prime Minister Narendra Modi for giving a new direction to the country.  He said places of faith neglected since long are being revived now.  Cabinet ministers Laxmi Narain Chaudhary and Shrikant Sharma were also present on the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
30-08-2021||India||Jallianwalla Bagh revamp sparks outrage against Centre||The renovation of Jallianwala Bagh has unleashed a wave of outrage and criticism against the government on social media.  Most of the criticism has been directed at the hi-tech galleries that have replaced the stark, unadorned passage. General Dyer had led his men through this passages and ordered them to open fire on the thousands of men and women holding a peaceful protest on the day of Baisakhi thus killing more than 1,000 Hindus and Sikhs died 102 years ago, creating one of the darkest chapters of Indian history. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had opened the renovated complex on Saturday, saying it is the country's duty to protect its history. Many people on social media have accused the government of destroying history in the name of renovation. Others alleged that politicians rarely have a feel for history. "This is corporatisation of monuments, where they end up as modern structures, losing the heritage value. Look after them without meddling with the flavours of the period these memorials represent," tweeted historian S Irfan Habib. The sharpest criticism so far came from CPM's Sitaram Yechury, who said, "Only those who stayed away from the epic freedom struggle can scandalise thus". The Congress too slammed the government citing the history of the right wing in India. "Devastated to hear that Jallianwala Bagh, site of the Amritsar Massacre of 1919, has been revamped -- which means that the last traces of the event have effectively been erased. This is what I wrote of the memorial in my book, describing a space that has now itself become history," tweeted  historian  Kim A. Wagner. While inaugurating the renovated complex on Saturday, PM Modi said horrors like the Jallianwala Bagh massacre and the Partition speak of the sacrifices made for India's freedom and should not be forgotten. "It is not right for any country to ignore such horrors of its past," he said, noting that August 14 is now being observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day. He had also tweeted a preview of the lights installed in the complex. "At a time when we are celebrating Amrut Mahotsav, we should strengthen our nation''s foundation and take pride in it," the Prime Minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
30-08-2021||India||ED being used to target MVA leaders, alleges NCP||The NCP on Monday said Enforcement Directorate (ED) actions against leaders of the ruling MVA in Maharashtra were politically motivated and driven by vendetta. Speaking to reporters here, NCP spokesman and cabinet minister Nawab Malik said the BJP demands action and the ED obliges immediately by sending notices and conducting raids on its political opponents. "This means that it (ED action) is politically motivated," Malik said. State NCP president Jayant Patil, who is also a minister, said the ED, which usually handles financial crimes, is being used to target leaders of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA). "It is not just the MVA, but everyone who takes a stand against the BJP (is targeted). The individual leaders will give a befitting reply," he said, criticising the ED actions against NCP leader Anil Deshmukh and Shiv Sena minister Anil Parab. The NCP is a key constituent in the Shiv Sena-led MVA government. The ED has summoned Parab for questioning on Tuesday in the money laundering case registered against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and others, officials said on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
30-08-2021||India||Khattar's anti-farmer agenda exposed, says Amarinder Singh||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar's "anti-farmer agenda" has been exposed as he defended the assault on peasants by accusing the Congress government in Punjab of fuelling the unrest against the Centre's three farm laws, Amarinder Singh said on Monday. Earlier in the day, Khattar put the onus of the unrest in his state against the Central legislations on the Amarinder Singh government in Punjab, the Congress and the Left. Hitting back, the Punjab chief minister said, "The BJP's adamant refusal to revoke the laws reflected the vested interests of the party and its leadership, which had once again placed their crony capitalist friends over the common man." Blaming the BJP squarely for the unrest, Amarinder Singh said the crisis would not have assumed such grave proportions had the BJP, including the Haryana chief minister and his deputy, heeded the farmers' concerns and empathised with them "instead of taking refuge in shameful lies for the horrendous attacks on the peaceful farmers". He said Khattar's "anti-farmer" agenda has been exposed as the Haryana chief minister tried to defend the criminal assault on protesting farmers by putting the onus of their agitation on Punjab. "Can't you see that the farmers of your own state are angry with you for your apathetic attitude towards them and your party's stubborn refusal to repeal the farm laws?" he posed. The farmers were fighting for their survival and did not need provocation from Punjab or any other state to protect themselves and their families, CM Amarinder Singh said. "Repeal the farm laws instead of blaming Punjab for the mess your party has put the farming sector in. The BJP will have to pay for their sins in the upcoming Assembly elections in various states and in every poll thereafter," he said. Around 10 people were allegedly injured on Saturday as police lathi-charged a group of farmers disrupting traffic movement on a national highway while heading towards Karnal to protest against a BJP meeting. A Kisan Mahapanchayat on Monday sought registration of a case against those involved in the lathi charge and threatened to lay siege to the secretariat there if their demands are not met by September 6. The Punjab chief minister said the Khattar government's repeated attempts to "forcibly end the farmers' agitation and the derogatory and obnoxious terms used against farmers by various BJP leaders, will backfire". Recalling that the farmers had held protests across Punjab for two months before shifting focus to the Delhi borders, Amarinder Singh said his state had not witnessed a single incident of violence during the period. "Even recently, when sugarcane farmers staged protests, we negotiated with them and resolved the issue instead of using brute force," he added. The Punjab chief minister said he and his government were firmly with the farmers in their anti-farm laws stance and were even giving compensation and jobs to the families of those who have died at the Delhi borders "because of the BJP's follies". "A government or a political party which allows such tragic and totally avoidable loss of lives to continue under its watch cannot survive," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
30-08-2021||India||Venkaiah Naidu asks DRDO scientists to intensify research to combat future pandemics ||Vice President Venkaiah Naidu on Monday asked the scientists of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) to intensify research to effectively combat any future pandemic. Around 25 scientists and technicians from Defence Institute of Physiology and Allied Sciences (DIPAS), one of the labs of the DRDO, met Naidu at his residence in New Delhi. "Interacting with them, Shri Naidu said that the pandemic has triggered unprecedented health crisis and severely impacted lives and livelihoods across the world," the DRDO said in a statement. Lauding DIPAS and other DRDO labs for rising to the occasion and developing various indigenous products for the treatment and management of Covid-19, he said that in the wake of the emergence of new coronavirus variants, it is important to be ever vigilant to effectively tackle any future threats, the statement noted. DRDO Chairman Satheesh Reddy briefed Naidu about various products and equipment developed indigenously by DRDO labs for treatment and management of Covid-19. "He expressed his gratitude to the Vice President for inviting the scientists and technicians and sharing his thoughts with them," the statement mentioned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
30-08-2021||India||SC irked as accused jailed for 11 years without framing of charges in the 1993 train blast case||"Convict him or acquit him," an anguished Supreme Court observed on non-framing of charges on an accused jailed for 11 years over serial blasts in multiple Rajdhani Express and other trains in 1993. Underlining the right to speedy trial, the top court sought a report from the special Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act court judge in Ajmer explaining why charges have not been framed against Hameer Ui Uddin. "The Special Judge, Designated Court, Ajmer, Rajasthan is directed to submit a report to this Court within a period of two weeks from the date of receipt of a certified copy of this order The report shall clarify why charges have not been framed," a bench of justices DY Chandrachud and M R Shah said. In its order passed recently, the bench said that to facilitate the submission of the report expeditiously, the registrar (judicial) will communicate a copy of the order to the judge directly as well as through the Registrar (Judicial) of the High Court of Rajasthan. During the hearing, advocate Shoeb Alam, appearing for Hameer Ui Uddin said the petitioner has been in custody since 2010 but charges have not been framed and trial is yet to commence. He said that detaining an accused indefinitely without trial is a gross abuse of rights of an individual under Article 21. Alam contended that the special TADA court ought to have granted bail to the petitioner as there is no prospect of the conclusion of the trial in the near future. "The allegations are yet to be proved in trial and there is no justification of pre-trial incarceration for 11 years," he said. Advocate Vishal Meghwal, appearing for the State, admitted that that charges have not been framed against the accused, but contended he was absconding for nearly 15 years. The bench then asked why the charges have not been framed when he has been in custody since 2010. "He is entitled to speedy trial. Convict him or acquit him, we have no problem with that but at least hold the trial. He cannot be kept in custody indefinitely without trial," the bench observed. Meghwal contended that the main reason for the delay in framing of charges is that one of the co-accused Abdul Karim Tunda is lodged in the Ghaziabad jail. "Then either you separate the trial or club the trial with his case but at least start the trial," the bench said. Alam said the Tunda case is not mentioned by the state in its counter-affidavit. In his plea filed through advocate Farrukh Rasheed, the petitioner has challenged the TADA court of March 27, 2019 rejecting his bail application. As per the prosecution case, on December 5-6, 1993, serial bomb blasts took place in Rajdhani express trains -- Bombay to New Delhi, New Delhi to Howrah, Howrah to New Delhi -- Surat-Baroda Flying Queen Express and Hyderabad-New Delhi AP Express. Two passengers lost their lives in the blasts and 22 suffered injuries. Five different cases were registered at respective police stations in Kota, Valsad, Kanpur, Allahabad and Malkaj-Giri. These cases were later transferred to the CBI and re-registered under TADA at Jaipur, Ahmedabad, Lucknow and Hyderabad. Investigation found that the bomb blasts were outcome of one single conspiracy and hence all cases were clubbed together. On August 25, 1994, the CBI filed chargesheet against 13 accused, who were arrested, and nine other absconding accused. Hameer Ui Uddin was shown absconding. The charge sheet alleged that he was one of the accused who carried bomb devices and explosive substances to Kanpur on December 5, 1993. Hameer Ui Uddin was arrested by the Uttar Pradesh Police and Lucknow Special Task Force on February 2, 2010 and was produced before the Ajmer TADA court on March 8, 2010 which remanded him to judicial custody. In 2010, an 8000-page charge sheet was filed against him under various provisions of TADA and Explosive Substance Act, Prevention of Damages to Public Property Act and the Indian Railways Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
30-08-2021||India||Don't reopen schools before kids are vaccinated, says Medanta chairman||Top heart surgeon Dr Naresh Trehan has warned of a potential medical disaster if authorities rush to open schools before children are vaccinated against Covid-19. He says India needs to look at the US where the number of kids being hospitalised with the virus has rocketed since schools reopened and avoid the same fate. “We should be patient for another two-three months till the vaccine arrives, children get vaccinated, and then they should be allowed to go to school but it seems we are in a rush right now to open school,” Trehan, chairman, Medanta Heart Institute in Gurgaon, said at the weekend. And there’s not long to wait before youngsters start getting vaccinated, Trehan said, noting that Zydus Cadila’s three-dose Covid-19 vaccine, developed in India, has just been granted emergency use authorisation for use in adults and children over 12 years. “The vaccine is now around the corner because the drug controller just approved the Zydus vaccine. So even if people get one dose, we know the protection goes up 30 per cent-to-50 per cent,” Trehan told news agency ANI. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has said the three-dose “needle-free” vaccine is likely to be available by the first week of October and the company says it expects to supply 10 million doses a month initially. The vaccine offers 66 per cent efficacy against moderate infection and 100 per cent protection against severe Covid-19 according to the company which conducted trials on 28,000 people, the largest coronavirus trial in India. There’s also Bharat Biotech’s homegrown Covaxin shot for which Phase 2 and 3 trials are underway for kids aged between two and 18. Dr Priya Abraham, director of Pune’s ICMR-National Institute of Virology, has called the interim data “very positive.” and said that “hopefully, the results will be available soon, which will then be presented to the regulators. So, by September or just after it, we may have Covid-19 vaccines for children.” Bharat Biotech also has included children in its one-shot nasal vaccine trial. Trehan warns that India with its limited medical resources can’t afford to let peadiatric cases spiral out of control. New daily infections have plunged from their second wave peak of 414,000 in May. Lately, the numbers have moved up from their 30,000-range lows to 45,000, but most of the cases are in Kerala and Maharashtra. Covid-19 seropositivity levels are high in many parts of the country, indicating exposure to the virus that could protect against infection. Double whammy But the double whammy of schools reopening and looming festivals could cause infection numbers to surge. The Central Government is warning that a third wave is imminent and Trehan warns, “if too many children fall sick, we don't have facilities to take care of them.” “There is a warning from Florida, which says that the hospitals are full with children and they don't have any facilities left,” he said. “So, we have to look at it in perspective for India where children are not being vaccinated at all,” he said. Some US doctors on the paediatric front lines say they are seeing more critically ill children than they have at any time of the pandemic and they blame the highly virulent Delta variant which devastated India during the second wave. India’s National Institute of Disaster Management said recently “paediatric facilities including doctors, staff, equipment like ventilators and ambulances are nowhere close to what may be required in case a large number of children become infected." Schools opening in states Across the country, state governments are reopening schools in a phased way. The Delhi government has decided to reopen schools from September 1 but online classes will continue. West Bengal plans to reopen schools after the Puja holidays as long as the Covid-19 situation doesn’t worsen. Schools have reopened in Karnataka for classes 9 and 10 this month but on the first day there was just 20 per cent attendance and online classes continue. Face-to-face classes have already resumed in Uttar Pradesh with 50 per cent capacity. Indian researchers also have begun recruiting children aged two-to-17 years for trials of the US vaccine Novavax, known abroad as Covovax, which is being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) that is also making Covishield, according to the Press Trust of India. The drug regulator has granted permission to SII to conduct phase 2-3 trials of Covovax to cover 920 children — half in the 2-11 age group and half in the 12-17 age group, PTI says. SII has said it is already conducting trials on the vaccine’s safety and efficacy on 1,600 adults in India. Trials needed to fix dose for kids While drugs for adults are frequently prescribed off-label at lower doses for children, vaccines need to be fine-tuned as kids’ immune systems respond differently to vaccinations from an adult’s immune systems. The key in trials is to determine the right dose size for children based on factors like weight and age to ensure effectiveness and minimise side effects. Novavax, a small US-based company, which aims to become a big Covid-19 vaccine distributor to lower-and-middle-income countries, is facing big hurdles on the US regulatory front that could seriously affect the rollout of its two-dose mRNA jab in India. Novavax has applied for Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) in India, Indonesia and the Philippines through SII, but earlier this month it delayed filing for regulatory approval with the US’ Food and Drug Administration for the third time this year. The company’s chief executive Stanley Erck said the company needed to get “validation work done” to demonstrate consistency in the vaccine’s manufacturing process.  But in the meantime, the US government has suspended its funding of the vaccine until the company resolves the FDA’s concerns. Last year, the Trump administration as part of its crash vaccine production drive handed Novavax a $1.75-billion contract for 100 million doses, despite the company never having brought a vaccine to market in over three decades. Problem for Serum Institute The New York Times quoted federal officials as saying it was unclear when or if the vaccine will be authorised for US distribution amid concerns over testing and quality control. And that could be a big problem for SII which has already begun manufacturing Novavax and is currently stockpiling the doses. The clinical trial protocol in India filed by SII uses the US Novavax candidate as a comparable reference to check the vaccine’s safety and ability to trigger an immune response. This means that unless the main Novavax is granted approval, SII can’t get approved in India. “We can’t launch Novavax’s vaccine unless we get a licence to launch it. The parent American company has some issues with the USFDA, which should be cleared by the end of October. We will get the license only when the company gets one from the FDA. We are trying to obtain the licence ahead of the parent company, but it’s an uphill task,” SII chairman and managing director Cyrus Poonawalla told ANI. He has mentioned January-February as a possible launch of a kids’ Novavax vaccine if all goes well. Novavax also has expanded its US trials to include paediatric patients aged 12 to 17. It’s clear though that adding the need to vaccinate those under 18 will further strain India’s available vaccine supplies. India will need at least 200 million doses to cater to the paediatric population. India just passed a milestone in giving the first vaccination to 50 per cent of its 950 million eligible adults. But only 15 per cent of adults are double-jabbed. Other vaccines There are other vaccines that could come on the Indian market for adults and children over the next year. Moderna, which has been given approval in India but is not yet available due to wrangling over legal protection sought by the company, has already launched trials of its vaccine in children under 12 in the US and is aiming to submit the data to the US regulator by late fall or early winter. Johnson & Johnson has been approved by India for emergency use and plans to make doses here but there is no availability timeline yet. It plans to start a trial in children as young as 12 of its one-shot vaccine this fall in the US. It’s not immediately known whether J&J has struck a deal with the government over indemnity issues. Pfizer, which has not yet applied to launch in India, has begun trials of their vaccines in children under the age of 12 in the US. India has also approved the Russian-made Sputnik V, and got 3 million doses at the beginning with plans to start domestic production in July or August. Now local production of Sputnik isn’t expected to start until next month with the goal of manufacturing more than 300 million doses annually. Meanwhile, Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Life Sciences is reportedly going to start phase-1 clinical trials of its locally developed Covid-19 vaccine soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
30-08-2021||India||Court allows dismissed cop Sachin Waze to get treatment at pvt hospital||A special court here on Monday refused to grant the National Investigation Agency (NIA) the custody of dismissed police officer Sachin Waze for questioning in the Antilia bomb scare case but allowed him to get admitted at a private hospital for the treatment of his heart ailment. The cost of such treatment is to be borne by Waze and his family, the court said. Waze, currently in judicial custody, had told the court through his lawyer that three of his arteries had ‘90 per cent blockage’ and that doctors had advised immediate surgery for the same. He urged the court to permit him to seek private medical treatment saying he did not wish to die in custody like tribal rights activist and Jesuit priest Stan Swamy. Swamy, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist link case, died on July 5, while awaiting bail on health grounds. Last week, the NIA had applied to the special court seeking the custody of Waze for two days, and of his co-accused and former police officer Sunil Mane for five days in the Antilia bomb scare case. Both accused, along with eight other accused arrested in the case, are currently in judicial custody. The special court on Monday also refused to grant the custody of Mane to the NIA. Previously, Waze was in the NIA custody for 28 days and Mane for 15 days. The NIA had sought further custody saying it wanted to question Waze and Mane to corroborate statements of witnesses in the case. The NIA had arrested Waze for his alleged involvement in placing an explosives-laden vehicle on Carmichael Road near billionaire Mukesh Ambani's residence Antilia on February 25. Later, he was booked for the murder of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran, who purportedly owned the car.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
30-08-2021||India||Rajnath reiterates need to solve India's border dispute with China through dialogue||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Monday that India wants a solution to the border dispute with China through dialogue and asserted that the government would never allow the sanctity of borders to be violated. The Modi government has made it clear to the forces that any unilateral action on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) should not be ignored, he said. Singh was delivering virtually the third Balramji Dass Tandon Memorial Lecture organised by Panjab University on the issue of national security. The defence minister said that there have been perception differences on the border with China. Despite this, there are some agreements, protocols which the armies of both countries follow to conduct patrols. Referring to the clashes in eastern Ladakh last year, Singh said Chinese forces had ignored the agreed protocols. "We cannot allow the Chinese Army PLA to act on the LAC in a unilateral manner under any circumstances. "That is what the Indian Army did that day in Galwan and bravely confronted the PLA soldiers and forced them to retreat, he said while terming it as a "historic" incident. India wants a solution to the border dispute with China through dialogue, the defence minister said and asserted that the government will never compromise on issues of the "country's borders, its honour and self-respect". "We will never allow the sanctity of borders to be violated," he said. Recalling the Galwan incident, he said the bravery, valour and restraint shown by the Indian Army are incomparable and unparalleled. In the first deadly clash in the border area in nearly five decades, 20 Indian soldiers were killed on June 15 last year in the Galwan Valley in fierce hand-to-hand combat with Chinese troops, triggering a large deployment of troops and heavy weaponry by both armies at the friction points in eastern Ladakh. In February, China officially acknowledged that five Chinese military officers and soldiers were killed in the clashes with the Indian Army though it is widely believed that the death toll was higher. In a significant forward movement towards the restoration of peace and tranquillity in the region, the Indian and Chinese armies completed the disengagement process and restored the pre-standoff ground position in Gogra in eastern Ladakh after 15 months. The development came after the 12th round of military talks between the two sides on July 31 at the Chushul-Moldo meeting point in eastern Ladakh. Earlier, the Indian and Chinese frontline troops had conducted the first synchronised disengagement at the south and north banks of the Pangong lake in February. The Army is trained to press the trigger on seeing the movement of the enemy, but the Indian Army has shown both courage and restraint while working with great maturity, Rajnath Singh said. He said despite this, questions were raised by some opposition leaders on the Army's capability. The defence minister said India has learnt a lot from the 1962 war against China.On improving infrastructure, he said that the Atal Tunnel project in Rohtang, which was on hold for a long time, was completed by the Modi government. This tunnel has strategic importance, he said. The Border Roads Organisation is developing infrastructure projects and all-weather connectivity was being given to Ladakh, he said, adding work on several alternative roads has started. It will also help the people who live in border areas as these people have strategic importance for us, the minister said. Keeping their interests in mind, it is necessary to strengthen the border infrastructure, he said. Referring to the situation in the Northeast, the minister said an era of peace has come in this region in the last seven years. There was a time when the entire region was in the grip of insurgency, he said and dubbed the restoration of peace in the Northeast as the biggest strategic victory of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's tenure. The minister said the government has succeeded in controlling Left Wing Extremism as well in the last seven years. When the BJP government was formed in 2014, as many as 160 districts were facing the Naxal problem, while this number reduced to 50 in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
30-08-2021||India||Covid restrictions at border with Kerala to continue: Official||Restrictions on the movement of people enforced at the border with Kerala will continue as there has been no change in the Covid-19 situation in Kerala, Dakshina Kannada district Deputy Commissioner K V Rajendra said. Giving a clarification on reports claiming that the Centre has lifted the requirement of RT-PCR certificates to cross the border, he said the Karnataka government's order mandating the RT-PCR test negative certificates for those coming to DK from Kerala is still in force. The order is meant to contain the spread of Covid-19 and the district administration will continue to implement the same, he said. Rajendra said more than 30,000 new Covid cases are being reported from Kerala daily and the test positivity rate in neighbouring Kasaragod district is around 12 per cent. In Dakshina Kannada, the positivity rate has been brought down to around 2 with a lot of effort and lifting of border restrictions will be like letting in new cases from Kerala. Though it is difficult to implement, the district has no other option than making the RT-PCR certificate mandatory, he said. The test positivity rate in Dakshina Kannada district came down to 1.81 per cent on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
30-08-2021||India||Rajasthan govt announces cash rewards for Paralympic medal winners||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday congratulated three Paralympic medal winners from the state, announcing cash rewards of up to Rs 3 crore for each of them. Shooter Avani Lekhara, who has won a gold medal at the Paralympic Games in Tokyo, will be given a cash reward of Rs 3 crore, while javelin throwers Devendra Jhajharia and Sundar Singh Gurjar will get Rs 2 crore and Rs 1 crore respectively for winning silver and bronze medals. All three players from Rajasthan have already been appointed to the post of assistant conservator of forest in the state forest department. "The players of the state have brought laurels to the country and the state by winning medals, we are very proud of them," Gehlot tweeted. Lekhara scripted history on Monday as she became the first Indian woman to win a gold medal at the Paralympics, firing her way to the top of the podium in the R-2 women's 10m Air Rifle Standing SH1 event. The 19-year-old from Jaipur, who sustained spinal cord injuries in a car accident in 2012, finished with a world record equalling total of 249.6, which is also a new Paralympic record. "Heartiest Congratulations to Jaipur's Avani Lekhara for winning first ever Gold for India in ShootingParaSport! What a superb performance by her in Women's 10m AR Standing SH1 Final as she created history! Entire nation is very proud of her. It's a great day for Indian sports!" Gehlot tweeted earlier in the day. Two-time gold-winning javelin throw veteran Jhajharia clinched a stupendous third Paralympic medal, a silver this time, while Gurjar won a bronze in the men's javelin throw F46 final. The chief minister congratulated the two, calling it a "marvellous moment". "We are so proud of Rajasthan's Paralympic javelin throwers Devendra Jhajharia, who grabbed Silver & Sundar Singh Gurjar for claiming Bronze at Men's Javelin Throw event, TokyoParalympics. It's a marvelous moment. Heartiest Congratulations to Dev Jhajharia & Sundar S Gurjar!" he said in another tweet. Gehlot also hailed Yogesh Kathuniya for winning a silver medal in Men's Discus Throw F56. "It's great news for all of us. The nation is so proud!" he tweeted. Kathuniya, a B.Com graduate from New Delhi's Kirorimal College, sent the disc to a best distance of 44.38m in his sixth and last attempt to clinch the silver.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-259
30-08-2021||India||Non-bailable warrants against three in fake Covid testing scam during Kumbh||A Haridwar court has issued non-bailable warrants against Mallika and Sharat Pant of Max Corporate services and Dr Navtej Nalwa of Nalwa Path Labs in connection with fake Covid tests conducted during Kumbh. The NBWs against the three main accused in the case were issued on Saturday by the court of chief judicial magistrate, Haridwar. The two firms and their owners were among three companies named in an FIR lodged in connection with the case. After obtaining the NBWs from the CJM's court, efforts are being made by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) to arrest them, Haridwar SSP Senthil Avoodai Krishna Raj S said. Police teams have been sent to Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and New Delhi in search of the accused, he said. The scam pertains to issuing negative Covid test reports to a host of people whose samples were never taken and who did not even attend the Kumbh mela. Noida-based Max Corporate Services, which had been assigned the task of carrying out Covid tests during Kumbh, had outsourced the job to Delhi-based Lalchandani Labs and Hisar-based Nalwa Labs. Two officials in Uttarakhand were suspended last week for their alleged involvement in the fake Covid testing scam during Haridwar Kumbh. Dr Arjun Singh Sengar, the then Mela officer (medical and health), and Dr N K Tyagi, the then officer in charge (medical and health), were suspended on August 26 on Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami's orders. The action was based on the recommendation of a probe committee set up by the Haridwar district magistrate to look into the fake testing scam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
30-08-2021||India||Afghan situation raises new security questions, says Rajnath Singh||The current happenings in Afghanistan have raised new security questions, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said Monday, asserting the Central government is alert and capable of dealing with any situation. He also said no anti-national force should be allowed to encourage terrorism from across the border by taking advantage of the developments in Afghanistan. He was addressing the third Balramji Dass Tandon memorial lecture organised by Panjab University on the issue of national security. "What is happening in neighbouring Afghanistan is raising new questions in terms of security and our government is keeping a watch on the developments there," said Singh in his address delivered through video conferencing. Along with the security of Indians, Singh said, "Our government also wants that anti-national forces do not encourage terrorism from across the border by taking advantage of the development there." "We have some more concerns which can become challenges from the point of view of national security," he added. Singh said the Modi-led government at the Centre is alert and capable of dealing with any situation. The Taliban took control of Afghanistan on August 15, capturing all major cities in a matter of days, two weeks before the US was set to complete its troop withdrawal after a vexatious two-decade war.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
30-08-2021||India||JK: Infiltration bid along LoC foiled in Poonch||A terrorist was killed as Army troops foiled an infiltration attempt along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district early on Monday, a defence spokesman said. Jammu-based Defence Public Relation Officer Lt Col Devender Anand said that an operation is still in progress in the area. "In the early hours of August 30, terrorists from across the Line of Control made an attempt to infiltrate in the Poonch Sector. Alert Army troops detected the infiltration bid by effective use of the integrated surveillance grid in Poonch sector in the early hours of Monday," the spokesman said. On being challenged by Army troops, a fierce fire fight ensued and one terrorist was killed. His body along with an AK-47 rifle has been recovered. "This action by alert Army troops displays the resolve of the Indian Army to thwart any misadventure along the LoC, Lt Col Anand said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
30-08-2021||India||Delhi govt announces host of guidelines for reopening of schools||Mandatory thermal screening, staggered lunch breaks, alternate seating arrangement in classrooms and avoiding routine guest visits are among the guidelines announced by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) for reopening of schools and colleges from September 1. The DDMA has said that students, teachers and other employees living in Covid containment zones will not be allowed to come to schools and colleges. Following a marked improvement in the Covid situation in the national capital, the Delhi government on Friday had announced that schools for classes 9 to 12, colleges and coaching institutions would reopen from September 1. The Delhi government had clarified that no student would be forced to attend physical classes and the consent of parents would be mandatory. "Schools and colleges should prepare a timetable as per occupancy limit of classrooms following Covid norms. A maximum 50 per cent students per classroom may be called depending upon capacity. The seating arrangement should be done in such a way that seats are occupied in an alternate manner," read the DDMA guidelines notified on Monday. "As the situation varies from school to school and college to college, the institutions may stagger the schedule to avoid crowding in classrooms and at main entrance or exit, the DDMA said. Lunch breaks may also be staggered and preferably be held in open areas as students will remove masks while having food, the guidelines added. While the government has noted that the vaccination centres and activities like ration distribution which were going on in different schools will continue, the DDMA said the area being used for these activities should be separated from the area which will be used for academic activities. "All schools and colleges are advised to ensure that a quarantine room is available for emergency use. Routine guest visits should be discouraged," the guidelines said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
30-08-2021||India||Heart-wrenching to see survival of children at stake due to Covid, says SC||Covid-19 has devastated many lives and it is heart wrenching that the survival of children who lost either or both parents during the pandemic is at stake, the Supreme Court said but expressed satisfaction over schemes announced by the Centre and states to provide succour to them. The apex court said that satisfactory progress has been made by the Executive in identifying children who have either become orphans or have lost one of their parents during the COVID-19 pandemic. "We are glad that the UoI (Union of India) and the state governments/Union Territories have announced schemes to provide succour to the children in need. We have no doubt that the authorities concerned would leave no stone unturned to attend to the immediate basic needs of the crestfallen children, said a bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose. The top court, which was hearing a suo motu matter on 'Contagion of COVID-19 on children protection homes', noted in its order that over one lakh children have lost either or both parents during the pandemic. The catastrophe caused by the cataclysmic COVID-19 has devastated many lives, especially children at a tender age who have lost their parents, the bench said, adding that it is heart wrenching to note that the survival of so many children is at stake. It said inquiries by Child Welfare Committee (CWCs), in accordance with provisions of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, have to be expedited to identify those children who are in need of care and protection. Immediate steps also have to be taken to ensure that benefits of schemes reach the needy minors, the bench said. The apex court said all children have a constitutional right to free and compulsory elementary education and the State has a duty and obligation to facilitate education for children. "We have no doubt that the State realizes the importance of continuance of education of the forlorn children," the bench said in its August 26 order. The bench noted the submissions of Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the Centre, that education of eligible children up to 18 years is sought to be provided for under the PM CARES for Children' scheme launched for support and empowerment of COVID-19 affected children. Bhati told the bench that 2,600 children eligible for benefits under the scheme have been registered by states and out of these, 418 applications have been approved by district magistrates. The bench directed district magistrates to complete the process of approval of applications of the remaining children whose names have been registered for the 'PM CARES' scheme. In case of necessity, fee and other expenditure of the 2,600 children, whose names have been registered for the 'PM CARES for Children' scheme, shall be taken care of by the government of India, it said. The bench said for children, who have lost either or both parents after March last year, state governments shall confer with private schools to waive the fee of distressed children for the current academic year. In case, the private institutions are unwilling to effectuate such waiver, the state government shall shoulder the burden of the fee, the court said, adding, In respect of those children amongst the 2,600 registered under the 'PM CARES for Children scheme', it is open to state governments to request the government of India to bear the fee and other expenses pertaining to their education, for the current academic year. While perusing state-wise details placed before it, the bench said after completion of inquiries, CWCs may identify those children who do not need care and protection, and financial assistance from the states. Such of those children need not be given the benefits that are announced by the state governments. It is only those children who are in need of care and protection, in terms of the (Juvenile Justice) Act, who have to be provided with assistance by the state governments, it said. The bench has posted the matter for further hearing on October 7. In an additional affidavit filed last week, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) had told the apex court that over one lakh children are in need of care and protection as they are either orphan, have lost one of their parents or were abandoned during the pandemic since April last year. According to information uploaded on the Bal Swaraj' portal by states and Union Territories, there are 8,161 children who have become orphans, 92,475 have lost either of their parents and 396 have been abandoned between April 1, 2020 to August 23 this year. The apex court had earlier passed a slew of directions for care and protection of children who have become orphans or have lost one parent or were abandoned during the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
30-08-2021||India||India logs over 42,000 fresh Covid cases, 380 casualties in a day||India saw a single-day rise of 42,909 new COVID-19 infections, which took the total tally of cases to 3,27,37,939, while active cases registered an increase for the sixth consecutive day, according to Union health ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll has climbed to 4,38,210 with 380 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The number of active cases has increased to 3,76,324 and comprise 1.15 per cent of the total infections. The national COVID-19 recovery rate has been recorded at 97.51 per cent, the health ministry said. It said active cases in the country increased by 7,766 cases in a span of 24 hours. The ministry said that 14,19,990 COVID-19 tests were conducted on Sunday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far in the country to 52,01,46,525. The daily positivity rate has been recorded at 3.02 per cent. It is above three per cent after 35 days, it said. The weekly positivity rate has been recorded at 2.41 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 66 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has increased to 3,19,23,405, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 63.43 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Monday morning, the ministry said. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. India crossed two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23. The 380 new fatalities include 131 from Maharashtra and 75 from Kerala. A total of 4,38,210 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,37,157 from Maharashtra, 37,278 from Karnataka, 34,878 from Tamil Nadu, 25,080 from Delhi, 22,818 from Uttar Pradesh, 20,541 from Kerala and 18,423 from West Bengal. The health ministry said that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
30-08-2021||India||Uttarakhand: Three houses collapse after heavy rains, 2 killed||Two people were killed and several others went missing after three houses collapsed in a village following heavy rains in Dharchula sub-division of the district, an official said on Monday. The incident occurred in Jumma village late on Sunday night, Pithoragarh District Magistrate Ashish Chauhan said. Two bodies were recovered and a search operation was underway for those still missing, he said. "We are holding an emergency meeting on how to tackle the situation. More information will be available after the meeting," the district magistrate said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
30-08-2021||India||Light rain expected in Delhi today||The national capital woke up to a cloudy morning on Monday and the city is likely to receive light rain or thundershowers towards the evening, the India Meteorological Department said. The minimum temperature was recorded at 25.3 degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature is expected to reach 34 degrees Celsius, it said. The city on Sunday recorded a minimum temperature of 25.8 degrees Celsius, a notch below the season's average, and a maximum temperature of 34.7 degrees Celsius. Good rainfall in the last 10 days of the month is expected to cover the precipitation deficit in the capital, according to the weather experts. Normally, the capital gauges 247.7 mm rainfall in August. The IMD had earlier predicted normal rainfall for Delhi this month. The air quality in the city was recorded in the "moderate" category. The air quality index (AQI) was 158 at 8.05 am, real-time data of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
30-08-2021||India||Goa govt extends Covid curfew again till September 6||The Goa government has once again extended the COVID-19 induced statewide curfew till September 6. A notification to this effect was issued on Sunday. The 24-hour curfew was first imposed on May 9 this year and since then it has been extended regularly. The Goa government has opened the majority of activities in the tourist state but the areas like casinos are yet to be reopened. Goa's COVID-19 tally went up by 74 on Sunday to reach 1,73,791, an official had said. The state had 945 active cases as of Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
30-08-2021||India||Haryana: Death adds to outrage over lathi-charge on farmers||Outrage against the police lathi-charge on farmers in Haryana grew on Sunday as a farm leader equated the assaulters with “sarkari Talibanis” and the death of a farmer inflamed tempers. Waking up to the political cost, Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala sought to control the damage by saying action would be taken against Karnal sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha, who was purportedly caught on camera asking the police to break the heads of the protesters. “The use of such words by an IAS officer for farmers is condemnable. Definitely, action will be taken against him,” Chautala, leader of the JJP that shares power with the BJP in Haryana, said on Sunday in response to questions from journalists. In sharp contrast, chief minister and BJP leader Manohar Lal Khattar had defended the police and blamed the farmers on Saturday. Later on Sunday, it emerged that Sushil Kaajal, a farmer who was said to have suffered injuries in the lathi-charge at the Karnal toll plaza on Saturday, died of a heart attack. The death was announced by the Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union chief, Gurnam Singh Chaduni. According to Chaduni, Kaajal, who owns one-and-a-half acres of farmland, had been participating in the farmers’ protests over the past nine months. Karnal inspector-general of police Mamta Singh denied the allegation that Kaajal was injured in the lathi-charge. The farmer had a meal at his home in the evening and went to sleep but was found dead in the morning, Singh said. The family did not lodge any complaint, nor was any post-mortem done. The cremation was done by the family, she added. The BJP-led Centre has been saying it has no record of deaths linked to the farmers’ months-long protest although the unions say that hundreds of farmers have lost their lives while taking part in the open-air agitation that has survived a brutal winter and a summer. The Punjab government alone has confirmed over 200 deaths among the protesting farmers. Ramandeep Singh Mann, a commentator on agriculture who has been closely tracking the farmers’ protest, tweeted that Kaajal was injured in the police lathi-charge at the toll plaza. “He was injured on the head and body, and at night he died of a heart attack. Who will take responsibility for this?” Mann tweeted a picture of another man with a heavily bandaged nose and said: “He is Gurjant, he suffered the brunt of the police lathi-charge yesterday, his nose was broken; but now he has lost 50% of his eyesight also. All this because Khattar was hell-bent on not having his program in Chandigarh, but in Karnal, where he knew farmers will oppose his program.” The All India Kisan Sabha has already given a call to its units to organise demonstrations across the country against the high-handed manner in which Haryana police had treated agitating farmers even as Punjab farmers took to the streets on Sunday in solidarity with the Haryana farmers. Addressing a meeting at Nuh in Mewat of Haryana, Rakesh Tikait of BKU said that if farmers were called Khalistanis, officers who ordered brutal action against farmers could be called “sarkari Talibanis”. The wire service ANI quoted him as saying: “Yesterday, an officer ordered (policemen) to hit farmers on their heads. They call us Khalistani. If you would call us Khalistani and Pakistani, we would say ‘sarkari Talibani’ have occupied the country. They are ‘sarkari Talibanis’.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-260
30-08-2021||India||Supreme Court to resume physical proceedings from September 1||The Supreme Court will resume physical proceedings from September 1 following a directive from Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Sunday. Matters where physical hearings will be allowed will also have the “hybrid option” — any of the parties or advocates involved can choose to join in through videoconferencing. The apex court has not held physical hearings since March last year owing to the pandemic. Justice Ramana’s directive follows requests from the Bar associations and is based on recommendations of a committee of judges he had set up. According to the standard operating procedure that the apex court registry issued on Sunday morning: ⚫ Final hearings and regular matters (those already admitted by the court) listed on non-miscellaneous days will have the option of physical hearings. The maximum number of advocates per petitioner allowed at a physical hearing is three. (Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays are the “non-miscellaneous days”, when old cases are heard, while Mondays and Fridays are the “miscellaneous days”, when fresh cases can be heard.) ⚫ Any other matter may also be heard in the physical mode on non-miscellaneous days if the bench so directs. ⚫ If the total number of advocates for the parties exceeds 20 at any point during a physical hearing, the excess advocates will be heard through videoconferencing. ⚫ All other matters, including those listed on miscellaneous days, will continue to be heard through videoconferencing or teleconferencing. ⚫ The advocates-on-record (AORs) — through whom petitions are filed — must state if the preferred mode is physical or virtual. This has to be done within 24 hours of the publication of the weekly list of final hearings and regular matters. ⚫ During a physical hearing, one AOR or his/her nominee, one arguing counsel and one junior counsel per party will be allowed entry into the courtroom. One registered clerk, chosen by the AOR for his or her party, too will be allowed in. ⚫ All stakeholders must adhere to the Covid protocol, such as wearing a mask, frequently using hand sanitisers and maintaining physical distancing. The high courts have been allowed to decide when they would resume physical hearings. Delhi High Court will do so from August 31.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
30-08-2021||India||Afghanistan: UNSC drops Taliban from statement on terror||The UN Security Council has on India’s watch dropped a direct reference to the Taliban in a statement urging all Afghan groups to shun support for terrorists, indicating a possible shift in the attitude of its members, including the Permanent-5, towards the group that is sanctioned under UNSC Resolution 1267. “The members of the Security Council reiterated the importance of combating terrorism in Afghanistan to ensure the territory of Afghanistan should not be used to threaten or attack any country, and that no Afghan group or individual should support terrorists operating on the territory of any country,” the UNSC statement issued by Council president and India’s permanent representative to the UN, T.S. Tirumurti, said on Friday. The statement has been issued in his name as India this month holds the rotating presidency of the UNSC. Less than a fortnight ago, in the immediate aftermath of the fall of Kabul, the UNSC had made a similar observation in the statement — the only difference being that on August 16, the member countries had referred to the Taliban. “The members of the Security Council reaffirmed the importance of combating terrorism in Afghanistan to ensure the territory of Afghanistan should not be used to threaten or attack any country, and that neither the Taliban nor any other Afghan group or individual should support terrorists operating on the territory of any other country,” the Council had said a fortnight ago. The significant omission of the Taliban this time was first noted by Tirumurti’s predecessor at India’s permanent mission to the UN, Syed Akbaruddin. Posting the two statements on Twitter, he said: “In diplomacy... A fortnight is a long time. The ‘T’ word is gone... Compared the marked portions of @UN Security Council statements issued on 16 August & on 27 August.…” India had studiously avoided referring to the Taliban in its interventions at two different UN bodies where it spoke on the situation in Afghanistan since the fall of Kabul. Tirumurti spoke about terrorism and India’s concerns about it but did not refer to the Taliban by name in his intervention during the deliberations on the situation in Afghanistan in the UNSC on August 16. Likewise, at the UNHRC Special Session on Afghanistan last week, India’s permanent representative to the UN in Geneva, Indramani Pandey, too made no mention of the Taliban while flagging India’s concerns about Afghan territory being used by terrorist groups such as the Lashkar-e-Toiba and the Jaish-e-Mohammed. The Taliban too have made what may be described as an overture to India. Taliban leader Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanikzai on Saturday said: “We want to have political and economic relations with India like in the past, including the air corridor, but also we want to improve it. Afghanistan businesses would like access to the Indian market through Pakistan.” This is the senior-most voice from the Taliban yet to speak on Afghanistan’s relations with its neighbourhood under the new regime. Stanikzai is a former army officer who had trained at the Indian Military Academy. Stanikzai, while seeking Indian market access for Afghan businesses via Pakistan, did not disclose whether the Taliban would try to make it a reciprocal arrangement. Currently, under the Afghanistan-Pakistan Transit Trade Agreement, goods from Afghanistan are ferried by land to India and offloaded at Wagah. But the trucks return empty as Pakistan has refused to allow Indian goods to be taken back via the same route which would, in turn, open up the Central Asian market to India. Stanikzai also spoke about maintaining cultural ties with India, raising the question whether India’s best-known export to Afghanistan – Bollywood films and songs – would be allowed under the new regime. The Taliban had banned music and cinema during their first stint in power between 1996 and 2001, and their capture of Kabul saw several musicians break their instruments for fear of punishment. There was no comment from India on the Taliban leader’s statements. New Delhi still views the situation in Afghanistan as fluid, given that the Taliban remain a ragtag group with no clear chain of command. Avinash Paliwal, author of My Enemy’s Enemy: India in Afghanistan from the Soviet Invasion to the US Withdrawal, tweeted: “Driven by TB’s need for money & recognition, triggered by the need to counter-balance Pakistan, & shaped by internal politics b/w Haqqanis & other factions (Kandaharis/‘northerners’), this statement is just that — a signal. It’s unlikely to yield immediate results. “Rifts within the TB, which many of us have been talking about, are re-emerging/asserting fast as the group struggles to govern & prevent an economic — & resulting political — disaster. It gives India an opening-of-sorts. But is (potentially) a poisoned chalice.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
30-08-2021||India||DU, JNU set to introduce four-year undergraduate courses ||Delhi University and Jawaharlal Nehru University are set to introduce four-year undergraduate courses and new models of online education pushed by the NDA government that some teachers say will lower the quality of education and endanger their jobs. Delhi University had earlier introduced four-year undergraduate programmes in 2013 in line with the US model but the Narendra Modi government had got the system scrapped immediately after coming to power in 2014, citing technicalities of the approval process. DU’s top decision-making body, its executive council, will meet on Tuesday to approve the changes, which are part of the National Education Policy. JNU’s executive council will do so on Thursday — after approving the introduction of a range of undergraduate courses in a research-intensive university that mainly taught master’s and PhD programmes. The four-year undergraduate programme will allow multiple entry and exit points – with a certificate after one year, a diploma after two, and a degree after three. However, some teachers who are against the move underlined a “confusion” over the nomenclature: the four-year programmes allow an honours degree after three years, as well as a four-year honours degree — and a four-year “honours in a discipline with research” degree if the student submits a dissertation. JNU and DU are also expected to implement the “academic bank of credit” (ABC), which allows students enrolled in a particular university to study up to 50 per cent of the non-core subjects from any other university of their choice, online or offline. This was one of several measures in education that Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced last month. The credits earned from the other university can be deposited in the ABC and redeemed during the award of the degree from the parent university. Mithuraaj Dhusiya, a member of DU’s academic council, said the multiple entry and exit options and the ABC would lower the teachers’ workload “and the teacher’s job will come under question”. R.P. Tiwari, former member of higher education regulator UGC and a votary of online education and the four-year undergraduate system, said the fears of a reduction in workload were exaggerated. On concerns about the quality of the online education – expressed by former DU executive council member Rajesh Jha to this newspaper – he said the UGC’s pool of readymade e-content had passed quality checks. He said teachers would now have new opportunities to plan and develop online courses in inter-disciplinary subjects that can be offered as elective courses under particular programmes. “Under every academic programme, 50 per cent is core study while the remaining 50 per cent is to be picked from a list of elective courses,” Tiwari, currently the vice-chancellor of Punjab Central University, said. “Universities now have fixed lists of the approved elective courses – the students haven’t much option.” The UGC advertises for e-content development to ensure quality, Tiwari said. Teachers from various universities send their concept notes and short videos providing an outline of the course. A committee of experts selects one of them. Tiwari said the multiple entry and exit points were meant to help students from the disadvantaged segments – who often drop out for lack of resources – return anytime and resume their education. “The blended (online and offline) mode of education is the global model. The e-content will be shared with the students to be viewed at home. The classroom will be devoted to clearing doubts,” Tiwari said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
30-08-2021||India||Covid: Delta variant potency calls for tweak in vaccination policy||The highly contagious delta coronavirus variant may cause breakthrough infections after immunisation more frequently than hitherto assumed, Indian researchers said on Sunday after detecting unexpectedly large proportions of infections in Covishield recipients. Their findings also corroborate an abundance of earlier evidence that Covid-19 vaccines protect recipients from severe disease. But the large proportions of breakthrough infections by the delta variant underline that potential gains could be made by tweaking the vaccination policy, the researchers have said. The researchers have detected signatures of the delta infection in 25 per cent of 95 healthcare workers in five hospitals across the National Capital Region who were fully immunised with two Covishield doses. These infection rates are higher than the 9 per cent observed at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, and the 1.6 to 2.6 per cent at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, earlier this year. Doctors in a Delhi hospital had reported a figure of 12 per cent earlier this month. “The primary purpose of protection from severe disease is well met by the vaccines — here, Covishield,” said Anurag Agrawal, a pulmonary medicine specialist turned researcher and director of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi. “There was no severe disease or death among this cohort (group) of vaccinated healthcare workers even during one of the worst delta surges,” Agrawal tweeted, referring to India’s second Covid-19 wave that had peaked during late April and early May. But the large proportion of breakthrough infections and a 48 per cent post-immunisation infection rate among single-dose recipients indicate an urgency to revise vaccination policies for more effective use of the existing vaccines, the researchers said. These infection rates were seen in small samples of high-risk people, such as health workers. Still, the 48 per cent infection rate after a single dose is “unacceptably high”, Agrawal and his colleagues wrote in their study, not yet peer-reviewed but posted on Sunday on medrxiv, an online archive for research papers. “The vaccination policy needs to be tailored to the local status of the epidemic,” Shantanu Sengupta, a senior biologist and a member of the study team at the IGIB, told The Telegraph. “In areas with a large proportion of susceptible people and where the delta variant is circulating, it would help to shorten the gap between the two Covishield doses.” The study has also found that Covishield — like other vaccines — sharply boosts immune responses in recipients who have earlier had Covid-19. In populations where large proportions of people are already protected from natural infections, a longer dose gap may be appropriate. The highly contagious delta variant, first detected in India, now makes up over 86 per cent of the virus samples sequenced in the country and has turned up in over 80 countries. Multiple studies from India and other countries have already shown that the delta variant can evade the immune responses generated by the existing Covid-19 vaccines, although the vaccines protect people from severe disease or death. But the IGIB-Max study is the first to quantify the amount of antibodies needed to neutralise the delta variant -- around 1,500 units per ml of blood serum. It also suggests that vaccine recipients with prior Covid-19 infections are the likeliest to show such high antibody levels. The large proportions of breakthrough infections among vaccine recipients bolster the evidence for suggesting that the existing vaccines might not help achieve the so-called herd immunity threshold and stop the epidemic in populations where the delta variant is dominant. The herd immunity threshold is a point at which such a large proportion of people in a population are protected through vaccines or natural infection that the virus finds it hard to spread and the epidemic fades, although a trickle of cases may continue as the infection turns endemic. A study at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, New Delhi, had earlier this month found that a single dose of Covishield offers no protection from symptomatic Covid-19 or from severe disease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
30-08-2021||India||Big Bang and cycle of creation and destruction ||It was in the late fifties, still at school, we were all very excited about the new discoveries of the structure of the universe. Fred Hoyle, Dennis Sciama, Herman Bondi, Jayant Narlikar, and others all at Cambridge proposed an attractive and almost serene theory of the structure of the universe — called the “Steady State Theory”. The universe, according to this theory has no beginning, no end, thus, endless both in space and time. There is no beginning, no end; steady state, therefore it was. With the observed expansion of the universe, the void that is created, gets filled in very slowly with new matter, created from hydrogen, ensuring “steady” density of matter across the universe. The idea was rather appealing, if nothing else, purely for its beauty and aesthetic appeal, and the idea was certainly philosophically attractive. Towards the end of the 1950s and beginning of the 1960s Sir Martin Ryle of Mullard Radio Observatory, Cambridge with detailed observations about the distant galaxies revealed that the steady state theory may not be correct. Sir Martin, incidentally was the co-discoverer of pulsars, the rotating neutron stars with Tony Hewish and Jocelyn Bell for which Sir Martin and Tony were awarded Nobel prize but Jocelyn got by passed. The real death blow to the steady state theory came from the “flukey” discovery of two American scientists from Bell Labs, Arno Penzias and Robert W. Wilson in 1964 of microwave electromagnetic radiation coming from all directions of space. The huge antenna used by the American scientists captured the all-pervasive radiation. They were puzzled, couldn’t believe at all. They even suspected bird droppings caused the radiation but that was not the case. Whatever they did, eventually the all-pervasive cosmic radiation persisted, there was no escape. Such radiation had been predicted already by that mercurial and impossibly savvy Russian physicist George Gamow and his colleagues Robert Dicke way back in 1940s. Ultimately for Penzias and Wilson all the elements of the puzzle fitted neatly with the idea of a “flash of the Big Bang” the very birth of the universe 14 billion years ago. The background radiation Penzias and Wilson observed is the “hiss” of the universe after the big bang expanding through space and time. Soon the radiation was referred to as “CMB”, “cosmic microwave background”, at extremely cold temperature 2.725° Kelvin, (0° Kelvin is absolutely zero, and 273° Kelvin is zero degree centigrade). With the discovery of CMB, “cosmythology” became “cosmology”, a quantitative and precise observational science of the universe. One of the most remarkable measurement by COBE (Cosmic Background Explorer) is the perfect black body radiation, discovered by Planck in the beginning of the twentieth century, CMB is probably a near perfect example of black body radiation. Science is never content with the present and what we know at present. The wonderful driving force of science, physics in particular, is to explore what we don’t know yet and that is the beauty of the unknown and the joy of discovery. Now, that the big bang theory is a reality and steady state theory is dead, the obvious question that comes to one’s mind “How did the big bang itself emerge?” Second, “what was there before big bang”? I entered Cambridge university in 1964, with the “flash of the big bang” was all over, very exciting times indeed. Dennis Sciama used to teach us mathematics, on the black board with a chalk, clear and lucid. It was a treat. In an evening lecture (very popular in Cambridge those days), it turns out Dennis had been an ardent follower of “steady state theory” but had the grace and courage to come down from that stand point and become an eager supporter of Big Bang theory. My friend Roger Penrose, Nobel prize winner for physics in 2020, has gone on to question “what happened before the big bang?” and “what caused the bang of the big bang?”. He comes to some remarkably revolutionary conclusion, essentially guided by the famous “second law of thermodynamics” which stated simply says, “chaos is increasing” in this universe along with the increasing entropy. Curiously enough, the entropy at the big bang was unusually small, Roger asserts and he is absolutely right of course. This universe of ours is not for ever, with time and expansion, every inhabitant of this universe, the stars the galaxies, will turn colder. Eventually, long into the future, after many million years from now, the entire universe will turn to an unimaginable grave, the universe will have no sign of energy, coldest ever, with zero temperature, every bit of energy would be spent, total annihilation in the darkness, the dead universe will prevail. But the billions of black holes floating around the universe will carry with them the awesome entropy stored within the black hole and with a finite temperature, called the Hawking temperature. Again as per the dictate of the second law of thermodynamics, the billions of black holes will burst, most possibly at the same instant. That almost infinite amount of entropy and the associated energy will be the next “flash of the big bang”. Roger Penrose describes the event, as the beginning of another “aeon”. There have been endless “aeons”, beyond counts literally. One “aeon” ends and another starts; “nature” has put in the most beautiful and exquisite mechanism, brilliant and awesome yet beyond any normal comprehension. The creation follows destruction and destruction leads to the creation precisely and exactly, effortlessly, just guided by the laws of nature. Clearly in this scheme of thinking there is no beginning or end of time or space — the universe of a sort is always there! Can you hear the echoes of the steady state universe? Roger Penrose is supposed to come to Calcutta, in January 2022 for an international conference to talk on “Are we seeing Hawking Points in the microwave sky?” Well, let’s see!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
30-08-2021||India||LAC: India and China accelerate several infrastructure projects ||India and China have accelerated several infrastructure projects along the Line of Actual Control, including construction of roads, bridges and tunnels, amid the border standoff in eastern Ladakh, sources in the security establishment said on Saturday. The armies of the two countries have been locked in a border dispute in Ladakh since May last year. India and China are also engaged in military and diplomatic talks to resolve the impasse. Twelve rounds of military talks have already taken place. A security official attached to the Union home ministry said the situation in Ladakh was simmering and evolving fast. “The military standoff has forced us to rethink our border strategy with China. Considering the continuous threat of infiltration from the Chinese side, we have stepped up our border infrastructure development programme, including building roads, bridges and tunnels, to counter further Chinese transgressions into Indian areas along the LAC,” he told The Telegraph. Another government official said the motive behind speeding up infrastructure projects was to pre-empt more face-offs and intrusions and ensure better deployment of forces. “The move to enhance capability will bolster the Indian Army’s preparedness to effectively deal with possible challenges and threats,” he said. The Chinese army, he said, has also been rapidly building infrastructure, including roads, bridges and habitats, for its soldiers near the multiple friction points in Ladakh. “They have been carrying out construction works not only at the remaining friction points but also at those points from where the armies of both countries have disengaged so far,” the official said. There has been “partial” disengagement from the Galwan Valley, the Pangong Lake and Gogra by creating a demilitarised “buffer zone” with the Chinese stepping back a few kilometres while still remaining within India-claimed lines. Military veterans have questioned the government’s “concessions” in agreeing to create a buffer zone, saying such areas within India-claimed lines meant territory loss for the Indian Army. The border standoffs at Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains continue. The Chinese are said to be entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines at the Depsang Plains. Both sides have amassed men and machinery at altitudes of 14,000ft and above, and have deployed 50,000 troops each along the LAC in Ladakh backed by artillery, tanks and missile systems. The 3,488km frontier with China passes through the five states of Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. Sources in the defence ministry said India was building nearly 70 roads of operational significance along the China border. “China too has been enhancing its border infrastructure by building roads, bridges, a railway network and airports,” a ministry official said. The Border Roads Organisation, an Indian defence ministry outfit, has been tasked with constructing and maintaining border roads, advance landing grounds, tunnels and bridges. “The main purpose behind speeding up infrastructure development programmes is to ensure faster deployment and better maintenance of frontier posts,” the official said. He said that in the past, poor infrastructure along the border on the Indian side had come in the way of countering the threat from China, which has better roads and infrastructure. “The ongoing infrastructure development programme will bolster our preparedness to counter any such threat,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
30-08-2021||India||Communal hate gnaws at livelihood  of the poor||One Muslim trader was coerced into chanting “Jai Shri Ram” while another was attacked for naming his food stall after a Hindu god. Two men have been arrested on the charge of forcing a Muslim scrap dealer to chant “Jai Shri Ram” at a village in Ujjain district of Madhya Pradesh on Saturday, an official said. A video shows two youths purportedly telling a middle-aged man in a cap: “How can you do business in our village? Say ‘Jai Shri Ram’.” The man resists for a while, saying “Listen to me” repeatedly, before giving in and chanting Ram’s name and asking: “Are you happy now?” In the Uttar Pradesh district of Mathura — believed to be the birthplace of Krishna — some people threatened a Muslim dosa seller, Irfan, and vandalised his stall because he had named his business after the god. A video clip shows a man tearing down a board that says “Shrinath dosa corner” while another fumes that the name would mislead Hindus into eating at his stall. A voice asks why the vendor has not been using a Muslim name for the stall. Some people are heard chanting a slogan calling “Krishna devotees” to “purify” Mathura. R.K. Rai, sub-divisional officer of police in Mahidpur, Ujjain, said: “Scrap dealer Abdul Rasheed, a resident of Mahidpur town who has been doing this business here for a long time, went to Sikli village to collect some scrap in his mini-truck.” He added that Rasheed was forced to leave the village and warned against doing business in the area. After he left, two men intercepted him at Pipliya Dhuma, roughed him up and forced him to chant “Jai Shri Ram”, Rai said. In a second video related purportedly to the Ujjain incident, two men are seen throwing away scrap from what appears the middle-aged man’s four-wheeler and asking him not to enter the village again. Actress Pooja Bhatt tweeted: “Mera Gaon. Mera Desh. Mera Ram. Mera Bhagwan. Marna toh hum sab ko hai. Aag mein jaloge ya nafrat mein (My village. My country. My Ram. My God. We all have to die. Would you rather burn in fire or in hate)?” Jharda police station-in-charge Vikram Singh Ivne said Kamal Singh, 22, and Ishwar Singh, 27, had been arrested and booked for promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, committing public mischief, voluntarily causing hurt, and other charges. Madhya Pradesh Congress chief Kamal Nath said similar incidents had earlier occurred in Indore and Dewas. “Has it been happening under a specific agenda? The government is watching everything as a mute spectator,” he said. State medical education minister Vishvas Sarang said the government was “committed to taking action and preventing such incidents” and asked whether the Congress was “behind making such videos and spreading them”. The Mathura incident took place on August 18 at Vikas Bazar. The police registered a case on August 28 invoking the charges of mischief causing damage, and criminal intimidation against unknown people. City superintendent of police Martand Prakash Singh said the police were looking for the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-261
