31-08-2021||India||Modi, European Council president Charles Michel discuss Afghan situation, its implications for region||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday discussed with European Council president Charles Michel the recent developments in Afghanistan and their implications for the region and the world. During their telephonic conversation, the two leaders emphasized the importance of a stable and secure Afghanistan and discussed the potential role India and the EU could play in this context, the Prime Minister's Office here said in a statement. Modi and Michel unequivocally condemned the horrific terror attack at the Kabul airport that resulted in many casualties, it said. “Spoke with @eucopresident Charles Michel, President of the European Council, about the evolving situation in Afghanistan. Also reiterated our commitment to further strengthening India-EU relations,” Modi tweeted after his telephonic talk with the European Council president. The leaders discussed the recent developments in Afghanistan and the implications for the region and the world, the PMO said. The two leaders agreed to remain in touch on bilateral and global issues, in particular, the situation in Afghanistan, according to the PMO. Last week, Prime Minister Modi had spoken with his Italian counterpart Mario Draghi and the two leaders stressed the need for international cooperation, including at the level of the G20, in addressing the security and humanitarian challenges arising out of the spiralling crisis in Afghanistan. The US on Tuesday completed the withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan, ending a two-decade war and leaving the country in the hands of the Taliban. The Taliban took control of the Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul on Tuesday after the last US aircraft took off in the morning, marking an end to the 20-year presence of the US in Afghanistan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-254
31-08-2021||India||Amarinder contradicts Rahul over Jallianwala Bagh renovation||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh today appeared to support the renovations at Jallianwala Bagh, for which the Centre has been facing a storm of criticism from opposition, historians and the civil society. The Congress government of Punjab has also been in the line of fire, with many questioning why it did not flag the construction that ended up renovating the site instead of preserving it. The renovations – including the laser show, the entrance with a bas relief replacing the stark corridor -- has only trivialised the sacrifice of more than a thousand men and women and the work should have been stopped at the outset, many have said. "I don't know what has been removed. To me it looks very nice," Singh told reporters today, a stance markedly different from Rahul Gandhi, who called it an "insult to the martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh". "Such an insult to the martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh can only be done by those who do not know the meaning of martyrdom. I am the son of a martyr - I will not tolerate the insult of martyrs at any cost. We are against this indecent cruelty," Gandhi tweeted in Hindi earlier today. Singh's comment comes in the middle of a crisis within the state Congress, where a section of leaders have rebelled against the Chief Minister's leadership and wants him removed the top post. While the Central leaders have so far refused to comply, they have also elevated Navjot Sidhu, the biggest challenger of Singh, to the position of the chief of the party's state unit. The crisis has been the biggest headline from the state, till furious comments about the Jallianwalla Bagh renovations flooded the social media. Other opposition leaders had slammed the renovations, saying the new construction robbed the place of dignity, of the loss and horror of the day 102 years ago when British General Dyer opened fire on a peaceful protest. Leaders like CPM's Sitaram Yechury hit hard, citing the history of the right wing. "Only those who stayed away from the epic freedom struggle can scandalise thus," tweeted Yechury. Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi wrote of "the pain... the loss (and) the tragedy" and said attempts to ''beautify' or 'modify' those memories "is doing great damage to our collective history".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
31-08-2021||India||Right time to take ‘calculated’ risk: IMA on reopening of schools amid Covid-19||Welcoming the decision of several states to allow re-opening of schools with restrictions, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has termed it a positive step but reiterated the need for strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols. As Covid-19 cases continue to remain under the 50,000-mark for the past several weeks, IMD President Dr JA Jayalal said that this is the right time when government should come forward, take a calculated risk and open the schools. "This is a positive move but strict protocol needs to be followed. This is a very complex decision which has to be taken. Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) have been issued by the various state governments. All the teachers and the staff who are working in the school should be vaccinated and there should not be more than 20 to 30 students in a class," the IMA president told ANI. "So, I think though this is an experiment that really we are trying. This is worth doing. Considering the possibility of spread, the risk is quite negligible at this moment unless something very catastrophic events taking place. This is the right time when government should come forward, take a calculated risk and open the schools in an appropriate way," he said. Pointing that that IMA has its branches in states and Union Territories, Dr Jayalal said that the medical body is also studying the reports related to the Covid-19 cases after the reopening of schools. "We do get some reports from states, we are studying them. But whether it (spike in Covid-19 cases) is exclusively due to the only after the opening up the school is not very well established," he said. According to some source-based reports, Punjab and Bihar have seen a spike in positivity rate, but some states like Maharashtra and Jharkhand have witnessed a decline in cases after schools reopened. Some states that have opened schools with 50 per cent occupancy and other Covid-related restrictions have seen a rise in the positivity rate among children up to 17 years of age. According to the data, the infection rate among children in July and August shows that states like Punjab, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh and Uttarakhand have seen a spike in the positivity rate after the reopening of schools.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
31-08-2021||India||3 women take oath as SC judges, Justice Nagarathna in line to become CJI in Sept 2027||Three women judges, including Justice B V Nagarathna who is in line to be the first woman Chief Justice of India (CJI) in September 2027, took oath of office as judges of the Supreme Court on Tuesday. Prior to the swearing-in of Justices Hima Kohli, Nagarathna and Bela M Trivedi, only eight women judges, including sitting judge Justice Indira Banerjee, were appointed as apex court judges. The Supreme Court, which came into being on January 26, 1950, has seen very few women judges since its inception and in the last over 71 years -- only eight, starting with Justice M Fathima Beevi in 1989. The seven other female judges appointed to the apex court are -- Justices Sujata V Manohar, Ruma Pal, Gyan Sudha Misra, Ranjana P Desai, R Banumathi, Indu Malhotra and Indira Banerjee. Justice Hima Kohli was the Chief Justice of the Telangana High Court before being appointed as a judge of the top court. Born on September 2, 1959 in Delhi, Justice Kohli did her LL.B from the Campus Law Centre in Delhi University and was the standing counsel and Legal Advisor of the New Delhi Municipal Council in the High Court of Delhi from 1999-2004. She was appointed as an additional judge of the Delhi High Court on May 29, 2006 and took oath as a permanent judge on August 29, 2007. Justice Nagarathna, who is the daughter of former CJI E S Venkataramiah, was a judge of the Karnataka High Court before being elevated to the apex court. She is in line to become the CJI in September 2027 and would have a tenure of over a month as the head of the judiciary. Justice Nagarathna was appointed as additional judge of the Karnataka High Court in February 2008 and was later appointed as a permanent judge there. Justice Trivedi, born in June 1960, was a judge of the Gujarat High Court before being elevated to the apex court and she belonged to the judicial service category. The first woman apex court judge, Justice Beevi, was appointed on October 6, 1989 and she retired on April 29, 1992 from the top court. She had retired as a high court judge in April 1989 and was later appointed as an apex court judge. Justice Manohar was appointed as an apex court judge in November 1994 and she retired on August 27, 1999. Justice Pal was appointed judge of the top court on January 28, 2000. She retired on June 2, 2006. Justice Misra had assumed the charge of the office of judge of the Supreme Court on April 30, 2010 and she retired on April 27, 2014. Justice Desai was the fifth womon apex court judge, appointed on September 13, 2011. She retired in October 2014. Justice Banumathi, who entered Tamil Nadu Higher Judicial Service as a direct recruit in 1988, was appointed as a judge of the apex court on August 13, 2014. After a tenure of over five years, she retired on July 19 last year. Justice Malhotra, who was a senior advocate before being elevated to the bench directly from the bar, was appointed as an apex court judge on April 27, 2018. She retired on March 13 this year. Justice Banerjee, who was the lone sitting women judge in the apex court prior to the swearing-in of Justices Kohli, Nagarathna and Trivedi on Tuesday, was elevated as a judge of the Calcutta High Court and was later appointed as a judge of the Delhi High Court. She was appointed as apex court judge on August 7, 2018 and is due to retire in September 2022. A total of nine new judges were administered oath of office as apex court judges on Tuesday by CJI N V Ramana. Besides Justices Kohli, Nagarathna and Trivedi, the other judges who were sworn-in are -- Justices Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, Vikram Nath, Jitendra Kumar Maheshwari, C T Ravikumar, M M Sundresh and P S Narasimha. The strength of the Supreme Court has now risen to 33, including the CJI, out of the sanctioned strength of 34.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
31-08-2021||India||Facebook 'actioned' 33.3 mn content pieces during June 16-July 31||Facebook “actioned” over 33.3 million content pieces across ten violation categories proactively during June 16-July 31 in India, the social media giant said in its compliance report on Tuesday. Facebook’s photo-sharing platform, Instagram took action against about 2.8 million pieces across nine categories during the same period proactively. The company said it had received 1,504 user reports for Facebook and 265 reports for Instagram through its Indian grievance mechanism between June 16-July 31, and the social media company had responded to all of them. A Facebook spokesperson said over the years, the company has consistently invested in technology, people and processes to keep users safe and secure online and enable them to express themselves freely on its platform. “We use a combination of Artificial Intelligence, reports from our community and review by our teams to identify and review content against our policies. In accordance with the IT Rules, we’ve published our second monthly compliance report for the period for 46 days – 16 June to 31 July,” the spokesperson said in a statement to PTI. This report contains details of the content that have been removed proactively using automated tools and details of user complaints received and action taken, the spokesperson noted. In its report, Facebook said it had “actioned” over 33.3 million pieces of content across ten categories during June 16-July 31, 2021. This includes content related to spam (25.6 million), violent and graphic content (3.5 million), adult nudity and sexual activity (2.6 million), and hate speech (3,24,300). Other categories under which content was actioned include bullying and harassment (1,23,400), suicide and self-injury (9,45,600), dangerous organisations and individuals: terrorist propaganda (1,21,200), and dangerous organisations and individuals: organised hate (94,500). ‘Actioned’ content refers to the number of pieces of content (such as posts, photos, videos or comments) where action has been taken for violation of standards. Taking action could include removing a piece of content from Facebook or Instagram or covering photos or videos that may be disturbing to some audiences with a warning. The proactive rate, which indicates the percentage of all content or accounts acted on which Facebook found and flagged using technology before users reported them, in most of these cases ranged between 86.8-99.9 per cent. The proactive rate for removal of content related to bullying and harassment was 42.3 per cent as this content is contextual and highly personal by nature. In many instances, people need to report this behaviour to Facebook before it can identify or remove such content. Under the new IT rules, large digital platforms (with over 5 million users) will have to publish periodic compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken thereon. The report is to also include the number of specific communication links or parts of information that the intermediary has removed or disabled access to in pursuance of any proactive monitoring conducted by using automated tools. In the May 15-June 15 period, Facebook had “actioned” over 30 million content pieces across ten violation categories while Instagram had taken action against about two million pieces across nine categories during the same period. For Instagram, 2.8 million pieces of content were actioned across nine categories during June 16-July 31 period. This includes content related to suicide and self-injury (8,11,000), violent and graphic content (1.1 million), adult nudity and sexual activity (6,76,100), and bullying and harassment (1,95,100). Other categories under which content was actioned include hate speech (56,200), dangerous organisations and individuals: terrorist propaganda (9,100), and dangerous organisations and individuals: organised hate (5,500). Between June 16 and July 31, Facebook received 1,504 reports through its Indian grievance mechanism. “Of these incoming reports, we provided tools for users to resolve their issues in 1,326 cases. These include pre-established channels to report content for specific violations, self-remediation flows where they can download their data, avenues to address account hacked issues etc,” it said. During the same time frame, Instagram received 265 reports through the Indian grievance mechanism, and provided tools for users to resolve their issues in 181 cases, it added. Earlier in the day, Google said it received 36,934 complaints from users and removed 95,680 pieces of content based on those complaints, and took down 5,76,892 pieces of content in July as a result of automated detection in the month of July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
31-08-2021||India||Supreme Court denies bail to Asaram Bapu for receiving Ayurvedic treatment||The Supreme Court Tuesday dismissed the plea of self-styled godman Asaram Bapu, facing varying jail terms including life sentence in sexual assault cases, that his sentence be suspended for few months for undergoing ayurvedic treatment, saying the offence was not an ordinary crime at all . A bench comprising justices Indira Banerjee, V Ramasubramanian and Bela M Trivedi took note of the response of the Rajasthan government that the convict has been provided requisite treatment and dismissed the plea. "Sorry... It is not an ordinary crime at all. You will get all your ayurvedic treatment in jail," the bench observed orally while dismissing the plea. Senior advocate R Basant, appearing for the convict, said that an interim bail for a period of two months can be considered for allowing him to get the holistic treatment of his ailments. Senior Advocate Manish Singhvi, representing the state, said the convict has been getting the best possible treatment in jail and urged dismissal of the plea. A vacation bench, on June 4, had sought the response of the state government on Asaram's plea that his sentence be suspended for two months for undergoing treatment at Prakash Deep Institute of Ayurved near Haridwar in Uttarakhand. In its response, the state government had said that Asaram was hospitalised and in the intensive care unit for the treatment and his plea for transferring him had become infructuous. Prior to this, the state government had told the top court that Asaram was fit and stable but trying to change the venue of his custody on the pretext of medical treatment. Asaram is serving varying jail terms including life sentences in two sexual assault cases. The accused/petitioner with ulterior motives has been attempting to change the venue of his custody, under the guise of medical treatment. Such change, with due respect, is an abuse of the process of law, the state government had said in its affidavit. The accused is also deliberately delaying the pending trial at Gandhi Nagar as well as Jodhpur, raising such pleas with mala fides whereas he is stable and fit, it had said. The state government had said Jodhpur is one of the rare centres, where both the allopathic and ayurvedic treatments are available. It had also said Asaram was tested positive for COVID-19 on May 6 and was having mild symptoms, with low-grade fever and was treated properly. A Jodhpur court, on April 25, 2018, had sentenced Asaram to life in prison after finding him guilty of raping a teenage girl in his ashram in 2013. His accomplices Sharad and Shilpi were sentenced to 20 years in jail by the court in the same case for their roles. The teenager had said in her complaint that Asaram had called her to his ashram in Manai area near Jodhpur and raped her on the night of August 15, 2013. The 16-year-old girl from Shahjahanpur in the northern Indian state of Uttar Pradesh was studying at Asaram's ashram in Chhindwara in the central Indian state of Madhya Pradesh. He was also convicted in a 2002 rape case and sentenced to 20 years in prison. Asaram is also facing a rape case in Surat in Gujarat. Asaram was arrested in Indore and brought to Jodhpur on September 1, 2013. He was under judicial custody since September 2, 2013.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
31-08-2021||India||Indian envoy meets Taliban leader for first high-level talks||In the first formal and publicly acknowledged contact, Indian Ambassador to Qatar Deepak Mittal met senior Taliban leader Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai on Tuesday and conveyed India's concerns that Afghanistan's soil should not be used for anti-Indian activities and terrorism. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said the discussions also focused on the safety, security and early return of Indian nationals stranded in Afghanistan and the travel of Afghan nationals, especially members of minority communities to India. The meeting took place at the Indian embassy in Doha at the request of the Taliban side and came two weeks after the outfit seized control of Kabul. The MEA said the Taliban representative assured the ambassador that "these issues" would be positively addressed. "Today, Ambassador of India to Qatar, Deepak Mittal, met Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai, the head of Taliban's Political Office in Doha. The meeting took place at the Embassy of India, Doha, on the request of the Taliban side," the MEA said in a statement. It said the discussions focused on safety, security and early return of Indian nationals stranded in Afghanistan and the travel of Afghan nationals, especially minorities, who wish to visit India also came up. "Ambassador Mittal raised India's concern that Afghanistan's soil should not be used for anti-Indian activities and terrorism in any manner. People familiar with India's ties in Afghanistan said it was the first publicly acknowledged contact between the two sides in over at least two decades. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi, replying to questions during his weekly briefing in the last few months on whether India has reached out to the Taliban, has been maintaining that New Delhi is in touch with all stakeholders. It was learnt that India had opened a channel of communication with the Taliban but it was never acknowledged officially. The meeting between Mittal and Stanekzai took place hours after the US completed the withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan, ending its 20-year-long military campaign in the country. The last American aircraft left the Kabul airport in the early hours of Tuesday. On Saturday, Stanekzai, in a clear overture, described India as an important country in the region and said the Taliban wants to maintain Afghanistan's trade, economic and political relations with it. "We attach great importance to our trade, economic and political relations with India and want to maintain that relation," he had said. "We also need to keep the air trade open," the Taliban leader was quoted as saying by Pakistani media outlet Independent Urdu. He was referring to the air corridor between India and Afghanistan that was established to boost trade between the two countries in view of Pakistan's denial to allow transit access. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on August 20 held talks with his Qatari counterpart Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al-Thani on the Afghan crisis during a stopover in Doha on his way back home from a four-day visit to the US. Doha has been the venue for the intra-Afghan peace talks and the Gulf country has emerged as a crucial player in facilitating the Afghan peace process. Political leaders of the Taliban have been residing in Qatar for years. In September last year, an Indian delegation attended the inaugural ceremony of the intra-Afghan negotiations featuring various stakeholders including the Afghan government and the Taliban in Doha. Jaishankar had joined it through a video conference. Meanwhile, a high-level group comprising Jaishankar, NSA Ajit Doval and a number of other senior officials is focusing on India's immediate priorities in Afghanistan following the drawdown of American forces from the country. Official sources said on Tuesday that the group has been meeting regularly over the last few days following a direction from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. India's immediate priorities include the safe return of its nationals still in Afghanistan, bringing back the Afghan nationals who stood by New Delhi and ensuring that Afghan soil is not used for terrorism directed at it. "In view of the evolving situation in Afghanistan, Prime Minister Modi recently directed that a high-level group comprising of External Affairs Minister, the National Security Adviser and senior officials focus on the immediate priorities of India," said a source. "It is seized of issues pertaining to the safe return of stranded Indians, the travel of Afghan nationals (especially minorities) to India, and assuring that the territory of Afghanistan is not used in any manner for terrorism directed against India," it said. India has been a key stakeholder in Afghanistan and it has invested nearly USD 3 billion in carrying out nearly 500 projects across Afghanistan. India has been in touch with all major regional players including those in the Gulf region on the developments in Afghanistan. The UN Security Council, under India's presidency, on Monday adopted a resolution demanding that the territory of Afghanistan not be used to threaten any country or shelter terrorists. There have been mounting concerns in India over the possibility of rise in activities of various terror groups including Lashkar-e-Toiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed from Taliban-controlled Afghanistan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
31-08-2021||India||Government should come out of cuckoo world, says Faooq Abdullah||Laying emphasis on providing enough security to panchayat leaders in Jammu and Kashmir, National Conference president Farooq Abdullah on Tuesday said militancy still exists and the government should not live in "cuckoo world and think everything is hunky-dory". Abdullah, a former chief minister, made these remarks in the presence of Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha at an official event here, organised as part of the parliamentary outreach programme for strengthening Panchayati Raj Institutions. Abdullah requested the Lt governor to strengthen security of panchayat leaders who continue to face threat to their lives and said militancy still exists in the Kashmir Valley. "These panchayat members are the targets of militants and they need to be protected. Don't live in a cuckoo world and think everything is hunky-dory. We still face militancy and God knows what will happen in future," he said in an apparent suggestion to the government. Laying emphasis on the need to protect the country's diversity, Abdullah said there is nothing similar between those who live in Srinagar and Chennai. "The binding factor is only the resolve that we come together to create this country. India is a diverse nation and it cannot prosper if we don't protect its diversity." He further said if the authorities don't protect the diversity, then one cannot protect the nation. "India cannot be run on the basis of one religion. And there is more threat from the enemy within. We know about the enemy which is outside," Abdullah said. He further said there is nothing wrong with any religion and that no religion teaches us to hate people from different faiths. Abdullah mentioned that panchayat elections were held under the governments led by him and his son Omar Abdullah. Reacting to Abdullah, the Lt Governor said, "I want to assure (you) that appropriate arrangements have been made for the security of panchayat leaders. The administration is committed to provide them security and will extend them all possible help to fulfil their duty."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
31-08-2021||India||BJP's Jan Ashirwad rallies a threat amid looming third wave, says Uddhav||In a veiled swipe at BJP, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday said "Ashirwad" rallies are being organised despite the threat of a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic "which is putting the lives of people in danger". Speaking virtually after inaugurating an oxygen plant set up by Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik in Thane, the CM said "these people do not seem to care if some people die due to such rallies . Newly-appointed Union ministers of BJP recently organised "Jan Ashirwad" rallies to take blessings of people. As Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) defied the ban and tried to hold Dahi Handi celebrations in Mumbai and Thane on Tuesday, Thackeray said the MVA government was not against any festivals but only fighting against coronavirus. There is the threat of a third wave of Covid-19 but some people are still organising 'Ashirwad' rallies. They are not seeking blessings from the people but they are in fact putting the lives of the people in danger, said Thackeray, who heads Shiv Sena. He said when Sena was formed it was announced that the party will do 80 per cent social work and 20 per cent politics. But today there are parties in the country that are 100 per cent into politics. They do not want to do any work that will benefit the people but they are organising rallies and events that would put their lives in danger, he said. These people do not seem to care if some people die due to such rallies, said Thackeray. Thackeray also said that he was missing the excitement of Dahi Handi due to restrictions, which do not allow public celebrations of the festival. Dahi Handi festival or 'Gopalkala' is celebrated a day after Janmashtami marking the birth of Lord Shrikrishna. I must admit that I am missing the excitement of Dahi Handi and the celebrations for the last couple of years. I had personally attended some such events in the past, Thackeray recalled. MNS celebrated the traditional 'Dahi Handi' festival in Thane and the neighbouring Palghar district, even though the celebrations have been banned in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. A case was registered against four activists of the Raj Thackeray-led party and eight others for violating COVID-19 norms by holding a Dahi Handi programme in the Worli area of central Mumbai on Tuesday and two workers were arrested, police said. The CM said the MVA government was not against any festival but fighting against Covid-19. "It (the pandemic) is not a state (sponsored) programme. Everyone has to follow the guidelines during social life that are common across the world, he said. Thackeray said even the Union government has asked States to take precautions during festivals. One needs to replicate the kind of fight MLA Pratap Sarnaik is putting up against the Covid-19 pandemic (by erecting oxygen generation plant), but unfortunately, it is not happening. Such maturity is not seen in some people. By behaving immaturely, these people are posing a risk to the lives of others, he said. MLA Pratap Sarnaik has organised a "Health Utsav" instead of the Dahi Handi festival this year. This is not a fight for Independence of the country. Here, lives of people are at stake, the chief minister said, apparently referring to public rallies and other events organised by BJP in Maharashtra. Thackeray said he wanted to show the Union government's letter to States asking people to avoid crowding during the festive season, "especially to those who want to organise agitations at public places . "Agitations are being held in defiance of the Covid-19 safety regulations. If you want to do any agitation then do it against coronavirus," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
31-08-2021||India||Breakthrough Covid-19 infections found in 25 % healthcare workers: Study||A little more than 25 per cent of healthcare workers were infected with coronavirus despite getting fully jabbed, a recent study has revealed, giving an insight on the breakthrough infections due to the Delta variant. The study, jointly conducted by the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) and Max hospitals in Delhi-NCR, found that vaccination breakthroughs were far more common during the Delta-outbreak in Delhi than previously reported. However, the severity of the infection was low and vaccination is crucial to avoid severe illnesses, said Shantanu Sengupta, senior scientist with the IGIB and one of the lead researchers of the study. He also cautioned that of the 25 per cent who were infected, a large number were asymptomatic, so masking is also very important to arrest the spread of infection. Sengupta said nearly 95 healthcare workers who had taken the two doses were studied. They were assessed from 45-90 days after their inoculation. Of the 95, more than 25 per cent saw breakthrough infections. "Immunisation is expected to confer protection against infection and severe disease for vaccines, while reducing risks to non-immunised population by inhibiting transmission. Here, based on serial serological studies, we show that during a severe SARS-CoV2 Delta-variant outbreak in Delhi, 25.3 per cent of previously uninfected, ChAdOx1-nCoV19 (Covishield) double vaccinated, healthcare-workers (HCW) were infected within a period of less than two months, based on serology," the study said. Most infections were unrecognised. The Delta- variant thus causes frequent unrecognised breakthrough infections in adequately immunised subjects, reducing any herd-effect of immunity, and requiring reinstatement of preventive measures such as masking, the paper said. There is a need to have a variant-specific high throughput neutralisation assay to truly assess population immunity and predict outbreak risk, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
31-08-2021||India||Supreme Court advises against issuing oral orders, says it would send dangerous precedent||Judges should speak through their judgements and orders and should not issue oral directions as it does not form a part of the judicial record and must be avoided, the Supreme Court said on Tuesday. The apex court said the element of judicial accountability is lost where oral regimes prevail and this would set a dangerous precedent and is unacceptable. A bench comprising Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah made the observations in a judgement on an appeal against a verdict passed by the Gujarat High Court which issued oral direction not to arrest an accused in a case of cheating and criminal breach of trust. "Oral observations in court are in the course of a judicial discourse. The text of a written order is what is binding and enforceable. Issuing oral directions (presumably to the public prosecutor) restraining arrest, does not form a part of the judicial record and must be eschewed," said the bench. The top court said the procedure followed by the High Court of issuing an oral direction restraining the arrest of the first respondent was irregular. The bench said that if the High Court was of the view that an opportunity should be granted to counsel for the parties to explore the possibility of a settlement and, on that ground, an interim protection against arrest ought to be granted, a specific judicial order to that effect was necessary. The apex court said that in absence of a judicial order, the investigating officer would have no official record emanating from the High Court on the basis of which a stay of arrest is enforced. The top court said administration of criminal justice is not a private matter between the complainant and the accused but implicates wider interests of the State in preserving law and order as well as a societal interest in the sanctity of the criminal justice administration. The bench said that judges speak through their judgments and orders and the written text is capable of being assailed. Judges, as much as public officials over whose conduct they preside, are accountable for their actions, it said. The top court was hearing an appeal filed by Salimbhai Hamidbhai Menon who had approached the High Court under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code seeking quashing of FIR lodged against him under sections 405 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will etc.), 468 (forgery for the purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) of the Indian Penal Code. During the pendency of the matter in the high court, Menon was arrested. When the proceedings were taken up after the arrest, the High Court was of the view that an opportunity should be granted to counsel for the parties to explore the possibility of a settlement and, on that ground, an interim protection against arrest was granted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-255
31-08-2021||India||Akhil Bhartiya Terapanth Yuvak Parishad (ABTYP) aspires to make India blood sufficient : Sandeep Kothari, National Prez  ||Akhil Bhartiya Terapanth Yuvak Parishad (ABTYP) is the youth wing of  Terapanth sect of Jain community. Based out of India and having a nationwide network of more than 350 branches and 45000 plus youth, ABTYP organises blood donation camp under name of *Mega Blood Donation Drive (MBDD) *. India is currently deficient in about 2 million blood units, the ongoing pandemic and the vaccination have further lowered this deficiency levels. Through their Mega Blood Donation Drive, ABTYP committee strives to make India blood sufficient. Their aim is to ensure that blood is available in every corner of India to anyone in need. Over the years they have organised many shibirs and blood donation camps all over the country. For their remarkable achievements, they have been featured in various news channels and media time and again. The volunteers and ambassadors of ABTYP are relentlessly working towards making India blood self-sufficient. Some of their major accomplishments in the field of blood donation are: Year 2012: They organised the first Mega Blood Donation Drive with Sachin Tendulkar as their brand ambassador and collected 96600 of blood across India in a single day. Year 2014: Being mentioned in Guinness World Record for collecting 100212 units of blood in single day. Celebrities across the country joined this red revolution. Year 2016: The organization conducted a marathon - world longest blood donation drive wherein blood donation camps were organised everyday throughout India from 01st Jan, 2016 to 31 December, 2016 and were awarded and recognised by Govt of India & various State Governments. On learning that plasma can save people from COVID19, ABTYP organized more than 3000 plasma donations camps throughout the country. During the nationwide lockdown, more than 55000 units of blood and 2000 units of plasma from Covid recovered patients were collected and donated to various hospitals and blood banks. These milestone events are recorded in various books of records. Now their mission is to create the biggest virtual blood donor’s data bank. It is commendable to note here that ABTYP also finds a mention in the various books of records like - Asia books of records, India books of records Global Pacific records, Asia Pacific records and so on. The mission of ABTYP is, 'To save as many lives as possible by maintaining a reliable and economical blood supply in India’s remotest locations.' With support from the public, they hope to expand further and help the county become blood sufficient.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
31-08-2021||India||Delhi HC to hear pleas challenging Rakesh Asthana's appointment as top cop||The Delhi High Court Tuesday said it will hear on Wednesday a petition challenging the appointment of Gujarat-cadre IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as Delhi Police Commissioner and an intervention application filed in the matter by an NGO. "We are keeping the matter tomorrow. Intervention application (by the NGO) will be listed tomorrow along with the writ petition," said a bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh. On August 25, the Supreme Court had asked the high court to decide within two weeks the plea pending before it against the appointment of senior IPS officer as Delhi Police Commissioner. The apex court had then also permitted NGO, 'Centre for Public Interest Litigation' (CPIL) - which has challenged the appointment before the Supreme Court, to move the high court to intervene in the pending plea by one Sadre Alam. Appearing for the NGO, advocate Prashant Bhushan argued that the petition before the high court was a copy-paste of CPIL's plea before the Supreme Court. "We have filed an intervention on behalf of CPIL. Something extraordinary has happened in the matter. The petition is a total copy-paste. Full stop, comma, exclamation mark. The court may list it tomorrow or whenever. See the kind of abuse of process of law that is done," Bhushan stated. He informed the court that NGO's challenge to Asthana's appointment was adjourned by the Supreme Court on the last occasion and that he does not intend to "file another petition here". In the intervention application, the NGO has contended that filing an identical writ petition without mentioning the pendency of the issue before the apex court seems to have been filed to defeat public interest by scuttling the genuine, bona fide and well-researched and deliberated PIL (pending before Supreme Court) . Alam stated that his petition was an outcome of his hard work. Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma said that the peresent instance was a case of competitive PIL . The 1984-batch IPS officer, serving as the director general of Border Security Force, was appointed Delhi Police Commissioner on July 27, four days before his superannuation on July 31. In his petition before the high court, Alam has sought quashing of the July 27 order issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs appointing Asthana as the Delhi Police Commissioner and also the order granting inter-cadre deputation and extension of service to him. The plea, filed through advocate B S Bagga, also sought initiation of steps for appointing Delhi Police Commissioner strictly in accordance with the direction issued by the Supreme Court earlier. "The impugned orders (of MHA) are in clear and blatant breach of the directions passed by the Supreme Court of India in Prakash Singh case as (i) respondent no.2 (Asthana) did not have a minimum residual tenure of six months; (ii) no UPSC panel was formed for appointment of Delhi Police Commissioner; and (iii) the criteria of having a minimum tenure of two years has been ignored," the plea said. It claimed the High-Powered Committee comprising the Chief Justice of India, Prime Minister and the Leader of Opposition, in its meeting held on May 24, 2021, rejected the Central government's attempt to appoint Asthana as the CBI Director on the basis of the six-month rule as laid down by the Supreme Court in Prakash Singh. The appointment of Asthana to the post of Commissioner of Police, Delhi must be set aside on the same principle, it said. The petition with similar prayers which has been filed by CPIL before the Supreme Court has urged to direct the central government to produce the July 27 order it issued, approving the inter-cadre deputation of Asthana from Gujarat cadre to AGMUT cadre. The petition has also urged the apex court to set aside the Centre's order to extend Asthana's service period. A contempt plea in the apex court by advocate M L Sharma has been filed against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah for appointing Asthana as Delhi Police Commissioner in alleged violation of the judgement in Prakash Singh case. In his petition, Sharma has said that according to the apex court's judgement of July 3, 2018, the process of appointment should begin three months prior to the vacancy and the person being appointed must have a reasonable period of service left.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
31-08-2021||India||Son of DMK MLA among 7 killed in Bangalore road accident||Seven persons, including the son of a Tamil Nadu MLA, died when their Audi Q3 crashed at Koramangala in Bengaluru during the wee hours of Tuesday. According to The Hindu, three women and four men were travelling in an SUV when the driver lost control of the vehicle. The car then went over the footpath before hitting the compound wall of a bank. "The incident occurred around 1.30 a.m. The SUV hit the wall with such intensity and speed that it was completely damaged. Though it was meant to seat five persons, there were seven people in the vehicle. The incident was recorded on CCTV cameras in the area," it quoted a police officer as saying. The CCTV footage shows the wheel of the car flying off as it crashed after hitting a pole and then going over the footpath, hitting the wall of a building. Six people died on spot and the seventh passed away in a hospital according to NDTV. DMK MLA Y Prakash's son Karuna Sagar was in the group. All the victims were in their twenties, enjoying a late night joyride in the city, according to NDTV. According to sources in The Hindu, the group was returning to Hosur in Tamil Nadu after a trip to Bangalore. Soon after the incident, staff from a nearby hotel and a few others pulled the victims out of the car and alerted the local police, The Hindu said in its report. "The passengers were trapped inside the mangled vehicle. Rescuers had to use force to open the doors and get them out. Witnesses saw smoke coming out from the engine. They poured water fearing that the vehicle would catch fire," a police source told them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
31-08-2021||India||PM hails shooter Singhraj Adhana for winning Paralympics bronze||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Tuesday hailed shooter Singhraj Adhana for winning the Paralympics bronze at Tokyo, saying he worked tremendously hard and achieved remarkable successes. Prime Minister Modi also spoke with Adhana and congratulated him on winning the Bronze medal. Adhana, who took up the sport just four years ago, won the Paralympics bronze medal in the P1 men's 10m air pistol SH1 event in Tokyo on Tuesday. "Exceptional performance by Singhraj Adhana! India's talented shooter brings home the coveted Bronze Medal. He has worked tremendously hard and achieved remarkable successes," Modi tweeted. "Congratulations to him and best wishes for the endeavours ahead," the prime minister said. The 39-year-old shooter, who is afflicted with polio and was making his Games debut, shot a total of 216.8 to finish the event in third place after qualifying for the eight-man final as the sixth best shooter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
31-08-2021||India||Dalit girl from Delhi raped, killed in Gurgaon||A 13-year-old Dalit girl from north Delhi's Narela was allegedly raped and killed at neighbouring Gurgaon by a relative of her landlord, officials said Tuesday. They said the landlady's brother Praveen Verma has been arrested on the complaint of the girl's father who made a PCR call when the accused allegedly tried to force the family to cremate the body. In an FIR filed with the police, the girl's father has said, "On July 17, my landlord's wife said that her sister-in-law has given birth to a child and she was taking my daughter along with her to her brother's home in Gurgaon. She also said that my daughter would stay there and could play with the daughter of her brother." However, around 3 pm on August 23, the father was informed by his landlord that his daughter has died, the FIR sates. Around 7 pm, they took the body in a private ambulance to the girl's Narela residence for cremation, it added. When the father got suspicious, he made a PCR call and Narela police station staff reached the spot, and took the body to the Babu Jagjivan Ram hospital in Jahangirpuri, the FIR stated. The father has alleged in the FIR that landlady's brother Praveen Verma, along with others, has killed his daughter. The Gurgaon Police said it has registered a case under sections 302 (murder) and 120B (punishment of criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and SC/ST Act. They said further sections were added in the FIR after the postmortem report confirmed sexual assault, and Verma was arrested. Earlier this month, a nine-year-old Dalit girl was alleged rape and killed in Delhi Cantt area. The girl died under suspicious circumstances even as her parents alleged that she was raped and forcibly cremated by a crematorium's priest in southwest Delhi's Old Nangal village.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
31-08-2021||India||Bengal post-poll violence: CBI files three more FIRs||The CBI, as part of its probe into cases of post-poll violence in Bengal, has filed three new FIRs in two places, agency sources said on Tuesday. According to the sources, the cases were filed in Purba Medinipur's Nandigram and Cooch Behar's Sitalkuchi areas. As many as 31 cases have been filed so far by the agency. After the TMC stormed back to power, the BJP accused the ruling party workers of unleashing violence on its members, leaving several of them dead. The saffron camp also claimed that many homes of party activists have been destroyed, and women raped in various parts of the state. The Calcutta High Court, after taking cognisance of an NHRC report on post-poll violence, handed over the probe to the CBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
31-08-2021||India||India set up high-level group to monitor developments in Afghanistan||A high-level group comprising External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, NSA Ajit Doval and a number of other senior officials is focusing on India's immediate priorities in Afghanistan following the drawdown of American forces from the country after 20 years of presence. Official sources said on Tuesday that the group has been meeting regularly over the last few days following a direction from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. India's immediate priorities have been the safe return of the Indians still in Afghanistan, bringing back the Afghan nationals who stood by New Delhi, and ensuring that Afghan soil is not used for terrorism directed at India. "In view of the evolving situation in Afghanistan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently directed that a high-level group comprising of External Affairs Minister, the National Security Adviser and senior officials focus on the immediate priorities of India," said a source. "It is seized of issues pertaining to the safe return of stranded Indians, the travel of Afghan nationals (especially minorities) to India, and assuring that the territory of Afghanistan is not used in any manner for terrorism directed against India," it said. The sources also said that the group has also been monitoring the ground situation in Afghanistan and international reactions, including the resolution passed this morning by the UN Security Council. The US on Tuesday completed the withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan, ending a two-decade war and leaving the country in the hands of the Taliban. The Taliban has taken control of the Hamid Karzai international airport in Kabul on Tuesday after the last US aircraft took off in the morning, marking an end to the 20-year presence of the US in Afghanistan. Supporters of the outfit celebrated across Kabul after the US completed the troops' withdrawal. There is still no clarity on the formation of a government in Kabul, over two weeks after the Taliban seized control of the Afghan capital city. India is adopting a wait and watch approach to see whether the new dispensation in Afghanistan will be solely a government of the Taliban or be part of a power-sharing arrangement with other Afghan leaders. India has been a key stakeholder in Afghanistan and it has invested nearly USD 3 billion in carrying out nearly 500 projects across Afghanistan. India has been in touch with all major regional players including those in the Gulf region on the developments in Afghanistan. The UN Security Council, under India's presidency, on Monday adopted a resolution demanding that the territory of Afghanistan not be used to threaten any country or shelter terrorists. There have been mounting concerns in India over the possibility of rise in activities of various terror groups including Lashkar-e-Toiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed from Taliban-controlled Afghanistan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
31-08-2021||India||Karnataka imposes 7-day institutional quarantine for people entering from Kerala||People entering Karnataka from neighbouring Kerala will have to remain in institutional quarantine for a week even if they are vaccinated and carry a negative RT-PCR test report, Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar said. The measure is also applicable to air passengers from Kerala and they can choose a hotel of their choice, which had been designated for institutional quarantine. Such travelers undergoing institutional quarantine will be tested on the sixth day and if the report comes out negative for Covid-19 on the seventh day, they will be allowed to go. "It has been decided in a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday that travelers coming from Kerala, whether they have taken vaccines or have a negative RT-PCR test report, will have to compulsorily stay in institutional quarantine," Sudhakar told reporters here. According to Sudhakar, the government is working out a strategy in consultation with experts on how to further strengthen Covid prevention drive in the districts bordering Kerala such as Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Chamarajanagar. He also said the government may take "even more" stringent measures in the border districts to control the spread of Covid-19. The government has imposed stringent restrictions in view of increasing number of Covid cases in Kerala. Kerala on Monday reported 19,622 new positive cases and 132 Covid-19-related deaths, taking the caseload to 40,27,030 and the toll to 20,673. As the Karnataka government decided to restart from September 6 offline classes for students from class six to eight, Sudhakar said schools cannot be kept shut permanently and have to be reopened because children were lagging behind in their studies. "For the past one-and-half years, our children have made slow progress in education. Education is important for the growth of children. It is the duty of the government to ensure academic future of the children," the Minister pointed out. He added that all preparations have been made and guidelines have been made public on reopening of schools. "In case the positivity rate in certain areas goes beyond two per cent, the schools will be shut and everyone will be tested", the Minister said. Asked if there will be Covid-19-related restrictions during the upcoming Ganesha festival, Sudhakar said the health department has been insisting that no public function should take place, because wherever people gather in large numbers, the threat of the spread of the pandemic increases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
31-08-2021||India||Bombay HC raises concern over crowding in public places||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday raised concern over crowds assembling at public places in Mumbai and said if it was not controlled or restricted, the city would face a similar situation as earlier this year when the number of COVID-19 cases surged, leading to the second wave of the pandemic. A full bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta, Justices A A Sayed, K K Tated and P B Varale said the government, authorities and citizens should learn from the earlier experience and noted that as per experts, the third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic was knocking at our doors. In our meeting of the administrative committee of the HC, lawyers and other experts held on Monday, an expert, Dr Rahul Pandit, who heads the Special Task Force appointed by the Supreme Court, informed that the third wave of the pandemic is knocking at our doors, Chief Justice Datta said. Unless all the safety protocols are not followed, the state will face imminent danger. Dr Pandit was also of the view that at least till April 2022, the nation may not get rid of COVID-19, he said. The high court said photographs published in various newspapers show crowds assembling at beaches in Mumbai, like the Juhu Chowpatty, Girgaum Chowpatty and Marine Drive. "If you (the government) do not control or restrict this, then again the same situation is bound to happen. We need to draw from our experience," the court said. The bench extended all interim orders passed by the high court as well as all subordinate courts and tribunals in Maharashtra and Goa till September 30. "Considering the view placed by the experts, the situation of uncertainty and the ensuing festivities which could pose a threat to the humankind, we are of the opinion that the interest of justice would be served if the protective interim orders are extended till September 30," the court said. The HC also said that its full bench would assemble next on September 24 to review the situation. On Monday, Mumbai reported 334 new COVID-19 cases, the sixth day in a row when the addition to the tally was above 300, taking the infection count to 7,43,832, while the death toll increased by two to reach 15,976, a civic official earlier said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
31-08-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi slams government's  Jallianwala Bagh memorial revamp, calls it insulting||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday termed the government's revamp of the Jallianwala Bagh memorial an "insult to martyrs", saying only a person who does not know the meaning of martyrdom can inflict such an insult. Taking to Twitter, the former Congress chief tagged a media report on the outrage on social media over the alleged changes at the Jallianwala Bagh memorial complex with many claiming that it was "destroying history" in the name of makeover. Gandhi's attack came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday dedicated to the nation the renovated complex of Jallianwala Bagh memorial. During the event, Modi also digitally inaugurated the museum galleries at the memorial. The event also showcased the multiple development initiatives undertaken by the government to upgrade the complex. Tagging the report on the social media outrage over the revamp, Gandhi tweeted, "Only a person who does not know the meaning of martyrdom can inflict such an insult on the martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh". "I am the son of a martyr - I will not tolerate the insult of martyrs at any cost," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "We are against this indecent cruelty." In another tweet, Gandhi said those who didn't struggle for freedom can't understand those who did. Congress leader Jaiveer Shergill alleged the BJP-led central government project giving a makeover to the "Jallianwala passage is not to preserve but erase the marks of atrocities committed by General Dyer during British rule". "Central vistafication of Jallianwala Bagh passage is ultimate insult to those killed on that fatal day! Shame," he said. Congress' deputy leader in Lok Sabha Gaurav Gogoi, in a tweet on Monday, said, "Call me a traditional Indian but I am not a fan of installing disco lights on institutions of importance and dignity." Such pomp reduces the gravity and horror of the Jallianwala Bagh Smarak to base entertainment, he alleged. "Similarly the strobe lights on Parliament are also appalling," Gogoi added. Stressing that it is a country's duty to protect its history, Prime Minister Modi had said that events of the past "teach us and give us direction to move forward". As part of the inaugural event, a wreath-laying ceremony was also held and two-minute silence was observed in the memory of those killed in the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. A sound and light show was held to depict the events of the day of the massacre. Over 1,000 people were killed and hundreds wounded on April 13, 1919 when British troops fired indiscriminately on an unarmed gathering of thousands who had assembled in Jallianwala Bagh amid nationwide protests against the Rowlatt Act which had extended wartime repressive measures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-256
31-08-2021||India||Modi speaks to Assam CM to take stock of flood situation||With several parts of Assam hit hard by floods, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday spoke to Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma to take stock of the situation and assured the state of all possible help from the Centre. The flood situation in Assam deteriorated with two persons losing their lives and over 3.63 lakh people suffering in the deluge across 17 districts, an official bulletin said on Monday. In a tweet, Modi said, "Spoke to Assam CM Shri @himantabiswa and took stock of the flood situation in parts of the state. Assured all possible support from the Centre to help mitigate the situation. I pray for the safety and well-being of those living in the affected areas." Barpeta, Biswanath, Cachar, Chirang, Darrang, Dhemaji, Dhubri, Dibrugarh, Golaghat, Jorhat, Kamrup, West Karbi Anglong, Lakhimpur, Majuli, Morigaon are among the affected districts. "Adarniya Pradhan Mantriji telephoned today to enquire about flood situation and assured all help to Assam to combat this menace", the chief minister said on the microblogging site. Lakhimpur is the worst-hit district with more than 1.3 lakh people suffering, followed by Majuli and Darrang, according to the bulletin of Assam State Disaster Management Authority. "Current flood has gravely impacted the livelihoods of the people. My gratitude to Adarniya Modiji for standing with us at this hour of crisis," Sarma said. At present, 950 villages are underwater and 30,333.36 hectares of crop areas have been damaged across Assam, the bulletin added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
31-08-2021||India||CJI administers oath of office to nine new SC judges||Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana on Tuesday administered oath of office to nine new judges, including three women, of the Supreme Court. The CJI started the swearing-in by administering oath of office to Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka. With the swearing-in of the nine new judges, the strength of the Supreme Court rose to 33, including the CJI, out of the sanctioned strength of 34. The nine new judges who were administered oath of office as apex court judges include Justice Vikram Nath, Justice Jitendra Kumar Maheshwari, Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B V Nagarathna. Besides them, Justice C T Ravikumar, Justice M M Sundresh, Justice Bela M Trivedi and senior advocate and former Additional Solicitor General P S Narasimha were also administered oath of office by the CJI. Justice Nagarathna, the daughter of former CJI E S Venkataramiah, is in line to become the first woman CJI in September 2027.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
31-08-2021||India||Google removes 95,680 content pieces in July in India||Google received 36,934 complaints from users and removed 95,680 pieces of content based on those complaints in July, the tech giant company said in its monthly transparency reports released on Tuesday. In addition to reports from users, Google also removed 5,76,892 pieces of content in July as a result of automated detection. The US-based company has made these disclosures as part of compliance with India's IT rules that came into force on May 26. On Tuesday, Google said it had received 36,934 complaints in July from individual users located in India via designated mechanisms, and the number of removal actions as a result of user complaints was 95,680 - the highest so far. In June, Google had received 36,265 complaints and removed 83,613 pieces of content as a result of user complaints. It had removed 59,350 pieces of content in April and 71,132 pieces in May. "Some requests may allege infringement of intellectual property rights, while others claim violation of local laws prohibiting types of content on grounds such as defamation. When we receive complaints regarding content on our platforms, we assess them carefully," Google said on Tuesday. The content removal was done under several categories, including copyright (94,862), trademark (807), court order (4), circumvention (3), counterfeit (1), graphic sexual content (1), impersonation (1) and other legal requests (1). Google explained that a single complaint may specify multiple items that potentially relate to the same or different pieces of content, and each unique URL in a specific complaint is considered an individual "item" that is removed. Under the new IT rules, large digital platforms - with over 5 million users - will have to publish periodic compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken thereon. The report must also include the number of specific communication links or parts of the information that the intermediary has removed or disabled access to in pursuance of any proactive monitoring conducted by using automated tools. Google's report showed that it had removed 5,76,892 pieces of content in July as a result of automated detection. This number stood at 5,26,866 in June. The company said for data related to automated detection processes, it has included data where the sender or creator of the content is located in India. "In order to attribute a location to an individual sender or creator, we use data signals such as location of account creation, IP address at the time of video upload and user phone number, as available. Please note that senders or creators of content may attempt to evade detection through location-concealing mechanisms," it said. While Google is committed to revealing any bad actors through industry-leading detection tools, reporting based on location attribution should be interpreted as a directional estimate, it added. The company noted that when it receives complaints regarding content on its platforms, it assesses them carefully. "There are many reasons we may not have removed content in response to a user complaint. For example, some requests may not be specific enough for us to know what the user wanted us to remove (for example, no URL is listed in the request), or the content has already been removed by the user when we process the complaint," it explained. A removal action may be taken on a complaint if the content violates Google's Community Guidelines, content policies, or local legal requirements, while for automated detection processes, a removal action is taken if content violates its Community Guidelines or content policies, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
31-08-2021||India||India logs over 30,000 fresh Covid cases, 350 casualties in a day||With 30,941 people testing positive for coronavirus, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,27,68,880, while the active cases declined to 3,70,640, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll has climbed to 4,38,560 with 350 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 1.13 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.53 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 5,684 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 13,94,573 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 52,15,41,098. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.22 per cent.The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.51 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 67 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,19,59,680, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 64.05 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Tuesday morning. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 350 new fatalities include 132 from Kerala, 67 from Odisha and from 52 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,38,560 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,37,20 from Maharashtra, 37,293 from Karnataka, 34,899 from Tamil Nadu, 25,081 from Delhi, 22,820 from Uttar Pradesh, 20,673 from Kerala and 18,434 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
31-08-2021||India||Calcutta High Court: Centre silent on five judge recommendations||When the Centre cleared five additional judges for Calcutta High Court last week, a curious feature caught the eye of several veteran lawyers. Although the five names proposed by the Supreme Court collegium in February this year were cleared, there was no word on five others the collegium had recommended more than two years ago. Among the five not yet endorsed by the Narendra Modi government for elevation as judges to Calcutta High Court is senior advocate Amitesh Banerjee. The senior advocate is the son of Justice U.C. Banerjee, the former Supreme Court judge who had headed the commission that in 2006 ruled out any conspiracy angle to the 2002 Sabaramati Express fire tragedy in Godhra that killed 58 kar sevaks and was cited as an excuse for the Gujarat riots that erupted when Modi was chief minister. The rejection of the conspiracy theory had gone against the Right-wing narrative that the riots were a spontaneous reaction to a diabolic plot to kill the kar sevaks. The findings of the Justice Banerjee commission, appointed by the then railway minister Lalu Prasad, were contradicted by a commission of Justices G.T. Nanavati and A.H. Mehta, which in 2008 held that the train fire at Godhra was part of “a planned conspiracy”. Subsequently, the Nanavati-Mehta commission gave a clean chit to the then chief minister, Modi. The five names, including that of Amitesh Banerjee, that are yet to be cleared by the Centre for elevation as judges to Calcutta High Court were recommended by the Supreme Court collegium on July 24, 2019. However, the recommendation for the five others the Centre cleared last week was made only on February 4, 2021. According to sources, the Union government has cited no valid reason yet for withholding the names. The terms of the memorandum of procedure require the Centre to cite its objections. But if the collegium iterates the recommendation, the Centre has no option but to fall in line. The Centre has been sitting on the five names at a time Calcutta High Court has several vacancies. Against the total sanctioned strength of 72 judges, made up of 54 permanent and 18 additional judges, Calcutta High Court now has a working strength of 35 judges, with 37 vacancies. High court judges are initially appointed as additional judges and most are eventually made permanent judges. On July 24, 2019, the collegium, headed by then Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi and including Justice N.V. Ramana (the current CJI), had said in a resolution that was passed: “…On the basis of interaction, the material on record and having regard to all relevant factors, the collegium is of the considered view that S/Shri (1) Jaytosh Majumdar, (2) Amitesh Banerjee, (3) Raja Basu Chowdhury, (4) Smt Lapita Banerji and (5) Sakya Sen (mentioned at Sl Nos 2, 4, 5, 8, and 9 above) are suitable for being appointed as judges of the Calcutta High Court….” The collegium added in the resolution: “…The collegium resolves to recommend that S/Shri (1) Jaytosh Majumdar, (2) Amitesh Banerjee, (3) Raja Basu Chowdhury, (4) Smt Lapita Banerji and (5) Sakya Sen, advocates, be appointed as judges of the Calcutta High Court.” While recommending the five, the collegium had observed: “We have perused the views of the chief minister and the governor for the state of West Bengal placed in the file and the observations made therein. “In order to ascertain suitability of the above-named recommendees for elevation to the high court, we have consulted our colleagues conversant with the affairs of the Calcutta High Court. Copies of letters of opinion of our consultee-colleagues received in this regard are placed below. “For purpose of assessing merit and suitability of the above-named recommendees for elevation to the high court, we have carefully scrutinised the material placed on record. We have also perused the observations made by the department of justice in the file as well as complaints received against some of the above-named recommendees. We do not find any substance therein. Apart from this, we considered it appropriate to interact with all the recommendees.” The sources said that although two years had passed since the recommendation was made, they were not aware of the Centre seeking any clarifications on the candidate judges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
31-08-2021||India||Images of renovated Jallianwala Bagh induce gasps of horror||Images of a renovated Jallianwala Bagh that Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated on Saturday have provoked gasps of horror in India and Britain, with even pro-government commentators and corporate honchos seeing in the effort “mockery” and “defacement”. The new features include a light-and-sound show, a glass encasing of the martyrs’ well, and a garish embellishment of the stark brick alley through which Reginald Dyer’s troops had entered the premises and shot hundreds of peaceful pro-Independence protesters dead. Mumbai-based senior Swiggy executive Harnidh Kaur tweeted: “Jallianwala Bagh isn’t a place of celebration. It’s a place of mourning and of deep, abiding grief. The starkness of the bagh itself is a reminder of what happened there. What a mockery of everything it once represented.” Suhel Seth, a commentator known for being pro-establishment, tweeted: “I don’t know who is the brain behind defacing both the soul and the body of Jallianwala Bagh. It was and will remain sombre and grave. People were mercilessly killed. To have a son et lumiere and that wretched design shows how removed we are from any level of refinement.” Arpita Das, founder-publisher of the Yoda Press, wrote: “The martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh are now protagonists of a sound and light show. How much lower can this government fall! #Shame.” There was shock in Britain too after pictures of the revamped brick alley, adorned with kitschy embossed figures of people in golden paint, were circulated. Kim A. Wagner, Professor of Global and Imperial History at Queen Mary University of London tweeted: “Devastated to hear that Jallianwala Bagh, site of the Amritsar Massacre of 1919, has been revamped — which means that the last traces of the event have effectively been erased. This is what I wrote of the memorial in my book, describing a space that has now itself become history.” Labour MP Preet Kaur Gill replied: “Our history — being erased! Why?” Cambridge archaeologist Danika Parikh tweeted: “It is so sad to see the changes made to Jallianwala Bagh, the site of a 1919 colonial massacre of peaceful protesters in Amritsar. The original entrance to the garden has been made unrecognisable with this baffling attempt to snazz up a very sombre and moving place of memory.” Several Twitterati drew comparisons with the A-Bomb Dome at Japan’s Hiroshima Peace Memorial Park, where the skeletal ruins of the former Hiroshima Prefectural Industrial Promotion Hall remains untouched. Congress MP Gaurav Gogoi tweeted: “Call me a traditional Indian but I am not a fan of installing disco lights on institutions of importance and dignity. Such pomp reduces the gravity and horror of the Jallianwala Bagh Smarak to base entertainment. Similarly the strobe lights on Parliament are also appalling.” Modern historian S. Irfan Habib wrote: “This is corporatisation of monuments, where they end up as modern structures, losing the heritage value. Look after them without meddling with the flavours of the period these memorials represent.” The renovation was undertaken by the public-sector unit, NBCC, from 2019 under the supervision of a five-member committee headed by the director-general of the Archaeological Survey of India. The Rs 23.03-crore project was completed in July last year but had been closed to the public because of the pandemic. Actor Ashwin Mushran tweeted: “Forgive me if I let out a cynical laugh when I hear complaints about the history of India not being taught correctly while allowing modern history to be desecrated right under our eyes. This is disrespectful to the memory of the horrific events of that day.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
31-08-2021||India||Haryana: Khattar defends SDM who asked to 'break heads' of farmers||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday defended Karnal sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha whom a video purportedly shows ordering police to “break heads” if protesting farmers try to breach a barricade, saying the choice of words was incorrect but the situation warranted strict action. The BJP chief minister’s comments came a day after his deputy from ally JJP, Dushyant Chautala, had said action would “definitely” be taken against Sinha. Upset at Khattar’s remarks, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which has been spearheading the farmers’ protest against three farm laws, set the Haryana government a September 6 deadline to dismiss Sinha and lodge a murder case against him for a farmer’s death. Police had lathi-charged farmers near a toll plaza on Saturday when they tried to head to Karnal town to stop a state-level BJP meeting that Khattar was to attend. A farmer, Sushil Kaajal, who was said to have suffered injuries in the police action died of a heart attack later. “It is utterly shocking that the chief minister of the state is choosing to brush aside the barbaric and illegal instructions as only a wrong choice of words,” the Morcha said. “It once again clearly reiterates what we have been saying, which is that the Khattar-Chautala government is at war with its own people.” Khattar did not rule out action against Sinha but attached several caveats as he addressed a news conference in Chandigarh. “Though the officer’s choice of words was not correct, strictness had to be maintained to ensure that the law-and-order situation there was kept under check,” he said. “If any action has to be taken (against Sinha), it will first have to be assessed by the district administration. The DGP is also looking into it. To maintain law and order, strictness had to be ensured.” Khattar questioned the protesting farmers’ strategy of boycotting ministers and BJP functionaries. “Today, you have called me here. But if somebody says they would not allow the chief minister to reach a certain place, is that correct?” he said. Khattar said the farmers were not gaining any support with such actions and that there was a public demand to deal with them strictly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
31-08-2021||India||Remission hope for people with type-2 diabetes ||People with type-2 diabetes who sustain normal blood sugar for three months or longer without medicines should be considered “in remission”, four international medical societies said on Monday, setting guidelines for a disorder traditionally earmarked for perpetual treatment. “Remission” is a term used to describe the reduction or disappearance of signs and symptoms. A consensus statement from the societies has suggested that diabetes remission may be declared when the value of a blood test parameter called HbA1c that measures the average blood sugar is below 6.5 at least three months after stopping medicines. The statement comes amid the use of three terms — cure, reversal and remission — to describe type-2 diabetes patients who have achieved a disease-free status without taking medicines for significant periods. “Diabetes remission is the most appropriate term,” the Endocrine Society, the European Association for the Study of Diabetes, Diabetes UK, and the American Diabetes Association said. The statement pencilled by a 12-member panel of experts has said that remission “strikes an appropriate balance”, noting that diabetes may not always be active and progressive and yet implying that a notable improvement may not be permanent. People in type-2 diabetes remission would need to take steps to forestall a relapse by monitoring themselves regularly and being prepared to start medications if sugar levels rise, the panel said. It said the testing of HbA1c to document remission should be performed just before an intervention, and no sooner than three months after initiation of the intervention or the withdrawal of glucose-lowering pharmacotherapy. Instead of HbA1c, fasting glucose levels less than 126mg/dl may also be used as an alternative criterion to declare remission, the panel said. HbA1c or blood glucose testing should be done at least yearly to determine the long-term maintenance of remission. Multiple studies and clinical observations over the past five years have suggested that some diabetes patients may reverse the disease and move into long-term remission through drastic weight loss and other lifestyle-linked changes. Among the most cited of such studies are a series by Roy Taylor at the University of Newcastle and his colleagues in the UK who have shown that patients who lose 12kg to 15kg through well-designed diet control can achieve diabetes remission. Doctors in India too have documented diabetes remission. “We see remissions typically in young patients, or those recently diagnosed with diabetes and those who are able to lose significant weight,” said Ambrish Mithal, a senior endocrinologist at Max Hospital in New Delhi. One of Mithal’s patients who had an HbA1c value over 9 in April this year had a value of less than 6 last week. “We know this is reversal, but we don’t know yet how long it will last,” Mithal said. Diabetologists say the duration of remission needs to be tracked. Clinical experience suggests that people find it hard to stick to low-calorie diets for long periods and this makes most people regain lost weight within years. In Mumbai, endocrinologist Shashank Joshi and his colleagues are conducting a clinical trial to document diabetes remission through a regimen that combines lifestyle changes with an artificial intelligence software programme that seeks to tailor those changes to individuals. “The regimen includes eating less, eating right and eating on time, among other interventions,” Joshi said. Clinical observations have indicated that diabetes is reversible in its early years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
31-08-2021||India||JNU approves course linking Islamist and communist terror||Jawaharlal Nehru University’s academic council has approved a counter-terrorism course that links Islamist and communist terror while staying silent on terrorism by members of other faiths or groups. The course content document describes “jihadi terrorism” as the only form of “fundamentalist-religious inspired terrorism” and connects it to “State-sponsored terrorism” exclusively by communist China and the former Soviet Union. An academic council member said the proposal was passed on August 17 without discussion, as has been the trend under current vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar. Sources suggested that a final approval from the executive council was a formality. The optional and inter-disciplinary course, “Counter-terrorism, asymmetric conflicts and strategies for cooperation among major powers”, will be offered to Master of Science dual-degree students who choose to study international relations at the newly minted School of Engineering. It will not be taught at JNU’s School of International Studies (SIS). Session III of the course content, “Fundamentalist-religious terrorism and its impact”, says an incorrect and “perverse interpretation of the Koran has resulted in the rapid proliferation of a jihadi cultist violence that glorifies death by terror in suicidal and homicidal variants”. “The exploitation of the cyberspace by the radical Islamic religious clerics has resulted in the electronic propagation of jihadi terrorism world over.” The course content is silent on terrorist violence by adherents of other religions, such as Mahatma Gandhi’s assassin Nathuram Godse or members of the Lord’s Resistance Army in Africa who have been facing off with United Nations and African Union forces. Arvind Kumar, chairperson of the Centre for Canadian, United States and Latin American Studies who co-designed the course with assistant professor Anshu Joshi of the same centre, told The Telegraph: “It’s based on India’s perspective... how Islamic terrorism has always been detrimental to India’s national security. Jihadi terrorism is a manifestation of Taliban and various terrorist groups perpetrated by Pakistan.” Kumar’s centre functions under the SIS. In 2018, the Delhi Minorities Commission had sent a notice to JNU after “Islamic terrorism” was declared an area of study at the Special Centre for National Security Studies. The varsity later dropped the proposal. “Session IV: State-sponsored terrorism” says: “State-sponsored terrorism has been largely during the ideological war between the West and the Soviet Union and China. The Soviet Union and China have been predominant State sponsors of terrorism and they have been heavily involved in terms of their intelligence agencies training, aiding and providing logistical support to communist ultras and terrorists. “In the post-Cold War period, the trend has been well adapted by several radical Islamic states that have mirrored the earlier tactical strategies of the communist powers and have continued to aid and arm the various terrorist groups.” Kumar said in reply to queries: “(That) China has always supported Pakistan’s effort in promoting terrorism is well known at the global level…. The Soviet Union did everything to promote and expand its ideologies across the globe and hence kept its national interest paramount. What it did in West Europe in particular was a beginning and got intensified when they (Russians) intervened in Afghanistan in 1979.” Ironically, the Soviets spent a decade in Afghanistan fighting Islamist mujahideen backed by Pakistan and the US. Another elective paper, “Significance of science and technology in international relations”, focuses solely on military technology and is, despite the pandemic, silent on vaccines that have been the lynchpin of India’s foreign relations over the past year. School of Engineering dean Ruchir Gupta distanced himself from the matter and said it was the SIS that had designed the counter-terrorism course. “I don’t think anyone objected to the content in the special committee (of the School of Engineering that first vetted the course proposal) and the academic council,” Gupta said. SIS dean Aswini Mohapatra denied knowledge of the counter-terrorism paper, backed the part on jihadi terrorism but was puzzled at the bit on State terror. “The course was not designed by me but by the coordinator (Kumar) for such courses from the SIS (for other schools)…. There is no terrorist group from other religions, as such, that have emerged as a global phenomenon. Smaller groups in India may commit violence in the name of Sanatana Dharma but they are not part of a phenomenon of a number of groups across the world,” Mohapatra told this newspaper. He added: “I don’t know where he (Kumar) got this idea (on the Soviets and China), and how he designed it.” An academic council member said: “The special committee of the engineering school did not even have an SIS professor on it to give an opinion on the course. At the academic council too there was no discussion allowed as the chair would only yield the floor to the engineering representative as it is their course. It was passed in a few seconds.” Moushumi Basu, professor of international studies and president of the JNU teachers association — which has been excluded from the academic council by the vice-chancellor — rued the absence of rigour in the course. “Even a reading list is not included in the course content that was approved. In the IITs, can you get an MS specialisation with a few badly structured courses?” she said. “Even the SIS dean is reportedly unaware of the course. That this (course on Islamic terrorism) has been passed again despite the observations of the minorities commission is very disturbing.” University spokesperson Poonam Kudaisya did not respond to WhatsApp queries from this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
31-08-2021||India||Tihar authorities to release 1,000 prisoners on parole every 2 months||The Tihar jail authorities have decided to release 1,000 prisoners on parole every two months as part of an ongoing drive to decongest Asia’s largest jail, prison sources have said. “In the wake of a Supreme Court directive, we have decided to release 1,000 inmates on parole every two months to decongest the overcrowded jail amid the pandemic,” a prison official said. Tihar has nearly 20,000 inmates against the sanctioned strength of 10,000. In March last year, the Supreme Court had asked all states and Union Territories to set up panels that would consider releasing on parole convicts who have been in jail for up to seven years. The idea was to decongest jails in an attempt to contain coronavirus outbreaks. The court had suggested that those awaiting trial for offences entailing a maximum sentence of seven years should also be extended a similar benefit. Parole allows a convict to leave the prison on the condition that he would behave appropriately after release and report back to the jail on termination of the parole period. Following the apex court order, the Tihar jail authorities had started the process of releasing prisoners last year. This year till June, they had released 1,500 prisoners on parole. Last year, the jail had released over 5,000 prisoners on emergency bail and parole based on the recommendation of a panel having representatives from the Delhi government, courts and prison authorities. “Prisoners who surrendered on time after their previous parole period and did not indulge in any unlawful activity will be selected the next time. Last year, nearly 300 of the 5,000 prisoners released on parole or emergency bail had been arrested again for street crimes,” another prison official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-257
31-08-2021||India||LAC: Bust of Tibetan soldier killed in China standoff unveiled||The Indian Army and the Ladakh administration on Monday unveiled the bust of a Tibetan soldier who died defending Indian territory in Ladakh during last year’s Chinese incursion, indicating that there has been no let-up in the hostility between the two countries more than a year into the standoff. The Ladakh Buddhist Association hosted the event in Leh on Monday to mark the first death anniversary of Nyima Tenzing, the 51-year-old soldier of the secret Special Frontier Force (SSF) of the army comprising mostly Tibetans. He died on August 30 last year after stepping on an anti-personnel mine near the southern bank of the Pangong Lake. The incident took place around the time when the Indian Army had launched a major operation to outflank the Chinese in capturing some dominant locations near the southern bank of the lake. A top Buddhist monk from Ladakh, Bakula Rangdol Nima Rinpochey, unveiled the bronze bust of Tenzing on the premises of the Dalai Lama’s residence, Jive Tsal, in Leh. Officers from the army and the paramilitary forces laid wreaths at the bust to commemorate his sacrifice. Among those who paid tributes were Leh sub-area general officer commanding Sunit Mehrotra, Leh chief executive councillor Tashi Gyaltson, Ladakh Buddhist Association president and former Ladakh MP Thupstan Chewang and senior ITBP, police and civil officers. “Leh remembers late Company Leader #NyimaTenzin of 7 #Vikas Regiment on his Martyrdom day. CEC@tashi_gyalson and other dignitaries unveil Bronze Bust statue of late Nyima Tenzing in his memory at Jive-Tsal Leh,” tweeted the official handle of the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council. Chewang said their association unveiled the bust with the help of the Indian government, claiming it would go a long way in keeping the memory of the slain soldier alive. “It has been more than a year since China, under its expansionist policy, tried to intrude into our territory, particularly in Ladakh. We are proud of the way the Indian Army defended our territory,” he said. Chewang said the SSF had not only played an important role during last year’s Chinese aggression but also in the Bangladesh and Kargil wars. “The memorial will keep reminding us of the day and serve as an inspiration,” he said. Monday’s event came two days after Penpa Tsering, a Tibetan politician who was elected this year as the second Sikyong (president) of the 17th Parliament-in-exile of the Central Tibetan Administration, concluded his weeklong visit to Ladakh. On Monday, Tsering unveiled a bust of Tenzing at Dharamshala in Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
31-08-2021||India||Nine judges scheduled to be sworn in at the Supreme Court on Tuesday ||Nine judges are scheduled to be sworn in at the Supreme Court on Tuesday morning, the first time so many judges will take oath of office together at the apex court. The event will be held at the auditorium of the Supreme Court’s Additional Building Complex, not the Chief Justice of India’s court as is the tradition, because the Covid restrictions will allow a limited gathering. According to an official note issued on Monday evening, Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana will administer the oath of office to the nine judge designates at 10.30am. The judge designates are Justices Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, Vikram Nath, Jitendra Kumar Maheshwari, Hima Kohli, Venkataramiah Nagarathna, Chudalayil Thevan Ravikumar, M.M. Sundresh and Bela Madhurya Trivedi, and senior advocate Pamidighantam S. Narsimha. The oath-taking ceremony is usually a solemn event held in the CJI’s court hall that is attended by the spouses, close relatives and friends of the judge designates, among others. However, this time CJI Ramana has directed that the event be held in the auditorium with a limited gathering. “This is done keeping in view the need for strict adherence to Covid norms,” a court spokesperson said. To avoid overcrowding, the Supreme Court registry has decided that only accredited journalists will be permitted entry into the auditorium to cover the event. Around 50 correspondents cover the Supreme Court but only a dozen have accreditation. The oath-taking ceremony will be telecast live on DD News and DD India. Live webcast will be available on the home page of the official web portal of the Supreme Court —https://sci.nic.in. The webcast can also be accessed at https://webcast.gov.in/scindia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
31-08-2021||India||Nitish Kumar posits himself as prime minister material||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has become the first Narendra Modi ally to posit himself as Prime Minister material. It is moot whether he is taunting Modi with a pitch for greater leverage, or this is the early warning of another political somersault, a Nitish speciality. What is not under doubt is that Nitish’s pitch for prime ministership, if it can be called that, has no legs to stand on. For a start, Nitish doesn’t possess a socio-political base of his own to make such a claim. Besides, his credibility is deeply suspect in political circles, and his unreliability as ally established. The “soft pitch” as a contender to Prime Minister Modi was made at the just ended two-day national council meeting of the Janata Dal United (JDU). It comes on the heels of the JDU queering the pitch for the BJP recently by teaming up with the Opposition parties over the demand for a caste census in the country. The JDU has previously differed with the BJP over a probe into the Pegasus snooping scandal, population control laws, scrapping of Article 370 provisions, uniform civil code, National Register of Citizens, the National Population Register and a host of other issues. “The proposal to denote Nitish Kumar as Prime Minister material was moved by party president Lalan Singh. It was unanimously adopted and was meant to remove confusion over the issue that keeps making news. The proposal makes it clear that he has all the qualities to become the Prime Minister, but is not a contender,” JDU secretary-general K.C. Tyagi said on Sunday evening. Tyagi’s statement before journalists sparked off a storm of similar statements by JDU leaders on Sunday. “We are just speaking the plain truth that Nitish Kumar is Prime Minister material. It is a fact that he could prove to be a better Prime Minister for the country in the future. We are not saying this to annoy anybody. We don’t care if anybody gets annoyed over this,” said JDU parliamentary board chairman and former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha. However, senior party leaders and those who have worked with Nitish earlier read several meanings into the latest development. “Nitish is a master politician. The statement issued at the end of the JDU national council meeting on Sunday means many things. He has to play a junior partner with 43 seats in the Assembly to the BJP, which has 75, and is not feeling comfortable in the alliance. Several BJP leaders, including its state unit president, have been taking pot shots at Nitish or questioning his policies,” a veteran politician who has known Nitish since his student days in the 1970s told The Telegraph. “This could be Nitish’s warning to the BJP over the situation. He could also be preparing the ground to quit the NDA. It could also be a signal to Lalu Prasad and his Rashtriya Janata Dal to be ready for the future political developments,” he added. The veteran leader also pointed out that the JDU move to anoint Nitish “Prime Minister material” could also be to ensure that he is not left out of the Opposition bandwagon that is regrouping to counter Modi after Mamata Banerjee’s victory in the Bengal elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
31-08-2021||India||ICMR online calculator to help states detect fresh Covid-19 surges||India’s health research agency is set to release an online calculator to help states and districts project and prepare for fresh Covid-19 surges amid lingering uncertainty about the future course of the country’s epidemic. The calculator — or simulator — developed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will use key epidemic-linked parameters in any district to project the likelihood of a significant surge in the daily new infections there, allowing authorities time for preparatory steps. “We’re calling it a Covid-19 preparedness simulator — a tool to look for local early warning signals,” Samiran Panda, the head of ICMR’s epidemiology division, told The Telegraph. District or state authorities could use signals of an imminent surge to arrange for beds, oxygen or other infrastructure needed to manage Covid-19 patients and prepare local populations for possible curbs or restrictions to prevent further spread of the infection. The development comes amid speculation and uncertainty about where fresh surges might occur at a time the second wave that peaked in early May hasn’t fully ebbed, large outbreaks persist in Kerala and Maharashtra and transmission continues across the country. Kerala and Maharashtra accounted for over 70 per cent of India’s 376,000 active Covid-19 patients on Monday, but three other states — Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu — have active case counts of 10,000 or higher. And 42 districts in 10 states have signatures of large epidemics. The uneven spread and a nationwide survey indicating that 67 per cent of people were protected by antibodies against the Covid-19 virus by early July imply that nearly 400 million people across the country remain susceptible and likely widely scattered across the country. The wide distribution of the susceptible population makes localised early warning signals critical. The ICMR’s simulator will use parameters that can influence the epidemic — the fractions of the susceptible population and vaccinated population, the coronavirus variants in circulation and the current speed of infection spread, among others — to project the risk of surges two or three weeks ahead. “We’re currently fine-tuning the calculator based on feedback from the Union health ministry and health officials in Himachal Pradesh and Kerala,” Panda said. The calculator’s primary objective would be to use “local data for local action”. The simulator will ideally require values of multiple parameters for reliable projections. But if certain values are unavailable as inputs for modelling at a state or a district level, Panda said, users could feed in a range of possible values for the best possible guess for specific sites. “District or state officials could still make use of this Covid-19 simulator and move ahead with their pandemic preparedness plans,” he said. The simulator draws on a model developed earlier this year by the ICMR and Nirmalan Arinaminpathy, a mathematical epidemiologist at the Imperial College, London, to analyse how surges might occur due to highly contagious coronavirus variants, unrestricted public movements and waning immunity. Experts expect local surges will occur wherever and whenever the virus gets opportunities to spread — whether through markets, social gatherings, inter-state travel or other routes. The model developed by Arinaminpathy and his ICMR collaborators Panda, scientist Sandeep Mandal and ICMR director-general Balram Bhargava had indicated in June this year that the size of any third nationwide wave is likely to be significantly lower than the second wave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
31-08-2021||India||Dalit youth lynched in Bihar for alleged cattle theft||A Dalit youth was beaten to death while his friend is battling for life in a hospital after being attacked by a mob for alleged cattle theft in Bihar’s Saharsa district on Monday. The incident took place at Amrita village under Sonbarsa Raj police station when Madhusudan Rishideo, a villager, raised an alarm after he found that his three buffaloes were missing in the early hours of Monday. “The villagers formed small groups and fanned out in different directions to search for the thieves. One group saw two youths loitering outside the village and surrounded them. Soon other villagers also arrived there. Both of them were brought back to the village,” Sonbarsa Raj station house officer Sunil Kumar Bhagat told The Telegraph. Bhagat said both the youths were tied to a bamboo pole and brutally assaulted with sticks and bricks. “One of them died on the spot. The other was in a critical condition and breathing when we arrived there in the morning. He has been admitted to the government hospital in Saharsa,” he added. The deceased is Rupesh Kumar Paswan, a resident of Karyat village under Patharghat police station area, around 2km from the village where he was lynched. The injured youth, Jassi Kumar, is a native of Amrita village itself. Police officers said both of them were friends and had no criminal records. A few villagers said that the two friends used to roam around and had never been suspected of any theft earlier. “It is shocking that the two youths were attacked without any evidence of their involvement in cattle theft. No stolen item was recovered from them. Our investigations indicate that the buffaloes went missing at least a few hours before both of them were attacked,” Bhagat said. Paswan’s body has been sent for post-mortem and the police are preparing to register an FIR in the incident. “We will arrest the people involved in the attack,” the SHO said. Bihar is witnessing an increasing number of incidents of mob lynching, especially of people belonging to the weaker sections of the society and the minority community. A week ago, a Dalit youth was killed when he demanded the 10kg of rice promised to him for a day’s work of paddy sowing in Nalanda district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
31-08-2021||India||Three migrant workers run over by train in Odisha||Three migrant labourers, including a father and son, were mowed down by a speeding train around Sunday midnight at Berhampur in southern Odisha. Four labourers had a narrow escape in the incident. Government Railway Police, Berhampur, investigating officer Aarati Padar told The Telegraph: “All the three labourers who were killed are from Bilaspur district in Chhattisgarh. They were walking on the railway tracks when a train hit them from behind. We reached the spot around 3am on Monday where the bodies were lying on the railway tracks. Other labourers accompanying the deceased had fled the spot in fear. However, they later reported the matter at the local police station.” Sitaram, one of the labourers who managed to escape, told this newspaper: “All the three deceased belong to Vedparsada village under Masturi police station of Bilaspur district. They had come with us to Berhampur to work as labourers at a bridge construction site. During the last one year we were unemployed and tried to survive by cultivating our fields in the village. Following the withdrawal of the lockdown, which facilitated movement, a contractor had contacted us for this job. We came to Berhampur only 20 days back. After the initial work on the bridge was completed, we had decided to leave the place following repeated pleas from our family members.” The bridge where they were working is 3km from Berhampur railway station. Sitaram said they had thought that they would reach Berhampur railway station from Haladiapadar, where the bridge work was going on, by walking on the tracks. “Our train to Bilaspur was scheduled to leave early on Monday. It was pitch dark. All seven of us were walking on the tracks. A train was passing by on another track. Suddenly another train came from behind on the tracks on which we were walking. Since the gateman had alerted us near the railway crossing about the possibility of a train coming , we immediately moved away from the tracks. But the three who failed to hear the sound of the train were hit from behind and died.” Sitaram identified the three deceased labourers as Jageswara Kewarta, 26, his father Lakhnoo Kewarta, 55, and Lokeswar Kewarta, 35. “The news has reached their native village where their relatives are mourning,” said Sitaram. An eyewitness told local reporters: “There were around seven people walking on the railway tracks unaware of the incoming Visakhapatnam-Tatanagar Express. When I saw the headlight of the train from a distance, I shouted at them to move away. But perhaps they did not hear my call and were run over by the train.” The Berhampur unit of the GRP said: “Bodies will be handed over to the relatives of the deceased following post-mortem.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-258
