January 1, 2021||Kochi||Traveler Geethu Mohandas shares with us her hopes for 2021||I am starting my New Year in the misty mountains of Kashmir, and I hope 2021 turns out to be as cool and comfortable as this place. My biggest hope for the year is that we get to travel safe and free, without wearing masks or using sanitisers, as we used to in the past! I also hope travellers get to explore as many places as they want to this year, without travel bans or health scares. At the same time, I hope tourists also remain responsible travellers in the New Year considering what the world has gone through in 2020. Watch Traveler Geethu speaks about her New Year hopes||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/traveler-geethu-mohandas-shares-with-us-her-hopes-for-2021/articleshow/80048303.cms||Deepa Soman
January 1, 2021||Bengaluru||Guitarist Vishnu R presents an evening of Carnatic music for Bengaluru||Bengaluru-based guitarist and composer Vishnu R is all set to perform his first musical performance since the lockdown along with BC Manjunath and B Rajashekar. The event, on January 1, will see Vishnu perform with the Navtaar, BC Manjunath on the mridangam and B Rajashekar on morsing. Talking about the event, Vishnu says, "This will be my first live event after the pandemic. I have been looking forward to getting back on the stage. There has been so much music that I have been working on that we will be performing at the event. It is also my first time performing with BC Manjunath. He's one of the best musicians from Bengaluru. " Talking about performing in the new normal, Vishnu says that there will be proper precautions taken, "The venue will be operating at half capacity and there will be social distancing. At the entrance audience members will have mandatory temperature check." The highlight of the event, says Vishnu, will be Carnatic music on the Navtaar. "So far, I've always performed World Music on the Navtaar, but this will be the first time that I play Carnatic music on the instrument. People can expect spontaneous and improvised music at the performance laced with a lot Indian ragas, composed by Tyagaraja, Muthuswami Dikshitar among others," he sums up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/guitarist-vishnu-r-presents-an-evening-of-carnatic-music-for-bengaluru/articleshow/80048693.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
January 1, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengalureans gear up for 2021 armed with hope and learnings of 2021||The year gone by brought with it unprecedented changes and events, many of which literally threw us all off our game and brought the world to a standstill. Yet, despite all the obstacles that we have had to face, everyone’s looking forward to the new year with hope and positivity. Bangalore Times talks to people from different walks of life about the year gone by and their hopes for 2021. After a year of challenges, I wish we get over the pandemic: Isha PantOccupation: Deputy Commissioner of Police, Command Centre Bengaluru 2020 in a nutshell: The year was quite a challenge as far as policing goes, as the pandemic was something we had never encountered and each day came with a new learning. We had never been in or enforced a total lockdown like this before, so a lot of training was required. Police personnel on the ground had a tough time, as they were worried about inadvertently exposing their families to COVID-19 as they were out day and night enforcing the lockdown and dealing with the migrant situation. There was stress and trauma, and we learnt that we had to take care of ourselves first to be able to take care of the rest of the force and our near-and-dear ones. On the personal front, I lost an uncle to COVID-19. But as the year went by, I was able to reflect on the personal and spiritual growth I have had. What I want from 2021: Happiness and peace and a renewed faith in science. I hope scientists across the world are able to make breakthroughs and get us over this pandemic. But, most importantly, irrespective of how 2021 pans out, we need to remember the learnings we have had in 2020. The year taught me to introspect my role as an artiste: Matangi PrasanOccupation: Bharatanatyam danseuse and actress 2020 in a nutshell: When the pandemic hit we were all clueless and trying to figure out what happened. As a performing artiste, realising that I would not be able to do that and engage with audiences was quite a blow. As a teacher, I was not even able to see my students. The time that I had during the lockdown, lead to periods of introspection - deciding my role as a citizen, as an artiste in society and where art falls amid all this. For artistes, it was a year of adapting to the situation and getting more equipped as performances moved from a live audience at a venue to a small screen and other digital platforms from your home. Our vision changed, creativity peaked and led to more collaborations, which was encouraging. What I want from 2021: I crave to meet an audience and engage with them again. Hopefully, platforms for performing arts will open up and help us escape reality and stress through our art. And last, but not the least, I hope people are more sensitive towards each other. Adapting to online classes was far from easy: Vedant Tripathi Occupation: Engineering student at CMR Institute Of Technology2020 in a nutshell: It was a hard year for students. We had to return to our hometowns and did not know what would happen, how long would it last, etc. Then came the stress of adapting to learning complex subjects online, which was not as optimal as an offline class. What I want from 2021: I hope 2021 lifts off in a positive way and the vaccine reaches everyone in every nook and cranny of India, that we can get on with life as it was in the pre-Covid era. People should continue to follow pandemic protocols: Dr Shashank BS Occupation: Emergency medicine 2020 in a nutshell: This was the year that really took a toll on medical professionals. As COVID-19 cases surged, doctors worked 15-20 days straight without a break, every day having to wear PPE kits, and then go for quarantine for the next 10 days before being able to head home. But, on a positive note, this once-in-a-century pandemic was quite a learning for the medical community and I am privileged to enter the medicine field at this time and be a part of the treating council and help patients with COVID-19. What I want from 2021: Hopefully cases reduce further and by early 2021 most of us might get vaccinated so that the exposure and the devastating effects are contained. I hope people do not take this pandemic lightly after the vaccine comes out and continue to follow the standard SOPs when going out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengalureans-gear-up-for-2021-armed-with-hope-and-learnings-of-2021/articleshow/80046880.cms||Joyeeta Chakravorty
January 1, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Student facing sedition charge denied bail again||BENGALURU: A city civil court on Tuesday denied bail to Faiz Rasheed, who was arrested in February 2019 on sedition charges for allegedly celebrating the Pulwama attack. The prosecution contended that Rasheed had celebrated the attack on social media and created enmity between two groups on religious grounds. The same court had denied him bail in June 2019 too. Rasheed from Kacharakanahalli was in fourth semester BE (electronics and communication) during February 2019, when there a CRPF convoy in Pulwama was attacked. The incident left more than 40 jawans dead. Officials from Central Crime Branch (CCB) found that Rasheed celebrated the attack by posting some derogatory articles with an intention to promote enmity among the groups on the basis of religion and was trying to mar harmony. Police arrested Rasheed on February 18, 2019, by which time he had deleted all his posts apprehending police action. Rasheed approached the court in June 2019 seeking bail, but his plea was rejected. Recently, he approached the court again seeking bail, contending that he is innocent and has to take care of his aged parents. The court observed that the prosecution has produced sufficient documents to show there is a prima facie case against the accused. Considering this, judge Venkatesh R Hulgi of 51st additional city civil and sessions court refused to grant bail to Rasheed. Police have chargesheeted Rasheed under IPC sections 153a (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion), 124a (sedition) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) of IPC and section 13 (punishment for unlawful activities) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/student-facing-sedition-charge-denied-bail-again/articleshow/80052381.cms||Santosh kumar.B
January 1, 2021||Chennai||Bookmakers allowed entry into Madras Race Club, horse racing gets a boost||CHENNAI: The New Year is set to bring cheer for punters as bookmakers will be allowed entry into the Madras Race Club (MRC) for races from January 1.  Ever since MRC commenced the season in November, it had only opened the tote betting counter but disallowed bookmakers to operate in a bid to limit the racegoers’ entry. However, last week the Tamil Nadu government stated that spectators --- not exceeding 50% capacity of the premises --- be allowed entry while following the norms of social distancing. It meant that MRC gave the nod for bookmakers to function. Entry of bookmakers is good news for punters, MRC and for the government. Punters get fixed returns for a particular result by the bookmakers which isn’t the case from totes. Punters can’t win big by betting on totes and that’s why seasoned punters always prefer bookmakers. Secondly, MRC --- which has been running the current season from its own pocket --- will receive stall fees on race days from bookmakers. As far as the state government is concerned, they used to collect Rs 10,000 as GST from each bookmaker on racing days. “Since the start of this season, we allowed about 500 people during race days. That will go up to around 1,000 with bookmakers and punters coming in from January 1,” a source close to the development told TOI on Wednesday. To top that, bookmakers’ entry will also revive jobs for those who are employed by them. Each bookmaker roughly employs about 10-15 people. To start with, MRC will only be allowing 10 bookmakers to operate. During pre-Covid days, around 30 bookmakers spread over two enclosures were functioning. “We want to see how things go and then take a call on whether we can increase the number of bookmakers in the coming weeks,” said the source. On their part, bookmakers are hopeful that there could be a reduction in the stall fees collected by the MRC. “It is great that bookmakers are being given permission to function. But it will be a big boost if we get some reduction in the stall fees which is paid to the MRC,” said one of the bookmakers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bookmakers-allowed-entry-into-madras-race-club-horse-racing-gets-a-boost/articleshow/80052337.cms||Prasad RS
January 1, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: BS Yediyurappa rules out leadership change, says he’ll complete term as CM||BENGALURU: Amid on-and-off talk about leadership change in the state, chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday claimed he will remain in the post for the remaining two years. “There’s no confusion on this in BJP. Our party general secretary Arun Singh has already clarified that I’ll complete full term,” he said. Stating that 2020 had been like a “trial by fire” for his administration with natural disasters and pandemic, he said the focus is on development. “These things have in no way impacted our work,” the CM said in response to a question on talks about leadership change and its impact on administration. This is for the first time, Yediyurappa spoke on the issue elaborately though talks of his replacement owing to his age (77) and health doing the rounds for the past six months. The leadership’s delay in giving permission to expand his cabinet has also triggered speculation. Though the state BJP has rejected such reports, the controversy refuses to die down, with functionaries like MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal giving credence to it with their statements. Asked about BJP legislators making open statements and writing letters expressing disgruntlement, Yediyurappa said one or two of them might have given certain statements. “...To address their concerns, I’ll hold a region-wise meeting with all legislators,” he said. Referring to the impact of Covid on the state’s economy, the CM, who also handles the finance portfolio, said: “We may face a fiscal setback of Rs 25,000 to Rs 30,000 crore. We’ll have to face this problem in the next budget as well. Our government has topped in attracting FDI even during the pandemic. As many as 95 proposals worth Rs 1.5 lakh crore have been received.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bsy-rules-out-leadership-change-says-hell-complete-term-as-cm/articleshow/80052469.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Bengaluru||BJP MP opposes naming of Bengaluru roads after Muslims||BENGALURU: Two weeks after BBMP issued a notification to name 11 roads in ward 135 (Padarayanapura), Bengaluru South BJP MP Tejasvi Surya on Thursday opposed the proposal. In a letter to BBMP commissioner Manjunath Prasad, Surya said, “Christening of roads in a Muslim-dominated locality with only Muslim names reeks of the same communal mentality of the two-nation theory and Muslim League’s demand of separate electorates for Hindus and Muslims. This is dangerous and must be condemned.”  Amid reports that the BBMP has recommended to the government to withdraw the notification, Rakesh Singh, secretary, urban development department, told TOI he has discussed the issue with the commissioner. “Both of us are in quarantine. So far, no decision on the matter has been taken .”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/mp-opposes-renaming-of-bluru-roads/articleshow/80052483.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Congress may fight 2023 polls under dual leadership||BENGALURU: In its bid to diffuse infighting in the Karnataka unit, the Congress high command is mulling fighting the 2023 assembly polls under the dual leadership of KPCC president DK Shivakumar and leader of opposition Siddaramaiah. “The message is clear. If the two leaders fight for the chief ministerial post, then the possibility is that none of them will become the CM. First, they should focus on bringing the party to power and later, stake claim for chief ministership. What is the point in fighting for the CM’s chair, when it is not vacant?” said Ashwin Kumar, empanelled media member of Congress, echoing the views of senior party functionary KH Muniyappa. The diktat came in the backdrop of reports of two camps led by the duo fighting to project their respective leaders as the CM candidate. Shivakumar’s supporters are hoping that the top post will automatically go to their leader as he’s anointed as the KPCC president in March 2020. As Siddaramaiah has already had his chance of becoming the CM and Shivakumar being a leader of the politically dominant Vokkaliga community, his camp is arguing that the KPCC president is the best bet. Given his image in the backdrop of the pending CBI cases against him, Siddaramaiah’s camp feels that chances of making Shivakumar CM candidate are remote. And the ignominious defeat in Sira and Rajarajeaswari Nagar in the recent bypolls have come as a major setback since both the seats are dominated by Vokkaligas to which the KPCC chief belongs. “If you go by election history, the ruling party has won a majority of bypolls. When our government was there, we won all bypolls. So don’t go by this,” Shivakumar said on Thursday. While it was the election battle the Congress fought after Shivakumar took over as the party chief, the RR Nagar debacle is more debilitating since it is seen to be the bastion of DKS brothers as assembly segment comes under DK Suresh’s Lok Sabha constituency Bengaluru Rural, and the brothers could not ensure victory of their candidate, Kusuma H Shivakumar. Armed with this list of negatives against Shivakumar, the Siddaramaiah camp is trying to pitchfork its leader to the fore. Siddaramaiah himself has dropped a hint as he said he would ensure scrapping of laws enacted by the BJP government, including farm laws and anti-cow slaughter ordinance if the Congress comes back to power. Hitch, however, is that the party has already lost under his leadership and he has lost grounds after the party’s defeat in the 2018 assembly polls. Sources said Rahul Gandhi is likely to take over as AICC president again after the CWC elections to be held shortly and he would pitch for dual leadership for the 2023 elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cong-may-fight-2023-polls-under-dual-leadership/articleshow/80052490.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
January 1, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Rs 500 fine levied at smart parking lots irks many||BENGALURU: The smart parking facility has ruffled the feathers of motorists in Bengaluru. Besides saying it’s anything but smart, they are questioning the steep fines being levied on citizens. The system is currently in place on 10 roads in CBD and has a capacity to accommodate 475 four-wheelers and 510 two-wheelers. Smart parking operations involve machines and sensors. Motorists need to enter details like their vehicle number, parking slot number, mobile number and the number of hours they wish to park their vehicle before proceeding to pay using cash or UPI. There are three packages under the facility: Package A, B and C, and cost of parking varies for each. Parking charge for a van is 1.5 times of a four-wheeler’s. However, fine levied for failing to remove the vehicle within the stipulated time is the same for all vehicles (Rs 500). “It’s not about paying for parking. The problem is with the steep fine. Instead, they should come up with an option where citizens can pay the parking charges while leaving. That way they will be paying exactly for how long they have used the facility,” said Dikshith S, a citizen. A senior official from BBMP said, “We understand that a five-minute delay can happen to anyone. Which is why we send alerts after five and 10 minutes to the owner. After the second alert, we put a clamp and charge a fine of Rs 500. Citizens need to realise they can’t take anything for granted. A fine of Rs 500 is not very high for someone who owns an automobile. A penalty is the only way to ensure discipline.” However, a few citizens believe no good can come of such steep fines and this is not a way to teach discipline. Dhananjaya Padmanabhachar said, “Across the city, we pay by the meter. We pay for a facility only for the time we use it. If I extend my parking time by 10 minutes, they can charge Rs 20. Imposing a fine of Rs 500 seems ridiculous and unreasonable. It's not a crime. I can still understand if they want to impose a fine on someone who has used the parking facility without taking a ticket.” “If I’m in a meeting and I get an alert, does BBMP really think I can run down in the middle of the meeting? Let’s say I take a ticket for three hours because I don't know how long my meeting will go on. If I get done within two hours, will they refund my money? This is not smart parking. There is nothing smart about it,” he added. The smart parking facility is to be implemented on 75 more roads. “The work hasn’t progressed much since the outbreak of the pandemic. These machines are imported from outside the country. However, it’s likely to commence soon,” the Palike official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/500-fine-levied-at-smart-parking-lots-irks-many/articleshow/80052943.cms||---
January 1, 2021||World||The world bids goodbye, at long last, to 2020||Blue and gold fireworks soared into the sky above the Sydney Opera House as they do every year, but the harbour below was a ghost town, a fittingly creepy send-off for a year that will not be missed. No light show will illuminate Beijing from the top of the TV tower. The lions of London's Trafalfar Square will be barricaded off, as will Red Square in Moscow. In Rome, crowds will not assemble in St Peter's Square, and revellers will not make their yearly dive into the Tiber. The New Year's Eve ball will drop on Broadway. But in place of thousands of New Yorkers packed shoulder-to-shoulder into Times Square, the audience will be a small pre-selected group of nurses, doctors and other key workers, their families kept six feet apart in socially distanced pens. Good riddance, 2020. Hello, 2021. With more than 1.7 million people dead and 82 million infected around the globe since last New Year's Eve - yet hope that new vaccines can help tame the pandemic - this year's end is like none other in memory. Angela Merkel, in her 16th New Year's Eve address as German chancellor, said as much. "I think I am not exaggerating when I say: never in the last 15 years have we found the old year so heavy. And never have we, despite all the worries and some scepticism, looked forward to the new one with so much hope." Germany has banned the sale of fireworks to discourage crowds. Authorities in Berlin said police would "punish violators consistently". In Australia, where the Sydney Opera House fireworks are televised around the world as the first big visual display of the new year, movement has been restricted, gatherings banned and internal borders shut. Most people were barred from coming to Sydney's downtown on Thursday night. "What a hell of a year it's been," said Gladys Berejiklian, premier of New South Wales state, which includes Sydney. "Hopefully 2021 will be easier on all of us." In Madrid's usually teeming Puerta del Sol square, there will be no revellers stuffing grapes into their mouths - one for every stroke of midnight, according to tradition. In Britain, where a highly contagious virus variant is rampaging, official billboards instruct the public to "see in the New Year safely at home". Barriers were erected in public places such as London's Trafalgar Square and Parliament Square. In France, where a night curfew will also be in force, no more than six adults are allowed to gather around the dinner table. But there will be celebrations - small but with style. "I will stuff myself with foie gras and champagne," a Parisian said. "And I'll stay home."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/the-world-bids-goodbye-at-long-last-to-2020/articleshow/80053225.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Kanpur||A glittering engagement for Shubhangee and Abhilash in Kanpur||The engagement party of Shubhangee Verma and Abhilash Kumar, organised at a plush party lawn in Kanpur, was well attended by their near and dear ones. (L) Dharmendra Singh and Akash Goenka (R) Dipali Verma and Kumar Akshay (BCCL/ IB Singh)(L) Dharmendra Singh and Akash Goenka (R) Dipali Verma and Kumar Akshay (BCCL/ IB Singh) Shubhangee’s parents Anil Verma and Neena were seen welcoming the guests at the do. While Abhilash’s parents Renu Rai and Binay Shankar Rai were seen socialising with the guests and looking after the party arrangements. (L) Dr AK Agarwal and Dr Manisha Agarwal (R) Dr Ashu Counsal and Dr Sarika Verma Counsal (BCCL/ IB Singh)(L) Dr AK Agarwal and Dr Manisha Agarwal (R) Dr Ashu Counsal and Dr Sarika Verma Counsal (BCCL/ IB Singh) However, the party had a very limited guest list owing to the on-going pandemic. Decorated with red and white flowers along with lamps, the venue held a festive feel to it. A music group from Delhi kept the guests entertained with their soulful performances. Shubhangee’s brother Akshay and Dipali were also seen attending to the guests. Later in the night friends and relatives of both sides danced on the latest Bollywood number. Among the guests were Vishwanath Gupta and wife Indu, Vipul Jain and Anil Agrawal along with Akash Goenka and Dharmendra Singh. (L) Dr Bhawna Singh and Priyanka Verma (R) Neena and Anil Verma(BCCL/ IB Singh)(L) Dr Bhawna Singh and Priyanka Verma (R) Neena and Anil Verma(BCCL/ IB Singh) (L) Preeti and Shikhar (R) Renu and Binay Shankar Rai (BCCL/ IB Singh)(L) Preeti and Shikhar (R) Renu and Binay Shankar Rai (BCCL/ IB Singh) (L) Tanmay and Poojil Tiwari (R) Tanya and Sanya (BCCL/ IB Singh)(L) Tanmay and Poojil Tiwari (R) Tanya and Sanya (BCCL/ IB Singh) (L) Vipul and Ruchi Jain (R) Vishwanath and Indu Gupta (BCCL/ IB Singh)(L) Vipul and Ruchi Jain (R) Vishwanath and Indu Gupta (BCCL/ IB Singh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/a-glittering-engagement-for-shubhangee-and-abhilash-in-kanpur/articleshow/80045122.cms||Sumit Jha
January 1, 2021||Delhi||NCR’s January 1 plan: Intimate brunches and cosy staycations||Many NCR residents, who were sceptical about partying on NYE, are celebrating the first day of the new year today at hotels and restrosAs we step into 2021, city restaurants have a reason to rejoice. Pre-bookings and queries for New Year brunches and lunches at restaurants and hotels across the city have been high, and since restaurants are operating at 50% of their total occupancy, some places had 100% reservation for January 1 in the last week of December itself. ‘Restarting tradition of family lunches on Jan 1’For those who didn’t party on December 31, to avoid traffic restrictions and crowd, and for those who didn’t step out for dining, post the lockdown, January 1 seemed like a better day to celebrate. “We would go out for dining, every weekend, but that stopped after the lockdown. We thought of restarting our tradition of family lunches on January 1. It will be the first time we will be going out for dining after the lockdown,” says Sujata Saluja, a resident of DLF Phase V, Gurgaon. For those who enjoyed house parties on New Year’s Eve, January 1 is the occasion to go out. “Going out on NYE means getting stuck in jams in NCR, and this year, there were more reasons to not go out for any party in some club as we were not sure how people would maintain social distancing at a party. Instead, we decided to host a brunch for family and friends today at a restaurant at Aerocity. We had made the reservation in December itself,” says Neelam Khurana, a resident of Greater Kailash 1. After the night curfew was announced in Delhi for December 31 and January 1, from 11pm to 6am, many more people decided to go out during the day on January 1, despite the curfew not applicable on licenced premises like bars and restaurants. Most restros were 70% booked for January 1 by the last week of DecemberThough January 1 has always been good in terms of business for restaurants, restro owners say that this year the response is exceptionally good. “The reason is we’ve all had a tough 2020, so most people want to go out and celebrate. We were 70% booked (with 50% occupancy) for Jan 1 lunch hour in December itself,” says Akshay Anand, co- founder, Ophelia. Vikrant Batra, owner, Café Delhi Heights, says, “Those who aren’t travelling will look look for a safe, sanitised place to celebrate with friends and family. Malls are the perfect location, so all outlets in the malls will hopefully do a good business.” Restaurateurs add that they had encouraged pre-bookings for today. “We were encouraging pre-bookings to make necessary arrangements to comply with safety regulations. Many made reservations in December itself to avoid queues on January 1,” says Avantika Sinha Bahl, founder, Kampai. High demand for staycations today at hotels across NCRMost NCR hotels and resorts are completely sold out for January 1 as many from the city who couldn’t travel this year are checking-in at hotels to start their new year. “We have received an overwhelming response for our New Year’s day brunch and staycation packages, especially from youngsters,” says Ashish Kumar Rai, General Manager, The Leela Ambience Convention Hotel. “With fewer choices for people to travel and commute, they have started opting for places that are nearby and provide the best of facilities and safety. We started getting a lot of queries from people for staycations in December only,” adds Jaynt Singh, Managing Partner, Treehouse Club & Spa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ncrs-january-1-plan-intimate-brunches-and-cosy-staycations/articleshow/80048749.cms||Divya Kaushik
January 1, 2021||India||New science policy aims for an inclusive, self-reliant India||BENGALURU: The department of science and technology (DST) late on Thursday made public the draft of the new science, technology, innovation policy (STIP) which aims to transform the national STI landscape maintaining the delicate balance between fortifying India’s indigenous capacity and nurturing meaningful global interconnectedness. With Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call for an 'Atmanirbhar' or self-reliant India as a central theme, the policy has proposed a host of new establishments and reforms through short-term, medium-term, and long-term mission mode projects that will build a nurtured ecosystem that promotes research and innovation. Prof Ashutosh Sharma, secretary, DST, told TOI: "The STIP will create and end-to-end science and technology ecosystem." India has had four national S&T policies before this: Scientific Policy Resolution, 1958 (SPR1958), Technology Policy Statement (TPS) 1983, STP2003, and STIP2013. Among other things, the policy proposes creation of a National STI Observatory that will act as a central repository for all kinds of data related to and generated from the STI ecosystem. "It will encompass an open centralised database platform for all financial schemes, programmes, grants and incentives existing in the ecosystem. The Observatory will be centrally coordinated and organized in distributed, networked and interoperable manner among relevant stakeholders," the draft reads. Further, a Technology Support Framework will be created to facilitate a two-way approach of creating indigenous technology and indigenization of technology. A Strategic Technology Board (STB) will be constituted to act as a link connecting different strategic departments. While it proposes various means to enhance science funding, the policy also hopes to marry traditional and modern S&T. "An institutional architecture to integrate Traditional Knowledge Systems (TKS) and grassroots innovation into the overall education, research and innovation system will be established...Collaborations between grassroots innovators and scientists will be facilitated through joint research projects, fellowships and scholarships," the policy envisages. Private push & fundingThe policy has mooted a Strategic Technology Development Fund (STDF) to incentivize the private sector and HEIs. Spin-off technologies resulting from the larger projects will be commercialized and used for civilian purposes. Besides, each state will earmark a percentage of the state allocation for STI-related activities under a separate budget head. "Foreign MNCs will collaborate with domestic private and public sector entities on projects aligned to national needs and priorities," it adds. An STI Development Bank will be set up to facilitate a corpus fund for investing in direct long term investments in select strategic areas on various long and medium-term projects, commercial ventures, start-ups, technology diffusion and licensing etc. "General Financial Rules (GFR) will be amended for large scale mission mode programmes and projects of national importance. Efficient disbursement, communication, monitoring and evaluation mechanisms (time-bound peer reviews along with technical and transactional audits) will be set up to support conducive investment," the policy adds. InclusivenessWith a renewed impetus to mainstreaming of equity and inclusion within the STI ecosystem, an India-centric Equity & Inclusion (E&I) charter will be developed for tackling all forms of discrimination, exclusions and inequalities in STI leading to the development of an institutional mechanism. It proposes an inclusive culture that'll be facilitated through equal opportunity for women, candidates from rural-remote areas, marginalised communities, differently-abled, Divyangjans, irrespective of their socio-economic backgrounds. "Proportionate representation of women in selection/ evaluation committees, addressing of ageism related issues and consideration of experienced women scientists for leadership roles and regular gender and social audits in academic and professional organizations. The Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer (LGBTQ+) community will be included," the policy adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-science-policy-aims-for-an-inclusive-self-reliant-india/articleshow/80054150.cms||Chethan Kumar
January 1, 2021||India||Turncoat Suvendu may get Cabinet-rank post||KOLKATA: Suvendu Adhikari, who joined BJP from Trinamool Congress less than a month ago, is likely to be appointed chairman of the Jute Corporation of India (JCI), by virtue of which he will enjoy the status of a cabinet minister. He was provided Z-category security even before he joined the saffron party. While the central government has sought his bio-data, sources close to the development said his appointment is likely to happen in January. Before he switched sides, Suvendu had for long been a minister in the West Bengal government. While Suvendu could not be contacted, Bengal BJP vice-president Raju Banerjee said: "It is good news for the state. A lot of farmers are dependent on jute cultivation in Bengal... He will have an important portfolio to work for farmers in the state." The JCI was formed in 1971 with the sole purpose of helping farmers get the minimum support price (MSP) for their produce. Accordingly, it had been intervening when farmers faced challenges in getting MSP. Headquartered in Kolkata, JCI has played a key role in jute cultivation in nearly 17 districts of Bengal. Sources close to the development indicated Suvendu's appointment comes at a time when JCI is a transformation phase. It has already introduced geo-mapping of jute growing areas with the assistance of Isro. It has also introduced an e-passbook for farmers to eliminate middlemen. "The myth about newcomers not getting a prominent place in BJP will be busted now," said Anupam Hazra, BJP national secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/turncoat-suvendu-may-get-cabinet-rank-post/articleshow/80054293.cms||Rohit Khanna
January 1, 2021||India||Army of 1 lakh ready to administer vaccine||NEW DELHI: Around 96,000 vaccinators have been trained for the Covid vaccination programme that the government plans to roll out in January itself once a vaccine is approved. State governments, district officials and municipal commissioners have been asked to get ground staff, logistics and IT systems in place to carry out the drive that aims to cover 30 crore 'priority population' by July. In a high-level meeting with all states and UTs on Thursday, the Centre asked them to ensure effective preparedness. A dry run will be conducted by all states and UTs on January 2. "The activity is proposed to be conducted in all state capitals in at least three session sites. Some states will also include districts that are situated in difficult terrain or have poor logistical support," an official said. Maharashtra and Kerala are likely to schedule the dry run in major cities other than their capital. had on Thursday reported that the health ministry plans to hold a nation-wide drill before the vaccination programme's rollout. The drug regulator's subject expert panel on Covid vaccine is slated to meet on January 1 to consider emergency use authorisation for Serum Institute of India's Covishield and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin. Both the companies have submitted updated data to the regulator, which are currently under evaluation. Once the SEC recommends the emergency use, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) will take a final decision on the approval. The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 has already issued detailed operational guidelines for implementation of the vaccination process. "As the vaccination administrators will play an important role in the inoculation process, we have laid special emphasis on training of those who will administer the vaccine and implement the programme on ground across states-in districts and at block level," an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/army-of-1-lakh-ready-to-administer-vaccine/articleshow/80054430.cms||Sushmi Dey
January 1, 2021||Patna||Three Maoists held in Bihar's Aurangabad||PATNA: An Aurangabad court on Thursday forwarded three Maoists, including an area commander, to judicial custody. The three Maoists, who were allegedly planning to attack a politician and target brick kiln owners for levy, were arrested on Wednesday. Police said the three were hiding at the house of one Yogendra Rajak alias Chotu Rajak at Kauwakhap village under the Rafiganj police station area in Aurangabad district. Sources said the politician, who was on target of the Maoists, cancelled his Gaya trip on Wednesday after being alerted about the plan. The sources added the crackdown on Maoists started after central agencies shared the intelligence input with state police. They said the plan to attack the politician was hatched at a meeting of a group of Maoists in Gaya on December 28. SHO of Rafiganj police station Anand Kumar Gupta said the arrested Maoists were identified as Sunilji alias Sunil Lal Khatri (40), Ravi Ranjan Paswan (27) and Bhuwaneshwar Yadav (55). He said two single-shot sten gun and two live cartridges of 9mm and Maoist literatures were seized from the possession of the arrested rebels. He said Ravi identified himself as area commander of Goh in Aurangabad. “He is accused in five cases of Maoist violence,” the SHO added. “Sunil is accused in 12 and Bhuwaneshwar six cases of Maoist violence,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-maoists-held-in-aurangabad/articleshow/80052289.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Sainik School cadet’s dad seeks bravery award for son’s ‘sacrifice’||PATNA: A 58-year-old migrant worker from Nalanda district, Bhushan Kumar, is proud of his son, Amit Raj, who sacrificed his life while saving two minor girls trapped in flames due to the leakage of cooking gas at their house in Nalanda district on December 3. The 15-year-old Class X boy studied at Sainik School Purulia in West Bengal. Now, Kumar hopes to get financial assistance from chief minister Nitish Kumar, who also hails from Nalanda. “My only request from the authorities concerned is that my son’s supreme sacrifice should be recognized and his name selected for the national award for bravery (posthumously) on Republic Day,” he told this newspaper over the phone from his native village on Thursday. Amit died at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on December 13 after battling for his life for 10 days. He had suffered 85% burn injuries while rescuing two minor daughters of his neighbour, Sudha Devi, at Pesaur village under Rahui block in Nalanda district. He was rushed to a private hospital at Kankarbagh in Patna from where he was later airlifted to Delhi for treatment. “Amit wanted to become a Navy officer after completing his studies, but all those dreams have been shattered. We spent Rs 2.5 lakh on his treatment in Patna. However, the cost of his treatment in Delhi was borne entirely by the school management and his classmates,” the hapless father, who works at a private construction company in Kelwa area of Thane district in Maharashtra, recalled. Amit’s uncle Diwakar Kumar revealed that he was so brave that he received severe burn injuries, but rescued the girls. Amit’s siblings, Rakhi Kumari (13) and Abhishek (12), are students of classes IX and VIII at Kelwa. His mother, Sulekha Devi, is a homemaker. Although a team of officials from Rahui block visited the village, collected information about the incident and recorded the statements of Kumar’s family members, they have “not received any help from the district administration yet”. Repeated attempts to contact the Nalanda district magistrate for his comments proved futile. Kumar claimed that his younger brother, Diwakar, supported Amit and his two siblings. Meanwhile, the Indian Army as well as the classmates of Amit paid tributes to the brave soul on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sainik-school-cadets-dad-seeks-bravery-award-for-sons-sacrifice/articleshow/80052072.cms||Ramashankar
January 1, 2021||Lucknow||Decentralisation, research to boost excellence at Lucknow University||LUCKNOW: Postgraduate (PG) admissions and examinations at Lucknow University will be held at the department level from the session of 2021-22. Besides, a student mentorship programme, two new courses and two new research centres will be launched. Also on the agenda are LU’s green audit, 100% implementation of National Education Policy, National Assessment and Accreditation Council re-evaluation and National Institutional Ranking Framework assessment. These are some of the decisions taken by vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai as a part of his ‘Target 2021’ programme to overhaul LU’s teaching, research and management.  He rolled out the plan before the media on Thursday to mark the completion of a year of his 3-year-term in office. He also presented the 2020 report card detailing academic, administrative, and digital reforms introduced this year. “Till now, all admissions and examinations were centralised, but now, departments will conduct their respective admissions and examinations for PG courses. The move will minimise possibilities of errors and save time. Screening committees will keep vigil and records will be made available online for transparency. PhD admissions will also be decentralised on similar lines in the coming years,” he said. However, he added, there will be no change in undergraduate admissions and examinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/decentralisation-research-to-boost-excellence-at-lu/articleshow/80053865.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Patna||181 of 226 UK returnees traced, says health department||PATNA: The state health department has so far traced 181 of 226 passengers who had returned from the United Kingdom since November 9. State health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit said samples of 101 UK returnees were collected and sent for RT PCR test. “The samples of rest of the people are being collected. None of UK returnees has so far been tested positive for new Covid strain,” Amrit added. Meanwhile, 392 new Covid-19 cases were registered in the state on Thursday. With this, the state’s Covid tally has increased to 2,52,792. Four more deaths in the last 24 hours, meanwhile, took the state’s Covid toll to 1,397. However, with 2,46,685 recoveries, active cases in the state stood at 1,397 on Thursday. As per the health department, two fresh deaths were recorded in Patna, taking the district’s toll to 380. Sitamarhi and Saran registered one death each. At AIIMS-Patna, two more people have succumbed to the virus, including a 52-year-old woman from Siwan and a 91-year-old woman from Saran. Hospital’s nodal incharge for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 10 patients were admitted to the hospital and 11 discharged on Thursday. Among those admitted, several were from different localities of Patna like New Punaichak, IOC Colony, Aparna Bank Colony and R P S Mor. Nalanda Medical College and Hospital did not report any fresh death. While one patient was admitted to the hospital, four were discharged on Thursday. Of 392 new Covid-19 cases, Patna accounted for 149. The district’s tally has now risen to 48,910. However, with 46,622 recoveries and 380 deaths, there are 1,908 active cases in the district. Among other districts, Muzaffarpur recorded 26 fresh Covid cases, Begusarai 20, Jehanabad 19, Saran 13 and Munger 12. Vaccine dry run at 3 places tomorrow: Dry run for Covid vaccine will be held in Patna, Bettiah and Jamui on Saturday, state health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit said. A decision in this regard was taken on Thursday after the Centre asked all the states and Union territories to pick three different session sites for the dry run of the vaccine, ensuring that they are geographically different and also include a place which is a difficult terrain. “These three districts will cover different parts of the state,” Amrit said. Each of these sites will have a medical officer who will identify 25 beneficiaries and upload their information on Co-WIN, a digital platform developed by the Union health ministry for real-time monitoring of Covid-19 vaccine delivery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/181-of-226-uk-returnees-traced-says-health-department/articleshow/80050880.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 1, 2021||Business||Nifty scales 14k, sensex nears 48k||Mumbai: The last trading day of one of the most volatile and eventful years in Dalal Street’s recent history saw the sensex ending on a flat note, but at least in the green. On the NSE, the Nifty scaled the 14k mark for the first time, but settled marginally down on the day at 13,982 points. On the BSE, the sensex rose for the sixth consecutive session and settled just 5 points higher at 47,751 points — a closing record. In the process, the sensex closed 2020 with a 16% gain, while for the Nifty it was 15%. However, the rise to record closings has come in a year when the indices fell to multi-year lows in late March, thanks to pandemic-induced fears among investors globally. From its March-end close of 29,468 points, the sensex has more than recovered its early losses to give a 62% gain. The rally since the March trough also made investors richer by Rs 88 lakh crore, with the BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 188 lakh crore. And on an annual basis, the rise in market cap was nearly Rs 33 lakh crore, BSE data showed. The year also recorded the biggest foreign fund inflows into the Indian stock market with total net buying now at nearly Rs 1.8 lakh crore. Over two-thirds of this came in the last two months alone, CDSL data showed. On a monthly basis, December recorded the best ever figure. At a net inflow of Rs 62,016 crore, this surpassed the Rs 60,358 crore recorded in November. The nearly 6,500-point gain in the sensex since the year’s beginning came mainly on the back of just five stocks — Infosys, Reliance Industries, TCS, Kotak Bank and HUL. These five — out of the 30 that form the sensex — together accounted for 72% of the gains. On the other hand, losses in IndusInd Bank, ITC and SBI, on an annual basis, shaved off part of the gains, data compiled by ETIG showed. Bonds: The bond market too could not escape the widespread volatility caused by the pandemic. After an initial selloff between March and April, with the government and the RBI stepping in to support the market with liquidity, bond prices rallied. The 10-year benchmark yield ended 2020 almost near the 5.9% mark, despite runaway inflation in the last few months.Precious metals: Investors’ rush towards safety pushed gold prices to beyond the Rs 55,000-per-10-gram in early August. Then the rally tempered and finally settled around the Rs 50,000 mark. On the other hand, industrial demand, combined with investment demand, took silver close to the Rs 75,000-per-kg level before settling at about Rs 68,000. While gold has returned over 30%, silver outperformed the yellow metal by giving a 43% gain.Rupee: In the forex market, after the rupee weakened to an all-time low below the Rs 75-per-dollar mark as foreign funds took money out, a deluge of inflows led to the Indian currency’s appreciation. All through the year, the RBI played a stellar role — it sold dollars during the early part of the pandemic-led weakness in the rupee, and followed it with a purchase of nearly $100 billion in the later half of the year as the rupee strengthened. Crude oil: The price of crude oil, for the first time in its history, entered negative territory in April as the pandemic-induced lockdown led to a sharp fall in demand just when higher supplies from the US and OPEC hit the world market. Crude’s price at deep below zero also negated the long-held notion that commodity prices can never enter a negative territory. A price recovery was seen in the second half of the year with the Brent now at over $50 per barrel.According to Kotak Securities VP and head (commodity research) Ravindra Rao, 2021 could be equally challenging for crude as global markets would see normalisation of both demand and supply. While demand recovery will depend on how quickly the virus outbreak is controlled, the supply side would mainly be dictated by OPEC and its allies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nifty-scales-14k-sensex-nears-48k/articleshow/80053638.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Business||Sebi tightens order rules for mutual funds||TNN Mumbai: The markets regulator has tweaked rules to minimise chances of front-running in mutual funds (MFs). On Thursday, the Sebi said that every MF house should keep an electronic trail of all instructions that fund managers give to dealers, and such records should include instructions even for trades in passive funds like ETFs, index funds, etc. In another development, Sebi also said that fund houses should move to a system of uniform applicability of net asset value (NAV) from February 1, 2021. Earlier, the rule was to kick in from January 1, 2021. The rule change was deferred after officials from the fund industry requested the regulator to give them some more time to move to the new system. With regards to front-running by dealers with funds, there have been recent instances of these and the regulator’s latest circular is aimed at eliminating the chances of such incidents, industry players said. Sebi also said that every dealer with a fund house will be bound by the same code of conduct and confidentiality rules that’s applicable to the fund managers. The regulator said that while placing orders for equity and equity related instruments over the automated order management system (OMS), the fund manager may authorise a dealer to place an order his behalf, but such orders should be only through the electronic mode, which should leave an audit trail for each stage of the process. For passive funds, the fund house should be able to prove that no judgment or discretion of the fund manager was involved while placing the order, the Sebi circular said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-tightens-order-rules-for-mutual-funds/articleshow/80052485.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Business||Tax tribunal drops remark against Mistry in Tata order||MUMBAI: Two days after passing critical remarks against Cyrus Mistry, the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) has issued a corrigendum, stating “some inadvertent errors” had crept into its order involving the Sir Dorabji Tata Trust and it has been “rectified”. The modified order has removed certain observations against Mistry about his intent to supply documents related to Tata Trusts and acknowledged that the information sent by the former Tata Sons chairman was in response to summons issued by the commissioner (exemptions). Mistry was named in the December 28 order, despite not being part of the proceedings involving Tata Trusts. On Thursday, Mistry’s office said that responding to summons was a requirement under the law and even the Articles of Tata Sons envisage disclosure of information, when required to do so by a court of law. “One fact, which was inadvertently missed out, was that the information furnished by Mistry was in response to a notice,” the ITAT clarified on Wednesday. The “mistakes stand rectified” and, to that extent, the December 28 order “stands modified”, the corrigendum, signed by president P P Bhatt and VP Pramod Kumar, stated. The previous order had remarked that Mistry’s action of supplying documents to the department without any authorisation from Tata Sons, even though they were obtained by him in the fiduciary capacity, almost immediately after being removed as its chairman, cannot be said to be “influenced by call of a pure conscience and high ground of morality…” On Wednesday, the ITAT dropped this reference and substituted it with “...the inputs from those engaged in a rivalry with an assessee (Sir Dorabji Tata Trust) ought to have been considered by the department with a reasonable degree of circumspection and should not be placed on such a high pedestal so as to relegate all other material facts and accepted past assessment history of the case into insignificance”. However, there is no change in the outcome of the appeal, which upheld the tax exempt status of Sir Dorabji Tata Trust, clarified the ITAT. Mistry’s office, while making a note of the rectification done by the ITAT on its own, said that “instead of seeking to blame the former Tata Sons chairman at every turn, the trustees of Tata Trusts must introspect why they have deviated from this path, leading to a greater scrutiny on their operations by the various government bodies”. His office also said that even in 2013 (when Mistry was at the helm of Tata Sons), the Comptroller Auditor General of India (CAG) found irregularities of nearly Rs 1,000 crore in tax exemptions given to Tata Trusts. Mistry was removed from Tata Sons in October 2016. “The trustees must introspect why in July 2018, the Public Accounts Committee, a parliamentary committee, expressed concern that public charitable trusts were being used to run businesses for profit and repeatedly violating rules. The CAG Report of 2019 records that the corpus funds of Trusts are being utilised to control the business of group companies instead of applying funds for charitable purposes.” Mistry’s office further said, “While we all are extremely proud of the good work that has been done by Tata Trusts in the past, the question today is whether the decisions to deviate from the highest standards of governance imperils the largest public charitable trusts in India, and prevents benefits from reaching its rightful beneficiaries — the people of India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tax-tribunal-drops-remark-against-mistry-in-tata-order/articleshow/80053827.cms||Reeba Zachariah
January 1, 2021||Allahabad||37 bigha land belonging to Atiq Ahmed attached||Prayagraj: The district administration attached 37 bigha land owned by former MP and jailed don Atiq Ahmed which was being illegally used for commercial construction in Nasirpur Silna area of Dhoomanganj on Friday. The move comes after authorities seized and razed several illegal properties owned by Ahmed and his close associates in the city over the past few months. A notice board was put up at the site with a copy of the order of attachment. Station house office (Dhoomanganj) Arun Chaturvedi said, “Following the instructions of the district magistrate, 37 bigha land belonging to former MP Atiq Ahmed was attached in Nasirpur Silna area.” The announcement about the attachment of property was made and residents were informed about the order. Earlier, the district administration had seized and attached many properties owned by the don-turned-politician in different areas of Prayagraj district. Demolition drives on his properties including his ancestral house and a cold storage were also carried out under the provisions of the Gangster Act. Besides, illegally constructed houses owned by many of his relatives and associates were also razed by the administration over the last few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/37-bigha-land-belonging-to-atiq-ahmed-attached/articleshow/80063122.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Patna||Here’s what to look forward to in 2021||PATNA: The year 2020 may have been challenging for various reasons, primarily due to the Covid-19 pandemic, but 2021 is filled with hope. TOI lists 21 infrastructural projects that are likely to make life easier and bring multifaceted development in Bihar this year. R-Block-Digha Road: The four-lane R-Block-Digha Road with two additional service lanes is expected to become fully functional in January. Lohia Path Chakra: The Lohia Path Chakra project, under which short elevated roads and multiple underpasses are being constructed at six traffic points between Lalit Bhavan and Vidyut Bhavan on Bailey Road, is expected to be ready by December, 2021. Ganga Path: The first stretch of the Ganga Path between Digha and A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies is likely to be made functional in eight months. Rajgir Zoo Safari: Spread over 480 acres of land, the Rajgir zoo safari has been okayed by the Central Zoo Authority and is expected to be ready by January, 2021. Rajgir Nature Safari: The nature safari, which is spread over an area of 500 hectares and located in Jethian valley, may be thrown open for visitors in March. Its biggest attraction is a magnificent glass bridge. A’bad thermal power plant: Bihar will receive 660MW of power from the second unit of the super thermal power project set up in Aurangabad district by the Nabinagar Power Generating Company from January 26. Electric Buses: With a view to reducing air pollution, the state transport department will roll out 25 electric buses on Patna’s roads by February, 2021. Bihta Airport: Work on the construction of the civil enclave at Bihta airport will begin in 2021. A two-storey building in the shape of a drone is likely to be ready at the airbase by 2023. Patna Airport Expansion: New buildings, residential quarters and a multi-level car parking at the Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport will be ready by March or April, 2021. Trash Collection: In an attempt to monitor the door-to-door trash collection system, a private firm hired by the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) will paste unique QR codes outside all houses by April-end. Manhole cleaning bot: The PMC will eliminate manual scavenging by procuring a manhole cleaning robot, ‘Bandicoot’, by February. The bidding process has already been initiated by the civic body. Jan Sewa Kendra: As part of the Smart City project, altogether nine public service centres will be operational in Patna in 2020. Devpt of Patliputra Ashok, Sultan Palace: Patliputra Ashok and Sultan Palace will soon be converted into luxury heritage hotels in the heart of Patna. Adalatganj Pond: With facilities like amphitheatre, musical fountain, fun zone, pathway, security room, food kiosks and rest room, the Adalatganj pond on Amarnath Road near Beerchand Patel Marg will attract a large number of visitors. Rajdhani Jalashay: The ‘Rajdhani Jalashay’ on the premises of the old secretariat will be thrown open for visitors from January 4. A Birds’ Interpretation Centre will also come up soon. Zoo Upgradation: The Patna zoo authorities will focus on aspects like education and research, animal welfare, conservation and breeding, biodiversity protection and awareness in 2021. Waste to Wonder Park: In a bid to promote recycling of waste materials, the PMC will develop a Waste to Wonder Park on the premises of Maurya Lok. Internet in Villages: Under the ‘Ghar Tak Fibre’ scheme, 45,945 villages in the state will be connected with high-speed internet by March, 2021. It was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on September 21, 2020. Redevpt of Rajendra Nagar Terminal: The Rajendra Nagar Terminal is set to get a facelift under the ‘station redevelopment plan’ of the East Central Railway. The bidding process for the project, which is being executed by the Rail Land Development Authority, will begin in March. Mithapur-Mahuli Road: The Bihar State Road Development Corporation Limited will begin the work on construction of a 9km road from Mithapur to Mahuli, which will connect to NH-81. It will ease vehicular movement between Patna and Gaya. Laxman Jhula: A cable suspension bridge, which is being constructed by the Bihar Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam Limited across the Punpun river, is likely to be ready by April, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/heres-what-to-look-forward-to-in-2021/articleshow/80050901.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Kolkata||After new advisory, low-key revelry marks last day of 2020||Kolkata: Revellers took to the streets, but the city hotspots did not witness large crowds on the year’s last day even as the celebration remained tempered and the turnout at most places was far thinner than last year due to a heightened police vigil in the wake of Wednesday’s state advisory urging caution. While attendance dropped sharply at Alipore zoo, Eco Park, Nicco Park and the Maidan during the day, there was a gradual build-up of revelry on Park Street, which got packed as the evening progressed. Kolkata’s party street, too, however, missed the frenzy that it’s famous for. Queues were moderately long at Alipore zoo since morning, with a steady stream of visitors. But the crowd was thinner than Christmas. “We had planned this outing for more than a week and had expected a bigger crowd. It was nice to return to the zoo after a long break. We enjoyed the New Year’s Eve ambience,” said Swati Banerjee of Andul who visited with her family. The Maidan greens remained vacant on Thursday, barring the occasional visitor who chose to party away from the crowd. College friends Monopriti Bagui, Sreejita Das and Sayoni Ghosh chose to gather on the Maidan on Thursday afternoon to stay away from crowds. “It is quiet and clean here. We brought food from home and had a nice time. It was safer than meeting at a restaurant, which would have invariably been crowded,” said Ghosh, an IT professional who carried her laptop as well.  “I am working from home so I had to use it,” she added. Victoria Memorial saw a decent turnout, though lower than in previous years, and a strict police vigil. The police provided assistance to the visitors and kept asking them to maintain social distancing. They even gave masks to those who were not wearing them. Nicco Park and Eco Park saw a low attendance, smaller than the usual weekend crowd. Soma Mitra Nandi of Dum Dum Park spent the day at Nicco Park with her family. “This is our first outing since March and we had a nice time. Fortunately, there was no crowd so social distancing was not an issue. We plan to follow this up with dinner at a restaurant, provided we can find seats,” she said. On Park Street, the revelry was tempered with the crowd slowly building up, peaking after 8pm. But unlike Christmas, the road was not clogged before evening. The strict police vigil ensured that there was no traffic disruption. Cops intervened to disperse crowds, which kept traffic moving. They even ensured there was social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-new-advisory-low-key-revelry-marks-last-day-of-2020/articleshow/80051711.cms||Sudipto Das
January 1, 2021||Patna||Father & son duo among 3 killed in Bihar in 24 hours||PATNA: At least three people, including a father-son duo, were killed in separate incidents in Samastipur and Gopalganj districts in the last 24 hours and a man died when a bomb he was carrying went off in Banka district. One Devi Mahto (28) was shot dead at Gopalpur village under the Kalyanpur police station area in Samastipur district around 1pm on Thursday. SHO of Kalyanpur police station Brajesh Kumar said the incident occurred when Mahto was eating food in a field along with four other people. “One of them opened fire targeting Mahto after a petty dispute. The bullet hit Mahto’s chest, killing him on the spot. The others fled the spot. However, one Alok Kumar was later arrested by police,” the SHO added. He said irate villagers blocked a state highway for several hours protesting the murder. “The blockade was cleared after police intervened,” he said, adding no written complaint has been filed by Mahto’s family yet. In Gopalganj, a father-son duo – Ramekbal Tiwari (60) and Mukesh Tiwari (30) – were stabbed to death by neighbours over a petty issue of parking truck at Kamlapatti village under the Kuchaikot police station area around 11pm on Wednesday. Gopalganj SP Manoj Tiwari said six people were arrested on Thursday in connection with the case. In Banka, one Anandi Singh (30) died after a bomb he was carrying exploded at Naraon village under the Shambhuganj police station area around 7pm on Wednesday. Banka SP Arvind Kumar Gupta said it would become clear what kind of explosive he was carrying only after forensic analysis. “Two more youths were injured in the explosion. They are, however, traceless,” Gupta said. SHO of Shambhuganj police station Umesh Prasad said Anandi, who used to work in Delhi, had returned home following Covid-induced lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/father-son-duo-among-3-killed-in-bihar-in-24-hours/articleshow/80052142.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 1, 2021||Patna||Looted jewellery worth Rs 25 lakh recovered in Patna, 5 held||PATNA: Police on Thursday recovered gold jewellery worth around Rs 25 lakh which was looted from a contractor at gunpoint near Karpuri Path under the Shashtri Nagar police station area in Patna on December 21. Police also arrested four criminals – Rohit Tiwari, Santosh Kumar, Prabhakar Kumar and Shashibhushan Kumar – from the vicinity of Shashtri Nagar park for their alleged involvement in the loot. A jeweller, Sunil Kumar, was also arrested from Barh. Kumar had bought some looted ornaments from the criminals for Rs 4 lakh. Police recovered cash Rs 2.93 lakh in cash, knives, two country-made pistols and four live cartridges from the possession of the arrested criminals. Police said the 50-year-old contractor was extremely fond of gold ornaments and used to wear them from head to toe. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma said the gold ornaments weighing around 400 grams were recovered from the possession of the arrested criminals. He, howecver, refused to disclose the identity of the contractor. “The victim was returning home on motorcycle from a roadside tea stall at Rajvanshi Nagar when the incident had occurred,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/looted-jewellery-worth-rs-25l-recovered-5-held/articleshow/80050886.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 1, 2021||Patna||JD(U) leader beaten up, crushed to death in Bihar||AURANGABAD: JD(U) leader Baijnath Chandravanshi was allegedly killed on NH-2 near Munshi Bigha village under the Mufassil police station area in Aurangabad district at 5.30am on Thursday. Sources claimed that he was first brutally assaulted by some people and then crushed to death by an unidentified vehicle. Later an FIR was lodged against eight people on the basis of a written statement of the deceased’s kin. Following the murder, angry villagers blocked NH-2 for hours, causing traffic congestion. They also manhandled the SHO of the Mufassil police station and other cops when they reached the spot and tried to remove the villagers from the highway. The blockade was lifted only after police assured them of stringent action and speedy trial of the accused. Aurangabad SP Sudhir Kumar Porika said Chandravanshi’s relatives had accused eight co-villagers of killing him. “We have registered a murder case and are conducting raids to arrest the accused, who are absconding,” he added. Chandravanshi was a member of the backward cell of the JD(U). The party’s district president, Dharmendra Kumar, condemned the incident and said it was “unfortunate”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-leader-beaten-up-crushed-to-death/articleshow/80052265.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Patna||Three held for rape of minor in Muzaffarpur village||PATNA: Three people, including a couple were sent to judicial custody on Thursday for alleged gang-rape of an 11-year-old girl at a village under the Kanti police station area in Muzaffarpur district. Police said the accused were identified as Chandan Kumar (35), his wife Sweta Rani (33) and Deepak Jha (54). Assistant SP (west) Syed Imran Masood said the girl’s clothes would be sent for forensic analysis. “The girl’s medical examination was conducted on Wednesday and her statement before judicial magistrate would also be recorded soon,” he added. SHO of Kanti police station Kundan Kumar said Chandan had reached the girl’s house around 11pm on Tuesday and knocked her door. “Chandan then took the girl to his room and allegedly raped her along with Jha. Sweta was arrested as she allowed Chandan to commit the crime,” the SHO added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/three-held-for-rape-of-minor-in-muzaffarpur-village/articleshow/80052225.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Goa||Goa CM Pramod Sawant defies Centre’s advisory, allows free-for-all on New Year Eve||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday defied an advisory from the Centre as well as pointed suggestions from his own health minister to bring in measures to enforce safety precautions ahead of New Year's celebrations in the state. Even as Vishwajit Rane, who holds the health portfolio, said that he spoke to Sawant about imposing a night curfew along the lines of Delhi and Karnataka, Sawant maintained the government had not declared any such action. #Goa ushered in the New Year with a dazzling fireworks display during the midnight celebration at Baga Beach.… https://t.co/K8joeiqUdu— TOI Goa (@TOIGoaNews) 1609491936000The CM’s solution was to instead “request” tourists, hoteliers and party organisers to follow norms to avoid the spread of Covid-19. Sawant’s non-action comes even as tourists have thronged the state for the year-end celebrations and are seen crowding beaches and other popular spots with no masks and no social distancing. The collapse of all norms has worried locals and doctors, who fear it’s only a matter of time before the public health system is overwhelmed again. “One look around and you realise the government is not serious about controlling Covid,” wrote well-known orthopaedic surgeon Dr Sambprassad Nadkarni, in a widely-shared post on social media. “If there is a surge in cases, healthcare workers will have to bear the brunt and pay dearly for the failure on the part of the government and public,” he said. ‘Wear masks, avoid public gatherings’A similar sentiment is prevalent in public health circles. “People are moving around without wearing masks. Tourist places are crowded. I would wait till the second week of January to see if there are any ripple effects,” a government health official said on condition of anonymity. On Wednesday, the Centre had instructed states and Union territories to maintain strict vigil to curb super-spreader events and places at which crowds may gather to celebrate the New Year. It was this directive that prompted Rane to speak to Sawant about a possible curfew. “Goa being a tourism state, it is imperative to have strict SOPs in place so that we are able to sustain tourism activities in keeping with the Covid-19 guidelines,” the health minister said. Tourists enjoying the last sunset of 2020 amid Covid-19 pandemic on the New Year’s Eve at Calangute beach in North Goa on Thursday. (Photo: Rajtilak Naik)The Centre also advised states and UTs to impose restrictions, including night curfew, after assessing the situation in their respective jurisdictions. On December 27, TOI had front-paged a photo of a huge swarm of tourists at Baga beach, the day after Christmas. However, even after overwhelming evidence of potential super-spreader events, Sawant’s “assessment” of the situation (as advised by the Centre) didn’t require any additional restrictions, resulting in a free-for-all on New Year’s Eve. Late evening, Rane again tweeted after Sawant rejected his call for more stringent measures and called for the public to voluntarily follow SOPs and behave like responsible citizens. “Our doctors are working very hard (and) saving people’s lives in the time of Covid-19,” he said. “We all know that there is a new strain of the coronavirus, and our doctors are not just risking their lives, but also those of their families, to save every single citizen of our state.” He also called for the public to respect the doctors and health workers. “The only way to do that is by following strict SOPs, wearing masks at all times, maintaining social distancing and avoiding public gatherings.” Despite vocal calls on social media and elsewhere that things would go haywire without strict enforcement, Sawant was confident about his stance that there’s no need for additional measures, preferring to justify it with “even Mass in churches and zatras are celebrated with social distancing”. Even as Goa’s Covid numbers are steadily going down, the new mutant strain of the virus, reported to be even more contagious, already has the Centre and states grappling to contain it. On Thursday, the Telangana high court said the new strain spreads like a forest fire and called for the state government to impose Section 144 and night curfew to fight it. “One infected person in a party hall with 200 people can infect all the inmates at one go,” the bench, headed by the chief justice, warned. “No party. Nothing. Just Section 144. Why can’t the state do this?” the court asked. Watch Covid-19: Goa CM defies Centre’s advisory, allows free-for-all on New Year's Eve||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-defies-centres-advisory-allows-free-for-all-on-ny-eve/articleshow/80053247.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Business||‘Govt must consider I-T sops for spends on PCs’||Avik.Das1@timesgroup.com Lenovo India CEO and MD Rahul Agarwal says that while the PC and tablets market was flat in the first half of the year, it is expected to grow 25% from the current quarter... How far has your business recovered and when do you expect normalcy? PC & tablet categories saw a demand spike due to the widespread adoption of work-from-home and learn-from-home. In the first half of the year, the market was flat compared to the previous year but it is expected to grow almost 25% year-on-year from the third quarter. What are the challenges that you still face? The global demand boom due to Covid has led to supply issues across the industry. While employees are comfortable working from home, there are cases where we need to assist them emotionally and help create a work-life balance. How much cost increase are you grappling with? We have not seen a significant change in costs during the pandemic. Has Covid hit remuneration, resulted in downsizing? No, Lenovo India employees neither faced downsizing, nor pay cuts. In fact, we continue to hire. What are your key learnings from this crisis? It is important to keep calm and manage the emotions of people in such times. If you have a choice, take a positive view over negative. We initially thought the PC market might go down but that didn’t happen. Also, one’s true character and culture comes out in such unprecedented situations. What further steps are needed from the government? With the increase in demand for PCs & tablets in India, this is the right time to reinvigorate ‘Make in India’. With devices becoming important in all households for education, the government could think of giving income tax exemption on money spent on them. How are you maintaining work-life balance? If you like your work, the organisation and the manager, you won’t have this in your mind. A lot can be accomplished in 8-10 hours of intense, focused and goal-driven work. We launched a range of initiatives to ensure effective work-life balance, including no meetings between 1 and 2pm, and on Wednesday mornings and no calls after 6:30pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-must-consider-i-t-sops-for-spends-on-pcs/articleshow/79974814.cms||Avik Das
January 1, 2021||Kolkata||Footfall high, but city restaurants clock big surge in take-away biz||Kolkata: As crowds swelled across the city’s restaurants and pubs on the year’s last day, many saw an unprecedented surge in take-away orders — a trend that started at the beginning of lockdown and helped sustain the food business. At some places, it accounted for nearly half the total volume of sales on a day when Park Street and central Kolkata restaurants saw a bigger turnout than restaurants at malls and other parts of the city. Restaurant-owners hoped the New Year weekend would also be crowded. The state’s advice for restraint seemed to have an impact on the Park Street crowd during the lunch hour. Even though footfall was high, the crowd of revellers was smaller than last year’s. Some restaurants said they had expected a higher footfall during the first half of the day. “The crowd was good at lunch, but there was no rush. It changed in the evening when we had a much higher attendance. Take-away orders were higher than ever before,” said Pratap Daryanani, owner of Oasis restaurant. While Mocambo and Peter Cat saw a full-house throughout the day, take-away orders surpassed all previous years’ records. “While it’s difficult to quantify the volume, this has been the trend since the lockdown started and has helped those who are still not comfortable going out to eat,” said Siddharth Kothari of Mocambo. For many, ordering food online has become a permanent lifestyle change, according to Rishi Bajoria who owns Chilli’s. “While footfall has been 35% lower than last year’s, our take-away orders have been high. The volume has remained high for nine months and will continue, irrespective of the footfall,” felt Bajoria. Most tables were booked in advance across the outlets of Oudh 1590 and Chapter 2 on Thursday as they grappled to cater to the take-away orders that accounted for a major chunk of sales during the first half of the day. “While footfall was high at our south Kolkata outlets, the take-away orders were unexpectedly brisk till the afternoon,” said owner Shiladitya Chaudhury. Central Kolkata restaurants were crowded throughout the day. “It has been getting better everyday for the past week. We saw a huge turnout on Christmas and it continued till New Year’s Eve. Unlike previous years, we saw a rush during lunch as well. Footfall swelled in the evening,” said Songhai owner Sudesh Poddar, who is also the president of the Hotel and Restaurants’ Association of Eastern India (HRAEI). The year starting with a weekend will keep footfalls high till January 3, felt Poddar. “With the weekend, the crowd has probably been spaced out. Many prefer to avoid the New Year’s Eve crowd and will defer their visit till Friday or Saturday. So, the year should begin on a busy note for us,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/footfall-high-but-city-restaurants-clock-big-surge-in-take-away-biz/articleshow/80051731.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
January 1, 2021||Patna||Patna met centre gets centennial observing station status||PATNA: World Meteorological Organisation (WMO), Geneva has conferred the status of ‘centennial observing station’ to the Patna meteorological observatory in recognition to its long-term meteorological observation exceeding over 100 years. In a statement issued in this regard on Thursday, Patna meteorological centre’s director Vivek Sinha said WMO took the decision to confer the status of ‘centennial observing station’ to the meteorological observatory here in its 72nd executive council meeting held in September. “With this recognition, Patna has joined a niche club of cities having a long-term record of scientific observation in the field of meteorology, climatology and applied science. These observatories are unique sources of information about atmospheric parameters,” Sinha said. He added, “The recognition has also come as a result of extensive and close collaboration between WMO climate, network and instrument experts, representing WMO Technical Commission, the Global Climate Observing System, members and the WMO secretariat.” Established in 1867, Patna meteorological observatory was among the earliest observatories set up by the then British Core of Engineers. Subsequently, it was managed by the Army Medical Corp as part of their initiative to study the impact of weather on onset and prevalence of epidemic and other diseases. Upon formal establishment of India Meteorological Department (IMD) in 1875, the responsibility of observation and management of all meteorological offices was transferred to IMD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-met-centre-gets-centennial-observing-station-status/articleshow/80050895.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Business||Covid inflated salaries in sales, legal, tech||MUMBAI: Covid has shaped salary trends in a positive way for several sectors. These include internet & e-commerce, BFSI (banking, financial services & insurance), transportation & logistics and energy & utilities, as well as functions like legal & compliance and marketing. Additionally, these are expected to have a good run in 2021 as well. According to a study by Randstad India, a leading firm in the HR services industry, marketing has emerged as one of the top five highest-paying functions at the senior level where the average salary is about Rs 34 lakh. In the wake of Covid, customer’s wants, needs, expectations and purchasing decisions are constantly evolving and marketing has come to play an important role. In particular, digital marketing has received a fresh impetus with all businesses — be it small, medium or large — turning towards or planning to adopt virtual modes of operation and stepping away from outdoor marketing. Randstad India MD and CEO Paul Dupuis believes that crisis brings opportunities “to re-imagine the world of work, pivot, showcase agility and resilience towards new ways of working and plan for the day after tomorrow”. Dupuis said, after the initial setback during the first half of the year, the Indian job market is rebounding and showing positive signs of recovery across all industries. This positivity is expected to seep well into 2021 as well. With organisations having to navigate new compliance challenges resulting from Covid, legal has emerged as a lucrative start for freshers. In fact, legal & compliance offers competitive salaries (about Rs 5.3 lakh on an average), which is 22% higher than in 2019. Nishith Desai Associates recently announced a reworked compensation structure for its lawyers, which increases the annual compensation for entry level lawyers to around Rs 17 lakh as compared to Rs 15 lakh earlier. The firm’s founder Nishith Desai said, “Legal & compliance work has increased exponentially worldwide and, given the fact that consequences of non-compliance has skyrocketed, it provides lucrative opportunities for entry level lawyers. But more opportunities would be outside the law firms, at in-house legal departments and technology companies that are developing AI-based compliance programs. So, it is advisable for fresh lawyers to obtain education on technology and for techies to obtain law degrees. It’s an age of multidisciplinary careers.” Among sectors, those catering to mass demand and essential services such as transport and logistics and energy and utilities have emerged among the top five largest pay masters for senior levels with an average CTC of Rs 28-30 lakh. “Niche expertise in these sectors makes professionals highly valuable,” said Dupuis. In addition, the impact of faster digital adoption pushed by Covid and the expanded scope and penetration of e-commerce as an industry also reflects in the top-paying industries. On the other hand, BFSI has moved up the ladder and has emerged as one of the top paying sectors this year at the junior and mid levels, paying an average salary of nearly Rs 5 lakh and almost Rs 14 lakh, respectively. “Internet & e-commerce is among the top five industries paying the most competitive salaries across all job hierarchies. With the rapid growth and expansion of the BFSI sector towards a more digitalised and tech-driven infrastructure, this sector has also come up in the top five list of highest paying industries for junior and mid -level professionals. BFSI sector has undoubtedly benefited from the pandemic as anticipation of salary cuts and job losses have also increased the demand for savings and investment services,” said Dupuis. Moreover, as companies across functions seek to reduce costs and improve efficiencies, independent contractors and consulting firms play a critical role. Professional services are the largest pay masters for mid-level managers, paying an average CTC of Rs 17.4 lakh, which is 17% more on an average than their counterparts in other top paying industries. The ever increasing demand for subject matter expertise is being reflected in the salaries shelled out to strategy & consulting professionals. This has emerged as one of the top paying functions at all levels of experience. While the average salaries at the junior level (Rs 6.7 lakh) continues to hover around the same range as last year, there has been a 14-20% increase in salaries of mid (Rs 18.4 lakh) and senior (Rs 33.6 lakh) professionals in strategy and consulting vis-a-vis the previous year. The study is based on Randstad’s internal data on recruitment, covering eight cities, eight industries and over 1 lakh jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/covid-inflated-salaries-in-sales-legal-tech/articleshow/80052306.cms||Namrata Singh
January 1, 2021||Patna||Coaching institutes in Patna gear up to reopen from January 4||PATNA: Coaching institutes in the city are gearing up for resumption of academic activities from January 4. The coaching institutes will have to ensure adherence of all the Covid-19 standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the education department on December 24. “We have set up a sanitisation tunnel at the entrance for immediate sanitisation of people entering the premises. Face masks, face shields and sensor-based sanitisation devices have been ordered in bulk,” said Krishna Singh, branch head of a coaching institute for IAS aspirants. The order issued by the education department made it clear that it’s voluntary, not compulsory, for students to attend classes. “Students from rural areas desperately want to resume classes. However, those in urban areas are reluctant,” said Bipin Kumar, founder and managing director of a coaching institute at Buddha Colony. Saurabh Kumar, academic director of an institute on Fraser Road, said, “We are devising ways to implement the SOPs issued by the government. In fact, we have not finalised the date for reopening yet.” Meanwhile, several students are keen to join coaching classes in order to prepare well for board exams and entrance tests. Animesh Gautam, student of a city school, said, “I have been waiting for the coaching centres to resume physical classes as NEET-2021 is just months away. Online classes are not that effective because of poor internet connection.” Some parents, however, are reluctant to send their wards to coaching centres owing to Covid-19 pandemic. “I am not comfortable in sending my daughter to crowded places as Covid vaccine is still not available,” said Anjali Chauhan, mother of Rishika Singh, a JEE aspirant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/coaching-institutes-in-patna-gear-up-to-reopen-from-jan-4/articleshow/80050889.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Business||Only a dozen large cos seek Covid loan recast||MUMBAI: Around a dozen large borrowers have applied for the RBI’s loan restructuring scheme for those affected by Covid stress. The deadline for corporates and individuals to make an application under the RBI’s resolution framework for Covid-related stress ended on December 31. For small businesses, there is a separate restructuring scheme that will be valid until March 2021. The Future Group, Shapoorji Pallonji Group and SpiceJet are among those who will apply for loan restructuring. Besides these, there are a couple of thermal power generating companies, a couple of toll road projects, and companies in the textile sector. Bankers estimate that the overall loans that will come up for restructuring would be within Rs 2.5 lakh crore. Some bankers had expected that the scheme might be extended for individual customers as many borrowers do not know the impact of being classified as a non-performing asset (NPA). However, the RBI had made it clear in a meeting with bank chiefs last week that there would not be any extension and lenders should set aside money from profits for possible defaults. “The situation appears to be much better than what was thought earlier this year,” said Rajkiran Rai, chairman of the Indian Banks’ Association and MD & CEO of Union Bank. He added that for his bank the earlier projection of 2-3% of loans coming up for restructuring stands. According to banks, large companies in some of the sectors that were most severely affected by the crisis, like hospitality, had deleveraged and were not much of a concern despite their losses. Although the RBI has not extended the standstill for lenders’ action against borrowers, there continues to be a SC stay in operation that prevents lenders from classifying borrowers affected by Covid as NPAs. This means that even on January 1, banks will not classify those who are behind on repayments only in FY21 as defaulters. The government has also notified a suspension of provisions of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code for one year up to March 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/only-a-dozen-large-cos-seek-covid-loan-recast/articleshow/80052359.cms||Mayur Shetty
January 1, 2021||Patna||RJD poster shows Nitish Kumar being ‘downsized’ by BJP||PATNA: The poster war that marked the beginning of 2020 in the state continued even on the last day of the year with the RJD coming up with a poster near its office on Beerchand Patel Marg on Thursday, showing internal bickering in the ruling JD(U) and BJP in the wake of JD(U)’s split in Arunachal Pradesh. The poster, put up at the behest of Rishi Yadav, newly-elected state general secretary of Yuva Rashtriya Janata Dal, shows how BJP stalwarts like PM Narendra Modi, Amit Shah, J P Nadda, Ravishankar Prasad, Nityanand Rai and Sushil Kumar Modi are “downsizing” CM Nitish Kumar. In the poster, the BJP senior leaders are seen cutting the chair in which the CM is sitting. Nitish, on the other hand, is seen seeking help to save him. Moreover, PM Modi is seen congratulating the leaders of the party for doing a good job in the poster. The poster renewed war of words between RJD and JD(U). Defending the poster, RJD leader and former MLA Shakti Singh Yadav said, “What’s wrong in it? It has projected the same thing that is happening in the two ruling coalition partners.” Describing the alliance between JD(U) and BJP as “unholy”, Yadav said it won’t last for long. The RJD has again warned CM Nitish Kumar against the sinister design of the saffron party through the poster, Yadav said. JD(U) spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel said RJD had been left without any work after being rejected by people in the recently-concluded assembly elections. “Janta ne unko poster lagane ke layak hi chhor diya hai,” he added. Another JD(U) spokesperson Ajay Alok dubbed RJD as a party of “fools”. “What else can you expect from the party like RJD? People don’t take the party seriously,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-poster-shows-nitish-being-downsized-by-bjp/articleshow/80052256.cms||Ramashankar
January 1, 2021||Vadodara||MSU clears appointments of two deans, 12 HoDs||Vadodara: M S University on Wednesday cleared appointments of two deans and 12 head of departments (HoDs). The appointments of dean of faculties and HoDs was due since long but it is only now that the appointments have been done in view of the forthcoming syndicate elections which are scheduled in February. The university often faces flak for keeping posts vacant or for running it on ad hoc basis with either officiating or in-charge deans and HoDs. On Wednesday, the syndicate members cleared appointment of N G Bagodi as dean of Faculty of Fine Arts and professor Bhavna Mehta as dean of Faculty of Social Work. Professor R C Patel has been appointed as head of department of education, professor Amit Dholakia as head of political science, professor R G Vyas as head of mathematics, professor Surjit Mukherjee as head of physics and professor A V Joshi as head of geology department. Dr Bharat Chauhan has been appointed as head of metallurgical, Dr Bhawana Vasudeva as head of architecture, Dr Satyajeet Chaudhari as head of textile engineering, Dr Rajesh Kelkar as head of music (vocal), Dr Swati Bhatt as head of anesthesiology, Dr Mahua Moitra as head of preventive social medicine and Dr Dilip Choksi as head of surgery department. At the same time, professor M N Parmar has been appointed as director of higher payment programme. It is worth mentioning here that election for one seat representing HoDs is scheduled on February 5 while elections for all other seats of university’s syndicate body will be held on February 25. Polls for seats of the P G Council, board of accounts and board of extra mural studies will also be held on February 25. The current syndicate body had got elected on February 27, 2018 and had taken charge on March 4, same year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-clears-appointments-of-two-deans-12-hods/articleshow/80051930.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Dehradun||HC sends show cause contempt notice overinaction to tackle debris near Gangotri glacier||NAINITAL: Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Thursday made Amit Negi and Shailesh Bagauli – the two former disaster management secretaries – as respondents in the contempt petition initiated by the court against serving secretary SA Murugeshan after the government failed to submit reports on the debris deposition near Gangotri. The Bench of Justice Sharad Kumar Sharma has also appointed advocate Shobit Saharia as amicus curiae in the case and has given both Negi and Bagauli two weeks to respond. The development comes as the court has taken a strong view on the non-compliance of its order from July 2018 in a PIL. The PIL filed by Delhi based activist Ajay Gautam had alleged that the snout of Gaumukh, from where Bhagirathi – the primary headstream of Ganga – emerges, has been impacted by the debris deposited as a result of landslides so much so that the river has altered its course. Gautam had said that consequences of these changes could be more devastating than the 2013 Kedarnath flash floods. Disposing this petition, the HC had in July 2018 directed the state government to furnish a report by August 31 that year explaining the situation near the Gangotri glacier and the steps taken by the government. The court had also ordered the state government to furnish a periodical report every three months after August 31 for scrutiny until the court dispenses with it. However, in over two years since the order, not a single report has been presented before the court. The division bench of the HC had made some scathing remarks recently against Murugeshan saying that it is "prima facie of the view that the officer is unfit to be in government service" and that he "does not deserve to continue to be in the position he holds". The court also directed its order to be placed before the chief secretary for his consideration. A contempt petition was initiated against Murugeshan. However, since he assumed the charge of the secretary in August the court had asked the government counsel to furnish the names of the secretaries who were “at the helm of the affairs” before Murugeshan. “The government counsel furnished the names of the secretaries as well as the names of the standing counsel for the government before the court after which the court made them party respondents and sent notices as well. The court has now listed the case for further hearing after the winter vacation,” an advocate present in the hearing said. Interestingly, after the division bench’s remarks against Murugeshan the state government had held the executive director of Disaster Mitigation and Management Centre (DMMC), Piyoosh Rautela, responsible for the fiasco and suspended him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-sends-show-cause-contempt-notice-overinaction-to-tackle-debris-near-gangotri-glacier/articleshow/80050907.cms||Prashant Jha
January 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Justice Hima Kohli may take over as Telangana high court chief justice next week||HYDERABAD: President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday transferred Telangana high court Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan to Uttarakhand high court as CJ and elevated Justice Hima Kohli of Delhi high court as Chief Justice of Telangana high court. Justice Kohli would be the first woman CJ of Telangana high court. Though no timeframe was given to them to assume office, these two judges are expected to take up their new assignment next week. While Justice Chauhan was in Hyderabad for the last one-and-a-half years as CJ here, Justice Kohli has been a senior judge of Delhi high court. In neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, the President notified the collegium’s recommendation of transferring CJ JK Maheswari to the high court of Sikkim. Justice Arup Kumar Goswami, present CJ of Sikkim HC, has been posted to AP high court as CJ. In a separate notification, the President also approved the recommendation to transfer Justice Joymalya Bagchi, presently working at Calcutta high court, to AP high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cj-chauhan-heads-to-ukhand-hc/articleshow/80051973.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
January 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Kashmir girl missing in Hyderabad, kin say kidnapped||HYDERABAD: Chatrinaka police have registered a kidnapping case after a girl from Kashmir went missing. Shahina Begum, wife of Faroy Ahmed Shah, and resident of Limrah colony at Ghulam Murtaza Chowni, Falaknuma lodged a complaint with Chatrinaka police saying that on December 22 her daughter Naziya Bano went to a medical shop and did not return home. The distraught parents searched everywhere in the area. However, she was nowhere to be found. The girl’s mother alleged that she was suspecting one person, Ismail Khan, a resident of Sai Nagar, Badi Masjid, behind the kidnapping. Police have registered a case under section 363 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Shahina met DCP south zone and complained of inaction from Chatrinaka police. "We have been searching at all possible places in the area. Since the missing girl and the suspect are not using mobile phones, their whereabouts cannot be traced immediately," said B Mahesh sub inspector. The distraught parents searched everywhere in the area. The girl’s mother alleged that she suspects one person, Ismail Khan, a resident of Badi Masjid, behind the kidnapping||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kashmir-girl-missing-kin-say-kidnapped/articleshow/80053580.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana urged to set up Gulf workers’ welfare board with Rs 500 crore corpus||HYDERABAD: It’s a double whammy for thousands of workers who have returned from the Gulf due to the pandemic. Not only have they lost their livelihood but also have been deprived of lakhs of rupees in wages and end-of-service benefits. Representatives of various organisations met municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao in the city on December 30 and submitted a memorandum urging him to set up a Gulf workers’ welfare board with a corpus of Rs 500 crore. Migrants rights activists Mandha Bheem Reddy said an awareness campaign has also been undertaken to educate workers who have returned from various Gulf countries on how they should be able to get their salary dues. Tupakula Bhumesh of Sarangpur in Nirmal district is one such worker who went to Muscat in 2016. He worked for the local municipality there and came back in March. Bhumesh did not get a job because of the lockdown. He is yet to get his salary dues. Bheem Reddy and president of Gulf Telangana Welfare and Cultural Association Patkuri Basanth Reddy said the Centre should withdraw the recent circulars reducing the minimum referral wage for Gulf workers. They also demanded that Rs 5 lakh compensation be given to the families of Gulf workers who die abroad. “We will take up the issue with the ministry of external affairs,” Swadesh Parikipandla, president, Pravasi Mitra Labour Union, told TOI. According to Swadesh, the workers had to hastily return to India because of the Covid-19 situation and the companies they worked for did not clear their salaries for 3-8 months. In some cases, the end-of-service benefits that are due to the workers have not been paid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-urged-to-set-up-gulf-workers-welfare-board-with-rs-500cr-corpus/articleshow/80052000.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 1, 2021||Dehradun||Rajiv Bhartari appointed as new head of forest force in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: Senior Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer Rajiv Bhartari has been appointed as the new Uttarakhand head of forest force (HoFF) on Thursday, as per an official statement. Bhartari, a 1986 batch IFS officer, was designated to the top post in the forest department after the consent of governor Baby Rani Maurya, according to the order issued by government. He will take over from Ranjan Kala, a 1985 batch IFS officer who took charge in October this year. Before being appointed as the new HoFF, Bhartari was serving as the principal chief conservator of forests wildlife and chief wildlife warden of the forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rajiv-bhartari-appointed-as-new-head-of-forest-force-in-uttarakhand/articleshow/80050918.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 1, 2021||Vadodara||Winged guest from Pak spotted in Little Rann||Vadodara: Over the last few days, an unexpected guest from Pakistan has been camping in Gujarat. In a rare sighting in the state, Devvratsinh Mori, an ornithologist has photographed a male McQueen Bustard in the Little Rann of Gujarat. Mori said, “This bird has a green-coloured tag on its leg which is the colour code of Pakistan. The International Fund for Houbara Conservation based in UAE breeds these bustards and then releases them in Pakistan and other neighbouring countries.”“This bustard has flown in from Pakistan and was seen moving around alone for a long time. It is a very elusive bird and is usually spotted in north-western parts of India,” Mori said and added that the McQueen Bustard must be breeding on the Indo-Pak border.This bird prefers arid or semi-desert regions and flat plains with dense vegetation. They feed on seeds, insects, cereal and berries. Mori said that this bustard is found in middle-east countries, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Iran, Mongolia and China. The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) has listed this bustard as ‘vulnerable’ as its population has been declining sharply over the last few decades.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/winged-guest-from-pak-spotted-in-little-rann/articleshow/80051962.cms||Tushar Tere
January 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Teachers ‘beg’ to highlight plight of peers without salaries amid Covid||Hyderabad: To highlight the plight of teachers forced to survive without salaries during the pandemic, teachers working in private schools, junior and technical colleges on Thursday organised ‘bhikshatana’ (begging), as a form of protest. They said the amount collected through begging would be sent to the state government so that they use the money to benefit managements. They alleged that despite making several representations, neither government nor managements have come to their rescue. “The managements are not paying us salaries. The state doesn’t even bother to direct managements to pay us salaries. Left with no option, we stepped on to the streets to beg, but are stopped by police,” said A Santosh Kumar, president, Telangana School’s Technical Colleges Employees’ Association (TSTCEA). “What are we supposed to do? How should we survive when the majority of us are not paid salaries since April 2020,” questioned Santosh Kumar. The association members claimed they were picked up by police for begging on streets during the pandemic. Members of TSTCEA, under whose aegis the protest was held, alleged the contracts of majority of teachers and junior college faculty have not been renewed for the current academic year. The situation is the same even when it comes to faculty working in technical colleges — engineering, MBA, pharmacy, among others. “Unless the state intervenes, we are not going to get paid for the last nine months. Universities also are of no use as they have done nothing except issuing circulars and notices to erring college managements,” Vishnu Murthy, an assistant professor at a private engineering college in the city, who took part in the protest, told TOI. The demands of teachers include implementing the GO 45 strictly and ensuring all private teachers and faculty get salaries for the past nine months, reinstate all teachers who lost their jobs during the pandemic and pay them full salaries, establish a board and disburse salaries through it so as to provide job security to all teachers working in private schools and colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teachers-beg-to-highlight-plight-of-peers-without-salaries-amid-covid/articleshow/80053587.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 1, 2021||Dehradun||Tourist rush in Mussoorie, administration vigilant||MUSSOORIE: Mussoorie witnessed a large turnout of tourists on New Year’s Eve with hotels registering high occupancy on Thursday. Despite the rush, the administration was vigilant. They ensured smooth traffic management and use of face masks. However, New Year’s Eve usually witnesses a full house in the town. And this year, occupancy has been comparatively low, hoteliers said. “Hotels have registered around 80% occupancy today. As per the directives of the administration, we are keeping around 10% rooms vacant. While around 10% of remaining rooms are vacant in most properties,” said Sanjay Aggarwal, secretary of Mussoorie Hotels Association. Hoteliers said the fear of the pandemic as well as certain restrictions by the district administration in playing DJ and partying were key factors in the "low tourist flow". Meanwhile, the rush was still visible with the Mall Road witnessing a large turnout. The administration ensured that no traffic jams were reported during the day. Sub-divisional magistrate Manish Kumar, who was personally making rounds on the Mall Road till late evening, told TOI that an additional police force had been deployed to regulate the traffic while challans were being collected from those not wearing face masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tourist-rush-in-mussoorie-administration-vigilant/articleshow/80050926.cms||Anmol Jain
January 1, 2021||Dehradun||Anti-encroachment drive at Paltan Bazaar:Traders threaten to shut market indefinitely||DEHRADUN: A day after the anti-encroachment drive by Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) at Paltan Bazaar led to a heated argument between the shop owners and officials, the traders’ body on Thursday warned of shutting down the market indefinitely in protest. The shopkeepers alleged that the administration has ignored their plight since the lockdown. On Wednesday, a DMC team along with police reached the market and started removing goods placed on the pavements. Talking to TOI, Pankaj Mason, president of Doon Valley Mahanagar Vyapar Mandal, said, “We have always cooperated with the authorities, but if the shopkeepers are troubled in this way we will be forced to close down the market in protest. We have also requested the officials from police and civic bodies to regulate the parking facility in the market, but nothing has happened yet." The shopkeepers' goods were later returned after protest. On Tuesday, the team had carried out the anti-encroachment drive in Moti Bazaar where the shopkeepers had protested too. “During the anti-encroachment drive following the orders of the Uttarakhand HC, the administration had already demolished the encroached areas. We need to at times keep some goods on display to attract the customer’s attention. This cannot be considered as encroachment,” a shopkeeper at Paltan Bazaar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/anti-encroachment-drive-at-paltan-bazaartraders-threaten-to-shut-market-indefinitely/articleshow/80050927.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Vadodara||Eight Barodians sue developers Rs 40 crore for construction on gas pipeline||Vadodara: Eight Barodians have dragged four realtors of a luxurious bungalow scheme that has come up on Gotri-Sevasi Road to the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission demanding payment of more than Rs 40 crore over gross violation and negligence.The complainants who are residents of the bungalow scheme Earth Somnath Society decided to take legal recourse against the developers – Parakramsinh Jadeja, Ashok Tanna, Viral Sheth and Pritesh Shah – after learning that the housing scheme has come up on a high-pressure gas pipeline of Gail (India) Ltd. It is alleged that the developers did not keep in mind the guidelines of Gail (India) Ltd while constructing the bungalows. The residents have also alleged that there is difference in some plot sizes against what has been mentioned in the sale agreement. The developers have encroached upon a village pond owned by gram panchayat and constructed club house over it, the complainants have stated. Their petition states that the developers have made several revisions in the construction from what was approved by Vadodara Urban Development Authority (VUDA). “Of the 83 houses, 24 are constructed on the gas pipeline. We, therefore, seek Rs 24 crore compensation for these houses. An amount of Rs 2 crore along with interest has also been sought for illegal construction of club house on the village pond,” said P V Moorjani, who is representing the residents at the NCDRC. Moorjani further said that the remaining amount is for difference in plot sizes, refund of maintenance, pending construction, unpaid stamp duty and mental harassment. In 2019, Moorjani had also filed public interest litigation against the developers in the Gujarat high court seeking removal of construction done within 15 metres of the gas pipeline and also the club house and swimming pool.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/eight-barodians-sue-developers-rs-40-crore-for-construction-on-gas-pipeline/articleshow/80052001.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: MC house passes all but one agenda without debate||CHANDIGARH: Amid uproar by the opposition Congress, the BJP-led general house of the municipal corporation, in its monthly meeting on Thursday, passed all agenda items except one without any discussion or debate. The opposition, which was beating plates with spoons, showed resentment over hiked water tariff and demanded its immediate rollback. Though the matter is pending with the Chandigarh administration for consideration, the opposition was not ready to listen to anybody, leading to the uproar. Mayor Rajbala Malik then passed the agenda items in one go. With this, the house also passed a crucial agenda item to call expression of interest (EOI) for 500MT garbage processing plant to be set up with latest technology. The BJP councillors gave consent to the agenda and the Congress kept itself out of it. Now, the sanitation department of the civic body, in collaboration with the MC’s engineering department, will make preparation for issuing advertisements to get interested bidders. In the EOI, MC is willing to give various options and is looking at ideas and plans with an open mind. But the general house will take the final call. “Since the general house has approved the agenda, we will give at least 21 days to the interested bidders to participate in the EOI and give their proposals. These will then be taken to the house for opinion and decision,” said MC commissioner KK Yadav. On December 7, the monitoring committee of the National Green Tribunal, led by Justice Pritam Pal (retd), had visited the plant and directed the MC to put efforts to improve its functioning. An IIT-Roorkee team had also visited the plant in July and submitted the report. The experts said in the report that the plant was constructed in 2008 as per the Municipal Solid Waste (MSW)-2000 guidelines and now it was mandatory to follow solid waste management (SWM)-2016 Rules, which require segregated waste collection and processing. Other agenda items, like over Rs 70-crore road re-carpeting work for the next financial year, were also passed. Only one agenda item related to the construction of multilevel parking in Manimajra was deferred and will be tabled in the next house meeting for discussion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/all-but-one-agenda-passed-without-debate/articleshow/80052071.cms||Deepak Yadav
January 1, 2021||Chandigarh||Party all night, New Year's Eve like usual||CHANDIGARH/PANCHKULA: The Covid guidelines moved many New Year's Eve club parties to daytime, yet youth enthusiasm kept the night alive and the cops on their toes. The nightclubs called Punjabi singers to attract those looking for an evening of dance with friends and family. Police and the duty magistrates kept a close watch on the large gatherings but had taken no action till the filing of this report. Leisure Valley to Aroma, the streets supposed to be a vehicle-free zone after 10pm were packed like the pre-pandemic days. Revellers occupied the inner market roads of sectors 7 to 11, 17, and 22, and crowded the dispensary roundabout, Elante Mall, and Industrial Area Phase 1. From 8pm to late night, they overran the bar street of Madhya Marg, while many sober motorists couldn't enter the zone. The residents of these neighbourhoods used their identity cards to reach home. After 2am, these streets reopened to the public. Public boozers were caught and the hooligans testing sound barrier with their motorcycle exhausts had their driver's licences suspended. The Panchkula police laid 41 traps for traffic violators and 12 for drunken drivers. A special checkpoint at Morni stopped the youth convoys from going into those forest hills at night. Tje Sector-5 restaurants street was packed. Patrolling and regular checkups couldn't enforce social distancing. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Mohit Handa said: "We'll keep the special vigil till 5am." Women police assisted the ladies out of bars if they had one drink too many. The actual count of challans issued for drink driving will come out on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/party-all-night-new-years-eve-like-usual/articleshow/80052073.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
January 1, 2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula municipal corporation: Harinder Malik, Sonia Sood in race for posts of mayor deputies||PANCHKULA: Soon after the municipal corporation election results were announced on Wednesday, the race for posts of senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor started among the BJP members, who hold majority in the house. Sources said the Panchkula BJP unit planned to give senior deputy mayor charge to Harinder Malik, who won MC election from Ward 8 with 2,549 votes. He defeated Congress candidate Ravi Kant Swami with a margin of 995 votes. Malik was the Panchkula BJP unit general secretary before getting the councillor ticket. In the 2013 MC elections, Malik had helped Swami when the latter was in BJP. After becoming a councillor, Swami joined the Congress. With focus on women empowerment, the saffron party was expected to give Sonia Sood the post of deputy mayor. Sood’s family was close to Haryana assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta, increasing her chances, sources added. She polled 3,301 votes from Ward 4, trouncing Congress candidate Priyanka with 1,260 votes. While the BJP won mayor post and nine wards out of the total 20, its ally JJP took two wards. The Congress secured seven seats and independents two. With the BJP holding majority in the house, it will choose its party candidates for the two posts through indirect elections. The two independent candidates, Omwati Punia and Paramjeet Kaur, are likely to join hands with the BJP to meet their poll plank of development. For the first time in Panchkula, the mayor has been selected through direct elections. BJP’s Kulbhushan Goyal defeated former mayor of Congress Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia with 2,057 votes. He will be the mayor of Panchkula for the next five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/malik-sood-in-race-for-posts-of-mayor-deputies/articleshow/80052063.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
January 1, 2021||Hyderabad||No fresh cases of new Covid strain in Telangana: Government||HYDERABAD: There are no fresh cases of the new Covid-19 strain in Telangana, according to state health minister Eatala Rajender. The minister on Thursday responded to queries on the new strain and distribution of vaccine in the state in a media conference at Exhibition Grounds, Nampally. Rajender said, “Till date, one person who returned from United Kingdom to Hyderabad has tested positive in Telangana. Except this, no new cases have been reported of the new strain.” Eatala said that an incredible decrease has been noticed in Covid-19 cases and death rate in the state. The health minister cautioned people that the current winter season is conducive for the spread of Covid-19 pandemic, and everyone must follow the rule of wearing masks strictly for at least another month. Regarding vaccine distribution, the minister said that all arrangements have been made for the distribution of vaccines in Telangana. “The Central government has to announce the vaccine, which is being manufactured in Hyderabad and should give priority to Telangana, as and when it commences the distribution process,” Rajender said. Responding to a query regarding irregularities on allotment of medical seats quosta, the health minister said that a committee would be constituted to check the allegations. Regarding Ayushman Bharat, the health minister said that nearly 80 lakh families will be covered under state government’s ‘Aarogya Shree’ scheme whereas only 26 lakh families would get benefits under ‘Ayushman Bharat’ in the state. “Our Aarogya Shree is superior to Central government’s Ayushman Bharat,” said Rajender. The Telangana government is spending Rs 1,200 crore for Aarogya Shree scheme and we are appealing the Central government to extend Rs 200 crore financial assistance for this Aarogya Shree scheme, added the minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-fresh-cases-of-new-covid-strain-in-t-eatala/articleshow/80053599.cms||Sunil Mungara
January 1, 2021||Vadodara||Gujarat: Congress MLA’s brother arrested in Jhalod councillor’s murder||VADODARA: Amit Katara, the prime accused in the murder of a Jhalod municipality councillor Hiren Patel on September 27, was arrested on Thursday evening. Amit is the younger brother of Jhalod Congress MLA Bhavesh Katara and son of former MP Babu Katara. Patel had played a key role in engineering defections in the Jhalod municipality to ensure that Amit’s wife who had been elected as the president lost her seat. This political rivalry is believed to be the root cause of the murder of Patel. The local crime branch (LCB) of the Dahod district police caught Amit from his uncle’s house in Chitrodiya village on Thursday evening. Assistant superintendent of police, Shefali Barwal said he was arrested after testing negative for Covid. Patel was run over by a light commercial vehicle near Jhalod when he was on his morning walk. Hs family had alleged that it was not an accident and that he had been receiving threats earlier. Investigations and CCTV footage revealed that Patel had been murdered by deliberately ramming the vehicle into him. It came to light that a contract had been given to murder Patel and an accused in the Godhra Sabarmati Express carnage case, Irfan Pada, had accepted the contract. Pada and other accused were arrested and interrogated in connection with the offence. Pada revealed the name of one Imran Gudala from Jhalod, who is a close aide of Amit. Gudala was held from Mewat in Haryana by the Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS). Ahmedabad crime branch had also joined the investigation in the high-profile case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cong-mlas-brother-arrested-in-jhalod-councillors-murder/articleshow/80052036.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Meerut||Meerut seals Sant Vihar & Mansarovar areas to check outbreak of new Covid strain||MEERUT: The district administration on Thursday sealed the Meerut’s Sant Vihar and Mansarovar areas and barred movement of people without emergency, after a girl, 2, from the colony was found infected with the new strain of Covid-19. She had returned from the United Kingdom with her parents. The restriction on movement will stay till January 11. The girl had returned to Meerut on December 14, and the orders came in place for 28 days. “Sant Vihar and Mansarovar areas in Meerut have been sealed for the fear of spread of the new strain of Covid-19. While the two-year-old girl who tested positive for the new Covid-19 strain resided in Sant Vihar, another UK returnee who tested positive for the old Covid-19 strain lived in Mansarovar. This is why the two areas have been sealed as a precautionary measure,” said Meerut’s district magistrate K Balaji. Announcements were done in the area from public address systems, informing people to remain indoors till January 11. Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday confirmed its first case of the mutant strain of Covid-19 in the girl. The new variant is 70% more transmissible than the previous avatar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-seals-sant-vihar-mansarovar-areas-to-check-outbreak-of-new-covid-strain/articleshow/80050928.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 1, 2021||Lucknow||In the most testing year, we turned challenges into opportunities: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||After a challenging year due to the Covid-19 crisis, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said that vaccination is his number one priority for New Year. In an interview to TOI about the ups and downs of 2020 and what lies ahead for his government in 2021, the CM said he and his team took on the Covid-19 challenge head on, going into mission mode as soon as the lockdown was announced. Q1. When you look back at the year gone by, what's the first feeling that you get?A. Under the able guidance of our honourable prime minister Shri Narenda Modi Ji, we are coming out triumphant in our battle against Covid, and we have also managed to turn all the challenges into opportunities for the state of UP.  It was no doubt the most challenging year. Not only for me, but everybody in the world. Covid broke out just as our government was completing three years in office. But we took the challenge head on, all the celebrations were put on hold and my team went into mission mode right from the beginning without any delay. We formed Team 11 on the day the Prime Minister announced the first lockdown. The team comprising heads of key departments, has been meeting every single day in the past nine months to assess the challenges and form strategies on the daily basis to have a better grip on the problem. I told my team that if we must defeat the virus, we have to remain two steps ahead of it. And thankfully, we more or less have been able to do it. Q2. Despite over 40 lakh migrant workers returning to the state during the lockdown, how did UP manage to keep Covid numbers in check and avoid a second wave?It was one of the most emotional moments of my life. We were grappling with the disease as it started spreading in the state, when I came to know about 4 lakh people belonging to UP almost disowned by the Delhi government thronging the UP borders, I was moved by their plight as most of them had been thrown out by the AAP government without making any arrangement for further journey and almost all of them started walking or cycling towards their homes to far off places in eastern UP. But we are in the habit of facing challenges, we immediately made arrangements for their transport, food and water. Our UPSRTC officials and drivers worked day and night without fearing the infection to ensure that the migrant workers reached home safely. Thereafter, we facilitated the movement of over 30,000 students studying in Kota and Prayagraj back to their homes. We also had the surge in cases due to Tablighi Jamaat episode.  It was followed by the large-scale migrant movement, which saw over 36 lakh workers coming back to UP from different parts of the country, We also made arrangements for their transport to their homes, gave them ration, medical help and did a massive skill mapping exercise never done in history before to help us plan their local employment in the state. We also signed MoUs with industry organisations to ensure immediate employment in the state itself. Luckily, we have been able to give employment to the migrant workers in MNREGA as well as local industries to a large extent. We stayed ahead of the epidemic and checked community spread by ensuring proper arrangements of home isolation as well as their quarantine. Our medical education department rose to the challenge by raising the number of labs from 2 to 62 and the number of tests from 72 to now more than 1.80 lakh per day. UP has done the maximum number of tests in the country and we have reached a figure of 2.4 Crore tests. We set up several special covid hospitals and centres of excellence, raise the number of ICU and ventilator beds to make them available in each district. When these migrants came, our surveillance teams in all 60,000 village panchayats kept a close watch on them. Besides, we maintained an extensive contact tracing programme, which has been praised by the WHO. Due to the strict monitoring and relentless work by our health workers, we managed to stem the surge not only when the migrants came to the state, but have also neutralised a second surge, which most states have seen. Q 3. It was an eventful year from all aspects. Foundation of Ram Temple was laid. Your government took some bold decisions. Some of them created controversies.A. Foundation of Ram Temple in Ayodhya was the biggest highlight of the year. The function was organised in a grand manner while following all Covid protocols. Work on the Temple would now begin soon and we would ensure that devotees from across the country come to witness this spectacle once the Covid restrictions are relaxed. The whole world saw the kind of destruction caused by the agitators during the anti-CAA and NRC protests in the beginning of the year. It was a motivated campaign done to tarnish the image of the state and the central government. Nobody was going to lose citizenship under CAA and there was no word on the implementation of the NRC. Still a conspiracy was hatched, and violent protests were staged in 20 districts. We can't tolerate such anarchy, so we brought out the ordinance to crack down on those who indulge in destructing public and private properties in the name of exercising democratic rights. Our similar pledge was for cow protection. So apart from amending the existing anti-cow slaughter law, we introduced several schemes and plans for the welfare of the cow population. We also opened many state supported cow shelters to house the stray cows and the state has been taking care of all the stray cows. Protecting our girl and young women from criminals and rowdy elements was our commitment. So, after the formation of "anti-Romeo squad'', we came up with the law to prohibit forceful conversions after marriage. We also launched 'Mission Shakti', a six-month drive to empower the women of the state. Besides this, 58,000 women were selected as banking correspondents and women SHGs are being appointed as PDS shop operators and to take care of the community toilets in the villages. We also went ahead with the crackdown on criminals and mafia dons and their properties worth Rs 758 crore were seized in one year. Q 4. On the new anti-conversion law, there have been allegations that couples are being harassed by police and right-wing groups. What is the government doing to prevent misuse of the law?The law was brought in to end deceitful and forceful conversions in interfaith marriages. There had been hundreds of complaints of deceitful conversions in many inter faith marriages in the state. Before this ordinance, the victim could take shelter under section 420 of the IPC and minor sections, which were not very stringent and often ended in a long-drawn process, hence a specific and stringent law was needed to save innocent girls and women from deceitful inter faith marriages. The law only lays down a process to allow such marriages and conversions thereafter and provide stringent punishment for deceit and forceful conversion. However, I want to assure you that no misuse of this law will be tolerated. Q5. UP has so far managed to avoid any major confrontation with farmer groups over the new laws. How has your government engaged with them?A. No government in the past has done the kind of work the BJP government at the Centre and the state have done for the welfare of farmers, and farmers of not only UP but all states appreciated the farm bills, that is why there is no protest anywhere except Delhi border. It's just a ploy by the middlemen -- who would be impacted by the new laws when farmers get their own choice to sell their produce -- to disrupt life in the National capital. They are trying to mislead some farmers and their trick would be exposed soon. In UP, we have been having a constant dialogue with farmers to know about their issues and problems. The seventh installment of Kisan Samman has already been transferred to the account of nearly 2.4 crore farmers. The state government has so far transferred Rs 2.5 lakh crore in the past 3.5 years in the shape of arrears of cane dues, purchase of paddy and wheat on minimum support price, waiver of loans of almost 86 Lakh farmers and money transfer under PM Samman Scheme, hence our farmers are more satisfied with the government than anywhere else. Our government has also made a record payment to cane farmers. Q6. UP has a population of around 24 crore. What is the plan for vaccine roll out?We are fully prepared for the drive. UP is the state which handles large-scale immunisation campaigns on a routine basis. We have shown what an effective health campaign can do by bringing down the cases and deaths caused by JE and AES in eastern UP districts. As far as the Covid vaccination drive is concerned, we are ready to go for the first phase with over 2.5 lakh liters of storage capacity and preparation of the cold chain. Over 9 lakh health workers would be covered in the first phase. A six-member team led by a medical officer and including one vaccinator, one verifier, one support staff and two security personnel, will man every single site. Q7. To what extent was UP's revenue affected due to the pandemic? How did it affect the development projects?As the lockdown was complete in the first two months of the financial year, there was bound to be an adverse impact. But we started bouncing back as soon as some economic activities started. MSME, followed by the agriculture sector, led the comeback. We not only generated jobs for lakhs of youths and migrants, but also got investment from other parts of the country and even abroad. Online loan camps were organised to fund more than 6.8 Lakh MSME units in the state thereby creating employment for almost 30 Lakh people in the state only in MSME sector, various banks in the state have disbursed more than 31,000 Crores to 11.24 Lakh MSME units (old and new) till now and the campaign is going on. Record 30 crore person days have been created under MNREGS in just nine months of this financial year and 1.11 crore people were engaged. It's an all-time record. The state has been very aggressive in inviting foreign investment during the pandemic and we have received proposals of investment of almost 52,000 Crores during the pandemic. Many units are moving from China to UP, Samsung being one of them and many others. No other state has got investment proposals as UP has. This shows the confidence of investors in various policies of our government. The state has jumped to number 2 position in the country in ease of doing business ranking. Our revenue crossed the 2019 collection in September itself and is now in the positive for the past four months. We have commissioned much-awaited Noida Airport and work on it is about to begin so that it starts operational by 2023. We also moved very quickly to start the process to set up the Film City on Greater Noida and work on Purvanchal Express is nearing completion. Bundelkhand Expressway is almost halfway through and construction of two links expressways which would connect the entire eastern UP to Delhi is about to begin. Q8. What are your plans for the coming year?Vaccination, of course, would be the top priority. We will ensure that in different phases, we are able to vaccinate our people as per their need. Besides, work on Noida airport, film city and Ganga Expressway would begin. We will also dedicate Purvanchal Expressway and Bundelkhand Expressway to the people of the state in the same year. And to top it all, construction of Ram Temple, too, would begin this year. Our special focus will be on farmers, women and youth. We have created 4 lakh government jobs in less than four years; we will create another 1 lakh this year to make it 5 lakh government jobs in 5 years, apart from creating 80 Lakh to 1 Crore jobs in the private sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/in-the-most-testing-year-we-turnedchallenges-into-opportunities-yogi/articleshow/80053872.cms||Neha Lalchandani
January 1, 2021||Lucknow||Expo mart will give a boost to carpet industry, says CM||Lucknow: Inaugurating a Carpet Expo Mart in Bhadohi on Thursday, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said that the new project would help spiral the carpet industry to new heights in the national and international market. The CM said that under Prime Minister Narendra Modi India had become a role model for other countries. Appreciating the carpet industry, he said that carpet manufacturers of Bhadohi had made a name for themselves in the international market without any government assistance, especially as previous governments had done nothing for them. The CM dedicated more than 10 projects and laid the foundation stone for another five. He also distributed cheques and tool kits among 11 beneficiaries of various schemes. Yogi Adityanath said that he had been wanting to visit Bhadohi for the past year, but due to the Covid-19 pandemic over the past nine months, he had been engaged and not able to visit. Praising traditional arts and crafts for having become a means of developing a particular region, the CM said that through the ODOP programme, the UP government was protecting and promoting these arts. He said that there was a need to promote swadeshi and local goods and gave the example of locally made diyas which were promoted by the state government this Diwali. Lashing out against the Opposition, the CM said that previous governments had a very limited thinking about development. Farmers, poor and youth were not in their development agenda which is why farmers did not get MSP, poor did not get houses and cooking gas and no toilets were constructed. “The country got freedom in 1947. From then the governments’ agenda was caste, family and region. Their agenda was to shred society on the basis of religion. That is why farmers did not get the samman nidhi or MSP. Their aim was not to make India strong, but make it submissive,” the CM said. The mart has been built by the MSME and exports promotion department at a cost of Rs 170 crore. Spread over 7.50 acres, the mart has two buildings which include a shopping mart and an exhibition hall. The three-storey shopping mart complex is built in an area of 7,000 sqm and has 94 shops, which include 30 shops on the ground floor, 31 on the first floor and 33 on the second floor. The two-storey exhibition hall building is spread over an area of 3,400 sqm and has two exhibition halls, one each on the ground floor and the first floor. The building is centrally air conditioned and will also have a canteen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/expo-mart-will-give-a-boost-to-carpet-industry-says-cm/articleshow/80053933.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Six arrested in Hyderabad for child marriage||HYDERABAD: Six persons who allegedly got a 16-year-old girl married to a 57-year-old man were arrested by Falaknuma police on Thursday. Police said the groom is absconding and a rape case was registered against him. The victim’s aunt and uncle, their son, two agents and a qazi were arrested. Police said the girl’s aunt got her married to the man to earn money as she was in debt. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/six-arrested-for-child-marriage/articleshow/80053604.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM, ministers, MLAs to stage dharna for farmers on January 3||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot, along with all ministers, Congress MLAs and others supporting his government would stage a dharna at the Shaheed Smarak here in support of the farmers protesting the Centre’s three controversial farm laws on January 3. The protest would also be against Governor Kalraj Mishra failing to forward the state’s three amendment bills passed by the assembly to counter the Centre’s farm laws to the President for approval. PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra on Thursday said that if the Centre fails to withdraw its three farm laws by January 4, the ministers and MLAs would run a weeklong campaign, “Bharat Bachao, Kisan Bachao”, to highlight Modi-government’s anti-farmer policies across villages and hamlets in Rajasthan from January 5 to 11. “As long as farmers are not their priority, but big industrialists are, this issue cannot be resolved. Adani ji (industrialist) has already given an ad in support of these laws and has written against the farmers’ protest. For the past four years he has been building high-tech godowns and has signed an MoU with the FCI. This shows that the big industrialists are too eager to buy farmers’ crops. The three Union laws are a part of that conspiracy,” Dotasra said, addressing reporters at the party headquarters. He added, “Farmers are fighting to save their livelihood, but the Centre has neither the vision nor the willingness to help them. Congress held ‘Kisan Sanvad’ with farmers in the state from December 28 to 30. Now, on January 3, the Congressmen will take a pledge to put the final nail in the Modi-government (coffin) and stand with the farmers until the three Union laws are repealed.” The Congress leader said, “They are ignoring the ‘annadata’ (food giver/grower). The Modi-government’s countdown has begun; BJP will be wiped out even in states where it is currently in power.” Dotasra said, “We will build pressure on the governor (Mishra) to forward the amendment bills passed by the state government for approval to the President.” The Congress state president, who is also the school education minister, said, “Even if the fight continues for long, we will protest until these laws are withdrawn. We will lay down our lives, but the Congress under Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi will not abandon the farmers. The Congress will not rest till the farmers are freed from these black laws.” Decision to protest taken by party, not govt: DotasraThe decision that the Rajasthan Congress would protest in support of the farmers was taken at a Cabinet meeting held at the CM residence late Wednesday night. On being asked how the Cabinet could decide about the party’s functions, PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra clarified on Thursday that the decision to protest was taken by the party and not by the government. “During AICC general secretary Ajay Maken’s visit, the party state unit decided that all ministers will sit with the CM and the PCC chief every Wednesday, as far as possible, to discuss state issues and find solutions. Last night, I presided over the meeting when the decision to protest was taken; the announcement was by the party and not by the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-ministers-mlas-to-stage-dharna-for-farmers-on-jan-3/articleshow/80052087.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Jaipur||BJP misleading farmers, power during day for irrigation is in progress: CM||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday accused the BJP of misleading the farmers with demand for power during the day for irrigation and pressurizing the field officers on the demand by organising agitations leading to collapse of the power infrastructure. He said the state government had already announced to provide three phase electricity to farmers during the day in a phased manner by April 2023 and necessary infrastructure is being put in place. The chief minister in a statement issued said in the next three years, the installation of six new 220 KV GSS (grid sub-station), 30 new 130 KV GSS and 287 new 33 KV GSS is under process. Besides, capacity addition is being done in 1,500 sub stations. Gehlot said in 15 districts of Udaipur and Kota division, the infrastructure has been put in place and day-time supply for agriculture connections launched by October this year before schedule of April 2021. He said the work is progressing well in other districts and the farmers in all the districts would get electricity for irrigation during the day by April 2023. He said if the state BJP is genuinely concerned about the plight of the farmers, it should ask its Central leadership to heed to the demand of the farmers sitting on dharna at Delhi border. The government denied the news reports of three farmers dying due of cold while irrigating their field at night. The government said in Bundi and Jhalawar districts, where the farmers’ deaths reportedly took place, already three phase power supply is provided to farmers for agriculture connections during the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-misleading-farmers-power-during-day-for-irrigation-is-in-progress-cm/articleshow/80052121.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Allahabad||Gorakhpur district judge is new principal secretary law||Prayagraj: The district and sessions judge of Gorakhpur, Pramod Kumar Srivastava- II has been appointed as Principal Secretary Law and Legal Remembrancer of Uttar Pradesh Government, Lucknow. In a notification dated December 31, 2020 issued by the Registrar General of Allahabad High Court, Ajay Kumar Srivastava, the said appointment has been made with effect from January 1, 2020. A copy of the notification has been sent to all concerned for information and necessary action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/gorakhpur-district-judge-is-new-principal-secretary-law/articleshow/80052969.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
January 1, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan farmers break barricades, enter Haryana with tractors||ALWAR/JAIPUR: The farmers’ agitation at Alwar’s Shahjahanpur turned violent on Thursday as Haryana police used tear gas shells, water cannons and lathicharged a group of agitating farmers from Hanumangarh-Ganganagar who broke the barricades and entered Haryana with around 30 tractor trolleys. Haryana police have detained 30-40 farmers on charges of breaking barricades and damaging public property. However, Samyunkt Kisan Morcha leaders condemning the breaking of barricades said no directions were given to the farmers to move ahead. They said this was done to weaken and undermine the movement. According to police, some youths from Ganganagar and Hanumannagar got together and forcibly broke the barricades and entered Haryana with tractors. According to police, while attempting to stop the tractors, there was a fierce clash between police and the protesters. Later, police used lathis to bring the situation under control as the matter got heated. As police lathicharged a few protesters, some of them hit back and injured some police officials. Meanwhile, farmer leaders of Sanyunkt Kisan Morcha are on talks with the farmers who crossed over to Haryana in order to bring them back. They also appealed to the farmers to maintain peace and discipline. A large number of farmers, who crossed over to Haryana, have built tents there for their stay, said police. “Around 26 tractors broke the barricades and moved ahead. They didn’t stop despite lathicharge and firing of tear gas shells. Samyunkt Kisan Morcha has made it clear that those who remain disciplined only they will be considered part of the farmers’ movement. Those who break discipline and try to weaken the movement are not a part of the morcha. No directions were given to break the barricades and move ahead. This was done to weaken the movement of the farmers,” said Kisan Mahapanchayat leader Ram Pal Jat. “It has been appealed to the farmers not to cross the border breaking the barricades and to maintain peace. Farmer leaders from Ganganagar are in talks with the farmers who entered Haryana breaking the barricades. We will soon bring them to the mainstream,” he added. Ram Pal Jat admitted to SMS Kisan Mahapanchayat leader Ram Pal Jat was admitted to the ICU of Sawai Man Singh hospital on Thursday evening after he fell ill following a three-day hunger strike at Alwar’s Shahjahanpur border which ended on Wednesday. The farmer leader had complained of body ache and weakness this morning. The doctors have collected blood samples for various tests, said a family member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-break-barricades-enter-haryana-with-tractors-police-resort-to-lathicharge/articleshow/80052114.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Varanasi||3 diagnostic centres sealed, licences cancelled for laxity||Gorakhpur: The district administration on Thursday sealed three diagnostic centres and suspended their licences for medical negligence. This comes after a couple staged a sit-in demonstration on Wednesday after the woman delivered a child with no limb despite the ultrasound report showing normal body parts. “On Wednesday, district magistrate Vijyendra Pandiyan ordered sealing of the three diagnostic centres and suspension of their license. On Thursday, ACMO and our team sealed the diagnostic centres Chaparia, Sparsh Imaging centre and Dr Anju Mishra. The CMO office has also taken action against the centres.” Joint magistrate Gaurav Sogarwal said. “We will make random inspections of diagnostic centres and strict action will be taken against erring centres,” he said. One Abhishek Pandey, a native of Gola area of district who works in a private company at Piprauli under GIDA police station limit, claimed that the diagnostic centres gave normal reports of his unborn child. But when the child was born on August 15, he had no hands. The couple on Wednesday protested outside the district magistrate’s office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/3-diagnostic-centres-sealed-licences-cancelled-for-laxity/articleshow/80053054.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Kanpur||2020 bids adieu with lowest temp thus far||Kanpur: Last day of the year turned out to be the coldest with temperature dipping to 3.4 degree Celsius, 3.6 degrees less than the normal value. Day temperature also came down to 16.4 degree Celsius, 3.4 degrees below the normal. This was the lowest day temperature recorded so far. On Saturday, the minimum and maximum temperature recorded were 21 and 5.6 degree, respectively. While the day temperature was 0.6 above the normal value, minimum temperature was 0.8 degrees below normal. Despite bright sunshine, windy weather conditions left people troubled. Met department of CSA University stated that there are chances of rain on January 3. Met also stated that high velocity winds will blow on January 3. This would add to the chill. Destitutes and poor people could be seen sitting huddled around bonfires to keep themselves warm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/2020-bids-adieu-with-lowest-temp-thus-far/articleshow/80053452.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Varanasi||Girl rescued 2 mths after abduction||Gorakhpur: Almost two months after a youth kidnapped a minor girl for marriage, the accused was nabbed by the Gorakhpur police from Hamirpur on Thursday. The girl has been sent for a medical check-up. According to the complaint, the girl’s father had alleged that his 17-year-old daughter was abducted by an unidentified person on November 6 at Sahjanwa police station area of the district. The accused, identified as Mansoor (26), a resident of Bhiti Rawat area in Hamirpur, was traced using surveillance. Mansoor claimed that the girl is an adult on the basis of her Aadhaar card. He also presented a court order, which mentions both of them are adults. But the girl’s father presented her high school certificate to prove she is just 17 years old, police said. “The girl is undergoing a medical check-up. As per her high school marksheet, she is 17 years old,” said Rahul Bhati, circle officer, Campierganj. He said the youth has been booked for kidnapping and compelling a woman for marriage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/girl-rescued-2-mths-after-abduction/articleshow/80053083.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Congress announces mayoral candidates||CHANDIGARH: Nearly a week ahead of the filing of nominations for the mayoral polls, Chandigarh Congress on Thursday announced its candidates for all the three posts — mayor, senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor. Polling is scheduled for January 8. Senior party leader and municipal councillor Devinder Singh Babla will contest for the post of mayor, while Ravinder Kaur Gujral and Satish Kainth will challenge the BJP nominees for the posts of senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor, respectively. Although there is no competition at all on all the three posts, as the BJP is in overwhelming majority in the 27-member house, the Congress has decided to try its best to manage a few votes through cross-voting. But, the gap is so much that the Congress move is unlikely to have any impact on the fortunes of the BJP candidates. Besides, the saffron party will also try to ensure that not even a single cross-voting happens, so as to project a united face of the party, especially since the MC election is due for December 2021. Out of the 27 members in the general house, 21 belong to the BJP, including the city MP, while five members are from the Congress and one of the Shiromani Akali Dal. The nominated councillors do not have the right to vote in the mayoral polls. “We have declared our mayoral candidates and we will contest the election with full might. Our candidates are strong. The people of the country have seen the real face of the BJP and we are hopeful that in the coming civic body election in December 2021, people will throw BJP out of the MC and choose the Congress, which is committed for the city’s development,” said Chandigarh Congress president Pardeep Chhabra. The UT administration has already declared January 8 as the date of polling for all the three mayoral posts. Nominated councillor Ajay Datta has been appointed the presiding officer, while the voting will be done in presence of the UT deputy commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/congress-announces-mayoral-candidates/articleshow/80052100.cms||Deepak Yadav
January 1, 2021||Allahabad||UP’s recovery rate better than national average||LUCKNOW: UP's Covid-19 recovery rate improved further to cross 96% on Thursday. Upon comparison it was found that UP’s Covid-19 recovery rate was better than the national average. While UP’s recovery rate is 96.13%, the national average for the same is 96.04%, according to data from Union ministry of health and family welfare and the state government. In all, 5,63,278 people have recovered from the infection in the state. “The proportion of active cases in the state is less than 3%. As on date, the number of active infections is 14,260 of which over 5,000 are under home isolation,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare Amit Mohan Prasad. He said that no new case of the mutant Covid-19 strain has been reported after the two cases which surfaced in Meerut and Gautam Budh Nagar. “Both the patients were asymptomatic. They are stable and under observation,” he said, adding that the state has, so far, tested more than 2,500 persons for the mutant strain. While assuring that there was no need to panic over the mutant strain, Prasad reminded that prevention protocol for coronavirus and many winter diseases was the same. “By following social distancing and hand hygiene practices and using masks, one can keep coronavirus and its mutant away. The added advantage is protection from seasonal infections,” he said.  Meanwhile, 971 new cases in the past 24 hours took the state’s tally to 5,85,902.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/ups-recovery-rate-better-than-natl-avg/articleshow/80058681.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 1, 2021||Kanpur||UP’s recovery rate better than national average||LUCKNOW: UP's Covid-19 recovery rate improved further to cross 96% on Thursday. Upon comparison it was found that UP’s Covid-19 recovery rate was better than the national average. While UP’s recovery rate is 96.13%, the national average for the same is 96.04%, according to data from Union ministry of health and family welfare and the state government. In all, 5,63,278 people have recovered from the infection in the state. “The proportion of active cases in the state is less than 3%. As on date, the number of active infections is 14,260 of which over 5,000 are under home isolation,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare Amit Mohan Prasad. He said that no new case of the mutant Covid-19 strain has been reported after the two cases which surfaced in Meerut and Gautam Budh Nagar. “Both the patients were asymptomatic. They are stable and under observation,” he said, adding that the state has, so far, tested more than 2,500 persons for the mutant strain. While assuring that there was no need to panic over the mutant strain, Prasad reminded that prevention protocol for coronavirus and many winter diseases was the same. “By following social distancing and hand hygiene practices and using masks, one can keep coronavirus and its mutant away. The added advantage is protection from seasonal infections,” he said.  Meanwhile, 971 new cases in the past 24 hours took the state’s tally to 5,85,902.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ups-recovery-rate-better-than-natl-avg/articleshow/80058677.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 1, 2021||Lucknow||In 2020, cops remained in warlike mode||Lucknow: The year gone by saw the Uttar Pradesh police in an aggressive mode as is evident by 199 people getting slapped with the National Security Act (NSA) and arrested in connection with crimes and unlawful activities. Also, in the spate of encounters in 2020, 30 alleged criminals carrying cash reward from Rs 50,000 to Rs 5 lakh were gunned down. And, while properties of 500 gangsters worth Rs 785 crore were seized, 74 criminals carrying reward ranging from Rs 50,000 to Rs 2.5 lakh were arrested. The Special Task Force killed 10 history sheeters and arrested 648 others, while the anti-terrorist squad of the UP police nabbed operatives of Khalistani groups and Bangladeshis involved in fake currency rackets. Additional director general of police, Law and Order, Prashant Kumar said that the rate of crime witnessed depreciation in the state. “A drop of 19% in rape, 20% drop in dacoity, 37% in loot, 5% in murder and 15% in kidnapping was recorded as per the crime dossier in comparison to previous year,” the officer said. He said that effort was made by the police to make women and girls feel secure with a strengthened anti-Romeo squad and further improvement in Women Power Line (WPL) 1090. “As many as 1,535 women help desks were established at police stations in the state and 3.36 lakh spots were checked by the anti-Romeo squads of the police wherein they took action against 6,221 harassers and stalkers,” said the ADG. The officer added that the CM’s efforts led to integration of UP 112 and Women Power Line 1090 to curb cases of stalking and acid attacks and immediate action in such cases. He said that UP 112 helped as many as 56 lakh people across the state during the Covid-19 time. The officer also highlighted that the social media cell of the UP police remained active and alert throughout the year. “It got as many as 9 lakh tweets out of which action was taken against 4,104 tweets for their communal and defamatory content,” the ADG said. The state prosecution department also worked hard along with the police and got punishment for 2,657 persons named in 2,511 cases, while bail of another 5,360 got cancelled. The officer said that efforts of the department led to five criminals getting death sentence, while over 100 got life imprisonment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/in-2020-cops-remained-in-warlike-mode/articleshow/80053963.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 1, 2021||Lucknow||Heat therapy effective in cervical cancer||Lucknow: Doctors of King George’s Medical University have found that the pre-cancerous stage of cervical cancer can be more effectively treated by Thermocoagulation in comparison to cold therapy which is commonly used to treat the same. In a study by doctors of Queen Mary’s Hospital, it was found that thermocoagulation in which localized damage is done to malignant cervical tissue by heating it up to 100 degrees Celsius has very few side effects, in comparison to Cryotherapy also known as cold therapy, which uses extremely low temperatures to destroy abnormal or diseased tissue. For the study, precancerous stage 160 patients were divided into two groups — each with 80 patients. The first group was given thermocoagulation while the others given cold therapy. “About 55% of women who received cold therapy complained of white discharge, while only 10% who underwent thermocoagulation reported such a problem,” said Prof Rekha Sachan who was one among four researchers who conducted the study. Besides, patients got relief in only one sitting of thermocoagulation, while the cold therapy group has to be called for two-three sessions for full relief, she added. “We have sent the study to be published in the Indian Journal of Cancer. These findings can be used in the treatment of village women under the outreach program as suitcase size thermocoagulators have come into the market. Doctors can treat women in the village by organizing camps," she added. In this research, dean, medical, KGMU, Dr Uma Singh, Dr Manjulata Verma and Dr Pushpalata Shankhawar also participated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/heat-therapy-effective-in-cervical-cancer/articleshow/80053919.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 1, 2021||Lucknow||Icy winds and fog usher in New Year||Lucknow: The chilly weather conditions that prevailed on Thursday will continue on Friday. Mercury levels are expected to gradual increase from Saturday. However, relief will be short lived as Sunday and Monday may witness partly cloudy sky with possibilities of rain and thunderstorm. On Thursday, icy winds from snowfed mountains forced drop in temperatures both during the day and night. The minimum temperature dropped to 4 degrees Celsius, four degrees below normal, in the wee hours, which equalled the lowest of the season recorded on December 20. Drop in temperature led to formation of thick dense fog in the morning. However, strong winds paved the way for clear sky later, but the ‘chill factor’ prevailed all day. As a result, maximum temperature could not rise above 18.2 degrees Celsius and was 4.2 degrees below normal. State Met director JP Gupta said moderate to dense fog is expected on Friday. The sky will be clear by afternoon. The weather will start changing from Friday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/icy-winds-and-fog-usher-in-new-year/articleshow/80053925.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 1, 2021||Jaipur||New PCC team soon, Dotasra sends recommendations||Jaipur: The Congress state unit on Thursday forwarded its recommendations to the party central leadership for reconstituting the PCC state executive that was dissolved during the rebellion by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 Congress MLAs in July.PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra said the new executive will initially be short with just 30 to 35 members in it. Names of the office bearers will be announced after the Congress central leadership’s approval anytime soon. AICC general secretary in-charge for Rajasthan Ajay Maken had set December 31 as the deadline for announcing the state executive.“As per the criteria decided by the party, senior Congress leaders would be appointed vice-presidents and general secretaries, while youngsters would be made secretaries. We sent our unanimous recommendations while considering all communities and sections and taking all in the party together,” Dotasra told reporters.He added, “We will expand the new executive gradually in January; will form a disciplinary committee as well as other committees like one for training and another for constructing a building for the party.”Striking a balance between chief loyalists of chief minister Ashok Gehlot, former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and speaker C P Joshi camps in reconstituting the state party organisation would be a big challenge for Dotasra and Maken. How successful the two leaders have been carrying out the responsibility would be clear once the new team is announced. Pilot’s meeting with Maken in Delhi early this week was part of the exercise to shortlist the new PCC executive that has been recommended to the party high command.On the three assembly byelections to be held in March-April, the PCC chief said that local Congress leaders need to raise public issues with the state government and get remaining development works done for the people. Dotasra said the bypoll results would go in favour of the Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-pcc-team-soon-dotasra-sends-recommendations/articleshow/80052140.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Allahabad||Atal univ affiliation for 11 med colleges||Lucknow: As many as 11 medical colleges, including two private colleges, have been given letter of consent for affiliation to the Atal Medical University. Proposals from 30 nursing and paramedical colleges are also being examined by the university for affiliation. The fact came to fore at a review of the medical university project held here on Thursday. The university is coming up on a 50acre land in Chak Ganjaria area of the city. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials to ensure that the construction of the building for the university is undertaken in a time bound manner. Vice-chancellor Prof AK Singh stated that the administrative block would come up on 20 acres in the first phase of construction. The estimated cost of the phase one construction is Rs 200 crore. The much needed university project will work to improve the quality of teaching and training in the affiliated colleges by bringing them under a formal universal system. Later on, it will also run undergraduate courses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/atal-univ-affiliation-for-11-med-colleges/articleshow/80053873.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: Hotels’ New Year's Eve business down to 60% on night curfew||JAIPUR: Night curfew restrictions have shaved off 50-70% of the December 31 business this year as hotels are not allowed to hold any new year parties, discounted room rates, and lower occupancy. Farmers’ strike also added to uncertainty as some people postponed travelling to the state fearing road blockade. Due to home department order, hotels could not take in city residents who wanted to avail food and drinks services without having a room booking. The average occupancy also fell to about 50% which used to be about 90% in previous years, said many hoteliers TOI spoke to. Similarly, the average industry business is estimated to be lower by 60% this time compared to December 31 last year. Harimohan Dangayach, owner of a group of branded hotels, said, “Why should people come to a hotel if there is no celebration? The night curfew restrictions meant that the hotels also lost the business from city residents who in previous years contributed significantly to the December 31 business. Compared to last year, the business is down to 20-30%.” However, Dangayach said they expect the industry to revive from March onwards. “Given declining trend in new corona cases and the vaccination drive that would be starting soon, we expect the industry to be reviving from March onwards. But to come back to normalcy, we have to wait till September,” added Dangayach. With demand falling far short of the rooms on offer, the room night tariffs also remained much lower than last year. “Rooms were cheaper by about 30%. Lower occupancy coupled with discounted tariffs had impacted revenues,” said Pankaj Gupta, general manager of a leading hotel. Gupta said that generally, hotels organize multiple events and offer various services on occasions like December 31 which was absent this year due to the restrictions and the social distancing norms that needs to be followed. But some properties said they desist over commercializing events liked December 31 and but offer decent and elegant experiences to guests who want to savour the beauty of our property and ambience. Jean Luc Benheim, owner of a resort in Kukas, said, “We do get good business on December 31. But we are averse to over commercialize the services we offer. The core of our property is so strong that it does not need too much artificial extravaganza. So, we are not disappointed this time. Our resort has 60% occupancy for December 31 and we are happy with that.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hotels-ny-eve-biz-down-to-60-on-night-curfew/articleshow/80052132.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 1, 2021||Meerut||Elephant herd destroys standing can crop in Bijnor||BIJNOR: A herd of marauding elephants entered the cane fields at Niyamatpura bordering Sahanpur and Rajgarh range of Najibabad forest division, sending the farm hands there harvesting the crop scurrying for cover. Farmers said the elephants went on the rampage, destroying standing crops. They informed the forest department. Manoj Shukla, Najibabad's divisional forest officer, said, “We have alerted our field staff and urged farmers to be careful.” According to farmers, every year, crops growing in large tracts of land are destroyed by elephant herds who stray out of the forests to feed on the cane, a favourite food of the pachyderms. The herds leave behind a trail of destruction by trampling upon standing crops. Every year, the forest department makes proposals to either dig a trench to check elephants from moving into human habitation or install fences but the plans are not sanctioned, they claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/elephant-herd-destroys-standing-can-crop-in-bijnor/articleshow/80050948.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 1, 2021||Aurangabad||60 booked, 11 arrested as groups clash in Hingoli||Aurangabad: An argument between three youths over speeding on a motorcyle led to a clash between two groups in the Risalabazar area of Hingoli city, about 232 km from here, late on Wednesday night, leaving one person injured in the head and a car damaged. Timely intervention by the Hingoli police, however, prevented the situation from getting worse. Nanded range inspector general of police Nisar Tamboli said, “A total of 60 people have been booked and 11 arrested. Based on complaints from both the sides, two cases, including attempt to murder, have been registered.” Hingoli superintendent of police Rakesh Kalasagar said two youths were speeding on a bike when another youth objected to it, resulting into a heated argument and one of the riders slapping him “The relatives and friends of both the youths, all residing in the same locality, arrived at the scene and soon became a free for all. We have found some videos of stone pelting, some suspects trying to trip the power supply and using sticks to beat each other,” said Kalasagar. Police said the person was injured during the rioting is also an accused in the case. Teams from the area police station as well as the riot control police brought the situation under control and nabbed some of the rioters from the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/60-booked-11-arrested-as-groups-clash-in-hingoli/articleshow/80050289.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 1, 2021||Kanpur||Gang involved in loot of telecom devices busted||Kanpur:A ten-member gang involved in theft of telecom networking devices and servers and selling them in international markets, was busted by Etawah police on Thursday. Police have recovered expensive telecom networking devices worth around Rs 3 crore from there possession. Former senior executive engineer of a telecom company -Chandan Pandey was also a part of this gang, said senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Etawah Akash Tomar. On the modus operandi of the racket, the SSP said, “The breakthrough was made following two cases of loot, wherein expensive telecom networking devices and servers, were looted recently from Etawah and Agra. The gang used to sell looted devices to customers in America and other foreign countries through a courier company in Delhi the owner of which also used to work for the gang. Besides an AGM rank official of telecom company posted in Uttarakhand has also been arrested. They had sent consignments of Rs 50 crore to America and had been frequenting countries, like Dubai, Morocco, Switzerland, Italy and America, etc.” “The assets of the arrested gang members has been assessed to be of over several crores,” said a police officer. In 2016, a senior executive engineer Chandan Pandey was booked by Meerut police in a similar case. A police official said, “In the past one year, they did a transaction of Rs 10 crore. All the gang members had a very lavish lifestyle.” During investigations it was revealed that one team of the gang used to deal with the technical aspects while the other dealt with the loot part. The gang members never used to correspond with their foreign buyers through email or WhatsApp instead they used a special app for communication, said a police officer. The police team was rewarded with a cash prize of around 2 lakh for their achievement, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/gang-involved-in-loot-of-telecom-devices-busted/articleshow/80053412.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
January 1, 2021||Allahabad||‘Follow mantra of ‘nation first, character must’ for success’||Prayagraj: Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ on Thursday urged students to follow the mantra of ‘nation first, character must’ as they strive for professional and personal success while addressing Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology’s (MNNIT) 17th convocation, which was organised virtually due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “A strong India is essential for world peace. India has always been a vishwa guru (world leader) in the fields of science, technology and spirituality. With the principle of ‘vasudhaiva kutumbakam’ (the world is one family) and love at the centre, an India which considers the world as a family and not as a market is essential for global peace,” he said during his address as the chief guest of the event. Talking about the National Education Policy (NEP), Pokhriyal said that the policy will result in India becoming the ‘vishwa guru Bharat’ once again. The Union minister said that Indian values give strength to the common man. “So, students should keep them close to their heart and constantly update, upgrade and educate themselves so that they do not become outdated and remain agile and relevant in these dynamic times.” The minister laid stress on research and development capabilities of the country and urged the students to take up research with zeal. “The soon-to-be-set-up National Research Foundation will be the catalyst for that. You have an open sky for endeavouring for success and making use of various policies such as Startup India, Skill India, Standup India and Make in India.” He also stressed on the need to support traditional Indian industries like toy manufacturing, handloom, handicrafts and pottery which are largely in the unorganised sector. “We need to devise an action plan to reinvigorate them. When our traditional eco-friendly, cost-effective and sustainable products are given apt support in terms of technology, production and distribution, the sector would flourish rapidly,” he said. Earlier during the convocation, MNNIT director Rajeev Tripathi welcomed the minister and other guests. He highlighted the institute’s achievements and plans to implement the provisions of the NEP, especially in imparting education in regional languages. The convocation was presided over by chairman of MNNIT’s board of governors DP Singh, who is also a lifelong distinguished professor of Indian Institute of Technology-BHU, Varanasi. MNNIT awarded 1,397 degrees — 861 for BTech, 304 for MTech, 83 for MCA, 39 for MBA, 18 for MSc and 92 for PhD. The students who received their degrees included 82 foreign nationals who were granted admission via the direct admission of students abroad (DASA) scheme and three students admitted via Indian Council for Cultural Relations. Of the 1,397 degree recipients, 248 were girls. The institute awarded 30 gold medals to meritorious postgraduate students, 14 to undergraduate students and another 25 sponsored gold medals to outstanding students. Girls bagged 17 gold medals this year. Pokhriyal also inaugurated the newly constructed rail underpass which has seamlessly integrated into the institute’s three separate campuses, thus saving a lot of time for the faculty, staff and students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/follow-mantra-of-nation-first-character-must-for-success/articleshow/80053006.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Lucknow||Barbeque protest to grill LMC||Lucknow: Barbecue on garbage fire instead of charcoal. It may appear as an ‘environment’ friendly initiative to some, but was actually a unique form of protest by an Indiranagar resident out of frustration on Thursday, when complaints against garbage piles in his locality fell on the deaf ears of Lucknow Municipal Corporation. Fed up with LMC’s apathy, Ashutosh Singh, a resident of Block-D, staged the `barbecue protest’ in a desperate bid to draw the attention of authorities towards the problem. He arranged a portable barbecue grill, put it before a garbage dump and used waste collected from the spot to light the fire. He then grilled cottage cheese and vegetables and served them to friends with tea. The protest continued for three hours in the afternoon on Thursday. A passer-by shot a video of the act and made it viral. “People here throw garbage in open because door-to-door garbage collection is very poor here. We wake up every day only to see garbage piles all around and are forced to bear with the stink caused by the rotting dumps. The pile also attracts stray animals, making things worse,” said the 32-year-old businessman. Residents of the area supported Singh and said that they have been complaining to the LMC about poor garbage collection since long. The city had witnessed a similar protest in November last year, when a college student stood at a garbage dump near City Station all day. Authorities acted after his video went viral. However, in this case nothing has been done so far.When contacted, LMC zonal incharge (zone-7 under which Indiranagar comes) Vidya Sagar Yadav said, “We will take action against the private agency hired to ensure household garbage collection in the area. The pile will also be cleaned up within two days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/barbeque-protest-to-grill-lmc/articleshow/80053893.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
January 1, 2021||Lucknow||‘Learn from India how minorities are protected’||Ayodhya: Clerics and prominent Muslims in Ayodhya on Thursday condemned the attack on a temple in Pakistan and appealed to clerics there to ensure the security of Hindu minorities. They also said that Pakistani clerics should learn from India how minorities are protected. Mufti Ubaidur Rahman, a cleric from Darul Uloom Deoband, said, “This attack was on Islam. Pakistan was formed as an Islamic nation; how can it allow such un-Islamic acts. I appeal to the clerics there to ensure peace for Hindu citizens.” A violent mob had set fire to a Hindu temple in Karak town of Pakistan’s Khyber Pakhtunkhwa region on Wednesday and attempted to raze it. Videos of the incident had gone viral on media. Professor at Aligarh Muslim University Ataur Rahman also demanded action against the culprits. “I listen to the sermons of a few popular clerics of Pakistan on social media. What are they doing at this moment? What Islam are they preaching?” he said. “The government of Pakistan must immediately rebuild that temple,” he added. National secretary of Communist Party of India Dr Ayub Ali Khan said, “Pakistan PM Imran Khan must stop such fanatic activities and ensure religious rights of Hindu community.” He added, “I wish to visit Pakistan and meet our Hindu brothers and also the clerics to tell them how freely we practise Islam in India,” he added. Terming the incident unfortunate, president of Jamiat Ulema Hind in Ayodhya Mufti Hasbullah said, “By doing this, the vandals are defaming Muslims.” He added, “I invite clerics of Pakistan to India to see how, in today’s time, all mosques and religious shrines are safe in Ayodhya—the epicentre of Hinduism,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/learn-from-india-how-minorities-are-protected/articleshow/80053877.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
January 1, 2021||Varanasi||CM inaugurates Carpet Expo Mart in Bhadohi||Varanasi: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath inaugurated the newly built Carpet Expo Mart, and laid the foundation stone of five other projects in Bhadohi on Thursday. He also distributed cheques to the beneficiaries under several beneficiary schemes on the occasion. Yogi said that he waited for almost a year to inaugurate the Bhadohi Carpet Expo Mart and to acknowledge the hard work and skills of the handicraft artisans and weavers of the area. He added that he had arrived especially to convey his thanks to all the exporters and stakeholders whose entrepreneurship has given recognition to Bhadohi in both the national as well as international markets. The CM assured full support of the state government towards the growth of the handmade carpet industry. In order to fulfil the Prime Minister’s dream of “Atma Nirbhar Bharat”, the state government has included Bhadohi carpets in the ODOP scheme, he said, adding that all the districts of UP are known for different products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-inaugurates-carpet-expo-mart-in-bhadohi/articleshow/80053123.cms||Binay Singh
January 1, 2021||Vadodara||Inquiry ordered in assault on ex-MP by PSI case||Vadodara: A day after former MP Satyajit Gaekwad accused a police sub-inspector of assaulting him, city police commissioner R B Brahmbhatt on Thursday ordered an inquiry into the incident. ACP (D division), A V Rajgor has been asked to conduct an inquiry and submit a report.“I will conduct a detailed inquiry and record statements of Gaekwad as well as the PSI. The focus will be on finding who was at fault and whether the allegations levelled by Gaekwad are true,” Rajgor told TOI and added that he will submit the report within three days.Gaekwad had on Wednesday accused PSI D S Patel of assaulting him near Polo Ground. He said that his sister was intercepted by the cops as she wasn’t wearing a face mask while travelling in her car and called up her brother as she didn’t have money for the fine.However, Gaekwad who was ready to pay the fine claims the cops didn’t have a challan book and when he questioned them about it, the PSI got angry and slapped him, he alleged. The police officials, however, claimed that Gaekwad had misbehaved with the cops and got into a scuffle with them.City Congress leaders too met senior police officials on Thursday and demanded action against the PSI for allegedly assaulting a former MP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/inquiry-ordered-in-assault-on-ex-mp-by-psi-case/articleshow/80052112.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Lucknow||UP: Hathras DM among 17 IAS transferred||LUCKNOW: In the centre of a raging controversy after the post-midnight cremation of a rape victim in Hathras on September 30, allegedly without her family’s consent, Hathras DM Pravin Kumar Laxkar was transferred to Mirzapur in the same capacity on Thursday. Allahabad HC is scheduled to hear the Hathras case on January 27, 2021. Laxkar is being replaced by Ramesh Ranjan, who was joint MD at UP Jal Nigam. While the family of the victim, who died on September 29, has been demanding the transfer of Laxkar from Hathras, the high court, which had taken a suo motu cognizance of the 'forcible cremation', asked the government why no action was taken against the DM. In a series of transfers on Thursday, additional CEO of Noida, Shruti, has been shifted to Balrampur as the DM. Krishna Karunesh, who she is replacing, has been moved to the Ghaziabad Development Authority as the vice-chairperson. Kanchan Kumar, the earlier VC of GDA, has been posted as managing director of the UP Medical Supply Corporation. In all, 17 IAS officers were transferred. Dr Nitin Bansal, the DM of Gonda, has been transferred as DM Pratapgarh. He is being replaced by Markandey Shahi, who was earlier special secretary, medical education. Sanjiv Singh, DM Fatehpur, is the new DM of Chandauli. Navneet Singh Chahal, who he replaces, is the new DM of Mathura. The earlier Mathura DM, Sarvagya Ram Mishra, has been posted as special secretary, state tax. The new Fatehpur CM is Apurva Dubey, who was special secretary housing and urban planning. Pratapharh DM Dr Rupesh Kumar is the new special secretary sugar and sugarcane while Bhupendra Chaudhary is the new special secretary irrigation. Sunil Kumar Verma is the new DM of Auraiya, replacing Abhishek Singh-II who is now DM Sonebhadra. S Rajlinga, who was DM Sonebhadra, is the new DM of Kushinagar. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/in-row-after-rape-victims-forcible-cremation-hathras-dm-transferred/articleshow/80053936.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Lucknow||UP’s recovery rate better than national average||LUCKNOW: UP's Covid-19 recovery rate improved further to cross 96% on Thursday. Upon comparison it was found that UP’s Covid-19 recovery rate was better than the national average. While UP’s recovery rate is 96.13%, the national average for the same is 96.04%, according to data from Union ministry of health and family welfare and the state government. In all, 5,63,278 people have recovered from the infection in the state. “The proportion of active cases in the state is less than 3%. As on date, the number of active infections is 14,260 of which over 5,000 are under home isolation,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare Amit Mohan Prasad. He said that no new case of the mutant Covid-19 strain has been reported after the two cases which surfaced in Meerut and Gautam Budh Nagar. “Both the patients were asymptomatic. They are stable and under observation,” he said, adding that the state has, so far, tested more than 2,500 persons for the mutant strain. While assuring that there was no need to panic over the mutant strain, Prasad reminded that prevention protocol for coronavirus and many winter diseases was the same. “By following social distancing and hand hygiene practices and using masks, one can keep coronavirus and its mutant away. The added advantage is protection from seasonal infections,” he said.  Meanwhile, 971 new cases in the past 24 hours took the state’s tally to 5,85,902.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ups-recovery-rate-better-than-natl-avg/articleshow/80053926.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 1, 2021||Aurangabad||No fees disclosure, no RTE reimbursement: Edu dept||Aurangabad: Schools which have not disclosed fees on their respective official website as well government portal will not be entitled to reimbursements towards admissions under the RTE Act, 2009. The education department of the Aurangabad zilla parishad has started the process of data collection for reimbursement to schools towards admissions done under the RTE Act 2009 in 2019-20 by underlining the laid-down conditions. As per the official notification, each school will have to follow aforesaid fee-related disclosure norm besides sharing Aadhaar card number of all enrolled students. Among other conditions, the schools, which are running on land allotted or leased by the government on nominal rates will not be considered eligible for reimbursement. The taluka-wise camps for accepting the necessary proposals are scheduled to take place in the first week of January in Aurangabad district. Aurangabad ZP education officer S P Jaiswal said that schools fulfilling all laid down conditions would get 50% of the total reimbursement. “The government has fixed total expenditure worth Rs 17,670 towards each beneficiary of RTE Act. The taluka-wise camps will see collection of necessary data. The actual reimbursement would take place once the funds are released by the state government,” he said. Educational activist Prashant Sathe said that the ZP should not be lenient towards schools not fulfilling all laid down conditions. “The ZP authorities should not succumb to any pressure and give reimbursement to schools which fit in the scheme of things. It should not happen that RTE reimbursement becomes a way for siphoning off government funds,” he said. The Right to Education (RTE) Act, 2009, mandates free and compulsory education to all children in India in the age group of 6 to 14 years from identified weaker sections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/no-fees-disclosure-no-rte-reimbursement-edu-dept/articleshow/80050546.cms||Prasad Joshi
January 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: One-month-old boy sold for Rs 70,000||HYDERABAD: A footpath dweller from Chaderghat sold his one -month-old boy for Rs 70,000 to a woman in LB Nagar. Based on the complaint of the boy’s mother, who is a rag picker, Chaderghat police analysed CCTV footage and located the boy in the possession of a woman, Afreen at NTR Nagar on Thursday. The boy was handed over to his mother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/one-month-old-boy-sold-for-rs-70k/articleshow/80053609.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Lucknow||UP: Principal allows wedding party in school, suspended||LUCKNOW: A principal of a primary school in Banda was suspended for bypassing senior officials and allowing a wedding party on the school premises on December 6. Ramesh Singh, principal of primary school, Harijan Basti, was suspended by Banda’s basic shiksha adhikari Harishchand Nath after photographs of the wedding went viral on social media. On December 8, Singh was issued a showcause notice by the BSA following a complaint filed by the education officer of Kamasin block where the school is located. Singh, stated the suspension order, admitted that he didn’t seek permission from higher officials before giving a go ahead. During his suspension period, Singh has been attached to the block resource centre at Kamasin block. Block education officer of Narauni block Shivautaar has been asked to investigate the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/principal-allows-wedding-party-in-school-suspended/articleshow/80053972.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Lucknow||ED discovers Gayatri Prajapati’s 4 Mumbai villas worth Rs 10 crore||LUCKNOW: The Enforcement Directorate sleuths searching the premises of former minister Gayatri Prajapati have found over 100 registry papers of properties, including four villas in Mumbai, belonging to the family. The total value of these properties is around Rs 32 crore. The ED search which had started on Wednesday, continued on the whole of Thursday at the premises of Prajapati and offices of his sons, Anil, Anurag and residences of their driver, Raja Ram in Amethi and Lucknow, and accountant Umesh Khandelwal in Kanpur in connection with the allegations of money laundering related to the alleged mining scam which took place in the Samajwadi Party's tenure. The scam relates to violation of norms in awarding mining leases in various districts of the state between 2012 and 2016. The central agency sources told TOI that the suspects were evasive and not cooperating in the investigation and therefore, the searches were conducted. The properties which the family owns, as per the papers seized, are situated in Lucknow, Kanpur, Amethi, Sitapur and Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ed-discovers-prajapatis-4-mum-villas-worth-rs-10cr/articleshow/80053969.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Varanasi||UP’s recovery rate better than national average||LUCKNOW: UP's Covid-19 recovery rate improved further to cross 96% on Thursday. Upon comparison it was found that UP’s Covid-19 recovery rate was better than the national average. While UP’s recovery rate is 96.13%, the national average for the same is 96.04%, according to data from Union ministry of health and family welfare and the state government. In all, 5,63,278 people have recovered from the infection in the state. “The proportion of active cases in the state is less than 3%. As on date, the number of active infections is 14,260 of which over 5,000 are under home isolation,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare Amit Mohan Prasad. He said that no new case of the mutant Covid-19 strain has been reported after the two cases which surfaced in Meerut and Gautam Budh Nagar. “Both the patients were asymptomatic. They are stable and under observation,” he said, adding that the state has, so far, tested more than 2,500 persons for the mutant strain. While assuring that there was no need to panic over the mutant strain, Prasad reminded that prevention protocol for coronavirus and many winter diseases was the same. “By following social distancing and hand hygiene practices and using masks, one can keep coronavirus and its mutant away. The added advantage is protection from seasonal infections,” he said.  Meanwhile, 971 new cases in the past 24 hours took the state’s tally to 5,85,902.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ups-recovery-rate-better-than-natl-avg/articleshow/80058676.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 1, 2021||Jaipur||CM Ashok Gehlot lied to farmers on loan waiver: Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia||JAIPUR: State BJP president Satish Poonia referring to the letter by chief minister Ashok Gehlot to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on farm loan waiver from commercial banks alleged that by putting his responsibility on the central government, the CM has accepted that during the assembly elections 2018, he lied to the farmers of the Rajasthan. He asked why Gehlot is putting his responsibility on the Centre. He should fulfil his election promise by depositing the loan of the farmers of the state in the commercial and nationalised banks from the treasury of his government with immediate effect or else he should leave the post on moral grounds. In the last two years, more than four dozen farmers have committed suicide due to the breach of promise by the Congress government, he alleged. Why did not they implement Swaminathan committee report, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had spoken about the entire debt waiver in 10 days. He asked had it not mentioned about agricultural reforms in their manifesto in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-lied-to-farmers-on-loan-waiver-poonia/articleshow/80052161.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Jaipur||New Year eve a low key affair||Jaipur: As New Year eve became a low key affair amidst various restrictions, many people preferred to go for lunch at various restaurants and hotels to grab lucrative buffet offers.In order to celebrate the eve many banked upon the online food apps to order from different restaurants. At least 10 extra companies of Rajasthan Armed Constabulary (RAC) on 90 police check posts were deployed in the city.Police have already maintained that amidst night curfew and Section 144 of CrPC, roaming around for no reason would amount to punitive action.Places including C-Scheme, MI Road, Malviya Nagar witnessed jams in the afternoon as families in numbers were thronging to various restaurants and hotels to enjoy lunch.Additional Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), Rahul Prakash said, “In this shivering cold they are ensuring safety on roads. So far no untoward incident took place.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-year-eve-a-low-key-affair/articleshow/80052170.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Mount Abu logs -4.4°C, Churu -4°C||JAIPUR: People in the state on Thursday witnessed severe cold wave conditions on the New Year eve as mercury dipped further. Mount Abu in hills and Churu in plains remained coldest in the state where a minimum temperature of -4.4°C and -4°C, respectively, the Met reports said. Attributing the continued dip in the mercury to the active northerly winds and vanishing of factors including western disturbances, Jaipur Met office stated that similar conditions will prevail in the state in the next couple of days. People in Jaipur woke up to the coldest morning of the season so far as a minimum temperature of 4.6°C was recorded. In 2019, Jaipur had recorded its minimum temperature of 1.4°C. Later in the day, a maximum temperature of 22°C was recorded. Fog and mist also affected normal life and vehicular traffic especially on the highways connecting Jaipur to Agra, Jaipur to Sikar and Jaipur to Churu. On the outskirts of Jaipur, farmers were upset with the shivering cold conditions as it has damaged the vegetable crops especially of the tomatoes. Mount Abu and Fatehpur were followed by Churu where a minimum temperature of -1.3°C was recorded, Sikar 0°C, Pilani 0.2°C, Bhilwara 2.5°C, Sriganganagar 3.9°C, Chittorgarh 4°C, Bikaner and Jaipur 4.6°C each, Barmer 4.8°C, Kota 5.6°C, Phalodi 6.4°C, Jaisalmer 6.8°C and Udaipur 7°C. People in Sikar, Churu and Pilani were surprised to see water turned into ice in taps. Even during the daytime, the roads wore a deserted look as people confined themselves to their homes. Those on the streets were seen beating the shivering cold with bonfire. In its forecast, Jaipur Met office stated that from Saturday onwards there is a possibility of some respite when cloudy conditions will prevail in some parts of the state. A rise of almost 4°C on an average is expected in various parts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mount-abu-logs-4-4c-churu-4c/articleshow/80052177.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Aurangabad||Police: Suspect & complainant have never communicated||Aurangabad: Five days after a rape case was registered against the state youth president of a political party, Aurangabad city police have found that the suspect and complainant have never communicated with each other in the past.Aurangabad commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta termed the case to be sensitive and said: “Probe is being carried out to unearth the facts in this case and it will be followed by appropriate legal action.”Considering the seriousness of the case, the probe has been handed over to an assistant commissioner of police. Moreover, three different teams have been formed for carrying out an independent probe from different angles.DCP (zone-II) Deepak Girhe told TOI, “At this stage we can say that technical screening has revealed that there has not been any communication between the complainant and the person named in the FIR, either through phone, mobile text message or through any other means.”Another officer privy to the probe said that even their mobile tower locations have not matched in the past one year.On December 26, a 29-year-old woman lodged a complaint against the suspect stating that she was raped under the pretext of helping her get a job. Later, the suspect came to the fore and countered the allegations by submitting evidences that on the days of alleged incident, he was at the state secretariat as well as party headquarters in Mumbai. When contacted, he said, “I don’t know the woman. Leave alone meeting her even once, I have never even seen or spoken to her over the phone.”While submitting all the date-wise evidences of being in places other than Aurangabad, he said that he is also open to undergo narco analysis test. On finding substance to his claims, the party has also come to his rescue while demanding a probe to unearth the entire conspiracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-suspect-complainant-have-never-communicated/articleshow/80050543.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 1, 2021||Surat||Gujarat: Positive London woman infects kin in Hazira||SURAT: The district health authorities were literally on their toes after a woman who had come from London and tested positive of coronavirus on Thursday. Sources said that the district health authorities had received information regarding the arrival of a 32-year-old woman from London who had come to meet her family in a village at Hazira. However, she had tested positive during routine check up at the airport at Mumbai. The district health authorities in Hazira took samples of the woman’s father, sister and mother and found the sister and mother’s report positive during the routine test. Talking with TOI, district health officer, Hasmukh Chaudhary said, “The woman had arrived in a village at Hazira on December 10 to meet her parents and sister. She had gone to Delhi on December 20 to return to London. But, as international flights were closed, she had to return to Hazira.” Following information, health team visited her house in Hazira and carried out coronavirus tests. The entire family comprising her parents and sister tested positive of Covid-19 and were shifted to the New Civil Hospital (NCH) for treatment, he said. When contacted. Dr Vivek Garg of the Medicine department in NCH Told TOI, “The condition of all the four patients is normal. They are under observation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/positive-london-woman-infects-kin-in-hazira/articleshow/80052149.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Meerut||Fearing encounter, three Muzaffarnagar gangsters surrender||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Fearing that they could be eliminated in an encounter, three gangsters surrendered in Muzaffarnagar’s Bhopa police station on Thursday morning. They submitted an affidavit admitting to having committed crimes along an undertaking to give up all criminal activities. Mukeem, Mustakeem, and Yameen of Sikri village approached Bhopa police station where they have several criminal cases registered against them, and submitted an affidavit to SHO Sube Singh that they will not commit any crime in future. According to police, the trio has dozens of criminal cases registered against them, including cow slaughter, loot and attack on a police team. They are out on bail and several cases against them are pending in court. Mustakeem said, “I am scared of a police bullet. Now, I will never commit a crime and have submitted the same in writing.” Yameen made a similar statement and said, “I have come here to apologize for what I have done in the past. I have quit crime and given an affidavit to the effect to police.” Abhishek Yadav, senior superintendent of police, said, “They are hardened criminals and have more than 30 criminal cases like loot, attempt to murder and cow slaughter registered against them. They have given a written apology and promised to live life as good citizens. But I have instructed area police to keep eye on them.” Last year, Nawab, who has served time in jail for loot, robbery and murder, had approached Shamli police with an affidavit stating he had quit crime in the wake of the spate of encounters in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/fearing-encounter-3-mngr-gangsters-surrender/articleshow/80050986.cms||Mohd Dilshad
January 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Hosp does heart & double lung transplant||Hyderabad: A 51-year-old woman from Andhra Pradesh and a 59-year-old man from Delhi got a new lease of life with a successful heart and double lung transplantation done simultaneously, at a city-based hospital, on Thursday. The donor was a brain-dead city patient. “The biggest challenge presented to us was to transplant harvested organs in two different recipients within 6-8 hours. The good thing was that the donor and recipients were in the same hospital. It helped us cut down travel time to zero. We needed seamless coordination between surgical teams to make both transplants successful,” said Dr Sandeep Attawar, director and chair thoracic organ transplant programme at the Institute of Heart and Lung transplant, KIMS Hospitals. Lung transplant recipient from Delhi had severe lung fibrosis due to Covid infection and had been on ECMO support for the last 15 days. The heart recipient, was a 51-year-old female patient from AP who had severe heart dysfunction post myocardial infarction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hosp-does-heart-double-lung-transplant/articleshow/80053625.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Aurangabad||113 foreign students enrolled in Bamu, mostly from Yemen||Aurangabad: Around 113 foreign students have enrolled for different undergraduate and postgraduate courses at the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) for the academic year 2020-21. Of them, 96 students are Yemen nationals. Mustajeeb Khan, the director of foreign student assistance cell at Bamu, on Thursday, said the Yemeni students prefer this university for various reasons. “Besides fulfilling academic needs, Aurangabad city offers the Yemeni students the food-culture and ambience, which they enjoy at home. A large number of Yemeni students are alumni of Bamu, who also publicize the university, resulting in more admissions from Yemen,” he said. “We made the best use of information technology to reach out to foreign students and carry out their admissions amid the Covid situation. The single-window system helped hassle-free admission process,” he said. Along with Yemeni students, those from Somalia, Sudan, Thailand, Afghanistan, Congo, Iraq, Jordan, Palestine and Syria have enrolled at Bamu. Of the 113 students, 63 have registered for postgraduate courses while 47 for PhD and three for undergraduate courses. Deadline for PG admissions extended Bamu on Thursday extended the admission to postgraduate courses by a week till January 8. The candidates can enrol for the courses online using the official website of the university. Notably, Bamu has decided not to conduct entrance for its PG courses this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/113-foreign-students-enrolled-in-bamu-mostly-from-yemen/articleshow/80050541.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Kolhapur||Deputy mayor booked for extortion||Kolhapur: Solapur deputy mayor Rajesh Kale has been booked by Sadar Bazaar police for allegedly demanding Rs 5 lakh from an assistant municipal commissioner and abusing him. The complainant, assistant municipal commissioner Dhanraj Pande, has lodged a complaint against Kale, who is also a BJP functionary. Police are looking out for Kale who is currently untraceable. Meanwhile, Kale has denied the allegation saying that his style of functioning was causing problems to a lot of people because of which they are trying to defame him. “I always point out mistakes and stand up for people’s rights. This results in hurdles in my work,” he said. According to the complaint, Kale allegedly called assistant municipal commissioner on Tuesday and abused them. Taking serious note of the incident, municipal commissioner P Shivshankar ordered to register an official complaint with the police. —With inputs from Suryakant Asbe||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/deputy-mayor-booked-for-extortion/articleshow/80050540.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Meerut||Class X student shoots dead peer, 14, in a private school of UP’s Bulandshahr||MEERUT: A 14-year-old student allegedly fired two shots at his classmate leaving him dead in a private school in UP’s Bulandshahr district on Thursday morning, a day after they sparred over occupying a seat of their choice. The two loud cracks brought a deafening silence in the classroom, followed by loud shrieks as students ran out in horror after seeing one of them lying soaked in blood and the other standing over him, holding a pistol. “It all happened during the lesson break. Some Class X students came running and alerted me about the incident. As I rushed towards the classroom, I saw the accused in the lobby and caught hold of him,” said the school principal, who overpowered the accused and handed him over to police. The injured student, also 14 years old, was taken to the primary health centre where a doctor declared him dead. During a search operation following the killing, police found another student of the same class hiding a gun in his school bag, exposing the deep-rooted gun culture in the region. He was also detained. According to police, it all started with an argument on Wednesday. As the school was recently reopened for senior classes after a long break due to the pandemic, the students were grabbing seats of their choice. It led to the argument between the two minors. While one of them thought that it was over, the other didn’t. “The accused’s uncle, an army man, had come home on a leave. The boy stole his service revolver, brought it to school in a bag, and killed his classmate. The accused has been detained and the pistol used in the crime has also been recovered,” Santosh Kumar, Bulandshahr’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) said. “He shot the victim twice. One in the head and other in the abdomen,” the SSP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/class-x-student-shoots-dead-peer-14-in-a-private-school-of-ups-bulandshahr/articleshow/80050961.cms||Piyush Rai
January 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Love lands Chinese loan apps scamster in net||HYDERABAD: When Chinese national Zhu Wei alias Lambo, a key accused in the loan app case, tried to flee the country, a photo of his passport on the mobile phone of a senior woman employee of his call centre at Gurgaon derailed his plans. He was nabbed at Delhi airport on Wednesday, minutes before he was to take a flight to Frankfurt. After investigators started raiding call centres at Gurgaon, Hyderabad and Bengaluru, they initially recovered a photocopy of Chinese national Yuan Yuan alias Jennifer's passport. When staff of these call centres were quizzed, police came to know about Lambo, the Indian operations head, who had already gone underground. The companies had reportedly carried out transactions to the tune of Rs 21,000 crore. An employee told the cops that Lambo was in a relationship with a senior manager. "She was questioned. In her phone, we found his passport details,'' an official said. These were then shared with security officials at airports, leading to Lambo's arrest. As he claimed he didn't know English, Lambo was questioned using Google translator. In India, he did not use any bank account in his name. His expenses were reportedly taken care of by amounts deposited by his Chinese bosses in accounts of their Indian employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/love-lands-chinese-loan-apps-scamster-in-net/articleshow/80054624.cms||Srinath Vudali
January 1, 2021||Nagpur||December sees over 25k cases, 30k recoveries and 500 deaths in Vidarbha||Nagpur: With 746 new cases and 762 recoveries in a day, Vidarbha reported 25,177 new cases of Covid-19 in December while 29,926 patients recovered in the last month of 2020. December recorded 516 deaths after addition of 18 on Thursday. Overall, the region has reported 2.52 lakh cases, 2.39 lakh recoveries and 6,550 deaths. Recovery rate of Vidarbha at 94.68% is now more than Maharashtra average of 94.6% and nearing national average of 96%. Case fatality rate is still at 2.6% which is higher than state and national average. Of the 18 deaths on Thursday, Nagpur reported 8, Wardha (3), Akola (3), Chandrapur (2), Gadchiroli (1), and Yavatmal (1). Out of 8 deaths in Nagpur district, four are from City, one from rural while three are from outstation patients. Out of the 516 deaths reported in December, 90 were other state, outstation patients who were referred in a critical condition to Nagpur and died the same day they reported. New cases came from Nagpur (393), Amravati (72), Yavatmal (60), Wardha (40), Chandrapur (37), Bhandara (36), Akola (33), Buldhana (32), Gadchiroli (19), Gondia (16), and Washim (8). On the other hand, 762 patients recovered in a day. Nagpur reported 335, Washim (83), Amravati (68), Chandrapur (58), Yavatmal (47), Wardha (43), Bhandara (34), Buldhana (31), Gondia (28), Gadchiroli (19) and Akola (16). Chandrapur: The district reported 36 new cases while 58 patients were discharged on Thursday. Two deaths reported during the day took the toll to 366. The caseload has increased to 22,308 while total recoveries reached 21, 505. Now, there are 437 patients undergoing treatment. Amravati: Collector Shailesh Naval on Thursday said 21 persons have returned to the district from abroad and one of them has tested positive. “They all had first landed a month ago in Mumbai. However, the new strain is yet to be confirmed with NIV, Pune,” Naval told TOI. The district reported 72 new cases as against 68 discharges, taking the caseload to 19,668 and recoveries to 18,895. Yavatmal: A 70-year-old woman from the city died on Thursday, taking the toll due to Covid-19 to 404. The day also saw 60 new cases, taking the Covid count to 12,698 so far. Recoveries reached 11,950, including 47 on Thursday. The night curfew has been extended till January 31. Wardha: The district reported three deaths, 40 new cases and 43 recoveries on Thursday. The case tally climbed to 9,062, recoveries touched 8,485 and the toll mounted to 273. Fresh cases came from Wardha (23), Hinganghat (7), Deoli and Samudrapur (4 each) and Selu (2). Now, 304 patients are undergoing treatment. Akola: Three deaths raised concern in Akola on Thursday. All the deceased were male (79, 70 and 52 years old). All three patients were admitted in critical condition. One of them, a 70-yr-old was admitted on December 9. The district reported 33 new cases while 16 patients recovered in a day. The Covid count has reached 10,478, including 9,747 recoveries and 322 deaths, while 409 patients are under treatment. Washim: Record 83 patients were discharged in a day on Thursday while eight new cases were reported. The Covid count has reached 6,663, including 6,370 recoveries and 148 deaths. Washim has reported no death in last 27 days. Total 144 patients are under treatment, the lowest in Vidarbha. Buldhana: The district reported 32 new cases while 31 patients recovered on Thursday. Now, the district has 12,518 cases, 12,140 recoveries, 151 deaths while 227 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: The district reported 19 new cases and same number of recoveries on Thursday. A 38-year-old man from Etapalli died during treatment in Gadchiroli, taking the toll to 102. Gadchiroli now has 9,020 cases, 8,733 recoveries and 185 patients under treatment. Bhandara: The district reported 36 new cases and 34 recoveries on Thursday. This took total cases to 12,355 and recoveries to 11,708. No death was reported, which kept the toll at 291. Now, 356 patients are under treatment. Gondia: The district reported 16 new cases while 28 patients recovered on Thursday. No death was reported. Caseload reached 13,658, including 13,195 recoveries and 178 deaths. Now, 304 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/december-sees-over-25k-cases-30k-recoveries-and-500-deaths-in-vidarbha/articleshow/80052922.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 1, 2021||Hyderabad||As precaution, Numaish deferred||Hyderabad: By this time of the year, the sprawling 23-acre Numaish exhibition ground used to get busy with installation of hundreds of stalls, test-riding of joy train and arrangements at kids play zone. This year, the 81st All India Industrial Exhibition (AIIE) was supposed to start from January 1, 2021 at Nampally, and continue till February 15, but it was deferred the entire ground is deserted as no activity has been taken up to kick start the popular 46-day event. The health minister, who is also president of All India Industrial Exhibition (AIIE) Society announced the decision of postponement of annual exhibition, Numaish, on Thursday, citing Ministry of Home Affairs’ (MHA) extension of Covid-19 pandemic guidelines till January 31, 2021 as the reason. For the first time in 72 years, the exhibition is not starting on January 1, added the minister. He said, “Chances of pandemic cases spreading could be more in the wake of ongoing winter and it is a risk for Numaish organisers to control lakhs of visitors in this situation. As the state government has been diligently following the MHA guidelines, it has been decided to postpone the exhibition to maintain the highest standards of safety of the visitors.” After a month, AIIE Society will review pandemic cases and make a decision on when the Numaish can be held, clarified Eatala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/as-precaution-numaish-deferred/articleshow/80053649.cms||Sunil Mungara
January 1, 2021||Surat||Gujarat: On the run for 22 years, fraud accused nabbed from wedding venue||SURAT: He had been evading arrest for over two decades. But 71-year-old Ganpat Salecha never thought that attending a marriage would land him in police custody. Salecha was nabbed by the cops from a resort near the city on Monday during a wedding ceremony. The septuagenarian was surprised to see the cops and initially even refused to accept that he was Salecha. The police said that he was booked in a cheating case worth Rs 1.39 lakh registered at Athwalines police station in 1998 and had been on the run since then. Salecha had made payment to purchase textile products using forged demand drafts. Apart from Salecha, who was the key accused, six others were also booked in the cheating case. Three of the accused were arrested in the past. The DCP zone 3 squad led by PSI K D Rawal got information about Salecha’s whereabouts and nabbed him from Vedic Resort. “We got a tip-off that Salecha was at the resort to attend the wedding of a relative. We first verified his identity and confirmed his presence at the resort before arresting him,” said a police officer. The cops took help of a man who knew Salecha to identify him as his appearance had changed over years. The police said that while on the run, Salecha kept changing his residence and business offices frequently to hide his identity. “He is one of the accused in a cheating case with a bank in Ahmedabad and also has been booked in two cheating offences in Jaipur,” the police said. After leaving the city, he tried his hand at different businesses including textile, readymade garments and wood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/on-the-run-for-22-years-fraud-accused-nabbed-from-wedding-venue/articleshow/80052204.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Hyderabad||After Centre’s nod, BDL all fired up to export Akash weapon system||Hyderabad: With the Union cabinet clearing the Akash weapon system for export, Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL) in Hyderabad, where the missiles are manufactured is gearing up for the export order. The Akash weapon system has been designed and developed by DRDO (Defence Research and Development Organisation) with 96% indigenous content. The missile system is manufactured by BDL at its Hyderabad unit with the participation of several DPSUs, MSMEs and private industry. The Akash missile has capability to engage aerial threats up to the maximum range of 25 km and up to an altitude of 18 km, operating at a speed range of Mach 1.8 to 2.5. The missile has been successfully test fired on several occasions and meets the global standard of missiles in its category. Given the export potential and demand of Akash in the international market, BDL has been promoting the product on the international stage. Defence authorities said on Thursday that the missile being offered for export will a different version. It may be mentioned here that BDL is already supplying torpedoes to a foreign country. The Akash missiles are already in the inventory of the Indian Army as well as Indian Air Force. Commodore Siddharth Mishra (retd), chairman and managing director of BDL said that the company has received export leads for the Akash weapon system and now with the export clearance accorded by the Centre, BDL was set to expand its customer base in the international market. He said BDL could meet the export demand in addition to meeting the requirements of the Indian Armed Forces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-centres-nod-bdl-all-fired-up-to-export-akash-weapon-system/articleshow/80053634.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 1, 2021||Bengaluru||Hemant Nimbalkar and D Roopa among top cops shifted||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government on Friday transferred several IPS officers, including Hemant Nimbalkar and D Roopa. Additional commissioner of Bengaluru police (administration) Hemant Nimbalkar was transferred as IGP, Internal Security Division; Roopa, secretary (Prisons, Crime and Auxiliary Services) to the government in the home department, was posted as managing director, Karnataka State Handicrafts Development Corporation, Bengaluru. I am joining the new post tomorrow as posts don't matter to me. But what matters is, public interest must be upheld… https://t.co/zE9IzfXYj3— D Roopa IPS (@D_Roopa_IPS) 1609438814000N Shashi Kumar (SP, Wireless) will replace Vikash Kumar Vikash as Mangaluru city police commissioner. Malini Krishnamoorthy is principal secy to govt, home deptAdditional DGP K Ramachandra Rao, who was in the Directorate of Civil Rights Enforcement, has been vested with grievances and human rights division, Bengaluru. Malini Krishnamoorthy, who was additional DGP (grievances and human rights), has been posted as principal secretary to the government, home department. IGP M Chandra Sekhar has been moved from the Anti-Corruption Bureau to the Central Range. Vipul Kumar, IGP (Southern Range), will be director of Karnataka Police Academy. Mangaluru commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash is posted deputy IGP, Karnataka State Reserve Police. P Ravindranath, ADGP, is promoted as DGP and posted at Directorate of Civil Rights Enforcement. Seemanth Kumar Singh, who was IGP (Central), has been promoted and transferred as ADGP, ACB, while N Sateesh Kumar, DIG, KSRP, has been promoted and appointed as new police commissioner of Kalaburagi city. BENGALURU:N Shashi Kumar, who was SP, Wireless, has been promoted and posted as commissioner of Mangaluru city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/nimbalkar-and-roopa-among-top-cops-shifted/articleshow/80054631.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: BJP, Congress claim big win in gram panchayat elections||BENGALURU: The BJP and Congress on Thursday claimed major victories of candidates backed by them in the gram panchayat (GP) elections held recently after the counting of votes concluded on Thursday. “About 60% of BJP-supported candidates have won the elections and our party sympathisers were leading in 3,800 of 5,728 panchayats in the state,” CM BS Yediyurappa told reporters. Former CM Siddaramaiah said Congress-backed candidates won 65% of the seats. The statements came despite the poll panel expressing its reservations over making party-wise claims since the elections are not fought on party symbols. BJP expanding base in Old Mysuru regionEarlier, BJP state Nalin Kumar Kateel said party-backed candidates won 55% of all seats. “Yediyurappa, being the CM, should not make outrageous claims of winning 3,800 GPs especially when the election is apolitical and the reservation of GPs is yet to be announced. There is no truth in Yediyurappa’s claims. We’ve won a majority of the seats,” Siddaramaiah claimed. Congress working president Saleem Ahmed tweeted: “Though the BJP government misused its machinery and public money, it failed to beat us in the polls.” The JD(S) said it has managed to defend its bastions in south Karnataka. Its leader HD Kumaraswamy said despite the national parties wooing his cadre and aspirants with money and muscle power, most of the partybacked candidates have stayed with them and won the election for the party. “I urge each one of them, including those who were defeated, to work towards the dream of Gram Swarajya and towards developing the panchayats,” he tweeted. Elections to 91,339 seats in 5,728 village panchayats were held on December 22 and 27, with a voter turnout of 81%. Reports suggested the BJP has made inroads in rural areas, besides expanding base in Old Mysuru region – a stronghold of Congress and JD(S). The CM said, “Victory of BJP-backed candidates demonstrates people’s faith in the party and PM Modi. The BJP has been winning all elections -- be it assembly bypolls or local bodies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bjp-congress-claim-big-win-in-gp-elections/articleshow/80054634.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Bengaluru||Covid-19: Karnataka yet to trace 175 UK returnees||BENGALURU: The Karnataka home department, which is continuing its efforts to trace the missing UK returnees in the state, is yet to find 175 of them, including 80 foreigners. Thirty returnees have tested positive for Covid-19, and seven of them for the new strain. As of Wednesday evening, the state was looking for 199 people and found 24 late Thursday. Officials said returnees have fallen off the radar mainly because of wrong or inactive mobile numbers. Health minister K Sudhakar said: “Four contacts of the UK returnees have tested positive. Now, 30 returnees and their four contacts are in isolation at government facilities and all their contacts are under surveillance.” Will find them: MinisterOf the missing UK returnees, 80 are not Indian citizens. This means we do not have their contact details. But the home department is pursuing the matter and will find them soon,” health minister K Sudhakar said. Experts told TOI that governments must be cautious about the new variant even though not many cases have come to the fore yet. It is important to isolate the imported cases and test all those who have come in contact with them, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-yet-to-trace-175-uk-returnees/articleshow/80054636.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka schools reopen today, govt expects 50% attendance||BENGALURU: Thousands of class 10 and 12 students are expected to return to classrooms on Friday when Karnataka reopens schools after a gap of nearly 10 months. Students from grades 6-9 will also come to campuses for Vidyagama programme. “Send your children to school boldly. It will be another home for children. Just like you take care of them at home, we will take care of them in schools,” primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar appealed to parents on Thursday. The minister said they advanced the restart date from January 4 to January 1 and expected at least 50% attendance on the first day. “The teachers and SDMCs are happily waiting to welcome children — with rangoli, flowers and a band set in some cases,” he said. “I’ve asked teachers to speak to children on the first day. They are coming back after several months. They should be taught about Covid protocol. This is not a prestige issue for the government, it’s our commitment. Just the way we conducted SSLC and PUC exams, we are now seeking cooperation of all departments — health, transport, rural development and municipal corporations — to reopen schools,” he said. Decision on reopening class 11 and 9 will be taken by Jan 15, says ministerStudents are eager to return to campus. For instance, Vijay Kumar C, a class 10 student of Government High School, Kalkere, east Bengaluru, told TOI: “It was so boring all these months. Online classes were happening, but not interesting. One person will raise hand and speak, while the rest of us just watch.” Apprehensions are aplenty, though. “The concern about the new strain has some schools worried. We will have to wait and watch the attendance rate,” said D Sashi Kumar, secretary, Karnataka Association of Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools. Parents are a worried lotParents, too, are concerned. “Transportation becomes an issue as both of us in the family are working. We cannot pick and drop our daughter every day and public transport is not safe,” said a parent in south Bengaluru. That private schools have asked parents to take responsibility for the safety of the children has caused resentment among parents. The minister said a decision on reopening of class 11 and 9 will be taken by January 15, after closely monitoring the situation and depending upon the advice of the Technical Advisory Committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-schools-reopen-today-govt-expects-50-attendance/articleshow/80054640.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Meerut||Edu dept to submit devp plans for every school under UP’s Kayakalp scheme||MEERUT: The Uttar Pradesh education department has been instructed to prepare block-wise development plans for each school, under its Kayakalp scheme, to give the schools a facelift depending on the requirements of each establishment. The Kayakalp scheme was launched to give schools a facelift. It includes building of separate toilets for boys and girls, supply of fresh drinking water, multiple spots for washing hands, boundary walls, fixing of doors and windows, and electrification. “The district education authorities have been instructed to prepare block-wise development plans for each school under the Kayakalp scheme, to ensure that each school gets furniture, blackboards and other infrastructure, wherever required,” said Vijay Kiran Anand, director general of school education, UP. Anand added that facilities will be extended to schools depending on their requirements, based on the statistics gathered from each district. “All districts are instructed to provide details or face action,” said Anand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/edu-dept-to-submit-devp-plans-for-every-school-under-states-kayakalp-scheme/articleshow/80051020.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Covid-19 overshadows seasonal, endemic diseases||HYDERABAD: With Covid-19 dominating all through the year, seasonal and endemic diseases in Hyderabad remained mostly undiagnosed. There was not much focus on dengue, malaria, chikungunya, swine flu and typhoid. While the pandemic has restricted access to hospitals for general ailments, health experts are of the view that Covid-19 restrictions, including social distancing, has, in fact, helped in controlling other infectious diseases, particularly dengue. Most of the cases of fever were suspected to be that of Covid-19 and patients referred to RT-PCR tests to rule out the pandemic virus. Also, with Covid-19 putting pressure on the health infrastructure, many planned surgeries and chronic ailments like diabetes and hypertension got a raw deal. Dental and eye surgeries, including eye donation, also took a beating. HIV diagnosis and cancer treatment were hit badly. Incidentally, many cases of co-infection too escaped the attention of doctors with the pandemic virus receiving too much attention. While agreeing that Covid-19 has hit non-pandemic treatments, Dr J Srikanth, senior consultant, internal medicine, Apollo Hospitals, told TOI that the pandemic has indirectly reduced the incidence of other seasonal sporadic diseases like dengue, chikungunya, and malaria “probably because of isolation and social distancing”. He said the major challenge was to treat Covid-19 patients with diabetes. “It’s like handling twin pandemics at one time,” he added. According to a report by the World Health Organisation, the health services that were hit badly were those related to treatment of hypertension treatment, diabetes and diabetes-related complications, cancer and cardiovascular emergencies. Even rehabilitation services have been affected. Several research studies show how Covid-19 patients had coinfection with other viral ailments like dengue, novel human influenza and even common cold. As most of the symptoms overlap, diagnosing the problem was difficult as the focus was largely on Covid-19 treatment.  Fertility treatment as well as pre-natal and post-natal care also took a beating during the lockdown. The floods in Hyderabad made matters worse as many people lost their medical records. Mujtaba Hasan Askari, managing trustee of Helping Hand Foundation, which is involved in providing free medicare to the poor, said people suffering from non-communicable diseases were the worst hit in flood-affected areas. The city had witnessed two bouts of unprecedented floods hitting citizens financially and medically.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-overshadows-seasonal-endemic-diseases/articleshow/80053682.cms||Syed Akbar
January 1, 2021||Surat||Inspired by crime show, teenager harasses woman to come close to her younger sister||Surat: Had this teenager planned his career so meticulously, he could have made a big name in the world of fast-evolving information technology. However, he drew inspiration from a television crime series and employed his IT skills for an illegal act to get close to his school time sweetheart. Curtains on the drama created by 18-year-old Smit Aghera were drawn when police arrested him on Thursday. Aghera, who is a student of BScIT in a city-based school, had created three profiles on Instagram and had sent morphed images of Ruchi, the elder sister of his school friend Siya (names changed) to the two sisters and one more friend. He also blackmailed that they should chat with him otherwise he will share the morphed photos and objectionable text with others. Police said that the youth’s plan was to harass the two sisters and Siya would then come to him seeking his help as he is a student of IT. But things did not happen as Aghera had anticipated as the girls approached police and lodged a complaint for defamation and criminal intimidation through anonymous communication. Acting swiftly on the complaint, cops learnt that it was Aghera behind the charade and nabbed him. The accused told cops that he had adopted the idea from a TV series based on real crime cases. “Aghera was with Siya in school but they are currently studying at different colleges. He wanted that the girl continue friendship with him and was also considering marrying her for which he planned the harassment,” said a police officer of cyber-crime police station. BOX: Woman tries to break best friend's engagement Cyber-crime sleuths arrested a 24-year-old woman Hemali Savaliya, a resident of Utran, on Thursday for allegedly sharing details to defame her one-time best friend. Savaliya was not happy since the victim did not call her to an engagement ceremony held recently. Savaliya created two fake Instagram accounts with the name of the complainant and started sending objectionable text messages to the victim's fiancé and his brother. “The accused wanted the engagement to be called off since Savaliya was angry with the victim. The complainant and her fiancé approached police,” said a police officer of Cyber Crime police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/inspired-by-crime-show-teenager-harasses-woman-to-come-close-to-her-younger-sister/articleshow/80052239.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Nagpur||Play on Gajanan Maharaj aboard Nagpur Metro today||Nagpur: ‘Celebration on Wheels’ of MahaMetro has become very popular among Nagpurians with many events taking place aboard Nagpur Metro. After a fashion show was held in a train, a play’s premiere will now be held in it on Friday.Radhika Creations and Ranjan Kala Mandir have decided to hold the premiere of their two-act play ‘Shegavicha Mahayogi’, based on life of Gajanan Maharaj, aboard Nagpur Metro. The premiere will be held at 12 noon on the train from Sitabuldi to Lokmanya Nagar.Famous chef Vishnu Manohar and Nagpur South MLA Mohan Mate are the chief guests for the premiere. Only a limited number of people have been invited for the event. The play will be staged for general public on January 9 and 10.Udayan Bramha has written the play while Sanjay Pendse has directed it. Jayant Velankar has provided his guidance for the play.A MahaMetro spokesperson said that over 30 events have been held aboard Metro trains ever since Celebration on Wheels was launched. “Another 8 or 10 are in the pipeline in the first week of January,” he added.The spokesperson said that people are riding the Metro to participate in these events and are realizing how comfortable it is to travel in Metro. “We hope that they will become regular users of Metro in the coming days,” he added.MahaMetro is holding a New Year carnival at Sitabuldi Interchange Metro station from January 1. Seventeen stalls selling ayurvedic products, environment friendly products and food items will be set up inside the station.Meanwhile, the ridership of Nagpur Metro attained a new record on December 27 by crossing 22,000. The ridership on last Sunday was 22,123. The highest ridership before this was on January 26 at 21,258.The ridership of Nagpur Metro is increasing by leaps and bounds after it restarted following the prolonged lockdown. The ridership on November 29 was 11,488, December 6 (13,187), December 13 (15,404) and December 20 (17,562).Metro trains ply between 8am and 8pm on Sitabuldi-Khapri and Sitabuldi-Lokmanya Nagar routes. Trains leave terminal stations after every 15 minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/play-on-gajanan-maharaj-aboard-nagpur-metro-today/articleshow/80049843.cms||Ashish Roy
January 1, 2021||Nagpur||Deaths down in Bhandara since massive plasma donation camp||Nagpur: There is a difference of opinion among experts about the effectiveness of convalescent plasma therapy in Covid-19. The figures in Bhandara district show that the plasma therapy has worked for them. Bhandara, which had reported 30 deaths in first 20 days of December, has reported only 5 deaths in last ten days — between December 22 and 31. Before this, the district had organized a massive plasma donation drive between December 15 and 18 and raised 100-plus bags of plasma through voluntary donation by Covid recovered donors.Authorities in Bhandara told TOI that they are providing plasma for free to the needy and eligible patients admitted in Bhandara from December 22 onwards.“Emergency use of plasma is permitted and it can be a life saver. We can’t directly claim that the death rate has reduced due to plasma therapy. For that, we will need a proper study. But as far as the ground reality goes, the case fatality rate has reduced from 2.8% between December 1 and 20 to 1.4% between December 21 and 31,” said district collector of Bhandara Sandeep Kadam.Bhandara district doesn’t have its own plasma extraction facility. It was earlier dependent on GMCH Nagpur for convalescent plasma. Due to the long process to get plasma allotted from Nagpur, it was difficult for the administration to get plasma on time. Hence, they decided to conduct their own plasma donation camp. In mid-December, teams from Nagpur’s Lifeline Blood bank provided technical and manpower support for free and collected more than 100 bags of plasma from donors. Medical director of this blood bank Dr Harish Warbhe said that meticulous selection process and collection of RBD plasma could be the major reason behind good figures shown in Bhandara.“We have collected plasma from recovered persons with high RBD-antibody levels only,” he said. Dr Warbhe added that RBD plasma is in high demand worldwide despite the difference of opinion in medical fraternity.Till December 31, Bhandara district has 12,355 cases and 11,708 of them have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/deaths-down-in-bhandara-since-massive-plasma-donation-camp/articleshow/80049847.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 1, 2021||Hyderabad||VHR prank caller identified||Hyderabad: Raidurgam police have identified the man who made a threatening call to Congress leader V Hanumantha Rao regarding appointment of TPCC president. On December 28, Rao lodged a complaint with Raidurgam police alleging a resident of Warangal made a threatening call to him and used abusive language. Cops said a notice will be served to the accused to appear before for questioning. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vhr-prank-caller-identified/articleshow/80053693.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Hyderabad||2 cell phone snatchers held||Hyderabad: Langar Houz police arrested two cellphone thieves and recovered two stolen cell phones from their possession. The accused are Md Nawaz, a painter from Barkas and Sher Ali, a driver from Langar Houz. Police received a complaint from GLK Kiranmai, 45, a bank manager, stating that two unknown offenders snatched her cell phone at Langar Houz and fled towards Fateh Darwaza..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-cell-phone-snatchers-held/articleshow/80053713.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Patna||Govt to provide land for new industrial units: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||BETTIAH: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday said the state government would provide land to industrialists willing to set up new industrial units in the state. “Land is being provided to returnee skilled migrants as well as industrialists after making necessary amendments in the Bihar Industrial Investment Policy,” the CM said while inspecting the stalls at a startup zone being run by migrant workers on the premises of Chanpatia Bazar Samiti in West Champaran district. The CM said all possible steps were being taken by the state government for setting up new industrial units across the state in order to create employment opportunities for returnee migrant workers and others. He also reviewed the progress of Indo-Nepal border road project and eco-tourism facilities at Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR). At the Navpartan startup zone at Chanpatia, Nitish visited the stalls of skilled people, who returned from places including Delhi, Noida, Surat, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Jaitpur (Gujarat) and Qatar during the Covid-induced lockdown. Accompanied by deputy CM Renu Devi and water resources minister Vijay Kumar Chaudhary and senior officials, the CM interacted with the startup entrepreneurs. He sought information on key factors like raw materials and quality and marketing of products. Emphasising on his Seven Resolves 2.0, the CM said new startups would be assisted in getting space and other government support. “Large number of people returned to Bihar during lockdown and it has been our sincere effort that no one returns from the state unwillingly. We introduced necessary amendments in the industrial policy to create employment opportunities and set up industrial units in the state. Accordingly, work started at many places and I am glad to see the works underway at Chanpatia. Products manufactured here are being sold in other states as well as abroad,” Nitish said. The CM emphasised on the use of new technology and different kinds of assistance being provided by the state government for setting up new industrial units. “The products manufactured using new technology are not expensive and fetch demand everywhere. Similar units have been set up in few other districts as well and the state government is providing all necessary assistance for the same. The government will also support in bringing raw material from outside and selling finished goods in other states,” Nitish said, adding the overall motive is to create maximum employment opportunities. After Chanpatia, the CM inspected Madanpur-Valmikinagar road and asked the officials of road construction department to complete its construction at the earliest. Thereafter, the CM went to Gandak barrage and Madanapur forest range of VTR. Nitish said promotion of eco-tourism in state had started with VTR. “Our endeavour is to bring more and more people to see the mountains, forest area, rivers and wildlife here. New amenities of eco-tourism have been added at VTR and roads improved in the forest area to facilitate arrival of more visitors,” he said. (With inputs from Piyush Tripathi in Patna and Tirthraj Kushwaha in Bagaha)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-to-provide-land-for-new-industrial-units-nitish/articleshow/80052312.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
January 1, 2021||Patna||Junior doctors call off stir in Bihar, resume work||PATNA: Junior doctors called off their indefinite strike on Thursday evening and resumed work at government medical college and hospitals across the state. The junior doctors withdrew the strike after their representatives met health minister Mangal Pandey and health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit in the evening. NMCH Junior Doctors’ Association president Dr Ramchandra Kumar said the meetings with the minister and the principal secretary were fruitful. “The principal secretary has assured us of all support. He explained to us that the process to hike stipend will take some time. The minister too assured us of all help,” he added. Junior doctors and college administration earlier have had several rounds of talks, however, those meetings could not break the strike, which had made life difficult for common people, especially those from poor backgrounds. Not only had the planned operations postponed in medical colleges and hospitals, including PMCH, even emergency and indoor services were badly impacted. The junior doctors at government medical college and hospitals in the state had gone on strike on December 23 demanding hike in stipend. The strike had crippled health services in the state and affected patients. In 2014, the state government had decided to revise the stipend of junior doctors every three year. It was last updated in 2017 and supposed to be revised again in 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/junior-doctors-call-off-stir-resume-work/articleshow/80051055.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 1, 2021||Patna||Govt to provide land for new industrial units: CM||BETTIAH/PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday said the state government would provide land to industrialists willing to set up new industrial units in the state. “Land is being provided to returnee skilled migrants as well as industrialists after making necessary amendments in the Bihar Industrial Investment Policy,” the CM said while inspecting the stalls at a startup zone being run by migrant workers on the premises of Chanpatia Bazar Samiti in West Champaran district. The CM said all possible steps were being taken by the state government for setting up new industrial units across the state in order to create employment opportunities for returnee migrant workers and others. He also reviewed the progress of Indo-Nepal border road project and eco-tourism facilities at Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR). At the Navpartan startup zone at Chanpatia, Nitish visited the stalls of skilled people, who returned from places including Delhi, Noida, Surat, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Jaitpur (Gujarat) and Qatar during the Covid-induced lockdown. Accompanied by deputy CM Renu Devi and water resources minister Vijay Kumar Chaudhary and senior officials, the CM interacted with the startup entrepreneurs. He sought information on key factors like raw materials and quality and marketing of products. Emphasising on his Seven Resolves 2.0, the CM said new startups would be assisted in getting space and other government support. “Large number of people returned to Bihar during lockdown and it has been our sincere effort that no one returns from the state unwillingly. We introduced necessary amendments in the industrial policy to create employment opportunities and set up industrial units in the state. Accordingly, work started at many places and I am glad to see the works underway at Chanpatia. Products manufactured here are being sold in other states as well as abroad,” Nitish said. The CM emphasised on the use of new technology and different kinds of assistance being provided by the state government for setting up new industrial units. “The products manufactured using new technology are not expensive and fetch demand everywhere. Similar units have been set up in few other districts as well and the state government is providing all necessary assistance for the same. The government will also support in bringing raw material from outside and selling finished goods in other states,” Nitish said, adding the overall motive is to create maximum employment opportunities. After Chanpatia, the CM inspected Madanpur-Valmikinagar road and asked the officials of road construction department to complete its construction at the earliest. Thereafter, the CM went to Gandak barrage and Madanapur forest range of VTR. Nitish said promotion of eco-tourism in state had started with VTR. “Our endeavour is to bring more and more people to see the mountains, forest area, rivers and wildlife here. New amenities of eco-tourism have been added at VTR and roads improved in the forest area to facilitate arrival of more visitors,” he said. (With inputs from Piyush Tripathi in Patna and Tirthraj Kushwaha in Bagaha)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-to-provide-land-for-new-industrial-units-cm/articleshow/80051044.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Lithium CO2 battery by IIT-Hyderabad professor can power Mars mission||HYDERABAD: A lithium carbon dioxide (CO2) battery developed by an Indian IIT-H researcher, could well power India’s space projects and the ambitious Mars mission in 2024. Project on metals CO2 battery, developed by Chandra Sekhar Sharma, associate professor of the department of chemical engineering and creative & advanced research, has already fetched Rs 25 lakh Swarnajayanti fellowship 2019-2020 from department of science and technology in addition to Rs 1.93 crore research grant from Science and Engineering Research Board for the next five years. “Over next five years, we will explore more about this concept and carry out scientific experiments. A real battery prototype will be developed as an outcome by engaging with organizations such as ISRO and DRDO in early phases for Indian space mission,” Sharma told TOI. “We will use sodium and potassium metals and make the battery more energy efficient,” said Sharma. Once ready, the battery will reduce the weight of satellites, thereby reducing cost of planetary missions. Using CO2 as an energy carrier, the battery is touted to help boost space missions. Objective of research was to develop a prototype of a metal CO2 battery to explore feasibility of this technology in Mars mission. “Outcome of this project will not only utilize CO2 atmosphere on Mars to develop more energy storage systems for planetary missions but facilitate in mitigating global challenge of climate change,” said Sharma. This research has been published in an international journal, Materials Letters, as a featured letter and has been submitted for a patent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lithium-co2-battery-by-iit-h-prof-can-power-mars-mission/articleshow/80052316.cms||Preeti Biswas
January 1, 2021||Bareilly||Man-animal conflict on rise in PTR, leaving behind a string of bodies of tigers & villagers||Pilibhit: As the year 2020 ends, it leaves behind fearsome memories of fatal man-tiger conflicts in the minds of villagers of Pilibhit district. Over the year, there were over 40 incidents of big cats straying into rural areas, taking the lives of eight villagers, while the deaths of five tigers were also reported in the district. The lasting impact of these encounters is the diminishing trust of villagers in the safety and security system of the forest department, as residents of many villages reported spending many sleepless nights after dozens were injured in mauling by tigers. This situation is expected to continue in the near future as the state government is yet to devise a flawless strategy to relieve the villagers. As per official records of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve, all eight villagers killed in tiger attacks took place inside or nearby the Mala forest range. Of these, five attacks occurred in agricultural fields when farmers were tending their crops. The other three attacks took place when villagers illegally entered the core forest area to collect firewood. That they could enter the core forest area is evidence of the PTR management’s poor safety and security arrangements. Enraged villagers were no less belligerent, taking law into their hands after fatal man-tiger encounters. In most cases, the forest department had failed to control the situation. In one incident that took place after a 35-year-old villager was killed by a PTR tiger on June 8 in village Goel Colony, angry villagers had set the Mala forest post on fire, vandalised the Mala forest range office, damaged government vehicles, cameras, wireless sets, computers, etc, and sabotaged forest staff quarters at midnight on the same day. Police booked 290 villagers and arrested 23 of them the next day. Behind the alarming rise in incidents of tigers straying out of the forest is the rising numbers of tigers in PTR — it had reached 65 in 2018 in the core forest area measuring 60,279.80 hectares whose capacity is for a maximum 25 — messy grassland management and the breadth of the forest area constrained between 3 and 9 km. In 2020, villagers confronted straying tigers at over 40 places, putting their lives in grave danger and affecting routine agricultural activities. In addition, Amaria block reported the unexpected presence of 4-5 leopards in the territorial area already inhabited by a dozen “sugarcane” tigers. One of them killed over a dozen pedigree dogs and half a dozen cattle belonging to farmers across a cluster of half a dozen villages. In June, a five-year-old adult male tiger was badly injured by poachers in Mala forest range. It ultimately succumbed to excessive dose of tranquilizer during a rescue operation on May 3, in village Jari under Gajraula police station. Apart from this, carcasses of three tigers were recovered from Hardoi feeder canal of river Sharda between February 2 and September 23, while the dried-up carcass of another tiger was recovered from compartment number 15 of Mahof forest range on May 20. A forest conservator posted in Bareilly, P P Singh, had submitted a project to the state government in 2018, for a 8ft-high chain-link fence along PTR’s inner periphery, touching agricultural area along 148 km and costing Rs 51.80 crore. But the plan is yet to be approved. This project primarily aimed at confining the big cats to the forest area while restraining villagers from illegally infiltrating into the jungle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-animal-conflict-on-rise-in-ptr-leaving-behind-a-string-of-bodies-of-tigers-villagers/articleshow/80049898.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 1, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Metal plate stolen from Sister Nivedita’s house||KOLKATA: A metal plate was allegedly stolen from Sister Nivedita’s house, a Grade I heritage structure located on Maa Saradamoni Sarani near the Bagbazar crossing. The Ramakrishna Sarada Mission (Dakshineswar) lodged a complaint at the Shyampukur police station on December 30. Though the theft is petty in nature, it has prompted local cops to sit up and take note of the security of the premises. Since it is a Grade I heritage structure, Kolkata Municipal Corporation officials are also investigating the incident. “It is a petty crime and we are going to make an arrest soon. Since the theft has happened at a heritage structure, we are taking it seriously. We suspect that a local drug-addict might have stolen the iron plate, which we hope to recover soon,” said a police officer. According to sources, the FIR was drawn up on the basis of a written complaint by Jnanada Prana Mataji, assistant secretary of Ramakrishna Sarada Mission Dakshineswar. The FIR stated that the stolen plate had been installed outside the main gate of Sister Nivedita’s house. Locals said the neighbourhood had been dimly lit for the past few days, though other spots around the premises had bright lights. “Apart from security guards, cops are often posted there. The CCTV cameras installed at the gate should provide vital leads. This is a one-off incident as we cannot recall any other such theft in this area in the recent past,” said Ratanlal Chatterjee, a local who runs a shop nearby. The 120-year-old building was restored over three years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metal-plate-stolen-from-niveditas-house/articleshow/80052317.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 1, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Transgender duo harassed||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Police, for the second time within a span of a few months, has invoked the stringent Transgender Protection Act to secure the rights of the third gender who faced discrimination and harassment on the road. An arrest in the latest case, which took place on Monday night, is yet to be done. The incident took place near Rajabazar crossing when the accused first hit the two victims riding a two-wheeler and then hurled abuses when the duo raised their voices against them. The bike involved in the incident has been traced, said police. Santosh Kumar Giri and a colleague were headed to Rajabazar on a two-wheeler around 10pm on Monday. When they stopped at a traffic signal a biker came from behind and dashed into their two-wheeler, jumped the signal and tried to flee. The duo, who fell from the two-wheeler, got up, chased down the bike and stopped the man from fleeing. “Abuses were hurled at us when we asked him why he was driving in a rash manner. When we told him that we would seek cop help, he said that he did not want to talk to us,” recalled Giri, who runs an NGO Kolkata Rishta, an organisation fighting for the rights of transgender people. Luckily, the two victims escaped with minor injuries. Some locals gathered at the spot. But instead of helping the duo, they also allegedly made fun of them. The victims noted down the number of the motorcycle and later went to Narkeldanga PS to lodge an FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/transgender-duo-harassed/articleshow/80052354.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 1, 2021||Dehradun||651 wanted criminals arrested in one month, say Uttarakhand cops||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand Police has claimed that it has arrested 651 absconding criminals, including 57 with rewards on their head, in December. Incidentally, after taking over as the new Director General of Police (DGP), Ashok Kumar had ordered a month-long special drive against the wanted criminals, the review of which took place at police headquarters on Thursday. "The month-long special drive began on December 1. Out of the total 651 criminals arrested during the month, 57 were carrying bounty, including one criminal who was carrying a reward of Rs 1 lakh on his arrest," Ashok Kumar, Uttarakhand DGP, said. Besides, 203 people against whom non-bailable warrants were issued have been arrested, too, in the past one month, Kumar said, adding that, "preventive action has been taken against 125 history sheeters."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/651-wanted-criminals-arrested-in-one-month-say-uttarakhand-cops/articleshow/80050445.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 1, 2021||Dehradun||Cop mows down pan shop owner following argument over pack of cigarettes, booked for murder||RUDRAPUR: A pan shop owner was mowed down after he asked a police constable to pay for a packet of cigarettes that he had taken from the shop. The incident occurred in Bazpur area of Udham Singh Nagar district on Wednesday night. In a complaint filed with the Bazpur police station, the deceased’s brother, Ajay Ruhela, alleged that a heated argument had ensued between his brother, Gaurav and constable Pravin Kumar—posted at Bazpur police station. Kumar, along with his brother-in-law and a friend, had come to the pan shop at around 11 pm to buy cigarettes and refused to pay for them. “After hearing the commotion, the neighbouring shopkeepers also reached there and tried to intervene. Later, in a fit of rage, the three accused ran over my brother and three others with their car. All of them sustained grievous injuries and were rushed to a nearby hospital, where Gaurav was pronounced dead,” the complainant stated. On Thursday, locals sat on a dharna with the deceased’s body in front of the Bazpur police station, demanding immediate arrest of the accused. After being informed of the matter, senior police officers, including inspector general of Kumaon, Ajay Rautela, reached Bazpur police station and ordered arrest of all the three accused. “Constable Pravin Kumar and two others were arrested and sent to jail. A probe has been ordered in the incident and SHO of Kashipur police station, Sanjay Pathak, has been named as the investigation officer,” senior superintendent of police Daleep Singh Kunwar said. The three accused have been booked under sections 302 (murder), 504 (breaking public peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cop-mows-down-pan-shop-owner-following-argument-over-pack-of-cigarettes-booked-for-murder/articleshow/80050450.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 1, 2021||Dehradun||Six injured after car falls into 100-meter-deep gorge in Dehradun||DEHRADUN: Six persons were injured after the car they were travelling in fell into 100-meter-deep gorge near Asarodi in the Clement Town police station area of Dehradun on Thursday early morning. The car carrying six persons, mostly elderly, was on its way to Delhi from Dehradun when the accident took place around 5:30pm. On receiving information, a police team from Clement Town police station reached the spot and launched a rescue operation. All the injured persons, who escaped with minor injuries, were shifted to nearby hospital for treatment. The injured were identified as Rakesh Mandola, 70, Madan Mohan, 70, Gopal Krishna, 72, Sushila Mandola, 71, Leela Mandola, 63, all residents of Subhash Nagar in Dehradun, the car driver Vivek Kumar, 22, is a native of New Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/6-injured-after-car-falls-into-100-meter-deep-gorge-in-dehradun/articleshow/80050444.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 1, 2021||Kolkata||Clean & green: Kolkata's Maidan back in old glory after special clean-up drive by PWD||KOLKATA: An absolutely litter-free Maidan took revellers by surprise on Thursday. This was the first time in nearly eight months that the Maidan looked clean and green. Till earlier this week, the expanse of green was scarred by trash that has been accumulating since June when unlock was announced and people rediscovered the Maidan as a safe place to hang out in these troubling times. The special clean-up drive was undertaken by the state Public Works Department ahead of the turnout on New Year’s Eve and New Year’s Day. Nudged by the Calcutta High Court to take prompt steps to keep the city’s lungs litter-free during the year-end rush, the PWD deployed additional teams to sweep the greens and dispose discarded cups, plates and newspapers that had littered the entire Maidan. College friends Monopriti Bagui, Sreejita Das and Sayoni Ghosh who had gathered at the Maidan on Thursday afternoon were pleasantly surprised to find the grounds clean. “It is so nice to have the clean Maidan back. It is the city’s pride. We ought to take better care of it. Citizens should now behave responsibly and take used paper and cups with them to discard in a bin,” said Das. A PWD official said five groups, each comprising five labourers, had been formed and dispatched to different corners for the clean-up. “Four teams started operating from north, south, east and west. The fifth team got cracking in the central zone where clubs are located. Each team had a small vehicle at its disposal that carried the garbage away,” the official explained. Usually, two teams sweep the roads and its flanks around the Maidan. While the Army is the custodian of the Maidan, PWD is the agency entrusted with its upkeep. Clean-up during the year-end festivity when thousands descend on the green for a grand picnic has always been a challenge. This was further compounded by Covid this year that saw people converge from all over the city to spend time in the open area without fearing of contracting the virus. “That the Maidan is the city’s lungs became more apparent after the complete lockdown was lifted in June when people literally came here to breathe after a claustrophobic existence for two months. But unfortunately, the Maidan ended up getting choked with trash. We will now work with KMC to chalk out a strategy for regular clean-up,” the PWD official said. Since the court order, the police, too, have ensured that the Maidan does not turn into a parking lot. Parking in the vicinity of the Maidan is prohibited under an earlier court order. Police have installed no-parking boards and have begun prosecuting motorists who park there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/clean-green-maidan-back-in-old-glory-after-special-clean-up-drive-by-pwd/articleshow/80052454.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Dehradun||DIG Bharne injured in road accident||RUDRAPUR: Deputy Inspector General (DIG), law and order, Nilesh Anand Bharne, and his car driver Mohammad Usmaan, suffered minor injuries after their car was hit by a speeding vehicle coming from the opposite direction on Thursday. The incident occurred near Mandi police outpost under Kashipur police limits. DIG Bharne was returning to Dehradun from Bazpur after taking stock of the situation which arose when a constable had mowed down a pan shop owner. The injured officer and the driver received treatment at Mandi police outpost by local doctors. Another vehicle was arranged for his remaining journey. The other car was impounded by the police and the driver arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dig-bharne-injured-in-road-accident/articleshow/80050477.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 1, 2021||Kolkata||Year ends with a 1-million high for Kolkata airport||KOLKATA: Despite the pandemic and the panic over the new UK strain arriving via direct UK flights forcing the cancellation of the Air India Heathrow-Kolkata service, the airport has clocked over 10 lakh passenger movements this December, the highest in the past 10 months. Despite the multiple challenges it encountered in between, the ramp up to the million mark has been steady except for the minor bump in July and August when a series of local lockdowns meant there were no passenger movement through the airport on those days. Since September though, passenger figures have been on the rise. "From just a handful repatriation flights for foreigners that operated in April and 13,205 passengers that travelled in the limited operations in the last few days of May, the airport has bounced back and clocked nearly 44 lakh travellers since flight services resumed. Barring any hiccups, the airport should be clocking 10 lakh-plus passengers every month." an airport official said. Flights were still shut when the Amphan cyclone barreled through Kolkata, leaving behind a trail of destruction. The airport terminal managed to avoid any major damage but two old hangars to the east of the airport were flattened. While domestic flights resumed in the rest of the country on May 22, Kolkata limped back to the flight map on May 28 with the state government permitting only 10 flights to operate in a day. When the state-imposed restrictions were lifted the following month, flight count zoomed to 3.8 lakh. But with Covid cases on the rise, the state government re-imposed lockdowns. With no passenger flights allowed to operate on lockdown days in July and August and flights banned from six high traffic cities — Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur — passenger count slumped to 2.7 lakh in July and inched up to 3.3 lakh in August. The withdrawal of lockdowns and partial lifting of the six city curbs (flights were allowed from these cities three days-a-week), passenger count increased to 6.2 lakh in September. With some international flights also being allowed to operate from the next month, October recorded 8.3 lakh passenger movements. The momentum has continued in November with the figure going up further to 9.2 lakh passengers. The 10 lakh magical mark was breached on December 28 with the embargo on flights from Delhi being completely lifted. Though the new Covid strain from UK has come as a damper and led to the ban being reimposed on UK flights, officials at the airport said they were confident of overcoming fresh hurdles and try to bounce back to pre-pandemic level by mid-next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/year-ends-with-a-1-million-high-for-kolkata-airport/articleshow/80052498.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand records over 300 fresh Covid cases, five more fatalities||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand reported 304 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, pushing the Himalayan state's tally to 90,920, while the death toll mounted to 1,509 with five more fatalities, according to the health bulletin. As many as 539 recoveries were also registered in Uttarakhand, leaving 4,719 active cases till date. Of the new cases detected in the state, Nainital recorded maximum 108 cases, followed by Dehradun with 99 fresh positive cases. Rudraprayag and Tehri Garhwal district registered one case each on Thursday. Nainital witnessed three fatalities, while two patients lost their lives in Dehradun, according to the health bulletin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/utaarakhand-records-over-300-fresh-covid-cases-five-more-fatalities/articleshow/80050473.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 1, 2021||Dehradun||Rudrapur: Class 12 student among four held for loot, hunt on for fifth member||RUDRAPUR : Four robbers, including a 19-year-old class 12 student, were arrested on Thursday for allegedly looting a man of Rs 5.35 lakh cash in Rudrapur. Police have recovered Rs 3.5 lakh cash while one of the accused, another student, is still absconding. The accused were identified as Chandrashekhar, resident of Alliance Colony and a student at a private school, Aishpreet Kang and Harmanpreet Singh—both residents of Dibdiba village in Uttar Pradesh—and Rohit Kumar of Bhura Rani area of the city. The fifth member of the gang, Aman Pandey, another student and a resident of Indira Colony, is still at large. On December 23, Sachin Sharma, a resident of Balwant colony, was attacked by armed criminals when he was on his bike with a bag full of cash. Sharma, who works at a private cash management company in Dehradun, had told the police that he was on his way to deposit the cash at State Bank of India, Indira Chowk branch, when he was robbed at gunpoint. “Within seconds, the bikers zoomed away with the bag towards Kashipur Road,” he said in a complaint. The police then launched a manhunt on the accused and traced them with the help of CCTV cameras. Circle officer Amit Kumar said one of the accused, Rohit Kumar, who was an employee at a shopping store in the city, knew about the amount of cash Sharma would pick everyday from his office and other empanelled companies. “He then made a plan with four others by luring them with chances of living a rich lifestyle. During interrogation, they revealed that Pandey has decamped with the remaining cash,” Kumar said. The accused have been booked under sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 412 (dishonestly receiving or retaining any stolen property) and 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code. CO Kumar assured to arrest Pandey “very soon”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/class-12-student-among-four-held-for-loot-hunt-on-for-fifth-member/articleshow/80050481.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 1, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: As buses disappear, people end up paying more for autos||KOLKATA: Cost of commuting has increased in the city. With a rising number of buses going off the road because of non-viability, people are breaking their journey into many auto trips. Auto fares also remain high as the operators are still sticking to the pre-lockdown fares, which is almost double the usual rate. Even buses, which are plying, have already raised fare by Re 1 or Rs 2 per stage, owing to fuel price-rise. “People are paying extra voluntarily so that the route survives in these difficult times. But even then, many operators cannot even recover the operation cost. It is not possible for us to bleed any further,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay, secretary, Joint Council of Bus Syndicates. TimesViewThese “industry” problems need a solution as soon as possible. Ordinary commuters, who pay for the service, should not be made to suffer.“I am spending almost four to five times the usual fare I used to pay even in March before the lockdown was announced. I travel to Ballygunge Phanri from Behala tram depot. I am paying Rs 50 daily for one-way trip. During return journey, I am spending more. I used to spend Rs 32 for my round trip, which includes changing buses once,” said Adhir Dadgupta, a private insurance company employee. The fare, which was raised during the Unlock I, remained there even after autos were plying with full passenger-capacity. From Behala tram depot to Rashbehari, the fare used to be Rs 16 and from Behala to Gariahat, it was Rs 21. “Now, in the first stage, the fare is Rs 22 and from Behala to Gariahat it’s Rs 30. This fare is during daytime. At night, it goes up by Rs 5 to Rs 10,” said Saheli Kar, a resident of Taratala. Auto operators said they were yet to get back the pre-lockdown level passenger rush. “We are often running autos half empty. Moreover, during the lockdown we ran into huge debt as our earnings became zero. Unless, we get a steady passenger flow, we cannot go back to old fares,” said Sanju Gupta, a Behala-Gariahat route committee member. Price of auto LPG, which is known as auto gas in Kolkata, has actually decreased compared to its price in March. “The auto fare should have reverted back to old structure. Transport department should have intervened,” said Aveek Dhar, a transport economist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/as-buses-disappear-people-end-up-paying-more-for-autos/articleshow/80052593.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
January 1, 2021||Jaipur||Govt plans to re-open schools, coaching institutes soon: Dotasra||Jaipur: Without declaring a specific date, school education minister Govind Singh Dotasra on Thursday announced that the government is planning to re-open schools and coaching institutes soon.While announcing the results of state open board at Shiksha Sankul, Dotsra said a proposal has been sent to chief minister Ashok Gehlot and the government will first open Classes from IX-XII after considering all aspects.“We are not considering to open Classes from I to VIII. After seeing the present situation of coronavirus and the new ‘strain’, we will soon announce a specific date. We don’t want to open the schools and then roll back the decision as was done by other states. At first, the government and private schools with bigger campus will be opened so that social distancing will be maintained. However, the final announcement will be made by the chief minister,” said Dotasra.Speculations are being made that schools will re-open from January 4, but Dotasra threw no light on it and said that the government will soon announce a decision.For coaching institutes, minister said that new guidelines will be issued as 100 students will not be allowed to sit in one hall anymore. The government will make rules and regulations for coaching institutes which they would have to follow.Dotasra said that more centres will be allotted to organise competitive examinations so that social distancing can be maintained.“We are planning about the precautions to be taken when the schools will re-open. Proposal has been sent to the state government and final decision will be taken by Ashok Gehlot,” said Dotasra.Meanwhile, parents’ organisations have opposed the government’s plan to re-open schools. They said that when the ministers are not ready to meet people due to pandemic, how can they open even think of re-opening schools. Many parents said they will not send their children to the schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-plans-to-re-open-schools-coaching-institutes-soon-dotasra/articleshow/80052562.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Sectt gets EC from Centre||Hyderabad: All decks have been cleared for construction of the new secretariat building in the city. The under-construction building received environmental clearance from the Union Ministry of Environment on Thursday. Earlier, the Telangana high court had accorded permission to the state government to construct the new secretariat building. The estimated cost of the project is Rs 400 crore to Rs 500 crore. The new building will have a special entrance gate for chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sectt-gets-ec-from-centre/articleshow/80052558.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Lady love’s phone helped Hyderabad cops detain Chinese man||HYDERABAD: Chinese national Zhu Wei alias Lambo, a key accused in the instant loan app harassment case, tried to flee the country, but a photo of his passport on the mobile phone of a senior employee of his call centre at Gurugram, derailed his plans. He was nabbed at the Delhi airport on Wednesday minutes before he was to take a flight to Frankfurt. After investigators started raiding call centres at Gurugram, Hyderabad and Bengaluru as part of their investigation in the app loan cases, they initially recovered a photocopy of Chinese national Yuan Yuan alias Jennifer’s passport. When the senior staff of these call centres were grilled, Hyerabad police came to know about the role of Chinese national Lambo, who is their Indian operations head. The companies had reportedly carried out transactions to the tune of Rs 21,000 crore. Lambo went missing after he came to know about the crackdown by Telangana police against the instant loan app operators and two Chinese nationals were already arrested. Cyber Crime sleuths of Hyderabad police questioned senior staff of the call centres to know about the possible hideouts of Lambo. One of the employees wilted under pressure and spilled the beans that Lambo was in relationship with a senior lady manager. “She was questioned. In her phone, we found Lambo’s passport details,’’ an official, associated with the probe, told TOI. Later, Lambo’s passport details were shared with security officials posted at all international airports in India. As anticipated, Lambo tried to leave India from Delhi airport on Wednesday, but he was caught by Hyderabad police on a tip-off by airport authorities. Lambo was reportedly dependent on one Indrajith, who is also absconding. Police suspect Indrajith might have helped him evade police dragnet in the last few days. Lambo was known to party a lot. Interestingly, Google translator played a key role in questioning Lambo, who claimed he did not know English. “By claiming that he did not know English, he requested for a Chinese translator. So, using Google translator, Lambo was questioned,’’ the officials said. During his stay in India, he was not using any accounts in his name. His expenses were reportedly taken care by amounts deposited by his higher ups in China in the different bank accounts of their Indian confidants like the arrested Nagaraju, a native of Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh. Nagaraju, who was supervising one of the call centers, was recruited after they came across his resume on one of the job portals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lady-loves-phone-helped-cops-detain-chinese-man/articleshow/80052602.cms||Srinath Vudali
January 1, 2021||Dehradun||Cops yet to register FIR against IIT-Roorkee director, petitioner moves HC||ROORKEE: In a case of financial fraud, Manpal Sharma, a former employee of IIT-Roorkee who brought the alleged irregularities to the fore, approached the high court over non-compliance of the local court's order by police so far. The local court had directed Roorkee police to register an FIR against five persons, including IIT-Roorkee director, in the case of embezzlement of government funds to the tune of over Rs 1 crore on December 23. A Single Bench of Justice Narayan Singh Dhanik heard the petition of Sharma on Thursday. "HC asked the state why the police are yet to register an FIR, instead of issuance of an order of this effect from a local court in Roorkee. In response, the state counsellor has sought two days time from the court to file their reply," Akshay Pradhan, counsellor of Sharma at HC, told TOI on Thursday. "The next hearing has been listed on January 5," Pradhan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cops-yet-to-register-fir-againstiit-director-petitioner-moves-hc/articleshow/80050491.cms||Tapan Susheel
January 1, 2021||Chennai||Kaanum Pongal: Can’t visit beaches||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu government has banned entry of people to Marina Beach and other beaches in the state on Kaanum Pongal day on January 16 to prevent another wave of Covid-19. Lakhs of people converge at the Marina during the festival with family and friends. “The ban on visiting beaches is only on the Kaanum Pongal day,” chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said on Thursday after holding a review meeting with medical experts. The government, however, has lifted time restriction in places of worship, and has given relief to film and television industries by doing away with the cap in number of people allowed at shooting venues. Standard operating procedures, however, would be strictly followed in all such places. “Workers can be engaged, without restriction, for both indoor and outdoor shootings. But they have to follow safety procedures,” the CM said. The statement said 50% of the total capacity (of indoor facilities) or a maximum of 200 people would be allowed in community halls and sports complexes from January 1. Same is applicable to religious and political programmes in indoor facilities. Prior permission from collectors in districts and from police commissioners in Chennai city was mandatory for such programmes, the CM said. Palaniswami has urged public to follow the guidelines to help the government bring down Covid-19 cases, which is already declining in the state. He urged people to avoid gatherings. The CM said that e-registration for people entering Tamil Nadu from neighbouring states, restrictions on containment zones and the Central government’s ban on travel to and from certain countries were still in force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/kaanum-pongal-cant-visit-beaches/articleshow/80052556.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Jaipur||JMC Greater to not use the word ‘stray’ for cows||JAIPUR: The word ‘stray’ will no longer be used for cows roaming in the streets of Jaipur. According to the orders issued by JMC, Greater on Thursday, the words ‘shelterless’ or ‘destitute’ cow will be used in the language of all official orders, functioning and mutual communication of JMC, Greater. The initiative was taken up by deputy mayor Puneet Karnavat. “During the inspection of zonal offices of municipal corporation and visits to various places in the city, it was found that the word ‘stray cow’ is used for cows roaming in the open on the streets or other places. I found it really disturbing to use such words for the scared animal which is worshipped in our religion.” He further said that cow is respected in Indian civilization and culture. “The cow has cultural, social and religious significance for us. It has been decided to use the word ‘shelterless’ or ‘destitute’ instead of ‘stray’ for cows, in order to maintain the same importance and respect of the ‘Gaumata’ in keeping with public sentiment,” said Karnawat. The cow is considered to be one of the policies of newly appointed JMC boards in the city to woo the public. JMC, Heritage mayor Munesh Gurjar visited the gaushala for ‘Gau Sewa’ after being appointed as mayor. JMC, greater mayor Somya Gurjar also visited Hingonia Gaushala immediately after becoming mayor. She saw many dead cows in the gaushala and asked for reports from the officers. Although the Hingonia Guashala administration said that some cows brought to the gaushala are already in a bad condition and many of them die of natural causes every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-greater-to-not-use-the-word-stray-for-cows/articleshow/80052576.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad surgeon Raghu Ram in Queen’s Honours list||HYDERABAD: Dr Raghu Ram Pillarisetti, director, KIMS- Ushalakshmi Centre for Breast Diseases and founder CEO of Ushalakshmi Breast Cancer Foundation, features in Queen Elizabeth II’s New Year’s Honours List 2021 published in the “London Gazette” – the official publication of the Crown. With Queen Elizabeth II honouring Dr Raghu Ram with OBE- Officer of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire– one of the highest ranking orders of the British Empire award, he has become one of the youngest surgeons of Indian origin conferred with an OBE. At the age of 54, Dr Raghu Ram has received the second highest ranking OBE award (excluding a knighthood/damehood) conferred in recognition of his outstanding services towards improving breast cancer care and surgical education in India and to UK/India relations. The British Honours system aims at showing gratitude publicly to those who have ‘gone the extra mile’ in their service and who stand out ‘head and shoulders’ above others in their distinction. Some of the well-known names who received an OBE in the recent times include Om Puri (actor), Prof. Michael Griffin - president, The Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh, David Beckham (sports), Ben Stokes (vice-captain, England cricket team), Victoria Beckham (fashion), JK Rowling (author-Harry Potter series), Kiera Knightley (actor), Damon Albarn (musician) and others. Dr Raghu Ram Pillarisetti said,“ I am deeply grateful and incredibly humbled to accept this high honour conferred by Her Majesty, the Queen. For well over a decade, I have strived to replicate the best of British practices in my motherland and feel immensely proud to be a ‘living bridge’ between the UK and India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-surgeon-raghu-ram-in-queens-honours-list/articleshow/80052534.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Nagpur||Big parties ruled out, hotel rooms turn venues for small New Year get-togethers||Nagpur: City’s party animals had been keen on New Year’s Eve celebrations till the government clamped the night curfew, say hoteliers. There had been a number of inquiries from corporates clients and individuals to get space for holding parties on Thursday, said hoteliers. The plans fizzled out after the state government came up with the night curfew order. The orders came over a week ago, but until then, clients were looking forward for the party events, said sources in the hotel business. Even the curfew orders have failed to dampen partying spirits, however. If large get-togethers are not allowed, hotels too have come up with smart plans. Premium hotels are offering rooms for the night. The packages allow stay till the morning, after nightlong celebrations, with access to other facilities like the gym or the poolside. Sources say staying overnight can help customers dodge the night curfew rules and they can safely party in their private rooms. Micky Arora of Centre Point Group said in the first week of December there were a number of inquiries about bookings for New Year parties. There were calls from a number of corporates for holding office get-togethers also on New Year’s Eve. “Had the night curfew order not been announced, over 800 guests may have easily come down for parties at our hotels Now, everything has been ruled out,” he said. Source said it’s not that there will be no partying at all, there are room packages ranging from Rs5,000 to even Rs20,000 per couple by a number of hotels. “There were some calls indeed for room bookings, but there is a no scope for any large party this year,” said a source in the Tuli Group. “There was a lot of interest from members, who had inquired if there was any New Year event at the club. However, the management has strictly refused due to Covid and the night curfew rules,” said a member of a British-era club in the city. Sanjay Gupta of Ashoka ITDC Hotel said, “There will be no parties in the hotel as only dining has been allowed. There were inquiries for renting rooms to hold smaller private parties, however we have turned down the requests.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/big-parties-ruled-out-hotel-rooms-turn-venues-for-small-new-year-get-togethers/articleshow/80051257.cms||Shishir Arya
January 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Contraband worth Rs 10 lakh seized in Secunderabad, three held||HYDERABAD: Three peddlers were nabbed and Rs 10.1 lakh worth contraband, including LSD, ecstasy, MDMA and hashish oil, was seized from their possession during a raid at a flat in East Marredpally in Secunderabad on Thursday. The accused were reportedly planning to make some quick profit on New Year Eve. Acting on specific information, a Task Force team arrested Nikhil Shenoy, 32, from East Marredpally, Faiz Mevati, 20, from Nallagutta and Meroz Khan, 31, from Jeedimetla, at Nikhil’s flat at Sangamitra Apartment, East Marredpally. Police seized 10 grams of MDMA, 70 blots of LSD, 60 ecstasy pills, 1.4 kilos of hahish oil and 11 kilos of ganja from their possession. During interrogation, Nikhil confessed that five years ago he had come in contact with a garments seller, Injoth Singh, and through him, he met Faiz Mevati and Meroz Khan, who are working at a cargo service company in Jeedimetla. As their income was not sufficient to meet their expenses, Nikhil advised Faiz and Meroz to work with him to sell drugs in the city. “Nikhil used to get orders from customers and Faiz and Meroz used to deliver drugs to customers, DCP, Task Force, P Radhakishan Rao said. According to police, the gang was procuring a gram of MDMA for Rs 2,000 and selling the same to customers for Rs 6000. They were procuring LSD blot and ecstasy pill for Rs 1,000 and selling them for a profit of Rs 500. The accused were handed over to Tukaramgate police for further investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/contraband-worth-rs-10l-seized-3-held/articleshow/80052629.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Health officials keep an eye on unusual trend of Covid||Jaipur: The Covid-19 disease burden will be assessed in districts of the state to find out if there is any unusual trend in spread of the virus. Following a mutated Covid-19 strain found in the UK, the health department has alerted its officials across the state to keep an eye on change in trend such as increasing Covid-19 cases or increasing mortality due to Covid-19 in their respective districts. So far, not a single sample has been tested positive for the UK’s mutated Covid-19 strain in the state, said a senior health department official. However, he said that the report of five samples is yet to arrive. A health department official said that while the focus is now on genome sequencing, they are also keeping an eye on any sort of change in trend such as increasing Covid-19 cases or mortalities due to Covid-19 in a particular area. The health department has sent 14 samples of Covid-19 patients to laboratories for checking the strain of the virus. Out of those, nine have already tested negative for UK’s mutated strain, while report of five samples is awaited. The surveillance will help understand super spreader events, outbreaks and strengthen public health interventions across the state and for breaking the chains of transmission. A health department official said that the entire exercise will allow them to better understand the viral infection dynamics, morbidity and mortality trends. Besides, seven persons died, while 689 others were tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Thursday bringing its overall tally to 3,08,243. With seven deaths, state’s toll rose to 2696. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (129), Jodhpur (109), Kota (64), Nagaur (46), Bhilwara (39), Udaipur (37), Ajmer (33), Alwar (30), Jalore (25), Banswara (18), Rajsamand (18), Dungarpur (17), Sirohi (13), Pali (12), Bundi (10), Sikar (9), Tonk (9), Baran (8), Bharatpur (8), Jhalawar (8), Jhunjhunu (8), Bikaner (7), Sriganganagar (7), Chittorgarh (4), Pratapgarh (4), Dholpur (4), Sawai Madhopur (3), Jaisalmer (3), Barmer (3), Churu (2) and Karauli (2). Jaipur reported its 501st Covid-19 death, Jodhpur 289th, Kota 166th, Sikar 97th, Jodhpur 50th, Barmer 50th and Sirohi reported its 28th Covid-19 fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/health-officials-keep-an-eye-on-unusual-trend-of-covid/articleshow/80059527.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Kolkata||First-come-first-served formula for NY spl services at churches||Kolkata: This is perhaps the first time that churches in the city are having to say “no” with folded hands once the permissible limit of crowds is over for special services on New Year’s Eve and New Year. “Come early to avoid disappointment” is the new normal norm due to the Covid restrictions. Registrations are on and churches are being forced to disallow people inside beyond the permissible limit of crowds. On Thursday, thanksgiving and special mass were organised in the evening across Roman Catholic churches in the city. In some churches governed by the Church of North India, midnight mass was held while morning services for New Year have been organised in rest of the churches. The Cathedral of the Most Holy Rosary and St Paul’s Cathedral are two main churches of the Roman Catholic and CNI. The prayers at the Cathedral of the Most Holy Rosary were conducted by Archbishop Thomas D’Souza for both the thanksgiving and the special mass on Thursday evening. He will also conduct the New Year service on Friday morning. In both the prayers, his message is one of hope and peace. “We are being looked after by God. We must have faith and move on steadfastly. Nothing happens without His will and we must invite his grace whole heartedly into our lives,” said Archbishop D’Souza in his thanksgiving prayer. Friday will be treated as Sunday in all Roman Catholic churches and multiple services will be held so that all parishioners have a chance to attend one service or the other. Friday will also be celebrated as feast of Mother Mary. Many churches will also hold Bangla services. “We will be able to allow only 50 parishioners who come first,” said Father Orson Wells, parish priest of the Church of Our Lady of Vailankanni at Picnic Garden. Midnight mass will be held at St James Church, St Thomas Church Free School Street, Holy Trinity Church, Amherst Street and Christ Church, Hedua. At Union Chapel and St John’s Diocesan 150 people will be allowed in the New Year service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/first-come-first-served-formula-for-ny-spl-services-at-churches/articleshow/80052648.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
January 1, 2021||Trichy||Trichy’s expensive smart road drilled for erecting flag poles||Trichy:Karur Bypass Road, Trichy city’s first smart road equipped with exclusive space for pedestrian platforms with ducts and on-street parking, is damaged after AIADMK flag poles were erected on it. Apart from posing danger to the commuters, the flag poles will impact the life of the road, which is touted as the most expensive single road project taken up by the civic body.Under the Infrastructure Gap Filling Fund (IGFF) scheme, Trichy Corporation had completed the 1.20-km road in October 2020 at an estimated cost of Rs 7.75 crore. Work on the city’s first smart road, which has on-street parking provision, tiled pedestrian tracks with ducts underneath for transporting cables, was started in March. The road is free from potholes and trenches dug for underground drainage (UGD). But the smooth road was drilled for erecting AIADMK flag poles as part of welcoming chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami.Madurai Road and Thillai Nagar Main Road were also damaged for erecting flag poles and the banned flex hoardings. Dozens of flag poles were drilled on the Karur Bypass Road. “It is painful to see a political party damaging a new road laid just months ago,” K Shyam Sundar, member, Trichy Intra-City Development Endeavours (TIDES) said. Rainwater will seep into the holes affecting the binding properties of the construction materials. Madras high court has condemned the act and instructed the local bodies to take action, but the practice continues. Trichy Corporation officials said that the holes drilled for the flagpoles will be filled soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichys-expensive-smart-road-drilled-for-erecting-flag-poles/articleshow/80053857.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 1, 2021||Trichy||Miyawaki forests to help shield Uyyakondan canal from littering||Trichy: In an effort to combat littering and pollution in the Uyyakondan canal, Trichy Corporation jointly with the Public Works Department (PWD) has established Miyawaki forests along the canal’s banks. The civic body said that the model will emulated in other parts of the canal.The canal passing through Pitchai Nagar in ward 21 in Ariyamangalam zone was being polluted by people dumping solid waste. After obtaining permission of PWD, the civic body cleared the site and retrieved 25,000 sq.ft. along the canal. A borewell was installed and around 5,800 native tree saplings were planted. Officials said this is the first time that the canal banks were chosen for Miyawaki style as till now only vacant lands were given focus. Around 3-4 saplings were planted on every 10sq.ft. “Drip irrigation system is provided while our workers will water and maintain the space daily,” an official with the Trichy Corporation said. The linear stretch for about 1.3km was also fenced to prevent trespassing. Apart from stopping the public littering, officials said that the plantation drive will eliminate encroachment attempts. A sum of Rs 12.5 lakh was spent in the afforestation drive. Since Kulumikkarai road branching off from Anna Nagar main road, running parallel to the canal also face littering and open urination, locals pitched for a similar attempt in the locality in K Abishekapuram zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/miyawaki-forests-to-help-shield-uyyakondan-canal-from-littering/articleshow/80053858.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Health officials keep an eye on unusual trend of Covid||Jaipur: The Covid-19 disease burden will be assessed in districts of the state to find out if there is any unusual trend in spread of the virus. Following a mutated Covid-19 strain found in the UK, the health department has alerted its officials across the state to keep an eye on change in trend such as increasing Covid-19 cases or increasing mortality due to Covid-19 in their respective districts. So far, not a single sample has been tested positive for the UK’s mutated Covid-19 strain in the state, said a senior health department official. However, he said that the report of five samples is yet to arrive. A health department official said that while the focus is now on genome sequencing, they are also keeping an eye on any sort of change in trend such as increasing Covid-19 cases or mortalities due to Covid-19 in a particular area. The health department has sent 14 samples of Covid-19 patients to laboratories for checking the strain of the virus. Out of those, nine have already tested negative for UK’s mutated strain, while report of five samples is awaited. The surveillance will help understand super spreader events, outbreaks and strengthen public health interventions across the state and for breaking the chains of transmission. A health department official said that the entire exercise will allow them to better understand the viral infection dynamics, morbidity and mortality trends. Besides, seven persons died, while 689 others were tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Thursday bringing its overall tally to 3,08,243. With seven deaths, state’s toll rose to 2696. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (129), Jodhpur (109), Kota (64), Nagaur (46), Bhilwara (39), Udaipur (37), Ajmer (33), Alwar (30), Jalore (25), Banswara (18), Rajsamand (18), Dungarpur (17), Sirohi (13), Pali (12), Bundi (10), Sikar (9), Tonk (9), Baran (8), Bharatpur (8), Jhalawar (8), Jhunjhunu (8), Bikaner (7), Sriganganagar (7), Chittorgarh (4), Pratapgarh (4), Dholpur (4), Sawai Madhopur (3), Jaisalmer (3), Barmer (3), Churu (2) and Karauli (2). Jaipur reported its 501st Covid-19 death, Jodhpur 289th, Kota 166th, Sikar 97th, Jodhpur 50th, Barmer 50th and Sirohi reported its 28th Covid-19 fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/health-officials-keep-an-eye-on-unusual-trend-of-covid/articleshow/80052613.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Health officials keep an eye on unusual trend of Covid||Jaipur: The Covid-19 disease burden will be assessed in districts of the state to find out if there is any unusual trend in spread of the virus. Following a mutated Covid-19 strain found in the UK, the health department has alerted its officials across the state to keep an eye on change in trend such as increasing Covid-19 cases or increasing mortality due to Covid-19 in their respective districts. So far, not a single sample has been tested positive for the UK’s mutated Covid-19 strain in the state, said a senior health department official. However, he said that the report of five samples is yet to arrive. A health department official said that while the focus is now on genome sequencing, they are also keeping an eye on any sort of change in trend such as increasing Covid-19 cases or mortalities due to Covid-19 in a particular area. The health department has sent 14 samples of Covid-19 patients to laboratories for checking the strain of the virus. Out of those, nine have already tested negative for UK’s mutated strain, while report of five samples is awaited. The surveillance will help understand super spreader events, outbreaks and strengthen public health interventions across the state and for breaking the chains of transmission. A health department official said that the entire exercise will allow them to better understand the viral infection dynamics, morbidity and mortality trends. Besides, seven persons died, while 689 others were tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Thursday bringing its overall tally to 3,08,243. With seven deaths, state’s toll rose to 2696. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (129), Jodhpur (109), Kota (64), Nagaur (46), Bhilwara (39), Udaipur (37), Ajmer (33), Alwar (30), Jalore (25), Banswara (18), Rajsamand (18), Dungarpur (17), Sirohi (13), Pali (12), Bundi (10), Sikar (9), Tonk (9), Baran (8), Bharatpur (8), Jhalawar (8), Jhunjhunu (8), Bikaner (7), Sriganganagar (7), Chittorgarh (4), Pratapgarh (4), Dholpur (4), Sawai Madhopur (3), Jaisalmer (3), Barmer (3), Churu (2) and Karauli (2). Jaipur reported its 501st Covid-19 death, Jodhpur 289th, Kota 166th, Sikar 97th, Jodhpur 50th, Barmer 50th and Sirohi reported its 28th Covid-19 fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/health-officials-keep-an-eye-on-unusual-trend-of-covid/articleshow/80059528.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Health officials keep an eye on unusual trend of Covid||Jaipur: The Covid-19 disease burden will be assessed in districts of the state to find out if there is any unusual trend in spread of the virus. Following a mutated Covid-19 strain found in the UK, the health department has alerted its officials across the state to keep an eye on change in trend such as increasing Covid-19 cases or increasing mortality due to Covid-19 in their respective districts. So far, not a single sample has been tested positive for the UK’s mutated Covid-19 strain in the state, said a senior health department official. However, he said that the report of five samples is yet to arrive. A health department official said that while the focus is now on genome sequencing, they are also keeping an eye on any sort of change in trend such as increasing Covid-19 cases or mortalities due to Covid-19 in a particular area. The health department has sent 14 samples of Covid-19 patients to laboratories for checking the strain of the virus. Out of those, nine have already tested negative for UK’s mutated strain, while report of five samples is awaited. The surveillance will help understand super spreader events, outbreaks and strengthen public health interventions across the state and for breaking the chains of transmission. A health department official said that the entire exercise will allow them to better understand the viral infection dynamics, morbidity and mortality trends. Besides, seven persons died, while 689 others were tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Thursday bringing its overall tally to 3,08,243. With seven deaths, state’s toll rose to 2696. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (129), Jodhpur (109), Kota (64), Nagaur (46), Bhilwara (39), Udaipur (37), Ajmer (33), Alwar (30), Jalore (25), Banswara (18), Rajsamand (18), Dungarpur (17), Sirohi (13), Pali (12), Bundi (10), Sikar (9), Tonk (9), Baran (8), Bharatpur (8), Jhalawar (8), Jhunjhunu (8), Bikaner (7), Sriganganagar (7), Chittorgarh (4), Pratapgarh (4), Dholpur (4), Sawai Madhopur (3), Jaisalmer (3), Barmer (3), Churu (2) and Karauli (2). Jaipur reported its 501st Covid-19 death, Jodhpur 289th, Kota 166th, Sikar 97th, Jodhpur 50th, Barmer 50th and Sirohi reported its 28th Covid-19 fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/health-officials-keep-an-eye-on-unusual-trend-of-covid/articleshow/80059525.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Trichy||Heavy rain brings curtains down on tumultuous yr in central dists||Trichy: 2020 has ended on a good note on the climate front as heavy rain lashed the central districts for several hours from Wednesday night and throughout the day on Thursday throwing normal life out of gear. According to Indian meteorological department (IMD), a cyclonic circulation over southwest Bay of Bengal caused rainfall in several parts of Tamil Nadu. The coastal districts witnessed heavy rainfall in the early hours with Nagappattinam receiving 30.7 mm in the 24 hours ending 8.30 am. Despite the rain, fishermen set out to sea. Thanjavur recorded the second highest rainfall of 14.1 mm while Tiruvarur realized 11.5 mm of rainfall. The rain brought worries to farmers as hundreds of acres of paddy crops suffered in the havoc caused by cyclones Nivar and Burevi last month. The sharp showers wet the crops a day after the central team completed the damage assessment in the delta districts. After weeks, Trichy city received substantial rainfall in the early hours of Thursday. The city that registered a deficit northeast monsoon had an average of 10-11 mm rainfall in the morning with the moderate showers continuing till noon. The suburbs of the city including Samayapuram and Lalgudi road received good rain with water stagnating for a while at Melapudur subway affecting the movement of two-wheelers. Already facing a 30% deficit monsoon, Trichy is very likely to have a dry week ahead according to the IMD forecast. Ariyalur and Perambalur districts recorded 9.6 mm and 8.33 mm of rain while Karur and Pudukottai had 0.4 mm and 0.6 mm respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/heavy-rain-brings-curtains-down-on-tumultuous-yr-in-central-dists/articleshow/80053855.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Trichy||SASTRA organises field study for farmers||Trichy: SASTRA University organised a field programme for delta farmers in memory of organic scientist G Nammalvar on Wednesday. The programme was aimed at propagating the significance of traditional rice varieties.The programme was a joint venture of SASTRA and Save Our Rice Programme (CREATE) extension activities to help about 300 delta farmers to learn the systematic procedure of seed selection from right plants to identify best seeds during harvest.A Sathya, senior assistant professor, SASTRA, is implementing a scientific project funded by department of science and technology (DST) for conservation and promotion of traditional rice varieties.In this regard, 20 heritage rice varieties including karuppu kouni, mappillai samba, thanga samba, seeraga samba and karungaruvai have been characterized organically in the fields of P Anbuselvam and V Gunasekaran of Kuruvadipatti village at Thanjavur.Under the field programme, farmers visited these fields, visually observing the growth and yield of each of the heritage varieties. “The field visit was an eye opener in learning the art of seed selection of multiple traditional varieties at a single site at a time,” said Sastra vice-chancellor S Vaidhyasubramaniam.At the end of the event, ‘Aththimalar Women group of Sastra’ also distributed organic input kits to the farmers.Manimozhiyan from Rajarajan farmer Producer Company informed the farmers about the value of heritage rice varieties of Tamil Nadu and offered eulogy to K Nammazhvar as a gesture of fulfilling his efforts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sastra-organises-field-study-for-farmers/articleshow/80053860.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Bhopal||Students won’t be forced to attend college, online classes to continue||Bhopal: All government and non-government colleges will reopen in Madhya Pradesh from January. For the first 10 days, only practical sessions will be held. Not taking any chances, the state government has issued new Covid guidelines for colleges. A disaster management meeting of all the districts will be held on January 20. A decision will be taken then on opening the engineering, management, pharmacy colleges and polytechnics, after assessing the situation. These colleges will also have to follow the new guidelines issued by the state government and UGC norms. It has also been made clear that management will not force students to attend the college. If students do not want to come to college, online classes will continue as before, stated the orders. Activities such as sports and other events are completely prohibited on campus. Hostels will remain closed for now. Library will also be open only for collection and submission of books; student must bring written consent of the parents to attend college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/students-wont-be-forced-to-attend-college-online-classes-to-continue/articleshow/80051262.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 1, 2021||Trichy||BDU makes PhD qualifying test must for MPhil holders||Trichy: From 2021, MPhil degree holders and candidates working in sponsored research projects will have to clear a qualifying entrance test to pursue PhD in Bharathidasan University and affiliated colleges. Up until now, candidates receiving fellowship from various central government agencies like department of education, Rajiv Gandhi National Fellowship (RGNF), Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), University Grants Commission (UGC), Department of biotechnology (DBT), Department of Science and Technology (DST) and Indian Council of Social Science Research (ICSSR) were exempted from the test. They will now have to clear the qualifying entrance starting from January to get admission in BDU and its affiliated colleges, said S Muthusamy, director research, BDU. Besides them, candidates who have qualified any national-level test like UGC-CISR/ National Eligibility Test (NET), state eligibility test (SET), Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE) were also given exemption so far. These candidates have now been given exemption for five years. Those who have qualified these exams before January 1, 2016 will have to clear PhD qualifying test to gain admission to PhD programmes.Saying that BDU is implementing the UGC directive, Muthusamy said qualifying entrance test will improve the quality of research as it will test the capabilities of students who want to pursue research. The university will call for applications for the qualifying test scheduled for February 14 from January 2-31. “We are expecting more number of candidates to register for the test this time as only a few section of candidates have been given exemption,” said Muthusamy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-makes-phd-qualifying-test-must-for-mphil-holders/articleshow/80053859.cms||---
January 1, 2021||India||Covid-19: States struggle to trace missing UK returnees||BENGALURU/CHENNAI: Even as the number of patients testing positive for the mutant variant of SARS-CoV-2, which originated in Britain, rose to 25 in India on Thursday as per official sources, several state governments intensified their drive to trace the missing UK returnees who landed in India in the last one month or so. While Karnataka is yet to find 175 passengers, including 80 foreigners, the Tamil Nadu government has so far been unable to trace about 360 UK returnees, all of them from Chennai and Chengalpattu. Approximately 2,300 travellers returned from the UK in TN since November 21 and the government has traced 1,936 of them, all of whom have undergone RT-PCR tests. While 24 tested positive and 1,853 tested negative, the results of 59 are awaited. There is difficulty in tracing passengers as they have provided wrong addresses, state health secretary J Radhakrishnan told reporters in Chennai. Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar said: "Of the 175 missing, 80 are not Indian citizens. This means we do not have their contact details. But the home department is pursuing the matter."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-states-struggle-to-trace-missing-uk-returnees/articleshow/80054725.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Bhopal||For cops, New Year is all about extra work||Bhopal: At a time when people are rejoicing in their Christmas and New Year holidays, for the ‘corona warrior’ cops deployed on field duty, nothing has changed. It is like previous years when they get no holidays and are deployed in the field to maintain law and order and check drunk driving. Most of the cops said that festive time means extra work for them. As the Covid-19 pandemic started, cops got busy in enforcing lockdown and restricting containment zones. They played a major role in tracing first contact history of corona positive people and supplied food and other essential items to the needy. More than 700 cops got infected by Covid-19 and three cops died of the disease. A senior cop said that DIG Irshad Wali led the police force by setting an example. His never tiring attitude and constant presence on the field and on wireless sets motivated the subordinate officers and policemen to do their best. Even the junior officers, who had been in police for two to three years, often say that DIG’s fitness level gives them a complex. He is so active and reaches the spot in case of any serious crime which motivates the team to put in their best efforts in solving the case. As the Unlock started, the crime rate increased and cops got busy in solving crimes. Due to shortage of workforce and law and order duties in various protests and VIP movements taking place in Bhopal being the state capital, the cops neither got weekly offs nor time to take leave until it was necessary. Speaking on the issue, CSP Bhupinder Singh said that it is true that policemen don’t get the opportunity to spend weekends with their family and children. They don’t get a chance to go on holidays with children. The cops get used to this sort of life but it hurts the most when their children get upset when other children return from holidays and share their experiences with them. Giving his own example, he said that his wife hails from Shimla and his in-laws reside there, but in 30 years of marriage, he never got a chance to visit there in the New Year holidays and enjoy the snowfall. CSP Singh said that policemen have passion for their job, so they don’t even think about these things, but their families suffer due to this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/for-cops-new-year-is-all-about-extra-work/articleshow/80051271.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Nagpur||Women catch youth making videos discretely in red-light area||Nagpur: City’s red-light locality Ganga Jamuna witnessed high drama after a 23-year-old man from Amravati, Dharmendra Kushwaha, was nabbed by women while filming them discreetly. A 40-year-old woman, who had registered a similar complaint in October last year, was instrumental in netting Kushwaha. It’s learnt Kushwaha, who worked as a farm labourer, made videos in red-light areas for his accomplice, also under the scanner in this case. They used to upload them on a YouTube channel by the name ‘Ganga Jamuna’ for the last few months. Police said Kushwaha was lured by the prospect of making fast money through YouTube channel by making it popular with sleazy content. “The movement of the man (Kushwaha) was doubtful and he also had the cell phone kept in his shirt pocket in such way that it was filming the women,” said the woman who nabbed him. “One of us went close to him and picked up his cell phone which was in video mode. We later handed him over to the cops,” said the woman. A police complaint had been lodged after the 40-year-old woman came across one such video of her in the channel. Approaching Lakadganj police, she had registered an offence. The cyber cell too was alerted. TOI too had published the efforts of the woman from red-light locality who wanted to fight for justice. Though the cyber cell had deleted a couple of links, Kushwaha and his accomplice used to repeatedly upload fresh videos. A couple of days ago, the cyber cell had also traced to Amravati the mobile phone location from which the videos were being uploaded onto the channel. They had also alerted Lakadganj police. Even as Lakadganj police were planning to visit Amravati for investigations, Kushwaha was trapped by the women at Ganga Jamuna. Senior inspector Parag Pote of Lakadganj police station said Kushwaha’s accomplice needs to be apprehended now from Amravati for further investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/women-catch-youth-making-videos-discretely-in-red-light-area/articleshow/80051281.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 1, 2021||Pune||Stage star Damle gives 2021 a relaxed start||Actor and theatre producer Prashant Damle generally performs on stage every year on New Year’s Eve and on January 1, but he has decided to give that a miss in 2020-21. Instead, the star of the stage and in Marathi film and television would be taking his play “Eka Lagnachi Pudhichi Goshta” to Mumbai over the weekend, on January 2 and 3. “I generally prefer shows on December 31 and January 1, but that is not happening this year. On January 2 and 3, I shall be performing in the play at two theatres — at Vile Parle and Kalyan in Mumbai,” he says. Damle made headlines earlier this month when “Eka Lagnachi Pudhichi Goshta” became the first commercial play on stage post-lockdown. He even sold tickets at two Pune theatres as a promotional measure. His shows have also played to audiences up to the permissible limit in theatres. The star had a brush with Covid-19 in mid-December, which made him miss two shows. Damle experienced symptoms after performing at a show in Pimpri-Chinchwad in the second week of December, after which he went on a weeklong isolation. The rest of the cast and crew of the play tested negative. He has now been given a clean bill of health by his doctors, and is back at shoots for films and TV, besides having theatre shows lined up. “I have around 15 shows lined up in January. I am taking things a bit slowly in terms of scheduling performances. We are focusing only on Saturdays and Sundays because there are financial issues due to the limited capacity in theatres and rents for the stages, all of which we want to be sure about,” he added. Shiladitya Pandit||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/stage-star-damle-gives-2021-a-relaxed-start/articleshow/80053870.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
January 1, 2021||Chandigarh||Talks’ outcome exposes Cong: BJP’s Punjab affairs in-charge||Chandigarh: BJP’s Punjab affairs in-charge and Rajya Sabha MP Dushyant Gautum said here on Thursday that the first breakthrough in talks with the farmers had “unmasked the Congress designs of sparking hatred and violence”. Addressing the media, Gautam appreciated the decision of the farm unions and the central government to chart a roadmap in national interest after the Centre accepted two of the six demands on the table. Gautam, who is also BJP’s national general secretary, said the farmers had demonstrated great sagacity in Wednesday’s dialogue, which had created an atmosphere of understanding and kept the doors open for further talks. He accused the Congress of creating disharmony and, as proof, referred to a recent statement of its MP, Ravneet Bittu, that “Punjab will have corpses”. Gautam said: “Common man’s blood is of no consequence to the Congress before its political ambitions.” He recalled how on December 25, the venues were vandalised and the BJP workers were attacked on the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. He accused Punjab Police of showing its bias by allowing the siege of the BJP houses. Gautam said destruction of mobile communication towers in Punjab will cause students to lose the signal required for online classes, but police had let it happen. He took it as desperation of the Congress to reclaim the political space it had lost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/talks-outcome-exposes-cong-bjps-punjab-affairs-in-charge/articleshow/80052684.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Amritsar||Begin New Year on a constructive note, join us, farmers urge Delhiites||BATHINDA: Enthused by the ‘half victory’ in the farm groups’ fight against central agriculture marketing laws, the farmers have decided to begin the New Year on a resolute note on the roads at Delhi’s borders. The protesting farmers issued an open invite to Delhi residents from the stage at Singhu protest site on Thursday, urging the Delhi residents to celebrate the New Year in a constructive way by joining them at the protest sites on January 1 to strengthen their fight. Thursday was the 36th day of the farm groups’ protest at Delhi borders but the farmers were upbeat following "positive" talks of representatives of 40 farm groups with the central ministers. This has buoyed their hopes of complete victory in their mission, said leaders of farm organisations. The farm leaders are hopeful that when the next round of talks is held on January 4, it would head towards another round of victory. The indefinite protests seeking repeal of the three agriculture laws and legal guarantee of purchase of all crops on minimum support price (MSP) had started on October 1 in Punjab and at Delhi borders from November 26. "The New Year does not matter to us when our very existence is at stake. For us, the struggle is the only way and we will keep on sitting on the roads till the government agrees to repeal the three laws. It is a ‘do or die’ battle for us and Punjabis never accept defeat," said farmer activist Joginder Singh, from a village in Bathinda, who has been sitting on the Tikri border for the last many days. "We want Delhi residents to come and mark the day with the protesters at borders," he said. Another farmer Gurmail Singh from Mansa village said that "the occasions like New Year come and go but this type of struggle happens once in a lifetime and we are part of this struggle. We will remain on the roads on January 1 as like any other day". Mohan Singh from Sanghera village in Barnala their only mission was to win the fight against the mighty government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/begin-new-year-on-a-constructive-note-join-us-farmers-urge-delhiites/articleshow/80052706.cms||Neel Kamal
January 1, 2021||Nagpur||Dry run of Covid vaccination at 3 places in Nagpur district on January 2||Nagpur: Dry run of Covid-19 vaccination programme will be conducted at three places in the district on January 2. It will be organized at one of the urban primary health centres (UPHCs) of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), Daga Hospital and Kamptee rural hospital. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B and deputy director (health services) Dr Sanjay Jaiswal confirmed that the state government has selected the district for the crucial dry run. The ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) had directed all states to conduct dry run with an objective of gearing up for the roll-out of the Covid-19 vaccine. Accordingly, state’s public health department has selected four districts — Nagpur, Pune, Jalna and Nandurbar. Dr Jaiswal told TOI, “Basically, it will be a mock drill of vaccination programme. As part of the dry run, vaccine storage place will be finalized. Conveyance of vaccine from storage place to vaccination centre will also be done. The centre will comprise at least three rooms for waiting, administering vaccine and observation where beneficiary will have to stay for 30 minutes. Vaccine will not be administered in this dry run.” For each of the three centres, 25 health care workers will be identified. They will be registered on Co-WIN application from where date and time of vaccination will be conveyed to the beneficiaries. As per government’s guidelines, health care workers will be administered vaccine in phase-I followed by front-line workers in phase-II. In city, over 21,000 health care workers have been registered for phase-I. The NMC has planned to set up 50 vaccination centres for phase-I. Radhakrishnan has organized a meeting of NMC officials on Friday for selection of one UPHC and preparations for the dry run. The NMC has already trained medical officers who will give further train vaccinators and other staff to be engaged in the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dry-run-of-covid-vaccination-at-3-places-in-nagpur-district-on-january-2/articleshow/80052745.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 1, 2021||Nagpur||NSUI men climb NU gate over fee refund, other issues||Nagpur: Over 100 National Students Union of India (NSUI) members climbed the main gate of Nagpur University’s Jamnalal Bajaj administrative campus off Ambzari Road on Thursday while staging a protest over summer exam fee refund, inaction against a principal, and failing of law students in online exams. Led by NSUI district president Ashish Mandpe, the students had planned to gherao vice-chancellor SR Chaudhari over the issues. They accused the NU top brass of sitting over several committee reports indicting a Saoner college principal in multiple irregularities. Though the committees have found the principal guilty, he continues to be in office, the NSUI members claimed. The NSUI members also demanded full refund of exam fee charged for summer exams, which were put off due to Covid-induced lockdown. They also questioned the NU over failing of law students in online exams when it was assured that no one would be failed. NSUI’s state secretary Ajit Singh and national representative Aamir Noori were also present during the protests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nsui-men-climb-nu-gate-over-fee-refund-other-issues/articleshow/80051317.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 1, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: How an eco park will rise from the ashes||NEW DELHI: Children in dozens of informal colonies in Badarpur near the Delhi-Haryana border will get a big space to play as a New Year’s gift. An eco-park, touted as the biggest catering to unauthorised settlements, will be developed by South Delhi Municipal Corporation, which has already started tender process for the project. A civic official revealed that the chosen site once comprised mining pits, which are being filled with inert material and soil recovered from the bio-mining and trammeling of the Okhla landfill. “Around 35% of the work to fill the pits has been completed. Now, greening work will be done by our horticulture department parallel with the pit filling,” disclosed the official. The plan is to recreate natural mounds over a 10-acre area with fine soil generated by bio-mining process. “It will not be a flat space,” another official explained. The artificial mounds will create natural play settings for children for sliding and climbing.” TimesViewUnauthorised colonies are always a warren of lanes and shanties. Kids who grow up there have no place to play either at home or outside. Hopefully, this eco-friendly park will be a gift to the kids of the area in 2021.Spread over 22 acres, the chosen Tajpur Pahadi expanse inclines into the Aravali region. SDMC plans to only use natural Aravali vegetation and plants to create the eco-zone. “Space for recreational purposes is hard to find in this belt studded with unauthorised colonies and dense population areas like Yamuna Khadar, Jaitpur, Mithapur and Hari Nagar,” the official said. “Children here are deprived of a clean, natural play space.” At the same time, the development of the Tajpur Pahadi site into an eco-park will help the civic body solve the issue of how to dispose of the inert material and soil generated by bio-mining of Okhla landfill. “After dumping this material in the old mining pits, we will top them with 6mm of soil and good earth. This will facilitate the greening project,” the official said. Another official disclosed that the development site is gram sabha land that was provided to the south corporation for dumping of ash from the Okhla WTE plant. Several decades ago, sandstone, lime and sand were mined in the area, and sand is even today colloquially called ‘Badarpur’. SDMC mayor Anamika Singh has announced that the park work would begin from next Thursday. Singh allayed fears that bad quality soil would be used, assuring that scientifically processed bio-mining product was being utilised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-an-eco-park-will-rise-from-the-ashes/articleshow/80051286.cms||Paras Singh
January 1, 2021||Bareilly||55-year-old among 3 booked for attempting to rape minor Dalit girl, mother||PILIBHIT: Following court orders, three villagers, including a 55-year-old farmer, were booked on Wednesday night for allegedly attempting to outrage the modesty of a 14-year-old Dalit girl in a village under Sungarhi police station. The accused allegedly also made an attempt to rape her mother when she rushed to her rescue. The girl’s father said the trio had attacked his family in order to usurp his agricultural land and force them to leave the village. The assault took place in April but local police had initially refused to lodge an FIR. It was registered following an order of the court. Giving details, the man claimed that on April 14, when he was irrigating his field, the accused who were tilling their adjacent land with tractors suddenly encroached on his territory. When he objected, they allegedly abused and assaulted with shovels. His daughter, who had brought lunch for him, rushed to his rescue. The accused allegedly grabbed her and tore her clothes. They then tried to rape her and his wife, he claimed. On hearing the family's cries, some villager rescued them, he added. Atar Singh, SHO, said following the court orders, an FIR against the three accused had been lodged under IPC section 354 B (assault or use of criminal force to any woman with intention of disrobing or compelling her to be naked), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation) and provisions of the POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act and SC/ST Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/55-year-old-among-3-booked-for-attempting-to-rape-minor-dalit-girl-mother/articleshow/80050013.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 1, 2021||Nagpur||Sigh of relief: Despite Diwali, holiday mix-up, cases and deaths reduce but at slower pace||Nagpur: After September peak, the Covid relief continued in December but the pace of reduction in new cases has slowed down. October and November recorded almost 50% reduction in new cases as compared to the respective previous month. But there was not a huge difference in December’s and November’s tally. The number of recoveries and deaths were reduced significantly. The major parameters like recovery rate, hospitalization ratio, sample positivity rate etc suggest that the Covid-19 curve is moving towards plateau.December respite has a special significance because it has come despite Diwali rush in November followed by holidays in December. People are enjoying outings, community gatherings, travels, and social life has resumed with the new normal. Still, the cases and deaths are reducing which suggest either we have adopted the physical distancing, hand hygiene and masks as our day-to-day habits or most of us have already developed antibodies, said experts.The most important factor during Covid-19 is the recovery rate. It has always been good in Vidarbha. Even during the September peak, the recovery rate was more than 66%. December began with 92% recovery rate. It showed slow but constant improvement and reached up to 95% by December 31. Now, Vidarbha’s recovery rate is more than Maharashtra’s average and closer to national average which is near 96%.Apart from this, the number of patients hospitalized and needing ICU or HDU facility is a strong indicator of severity of Covid-19 spread. During September, more than 30,000 patients were admitted in hospitals and about 5% of them were in ICU. This number was more than 20% of the total cases reported by then. On December 31, total 11 districts in Vidarbha have 6,851 patients under treatment. Out of these, 65% patients are in home isolation. This suggests hospitality rate is very low and beds are available in hospitals.Anticipating the post Diwali surge, administration had increased testing. Tests were almost doubled, especially in rural areas because experts had predicted that more cases may come from rural areas post Diwali due to community movement from urban to rural parts during festival. Despite more tests, cases were low during Diwali incubation period (up to December 4) and even after that. As per a rough estimate, more than 20 lakh samples have been tested in Vidarbha so far. About 4 lakh samples were tested in December alone. Out of them, 25,000-odd tested positive which means, samples positivity rate is in single digit which is ideal as per WHO.The case fatality rate was nearing 3% during peak of September. It has now reduced to 2.6%. This is still higher than national average which is 1.45%. This means, Vidarbha needs to achieve a lot in curbing deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sigh-of-relief-despite-diwali-holiday-mix-up-cases-and-deaths-reduce-but-at-slower-pace/articleshow/80050539.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 1, 2021||Kolhapur||Kolhapur Shiv Sena, Congress leaders cross swords ahead of civic polls||KOLHAPUR: Cracks seem to be widening in Shiv Sena and Congress, both allies in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state, in Kolhapur ahead of the civic elections as is evident from the statements of local leaders of the parties. Former MLA Rajesh Kshirsagar, the Sena face in Kolhapur city, has hit out at district guardian minister Satej Patil, who has said that his party was ready to contest the civic polls independently. “Patil is misleading the people and actually wants to grab the seats of Sena as well as NCP,” Kshirsagar told reporters here. The Sena politician said that Patil was aiming to bag maximum seats for Congress in case of an alliance. “We will follow the party’s directive as three parties have formed the government at the state level. We have played a key role in Patil’s electoral win. He will face defeat if he does not change his attitude,” he warned. The Congress camp maintains that Patil’s view has to be taken in proper spirit, considering the possibility of large-scale rebellion in the three parties in case of an alliance as many are eyeing tickets. Patil has always insisted that the three parties could come together in a post-election scenario but leaders of the two other parties have serious apprehensions about it. The NCP leaders are not sure about Patil’s move as they fear that their party would have little say once the elections are over. The NCP leaders are also cautious about Patil’s move as they fear that he is capable of attracting their party functionaries. They point out that relations between Hasan Mushrif and Patil are already strained as both wanted to be district guardian minister. Meanwhile, Patil has undertaken serious efforts to accommodate two former ministers, Prakash Awade and Vinay Kore, into the party fold ahead of elections. Both are currently considered close to BJP. Leader of opposition in the state assembly, Devendra Fadnavis, had met both of them in Kolhapur recently. Congress had recently announced in Mumbai that it would contest all the 227 seats in the Brihanmumbai municipal corporation (BMC) elections. State Congress president Balasaheb Thorat on Thursday said that the party would like to have its own mayor in Aurangabad (Sena bastion), thus indicating the party’s ambitions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-sena-congress-leaders-cross-swords-ahead-of-civic-polls/articleshow/80050554.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Vijayawada||Second-most senior judge in HC retires amid public appreciation||Vijayawada: Justice Rakesh Kumar, the second most senior judge of the AP high court, retired on Thursday. While he stayed away from the customary farewell of the court, he received a grand farewell from people, especially women and farmers of capital region, who gathered in large numbers outside the high court to greet him. Justice Kumar shared the bench with Chief Justice J K Maheswari on his last day which is again a customary practice for an outgoing judge. After getting information about his retirement, farmers in large numbers came to give him a grand send-off. The farmers formed a human chain outside the court complex when he came out of the court. They greeted him with folded hands and chanted slogans. “You live in our hearts, you were our saviour,” they said. He reciprocated the greetings and thanked them. Hailing from Bihar, Justice Kumar joined AP high court on November 8, 2019. During his 13-month stint, he delivered many crucial judgements and was critical in his observations, especially in matters dealing with police excesses. He even summoned the DGP more than once to the court over alleged failure of rule of law in the state. He was also part of the HC bench that directed status quo on the shifting of the capital. The state government sought his recusal in more than one petition on the verge of his retirement. A day before his retirement, he delivered a judgement making scathing remarks on the state government and also called for more transparency in Supreme Court collegium appointments. Incidentally, the last day of 2020 saw two senior most judges leaving the high court. While Rakesh Kumar retired, the President notified the Supreme Court collegium recommendation of transferring Chief Justice Maheswari to the high court of Sikkim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/second-most-senior-judge-in-hc-retires-amid-public-appreciation/articleshow/80050537.cms||Srikanth Aluri
January 1, 2021||Vijayawada||Mohan Rao takes charge of APCO||Amaravati: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy named Chillapalli Venkata Naga Mohan Rao as chairman of Andhra Pradesh Handloom Weavers Cooperative Society Limited (Known as APCO). A native of Mangalagiri in Guntur district, Mohan Rao has been working as the party’s weavers’ cell chairman for the past three years. Mohan Rao played a key role in strengthening the party among weaker sections, particularly handloom weavers.He also urged YS Jagan Mohan Reddy to announce special financial package for the struggling weavers during his padayatra before coming to power. The YSRC government started implementation of Netanna Hastham scheme soon after coming into power. Each eligible handloom weaver family is being given Rs 24,000 per year assistance. After getting inputs from weavers’ associations that many eligible poor families were left out of the scheme during the first year, Mohan Rao convinced the chief minister to relax certain guidelines and helped several thousands of the poor get the benefit. “It is a big opportunity provided by the chief minister to serve my people. I will put my heart into making APCO a profitable firm for both the weavers and state government,” Mohan Rao told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mohan-rao-takes-charge-of-apco/articleshow/80050551.cms||Samdani MN
January 1, 2021||Visakhapatnam||AP sees 338 new Covid-19 cases, 4 dead||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported four more Covid-19 deaths and 338 new infections on Thursday, even as the toll increased to 7,108 and the positive case tally to 8,82,286. Altogether 328 patients have recovered since Wednesday while the number of active cases has come down to 3,262. The total number of recoveries have increased to 8,71,916, and the recovery rate stood at 98%. The mortality rate remained at 0.8% and the overall positivity rate of 1.182 crore samples tested so far in the state has decreased to 7.46%, while the positivity rate of the 61,148 samples tested since Wednesday stood at 0.55% in the state. Guntur, Kadapa, Visakhapatnam, and West Godavari districts reported one death each on Thursday. Chittoor district reported the highest single-day tally of 65 cases. It was followed by Krishna (44), East Godavari (42), Guntur (38), Visakhapatnam (34), Kadapa (20), West Godavari (19), Nellore (18), Anantapur (16), Prakasam (15), and Srikakulam district 13 cases. Vizianagaram and Kurnool reported single-digit cases of eight and six respectively on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-sees-338-new-covid-19-cases-4-dead/articleshow/80050586.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 1, 2021||Nagpur||December sees Covid cases rise in dist, but fatalities down||Nagpur: In some worrisome signs for the district, December 2020 ended with reporting increase in the number of Covid-19 cases compared to November, despite reduction in the number of tests conducted, while the declining Covid deaths emerged as a silver lining. After reporting first Covid patient on March 11, the district has registered total 1,23,767 patients till December 31, thus placing it at fourth place among 35 districts in the state, after Pune, Mumbai and Thane. After witnessing 24,163 cases in August and 48,457 cases in September, which was termed as peak, cases started to decline from October. Total 17,417 cases were detected in October. The declining trend continued in November, which saw 8,979 cases for a daily average of 299. The numbers for December, however, were up at 12,002 with a daily average of 387. Number of tests declined in December compared to November, which saw a slight rise in test positivity rate (TPR). Total 1,51,233 tests were conducted for a daily average of 5,041 and TPR was 5.94% in November. Tests came down to 1,45,915 for a daily average of 4,707 and TPR surged to 8.23% in December. The first week of the last month of year 2020 registered higher cases compared to the remaining three. Cases were 3,166 for TPR of 9.26% in the first week followed by 2,562 with TPR of 7.04% in the second week, 2,794 cases with TPR of 8.26% and 3,480 with TPR of 8.39% in the last 10 days. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde told TOI, “Cases increased due to mixing of people more. Also, teachers and non-teaching staff were made to undergo mandatory tests for reopening of schools.” Apart from incubation period of post-Diwali, the month witnessed a large number of marriage ceremonies and restarting of various commercial activities, resulting in increase in the number of cases. On a brighter note, fatalities were slightly less in December compared to November. The district had registered 269 deaths for a case fatality rate (CFR) of 3% in November. Covid casualties declined to 258 and CFR also to 2.15% in December. Covid fatalities were high at 76 in the first week and declined to 56 in the second and 53 in the third week of December. The fatalities were 73 in the last 10 days of the month. Dr Shinde said, “Deaths are on decline due to timely testing and treatment of patients. Also, doctors are now having good idea about the line of treatment to be followed. Due to lesser number of cases, availability of beds for Covid patients was easy.” The calendar year’s last month has come as a ray of hope. Central and state governments have started the process of vaccinating health care workers under phase-I. Over 21,000 health care workers have been registered for the vaccination. Frontline workers, including employees of NMC, police, central and state police and security personnel will be covered under phase-II along with persons with comorbidities and those above 50. Remaining citizens are likely to be administered vaccine later. Dr Shinde also said, “Cases are likely to increase to some extent from mid-January. Usually, more patients with respiratory diseases are found from mid of January to February.” After the peak in October, experts had predicted second wave in mid-January. Dr Shinde said, “There will be no peak like the one we witnessed in August and September. There are chances of multi-waves with slight rise and decline in cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/december-sees-covid-cases-rise-in-dist-but-fatalities-down/articleshow/80052787.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 1, 2021||Nagpur||Release of Avni’s cub in the wild deferred due to injury||Nagpur: The much-planned release of Avni’s three-year-old female cub (T1C2) in the wild has been deferred by 10 days as the tigress suffered a minor injury to its left leg eight days ago.State PCCF (wildlife) Nitin H Kakodkar said, “We were about to release the tigress but found that it had a slight injury. We did not want to take any chances post release, and hence have decided to defer it for now.”On whether elephants are being brought to monitor the tigress from Gadchiroli, Kakodkar said, “Though elephants will not be specifically brought to monitor T1C2, we already have a plan to set up an elephant camp on the lines of MP in Maharashtra side of Pench.” T1C2, the one-year-old cub of Pandharkawda tigress Avni, which was shot dead on November 2, 2018, was captured on December 21, 2018, from the same territory. She was straightaway shifted to the four-hectare enclosure inside Pench Tiger Reserve, Maharashtra, where it was trained to hunt in the enclosure.With an aim to re-release T1C2 in the wild, the animal was radio-collared by Wildlife Institute of India (WII) scientist Bilal Habib on December 22. It was about to be released after monitoring its movement for a few days. On November 27, the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) had already given the go-ahead to release the tigress in Pench.A deer was also released in the four-hectare enclosure inside Pench so that post-release it doesn’t have to struggle to get immediate prey. However, the tigress was found to be slightly injured in a minor fight with another tiger that used to frequent the enclosure regularly to meet the tigress. This led the officials to put off the release.“This is not the first time that T1C2 has been injured during its stay here. It is not something new. We have to be extra-cautious while releasing the cub, hence treated her for the wound which is healing now. It is part of our internal management and all information about the stages of release need not be shared,” said Pench officials.Though forest officials admit the T1C2 rewilding exercise is a big challenge, earlier four such efforts to release hand-reared animals in the wild have failed miserably. On May 17, 2015, tigress TF2 that was trained in the same cage, had to be captured after 22 days when the tigress was at the doorsteps of Khapa village in Pench. In the 22 days it was free, it was unable to hunt in the wild and had returned to its enclosure twice.In September 2019, tigress E1, which was captured from Bramhapuri and re-released in July in Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR), was also recaptured after it was involved in attacks on humans and moved near villages.State-level committee members taking a call on the release of abandoned and problem tigers said, “It will not be a surprise if T1C2 returns to the enclosure for food. Pench has good density of tigers and nothing can be predicted as to how the tigress will behave. This issue did not come before the committee.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/release-of-avnis-cub-in-the-wild-deferred-due-to-injury/articleshow/80050556.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 1, 2021||Bhopal||We’ll fight till agri laws are scrapped, say kisan leaders||Bhopal: Farmer leaders and members of the committee holding talks with the government to withdraw the three agriculture laws said the agitating farmers are prepared to sustain the fight for the next six months or even a year. Addressing a press conference here in Bhopal on Thursday, Shivkumar Sharma alias Kakka ji and Jagjit Singh Dallewal, a farmer leader from Punjab said there was enough ration and the farmers have rented godowns to store food grains. The two farmer leaders were in the city for a day. They returned to the NCR in the evening to join the agitation again. Kakka ji said help continues to pour in for the ongoing ‘kisan andolan’. “Farmers are prepared for a long battle. Initially, we had issues related to food. But someone brought a machine that rolls 2,000 rotis in an hour. We have put up tents where one can live in zero-degree temperature. A bitiya (daughter) of one of the agitating farmers has sent five lakh sweaters from Canada. A gurudwara in Gwalior is sending food to the agitation farmers of Madhya Pradesh holding fort at Gwalior-Agra road, five kilometres from Palwal in Haryana,” he said. “I am just explaining this to let you know that we are not going to give up the agitation”, Kakka ji said, and added, “We will continue till we win”. When asked what is the benefit of holding talks, Kakka ji drew a parallel with the Independence movement. “Our ‘andolan’ is like that of Mahatma Gandhi, we will continue to hold talks with the government until we are successful, the way Gandhiji got us freedom”. Dallewal said the three laws would ruin not only the farmers but also the people in general. He said, “Hoardings will go up and essential commodities would go beyond the reach of the people as the government has amended the Essential Commodities Act.” Dallewal said, “Many people wonder why there are mostly Sikhs and people from Haryana taking part in the agitation. The answer is Delhi is closer to both the states and it is easy to reach there by tractors. Secondly, historically Sikhs are also known for their struggle in the freedom movement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/well-fight-till-agri-laws-are-scrapped-say-kisan-leaders/articleshow/80051319.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Hyderabad||PRC submits report to CS||Hyderabad: Thirty-two months after it was constituted, the first Pay Revision Commission (PRC) of Telangana submitted its report to chief secretary Somesh Kumar on Thursday. The commission reportedly suggested pay revision in three slabs. The PRC also took into consideration percentages being extended by the state government. The PRC report will now be studied by a committee headed by the CS. In January second week, CMO officials will meet the employees on the proposals made by the PRC and a pay revision is likely to be announced in the third week of January. Meanwhile, leaders of employees’ associations who met chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Thursday urged him to see that all entitlements are extended to the employees on the day of their retirement. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/prc-submits-report-to-cs/articleshow/80052757.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Delhi||Ducktales! Rare sightings, more birds in 2020||NEW DELHI: For the first time, the Himalayan bluetail has been sighted in Delhi-NCR at Mangar Bani. Most wetlands in NCR have also been witnessing the arrival of a higher number of migratory birds this winter compared with last year. Other rare sightings include the Falcated duck at Sultanpur, Pacific golden plover at Najafgarh, Great-crested grebe at Okhla Bird Sanctuary and Black-hooded oriole at Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary. At the Yamuna Biodiversity Park, too, many species, including Gadwalls, Eurasian coot and Great cormorant, have been sighted in larger numbers. “The Himalayan bluetail was initially misidentified, but a team went to Mangar Bani the next day and recorded it again. The Great-crested grebe, which is rare for NCR, was sighted at Okhla after a few years,” said Nikhil Devasar, a birder and author of the book “Birds About Delhi”. He added that most wetlands were doing well this year, including Dhanauri, Okhla and Mangar Bani. Birder Kanwar B Singh said the Himalayan bluetail was a “vagrant” and probably came down from the mountains around Diwali when snowfall occurred in the Himalayas. “The bird generally does an altitudinal migration to the plains nearby. But Delhi is around 200km away, so it is slightly strange to see it here,” he added. He further stated, “Dhanauri wetland and Okhla are doing well in terms of numbers so far. Najafgarh is the only concern as a new road is being constructed near the wetland, which might disturb the habitat and, impact the total area too.” Sohail Madan, centre manager, Bombay Natural History Society at Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary, said apart from higher numbers, there were fairly strange sightings being recorded. He had spotted a Black-hooded oriole, a rare sighting for Delhi. He added that ducks were higher in number this year. “We’ve seen unusual sightings like the Combed duck and Greylag goose, which were seen for the first time at Asola. We spotted 10 Steppe eagles together, which is another endangered species. The change in weather pattern might have impacted the numbers this year. Initially, the numbers were low, but they’ve suddenly gone up over the past month,” said Madan. Data from YBP showed a higher number of species this year. For instance, 215 Eurasian coot were recorded till December 4 compared with 91 at the same time last year. Over 1,000 Great cormorants have been recorded at the park compared with 203 last year. “The early cold this year might be playing a part in birds arriving in larger numbers,” said Faiyaz Khudsar, scientist at YBP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ducktales-rare-sightings-more-birds-in-2020/articleshow/80051308.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
January 1, 2021||Vijayawada||YS Jagan Mohan Reddy launches disaster, emergency response vehicles to aid AP police||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy launched 14 Disaster Response and Emergency Response vehicles from his Tadepalli camp office on Thursday. Speaking on this occasion, Jagan Mohan Reddy said that the vehicles will strengthen the existing machinery of the police department further enhancing their effectiveness. He said that the vehicles would also help the department to deal with situations and make the right decisions at the field level. Jagan stated that this force can be mobilised to take part in relief operations of any serious disaster, as these vehicles have special equipment to save people’s lives. The 14 vehicles are equipped with facilities like radio equipment, public address systems, network video recording and designed to withstand severe conditions including fire to come in handy during rescue operations. The chief minister also announced that the government would introduce another 36 new emergency response vehicles to the police department. Each of the police districts in the state would get two vehicles, he said. He further said that these vehicles would come handy to the police department in handling Disha cases too, besides every emergency. All the vehicles will be deployed from the control room immediately in case of any incident, where each vehicle can carry up to 10 crew members to the scene and has a facility to live transmit the scene, that allows to see and review happenings at the scene directly from the control room. A total of 92 staff were also specially trained for these vehicles, which are specially focused to save human lives. Andhra Pradesh director genereal of police (DGP) D Gautam Sawang, who was also present on the occasion along with the senior officials of the department, thanked the chief minister for adding new vehicles to improve the performance of the department. He expressed confidence that the officers and the staff attached to the vehicles would give their best in serving the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-launches-disaster-emergency-response-vehicles-to-aid-ap-police/articleshow/80050608.cms||Gopi Dara
January 1, 2021||Pune||New year countdown in virtual get-together||Meeting each other personally being tough in 2020, Sagar Awade ushered in 2021 together virtually with his family members, staying in different parts of the city. The online session with near and dear ones gave Awade a completely different feeling, as he usually hosted a family get-together on New Year’s Eve. Considering that his relatives from different parts of the city would not be able to travel to his home with the night curfew in place, Awade decided to organize an online get-together. “My aunts and uncles with their children come to my house in Katraj every year to celebrate New Year. But this year-end, they preferred to stay at their homes because of the Covid situation. Most of them, including my parents, have underlying health issues. So, we have been extra cautious about safety throughout the year,” says Awade. “Most of them are senior citizens, but they have learnt how to make video calls during the lockdown period. So, we thought of a get-together on a video call to count down the New Year. We would have a catching up session before that. There will be a lot of cross-talking too, as it happens when we meet at home. So, the vibe of the online gathering will remain the same. We shall try to play games like Tambola — a ritual at our New Year’s Eve get-togethers,” says Awade. Perhaps the only thing amiss would be the variety of dishes in the grand dinner. “It used to be a potluck arrangement, where all my aunts and uncles would bring one dish or the other. I shall also miss hanging out with my cousins and exchanging glances while our parents discuss who is the most troublesome one. We shall have our sidebar conversation on our cousins-only WhatsApp group, though,” quips Awade. Anjali Jhangiani||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-year-countdown-in-virtual-get-together/articleshow/80053878.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Smaller tech firms homing in on Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: To provide a more comfortable work environment, several small IT and BPO companies with their headquarters in metropolitan cities are now shifting base to Visakhapatnam. According to an estimate, 56 such companies from Hyderabad, Bengaluru, and Chennai have consolidated their base in the port city over the last two years. Another 13 companies from these cities and Kolkata are in talks with Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) to shift base. “There are several reasons that make Visakhapatnam an ideal workplace destination for this sector. There is a pool of fresh talent from recognised institutions in the city and a low attrition rate. But most importantly, in need of help, local administrations in small cities like Visakhapatnam are easily accessible. Many companies have entirely shifted base to Visakhapatnam or have consolidated their important businesses in this city,” STPI in-charge MP Dubey told TOI. Members of IT bodies in the have city noted that the pandemic in many ways acted as an opportunity as local administrations were easily accessible during lockdown period which helped in the smooth conduct of business. “Issues like granting of passes and emergencies that cropped up during lockdown were smoothly addressed as we got an easy access to the administration. Those were nearly impossible in big metropolitans, especially for smaller companies. Such trends would help consolidation of similar firms in Visakhapatnam in future,” former president of IT Association of Andhra Pradesh, RL Narayan, told TOI. “The city has all probability to become the digital marketing hub of India and we are eyeing to recruit another 6,000 employees in the next three years. The main challenge would be to stop the toppers from the city’s institution to migrate to big cities.” Srinubabu Gedelea, CEO of Pulses, told TOI. The company has expanded its business to Visakhapatnam after Hyderabad, Delhi, and Chennai. It plans to consolidate its digital marketing division in Visakhapatnam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/smaller-tech-firms-homing-in-on-vizag/articleshow/80050517.cms||Arpit Basu
January 1, 2021||Hyderabad||New virus strain here, why no curbs on mass gatherings?: Telangana high court||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Thursday told the Telangana government to consider imposing a night curfew to curb the spread of a new strain of coronavirus in the state. The bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy resumed hearing a batch of Covid-related PILs and said that the new strain may not be more dangerous but spreads like a forest fire. The judges said congregation and movement of people should be curbed. There was no point in closing Tank Bund and Necklace Road while allowing New Year celebrations indoors. One infected person in a party hall with 200 people can infect all the inmates at one go, the bench warned. “No party. Nothing. Just Section 144. Why can’t the state do this?” the bench asked. “Your health director warns people about a second wave and wants people to be extremely cautious and the government, on the other hand, is saying it will allow New Year celebrations. Why are we inviting trouble by allowing congregations?” the judges wondered and said that authorities in Mumbai and Rajasthan had imposed night curfew. “Telangana is a landlocked state sharing borders with many states and the spread of virus is easy here and this is all the more the reason to be more vigilant. Keep hospitals, oxygen beds, infrastructure ready to face the new challenges,” the bench said. Advocate general B S Prasad said he would convey the order to the state authorities. “The experience gained in fighting Covid-19 in the last nine months should be useful for the state and its machinery to tackle the new strain that has come from the UK,” the bench said. Gorantla Pujitha, counsel for one of the petitioners, said scores of UK returnees who brought the virus into Telangana were still untraceable because they misled officials about their whereabouts. Stating that the surveillance on returnees must start at the airport itself, the bench directed the state to consider slapping IPC Sec 269 that penalises those who wilfully spread the virus and refuse to divulge details about their whereabouts. Noting down the concern of another counsel, Naresh Reddy Chinnolla, the bench directed the state to ensure that the norm that marriage guest list must not cross 50 is strictly implemented. The bench directed the state to furnish a report on the steps it took by Jan 20 and posted the case to Jan 21. Public health department director Dr G Srinivas Rao informed the court that he would be busy with the vaccination programme in the coming weeks and urged the court to dispense with his presence for future hearings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sec-144-night-curfew-needed-to-fight-new-covid-strain-hc-to-t/articleshow/80052782.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Ludhiana||BSP joins farmers protest at Singhu border on New Year eve||JALANDHAR: Bahujan Samaj Party activists have joined the farmers’ protest at Singhu border. Led by state president Jasbir Singh Garhi, BSP cadres first gathered at Shambhu border and then left in a cavalcade of 100 cars in the afternoon on Thursday to join the protest on the New Year eve. BSP workers did not carry their party flag but a blue flag with picture of Ambedkar on it. They also waved banners in support of farmers and on unity of farmers and labourers. Mayawati’s outfit is apparently the first party to participate in the protest in numbers as farmers unions have been keeping political leaders away from the stage. “Our purpose is to show solidarity of the labourers, most of whom come from scheduled caste, with the farmers. Our idea is more social than political as BJP has been trying to divide people on caste lines and we wish to unite them. We hope that our participation would send a signal in the society. We shall spend New Year’s first day with farmers,” said Garhi while speaking to TOI on way to Delhi border. He said they wanted to strengthen the social fabric in Punjab. Earlier, the party had performed ardas at Darbar Sahib in the memory of those who died during the farmers protest in the last over one month. Already, many farm labourers have been participating in the agitation and Dalit singers and heads of different deras have also participated and even addressed the gathering from the main stage. Though some Dalits also own land or work as agriculturists, most of the protesting farmers are Jatt Sikhs. Most of the labourers come from scheduled caste or migrants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bsp-join-farmers-protest-at-singhu-border-on-ny-eve/articleshow/80052738.cms||IP Singh
January 1, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Anti-viral drug for patient with UK strain||NEW DELHI: One of the four persons admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital with Covid-19 caused by the UK-variety mutated strain of the novel coronavirus is being administered anti-viral drug remdesivir. The 47-year-old man with a history of travel to the UK has mild symptoms, including dry cough, a source at the hospital told TOI. “At present, he is being administered remdesivir. Oxygen support system has been kept on standby,” said a senior doctor. The hospital has 41 people in separate rooms, with the majority of them suffering from Covid-19 and having a history of travel to the UK, where the strain was first detected in September. A few of them are family members of the UK returnees who also have Covid-19. “Only one person has mild symptoms. The rest are stable,” a doctor said. The reports of genome sequencing of eight UK returnees released by National Centre for Disease Control shows four persons have the mutated strain. “We are waiting for the genome sequencing results of the rest of the UK returnees. It is likely to be available in a day or two,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital. One of the patients is a 7-year-old girl, whose mother has tested negative for the UK strain, a source said. Dr Suneela Garg, an adviser to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said the mutated strain of SARS-CoV2 had higher transmissibility compared to the regular strain but the data available so far showed it didn’t cause more severe symptoms. “But we will have to wait for more research and analysis of patient data to be sure about that. In the meantime, it is important to track and monitor all persons with a history of travel to the countries affected by the mutated strain for timely isolation of positive cases to prevent disease spread,” she said. Till date, there is no cure for Covid-19. Treatment mostly involves symptomatic management of positive cases. The vaccines for immunisation against the viral infection have been approved in countries like the US and the UK. In India, a nod is likely soon. Dr N K Mehra, honorary emeritus scientist at ICMR and former dean of AIIMS, said the vaccine developed for the original strain was likely to be effective against the mutated one too. According to the hypotheses presented by the UK consortium, unusual genetic divergence of lineage B.1.1.7, one of the mutations, may have resulted, at least in part, from virus evolution in a chronically-infected individual. “Although such infections are rare, and onward transmission presumably even rarer, they are not improbable, given the ongoing large number of new infections,” it adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/anti-viral-drug-for-patient-with-uk-strain/articleshow/80051324.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
January 1, 2021||Amaravati||Following Amul MoU, AP govt announces VRS for dairy workers||AMARAVATI: After entering an MoU with Amul for procurement of milk from producers in three districts, the government has now, in a bid to ease the financial burden on the AP cooperative dairy federation, announced a voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) for dairy employees across the state. The government has also decided to lease out milk powder making plants and other processing units in the cooperative dairies to Amul. “Even though the plants are not in operation to full capacity, many who were employed while the plants are flourishing prior to bifurcation, remain idle and their salaries are not being paid regularly. In some cases, payments are being delayed. In order to achieve optimum human resource utilisation without any detriment to the interest of the organisation, it has been proposed to implement voluntary retirement scheme (VRS),” managing director of AP Dairy Development Cooperative Federation (APDDCF), Babu Ahmed, said in his report to the state government. The government swiftly granted approval to the MD’s report and allowed him to issue VRS notification on January 1. Interestingly, almost all district-level cooperative dairies have become defunct over the last few years despite the fact that private dairies did well in the state. In several cases, private dairies took control of procurement in some districts by paying paltry sums to milk producers. This forced several producers to sell their cattle as milk production was not seen profitable. In an attempt to bring life back to the milk production sector and help producers, the government entered an MoU with Amul. The entry of Amul into AP, with the support of government has led to private players increasing their procurement price. “The private dairies have looted farmers for several years. Amul is not only going to pay good price but also help farmers with its veterinary experts,” said Rajya Sabha member Mopidevi Venkata Ramana Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/following-amul-mou-state-govt-announces-vrs-for-dairy-workers/articleshow/80050564.cms||Samdani MN
January 1, 2021||Bhopal||844 new cases take state Covid count past 2.41L||Bhopal: As many as 844 new COVID-19 infections were reported in Madhya Pradesh on Thursday. Since the pandemic began, a total 2,41,791 have been diagnosed with the infection in the state. On Thursday, 11 more deaths were attributed to the infection. The total number of COVID-19 related deaths has touched 3,606 in MP. A total 866 patients were discharged from hospitals since Wednesday evening, taking the state’s overall recovery count to 2,28,831. Of the new fatalities, two each died in Indore, Bhopal and Gwalior and one each in Jabalpur, Sagar, Hoshangabad, Narsinghpur and Balaghat districts. Of 844 new cases, Indore accounted for 234 and Bhopal 158. The number of cases in Indore rose to 54,918, including 873 deaths, while Bhopal’s case tally stood at 39,281 with 577 fatalities. Indore now has 2,977 active cases, while this figure for Bhopal is 1,996. With 27,721 new tests conducted in the state in the last 24 hours, the overall number of tests rose to 46,41,648.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/844-new-cases-take-state-covid-count-past-2-41l/articleshow/80051354.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 1, 2021||Nagpur||New strain suspect sent home after confusion, called back||Nagpur: Confusion over name and test result led to a UK-returned Covid positive man from Hanuman Nagar zone area being sent for home quarantine by health officials on Thursday. He had voluntarily turned up at GMCH special ward set up for international flyers amid the new Covid strain scare in the afternoon.As TOI started making enquiries, NMC officials hurried to shift the man back to GMCH. They planned to repeat the test with proper details and decide on his admission. TOI reminded officials that Nehru Nagar and Narendra Nagar zone too had encountered similar dilemma, yet two UK returned men under these areas have not been allowed to go home. Hence, the zone officials decision to send the man home came as a surprise. Apparently, there was miscommunication between NMC health department and zone officials as different reasons were cited by them for sending the man home.The man had returned on December 19 and had tested RTPCR negative at Mumbai airport after which he was allowed to proceed to Nagpur. Since last two days, he was having cold and got tested again. Health officials said he tested positive in rapid antigen test and as per NMC’s public appeal reached GMCH.The patient was allotted a room in the special ward. He was asked to submit a referral letter from Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) which he did not have.NMC chief medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar said the man’s name was not in the list forwarded by Bureau of Immigration. “NMC couldn’t contact him like other flyers. He tested positive on December 29 at NMC’s centre. He disclosed his travel history when our team contacted him like we do for all daily positive patients to ask them to stay in home isolation. I have asked the zonal medical officer to shift him to GMCH special ward immediately,” Dr Chilkar said.However, zonal officials told TOI there was confusion in SRF (specimen referral form) identity as the name mentioned in it differed from his ID proof. “Without confirmation, we can’t admit any patient,” officials said. He was admitted back in GMCH at 10pm. Meanwhile, the six-year-old son of an earlier positive UK-returnee from Mahal also tested positive and has been admitted toGMCH along with his father. The boy and his parents had arrived in Raipur from UK on December 14 and attended a marriage ceremony at Jajgir. Father was found positive and admitted at GMCH while wife was negative. Son’s test was conducted later.The number of suspected patients has now increased to eight. NMC officials said NIV Pune is likely to give genome sequencing results of first three suspected patients— a youth from Nandanwan and mother-daughter duo from Trimurti Nagar— on Friday. The results will reveal whether they are infected with new UK strain.NMC had received list of 131 flyers who returned from Europe, Middle East and South Africa between November 25 and December 23.Dr Chilkar said, “97 got tested of which 92 came negative. Tests of one-year and two-year old children were not done as their mothers tested negative. 20 flyers are not traceable. 12 are at present staying in other cities and are yet to be tested,” he said.Among 19 new flyers from these particular countries, five were discharged on Wednesday and Thursday as they tested negative and had also completed seven days in quarantine. Results of three more flyers came negative on Thursday and they will be discharged after completion of seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-strain-suspect-sent-home-after-confusion-called-back/articleshow/80050565.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 1, 2021||Chandigarh||Guv not giving time to call spl assembly session, alleges Hooda||Chandigarh: Former Haryana chief minister and opposition leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the governor is not giving them time to seek a special session of the state legislature without assigning any reasons. He said he would write to the governor again to demand a special session of the Haryana house. Speaking to media persons after a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party, Hooda said farmers have been agitating at the Delhi border and other parts of the state in the bitter cold and 42 farmers have lost their lives in 36 days. “In such a serious situation, it is important to discuss the issues of farmers. On December 7, we wrote a letter to His Excellency the governor, demanding a special session of the assembly but the governor has not accepted that demand till date,” he said. He added, “The honourable governor has also refused to meet Congress MLAs without assigning any reason. I have seen for the first time in my political life that the governor is refusing to meet the opposition in this way. I have written to the governor, demanding calling of the assembly session at the earliest,” he said. With this, Hooda said, it has become clear that the governor is not using his constitutional powers to call a session and that the coalition government is trying to evade a no-confidence motion. He also asserted that the government has clearly lost the trust of people and legislators. “In two months, the government has suffered two major setbacks. After its loss in Baroda by-election, the coalition also suffered a crushing defeat in local body elections. In the civic elections, BJP won only two out of seven seats while its ally JJP was completely wiped out while the Congress candidate registered the biggest victory of the state in Sonipat. Pro-Congress candidates also won in Uklana, Sampla and Dharuhera by defeating BJP,” Hooda observed. The opposition leader said it is clear from these results that after rural voters, urban voters have also rejected the BJP-JJP alliance. “After Baroda bypolls, results of local bodies make it clear that people of the state are now in the mood for a change and BJP-JJP is going from Haryana,” he said. Earlier on Thursday, Hooda chaired a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party and observed two-minute silence to pay tributes to 42 farmers who lost their lives in the agitation. Thereafter, a resolution was passed in support of agitating farmers against the three agricultural laws. The proposal said demands of farmers are completely valid and the movement is being taken forward in a democratic and peaceful manner. He said while farmers’ organisations are leading the movement, the Congress stands in their support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/guv-not-giving-time-to-call-spl-assembly-session-alleges-hooda/articleshow/80052794.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Many nominations received for gram panchayat polls||NASHIK/KOLHAPUR: The last day of filing nominations for the gram panchayat polls, which are scheduled to be held on January 15, saw large number of aspirants submitting their nominations before the deadline expired. In both Nashik and Kolhapur more than 15,000 nominations have been received. According to the report generated by the Nashik district administration, 16,993 nominations had been received for the 5,895 seats in 2,132 prabhas of 621 gram panchayats. Till the reports last came in, the scrutiny of applications for the gram panchayat elections in villages of Igatpuri, Dindori, Trimbakeshwar, Baglan, Deola and Nashik taluka had been completed. As many as 5,457 out of 5,547 applications — for 2,064 seats in 216 villages across these seven talukas — were held valid. So far, 1,773 nominations for 653 seats in Yeola have been found valid. Similarly, 1,301 nominations in Dindori taluka, 1,105 in Baglan, 743 in Nashik, 147 in Igatpuri, 338 in Deola and 50 nominations in Trimbakeshwar were found valid. Officials in Kolhapur said 15,602 nomination papers were received on Wednesday for the 433 gram panchayats. Elections to six gram panchayats in Shahuwadi tehsil — Wadgaon, Sondoli, Jambhur, Perid, Warul and Anuskara — are likely to be unopposed. Officials said each ward has received, on average, 20 nomination papers. The highest number of nomination papers (2,718) were received in Kagal tehsil. Gaganbawda tehsil received only 205 papers, which is the lowest in the district. Kolhapur police have identified 80 villages that have been put in the sensitive category. More than 2,000 police personnel, assisted by 1,000 home guards, have been deployed for the election duty, said superintendent of police Shailesh Balkawde. Gadhinglaj tehsil has the highest number of sensitive villages (21), followed by Shahuwadi (16). Equal enthusiasm was seen among political workers in neighbouring Sangli district. The district has received 5,196 nomination papers for 152 elections. he last date of withdrawal of nomination papers is January 4 . Counting will be done on January 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/many-nominations-received-for-gram-panchayat-polls/articleshow/80050598.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Delhi||Army restores war hero’s damaged grave||NEW DELHI: Only a few days after it was noticed that the grave of war hero Brigadier Mohammad Usman was in a state of disrepair, the Indian Army on Thursday finished the restoration work. The Army got the marble epitaph repaired. It now reads: ‘Brig M Usman, MVC, Naushera ka Sher.’ Colonel (retired) Gopal Singh earlier visited the grave after the news of it being damaged came out. He told TOI that “we had told the Jamia authorities that we will get the grave repaired in the next few days, but it is clear that the Army got it done in less than a week’s time. This was bound to happen as he is an icon and a war hero who inspires us all.” TimesViewThe Army’s promptness in repairing the grave of the war hero must be appreciated. Certain institutions are uniformly respected by millions. This is another reason why.Brigadier Usman was martyred during the first India-Pakistan war on July 3, 1948. It was mass communication student Umar Ashraf who found out the damage to the grave, present inside Batla House graveyard near Jamia Millia Islamia. “Our purpose was to shed light on graves of all famous icons that are in bad shape. Even graves of Unani medicine Hakim Ajmal Khan and theatre doyen Ebrahim Alkazi are in bad shape,” said the MA student. The graveyard also houses the graves of Jamia’s former VC and important figures like freedom fighter MA Ansari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/army-restores-war-heros-damaged-grave/articleshow/80051348.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Bhopal||Health workers, civic staff lead from the front in fight against Covid-19||Bhopal: Hospitals, civic body staffers and cops gave us hope in the worst health crisis in a generation that we witnessed during the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020. As we celebrate the New Year, hundreds of health workers, cops and civic body staffers are going to work, keeping vigil and helping those in need. Bhopal Smart City Development Corporation Limited’s (BSCDCL) integrated control and command centre (ICCC) became the focal point of monitoring the pandemic. The 5,000-sq feet room in Govindpura is a 24x7 Covid-19 war room controlled by the district admiration. “We monitor people who have been diagnosed with Covid-19, assess their situation with the help of medical experts — whether they require hospitalisation, institutional quarantine or can be placed under home isolation. We seek repeated updates from patients. It is a 24x7 process,” said the ICCC floor manager, seeking anonymity. About a dozen staffers would be working through the night on New Year’s Eve and into 2021. The staffers are prohibited to reveal their identity. Some are from the health department, district administration and backed by BSCDCL representatives. “There are many departments in the Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) which have to work 24x7. Water supply is one such 24x7 service. Fire and emergency services are always on vigil. There are around 300 sanitation workers and almost the same number of vehicles which keep the city clean,” said BMC additional commissioner, MP Singh. The red marks and bruises on their faces after hours of wearing personal protective equipment (PPE), are the badges of honour worn by healthcare staff. The words -- donning and doffing -- a PPE suit at the hospital became a commonly used nomenclature during the pandemic. “Being a medical student this year was a true challenge (to survive the pandemic). We worked wearing PPE kits in the summers, monsoon and now the winters, with a determination to improve every one of our patients’ health. Hope that the upcoming year brings joy and happiness to everyone who survived this year,” said Gandhi Medical College (GMC), resident medical officer, Dr Sumedha Bodh. The celebrations would be muted to a large extent, as the Covid-19 warrior is slated to work in the ICU night shift on December 31. GMC’s Dr Keerti Kori said, “Covid-19 duties are on rotation. Some of us are posted in COVID-19 duties which itself is a tedious job involving risk to our health and discomfort of PPE kit. Non-Covid medical personnel are equally exhausted. It is all a new learning curve and standing up to the oath we took to serve as a medical professional.” Months away from completing her academic session, she is reminded of her 2020 birthday, marked by wearing a PPE kit and on duty in a medical ward. No sooner, her close relative was also admitted to the Covid-19 facility where she was on duty. By protecting the others, some of the health workers have risked the life of their family members. The hospital deals with the most critical of Covid-19 cases and most recover to tell their story.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/health-workers-civic-staff-lead-from-the-front-in-fight-against-covid-19/articleshow/80051362.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Nashik||Youth arrested for buying stolen phone||Nashik: Ahmednagar police have arrested a 20-year-old man from Nashik for buying a stolen mobile phone from three others. Anil Katke, police inspector of crime branch, said the police have seized the mobile that was stolen on November 11 from Sanjay Pathak (23), a resident of Pathardi taluka. The complainant had parked his two-wheeler on the roadside to relieve himself when an unidentified person hit him on his head and then robbed goods worth Rs 17,300 from him, including a motorcycle, a mobile phone and Rs 300 cash. The Bhingar Camp police received a tip-off that the phone was being used in Nashik city. A police team from Bhingar Camp police station went to the city and picked up Karan Rokde, who was then inquired about the phone. He said he bought the phone from three people, John Padechi, Sahil Mhaske and his brother Harsh Mhaske. The police learnt that the three were already in Central jail for alleged involvement in a murder case Now, Rokde has been remanded in police custody till January 1. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/youth-arrested-for-buying-stolen-phone/articleshow/80050599.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 1, 2021||Pune||Pledge to protect city’s tekdis||As the clock struck 12 on Thursday night and his friends just started partying, this youth slipped under the quilt for a good night’s sleep to wake up fresh the next morning and scale his “beloved” tekdis (hills) documenting birds and butterflies. Meet Advait Chaudhary (21), a first-year student of masters in data science. The keen “nature follower” says, “The new year should begin with a fresh perspective. I have been passionate about nature right from the beginning. When I was in Standard X, I started visiting the tekdis.” On January 1, he will scale the hills in Saswad. “The Saswad hills have grasslands. It is easier to spot birds there than in forest areas, where you need to identify them by their sounds.” Chaudhary has been writing about various species of reptiles and other living things found on tekdis for long. He has been documenting both birds and butterflies on Baner, Vetal, Parvati and Taljai tekdis. Over the last three years, he started doing it in a scientific way. He finished attending a workshop at Kanha National Park a day before the New Year’s Eve. “There are so many species of birds, butterflies and insects on the hills. While documentation is an important part of it, awareness is key if we want to save our planet. I started taking my friends on hill trails and it has become a ritual now,” says Chaudhari. He feels over the years, there have been many changes in the life on hills. “Prey-predator behaviour, topography and floral diversity have changed. There needs to be a citizen movement to conserve and protect these ecosystems,” he says. (Ardhra Nair)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pledge-to-protect-citys-tekdis/articleshow/80053918.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Former Andhra Pradesh CM N Chandrababu Naidu hatched cash-for-vote plot: Pastor Jerusalem Mathaiah||HYDERABAD: Pastor Jerusalem Mathaiah, a key witness in the cash-for-vote scam, has told the Enforcement Directorate (ED) that former Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu hatched the conspiracy to lure nominated MLA Elvis Stephenson to vote for the TDP-BJP candidate in the MLC elections in 2015. Mathaiah, who deposed before the ED on December 29, gave a statement that former TDP leader and now Congress working president A Revanth Reddy and Naidu had told him to lure Stephenson by offering a bribe of Rs 5 crore. The ED booked a Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) case based on the Telangana ACB FIR against Revanth and others. In his statement (a copy of which is with TOI), Mathaiah narrated the sequence of events in 2015 during the elections to the Telangana legislative council. “TDP leader R Jimmy Babu told me that Naidu and Revanth wanted to have a confidential meeting with me in connection with the MLC elections (on June 1, 2015). Jimmy Babu told me to come to Mahanadu conference at Himayatsagar to discuss the issue directly with Naidu and Revanth. Jimmy Babu took me into a room behind the dais where Naidu and Revanth were present.” Mathaiah further said in his statement: “In front of Naidu, Revanth told me to meet Stephenson and convince him to cross vote in favour of TDP candidate Vem Narender Reddy. Revanth told me that Stephenson will be paid Rs 5 crore if he votes in favour of Narender and Rs 3 crore if he abstains from voting. A flight ticket to Jerusalem was also part of the deal. He told me an amount of Rs 50 lakh would be paid to me as a goodwill.” He said Revanth and Naidu told him that they would pay Rs 50 lakh as advance and the remaining amount after voting. “I invited Stephenson as a chief guest at a programme in Bhoiguda and during the conversation I told him about Naidu’s offer. Stephenson told me that he wants to meet Revanth or Naidu or any authorised person from TDP. On return, I visited the house of Malcolm Taylor, an aide of Stephenson, and asked him to convince. I told Malcolm and another aide Antony that I would give a part of my share of Rs 50 lakh. After I got an assurance from Stephenson, I informed TDP Christian cell in-charge Harry Sebastian.” Mathaiah further said, “Harry told me that he would inform Naidu and Revanth. Harry told me that Naidu also spoke to Stephenson from his mobile. They were preparing to pay the advance.” He added, “Next day (May 31, 2015), the ACB arrested Revanth and others while he was offering Rs 50 lakh to Stephenson to make him vote for the TDP-BJP candidate. I came to know that they made me accused No. 4. I secretly visited the TDP office at Banjara Hills along with Jimmy Babu and met Nara Lokesh and informed him about my position. I was asked to go underground. So, I went to Vijayawada to hide for six months.” Telangana government moved the Supreme Court in 2016 against Mathaiah after the high court quashed the case against him. In 2018, Mathaiah created a flutter outside the apex court premises by seeking to argue his case on his own and alleging threat to his life in both Telangana and AP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/key-witness-in-cash-for-vote-scam-says-naidu-hatched-conspiracy/articleshow/80052822.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 1, 2021||Nashik||Health camp for Nashik cops & their family members||Nashik: The city police on Wednesday started a health check-up programme for police personnel and their family members so they can get checked for blood pressure, diabetes and non-communicable diseases. Once the disease is identified and brought under control, the person concerned will be given a diet and regimen. The inaugural health check-up camp took place at the police headquarters, after which, the camps will be organised at all the police quarters in the city. Speaking at the inaugural camp, Deepak Pandey, the commissioner of police, appealed to all the police personnel to maintain their good health and their family’s. As part of this initiative, a team of doctors selected from the Nashik civil hospital will be conducting the health check-up of police personnel and their family members. Ratna Raokhande, the district’s civil surgeon, who was also invited for the inaugural programme, said the police were among the frontline Covid warriors and they need to take all the precautionary measures for their health. She said that if medicines are required, she could make them available from the Nashik civil hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/health-camp-for-nashik-cops-their-family-members/articleshow/80050585.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 1, 2021||Chandigarh||Hopeful of positive outcome of Jan 4 meeting: Khattar||Chandigarh: Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday said he was hopeful of a positive outcome of the January 4, 2021 meeting between farmers protesting against agri laws and Union government. “I am happy that the last meeting was productive,” he added. The CM, who was interacting with media persons, also urged the farmers to return to their homes in this severe cold. “We have always been sympathetic towards farmers. A lot of effort is being made to resolve the issue through mutual dialogue,” he said and alleged that the opposition was misleading the farmers over the newly introduced farm laws for their own vested interests. Khattar claimed the kind of work and farmers’ welfare schemes launched by Haryana in the last six years have not been there in any other state. Be it procurement of millet, maize, groundnut or moong at MSP or implementation of Bhavantar Bharpai Yojana to ensure that farmers get fair price for their produce, his government had taken several steps to ensure their welfare. In Haryana, millet is procurement at Rs 2,150 per quintal, whereas in Rajasthan the rate is Rs 1,200-1,300 per quintal. Defending the new farm laws, the CM said he would quit politics if MSP is abolished in Haryana. To a question regarding millet smuggling in the state, he said the deputy commissioners have already been directed to keep a and take strict action against those involved in such illegal activities. Responding to a question on water conservation, he said his government has launched ‘Mera Pani Meri Virasat Yojana’ under which around 80,000 acre land has been verified for crop diversification till now. “I am happy that farmers have adopted the crop diversification scheme. At the time of sowing, farmers were given Rs 2,000 each, while Rs 5,000 is being given after verification,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hopeful-of-positive-outcome-of-jan-4-meeting-khattar/articleshow/80052820.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 1, 2021||Ludhiana||In Melbourne, Punjab woman skydives to back farm protests||BATHINDA: The support to farmer struggle against agriculture marketing laws has poured in even from the skies — that too in faraway Australia. Supporting the farmer agitation, a Punjabi-origin woman settled in Australia, skydived from 15,000 feet in Melbourne on Wednesday. Baljit Kaur, hailing from Rurka Kalan village near Mullanpur Dakha in Ludhiana district spent Australian $610 (nearly Rs 35,000) for skydiving. She is pursuing masters in Melbourne apart from working part time. During skydiving, 29-year-old Baljit wore a top and a mask with ‘Supporting Indian Farmers Protests’ written on them. Her family back in India has no connection with farming. However, Baljit was disturbed the way older men and women were sitting on the Delhi borders for over a month to protest the “draconian farm laws.”. Speaking to TOI over phone from Melbourne, Baljit said, “I was seeing various videos of the suffering of farmers earlier in Punjab for the last three months and now at the Delhi borders for over a month. I was looking at several persons including NRIs supporting the farmer struggle in different ways. So, I too decided to support the ongoing agitation.” Baljit after doing M Ed and masters in economics had shifted to Australia three and half years ago on student visa and is pursuing masters in social work. Many non-resident Indians are supporting the farmer protest in various ways, including by providing moral and material assistance to them. Watch Australia: Woman from Punjab skydives to show support for farmers' protest||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-woman-sky-dives-in-melbourne-to-protest-against-farm-laws/articleshow/80052830.cms||Neel Kamal
January 1, 2021||Chandigarh||BJP spreading false propaganda on law & order situation: Capt||Chandigarh: Accusing the state BJP president of spreading “false propaganda” to further the party’s political agenda, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday said Ashwani Sharma’s desperate attempts to falsely project a law and order problem in the state reflected the party’s fear of complete annihilation in the upcoming civic polls. Interacting with mediapersons after dedicating the Chandigarh-Kharar elevated corridor to commuters, Amarinder said the state BJP’s request to the governor to defer civic polls by alleging poor law and order situation showed that the party leadership was in complete panic at the prospect of facing the elections at a time when the people were angry over the farm laws. “Ashwani and his party colleagues were now resorting to desperate measures to wriggle out of the polls,” he said. He also dismissed the state BJP leadership’s charge that Congress was responsible for damage to mobile towers and the resultant loss of studies to students as “atrocious”. “Are we responsible for the farmers’ angst against the BJP? We were not the ones who enacted the farm laws. It was the BJP-led central government. We, in fact, negated them by passing the amendment Bills in the assembly,” he said. Claiming that his appeals and strict warning to those damaging property had led to drop in number of such incidents, Amarinder said this clearly exposed the “lies being shamelessly” mouthed by the state BJP chief. Only a couple of incidents of minor damage were reported today, he said, adding that his government would ensure that not a single case of damage takes place in the coming days. The situation was now under control, with most of the damaged towers already repaired, he added. Regarding the acceptance of two key demands of the agitating farmers, Amarinder said the issue was now between them (farmers) and the Centre. He said he was hopeful that the Centre would soon accede to the remaining demands of farmers. Replying to a question regarding local body polls in the state, Amarinder said the process is already under way and dates would be finalised and announced soon. Constitutionally, the government was bound to hold these elections before February 15, 2021, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-spreading-false-propaganda-on-law-order-situation-capt/articleshow/80052851.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Dalit man killed, wife accuses her family||Vijayawada: A 30-year-old Dalit man, working as a physiotherapist in Adoni town of Kurnool district, was on Thursday murdered, allegedly by his upper caste wife’s family members. Adam Smith, a resident of RTC Colony in Adoni town, was found lying near his bike in a pool of blood. His head had been smashed beyond recognition with a boulder. Adoni DSP Vinod Kumar told TOI that Smith had married Maheshwari (24), an upper caste Hindu, a month ago. “The couple had been in a relationship for eight years and got their marriage solemnised at an Arya Samaj venue amid opposition from family members,” he said. After their marriage, they had been staying at RTC Colony where Smith worked in a local hospital. Eyewitnesses said two unidentified assailants followed his two-wheeler and hit Smith on the head with an iron rod, causing him to fall. They got down from their vehicle and dropped a large boulder on his head. Locals called an ambulance and took him to a local government hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. A devastated Maheshwari lodged a complaint with the police, accusing her family members of the murder. She said they repeatedly threatened to kill her husband. A case has been registered under 302 of IPC and relevant sections of the Atrocities Act. Police have detained some members of Maheswari’s family and are on the lookout for her father and uncle who are the main suspects in the case. BOX Tension prevailed at Benigeri village in Aspari mandal of Kurnool district on Thursday after relatives of a 14-year-old girl, who allegedly eloped with a Dalit boy, vandalised the boy’s house. Police said the boy belongs to the SC community while the girl is from Boya community. They were in a relationship for some time and eloped on December 29. A police picket has been set up to avert more violence in the village. Cops have registered two cases — one against the boy for alleged kidnapping of a minor girl and another against the girl’s family members for damaging property.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dalit-man-killed-wife-accuses-her-family/articleshow/80052874.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
January 1, 2021||Bhopal||MP gets Rs 287 crore booster for emergency Covid response||BHOPAL: Union government has sanctioned an administrative approval of Rs 287 crore emergency Covid response plan to Madhya Pradesh for 2020-21. Rs 239 crore budget has been released for Covid-19 response which has placed an unprecedented demand on the health system in Madhya Pradesh. Letter of approval from National Health Mission (NHM) director, Dr N Yuvaraj was sent to NHM MP mission director, Chhavi Bharadwaj recently. A four-pronged strategy has been in place in MP for Identification, Isolation, Testing and Treatment (IITT) of Covid-19 where more than 2,41,791 people have been diagnosed with the infection and on a recent moving day average there are 9,000 active cases. More than 3600 deaths have been attributed to Covid-19. Purchase of some 14.4 lakh RT-PCR kits worth Rs 32 crore year marked. Cost of one unit is pegged at Rs 223 per unit. Under additional human resources engaged for Covid-19, the targeted expenditure is estimated to be Rs 72 crore. It includes, 125 physicians, 10 other specialists, 2,250 staff nurses, 400 female multi-purpose health workers, 900 laboratory technicians, 1000 support staff along with 900 Ayush medical officers. Keeping health workers motivated, an expenditure of Rs 84 crore has been approved under incentive to human resource. It would be additional pay check of Rs 1000 per month to 67749 ASHA workers and 4,646 ASHA facilitators who would be an additional Rs 500 per month. Rs 40 crore has been approved for expenditure on monitoring and outreach related activities during the pandemic. Under miscellaneous expense for emergency response to Covid-19, Rs 52 crore has been approved under ‘united fund for districts’. Many private hospitals offer free Covid-19 care and the medical treatment is paid for by the Madhya Pradesh government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-gets-rs-287cr-booster-for-emergency-covid-response/articleshow/80052879.cms||Jamal Ayub
January 1, 2021||Madurai||Decision to put off 100% toll collection via FASTag hailed||Madurai: Commuters have cheered the decision of the ministry of road transport and highways to put off 100% toll collection at national highway toll gates through FASTag to February 15. The decision has come as a huge relief for those who were yet to get the facility and were worried about the consequences if it was implemented from January 1 as announced.FASTag is a sticker that has an integrated radio-frequency Identification (RIFD) barcode linked to the registration details of respective vehicles. Those who bat for the system have urged National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to create sensitisation to convince those who are yet to avail of the facility to secure it.P Senrayan, a resident of Nagamalai Pudukottai, said he rarely uses national highways. He did not go for FASTag since he thought he would not need it anytime soon. But he was scheduled to travel to Tuticorin in a day or two. “I was thinking what to do if FASTag is made compulsory. Luckily, it has been postponed. I am yet to decide on getting FASTag,” he said.A Selvaraj, a taxi driver from Mattuthavani, said many cab drivers are not prepared yet since they are yet to come out of the financial impact of the lockdown. “FASTag should be given only as an option. We cannot keep money idle in an account when we find it difficult to run our families every day. A lane for cash should be allotted permanently,” he said.NHAI sources said postponing compulsory FASTag was the only option before the ministry as implementing it from Friday would have caused chaos. So far, only 70% of collection is received through FASTag.However, those who are for FASTag have urged NHAI to ensure that cash payers do not create problems for them while using toll plazas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/decision-to-put-off-100-toll-collection-via-fastag-hailed/articleshow/80053927.cms||V Devanathan
January 1, 2021||Madurai||Loan deed with JICA for Madurai AIIMS may be signed by March||Madurai: The department of health and family welfare has stated that the loan agreement between the governments of India and Japan for the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Madurai is likely to be signed by March 2021.This was stated in the replies to the RTI queries raised by activist R Pandiaraja, who has been following up the issue. The signing of the memorandum was earlier supposed to take place in December but was delayed due to Covid-19. According to the replies that came on Thursday, meetings with officials of Japan international cooperation agency (JICA) India office and other officials of JICA in Japan are going on in this connection.The last meeting in this regard was held on December 24, the reply stated. JICA will be providing 85% of the total cost of establishment of the new AIIMS in Madurai, the reply said and added that total cost of the project is around Rs 2,000 crore. However total cost of the project as mentioned in the reply is much more than the Rs 1,264 crore mentioned in the previous reply.To a separate RTI petition from the petitioner, M/s HLL Infra Tech Services (HITES) Limited, the executing agency for the pre-investment activities stated that activities such as soil investigation and topographic survey have been completed. It also stated that estimated value of the boundary wall is Rs 9.6 crore and that 90% of the boundary wall construction has been completed. Pandiaraja said that the reply from the Ministry has given hope that the project will soon commence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/loan-deed-with-jica-for-madurai-aiims-may-be-signed-by-march/articleshow/80053934.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Madurai||Better infrastructure to ease life of Madurai residents||Madurai:The year 2021 will bring in the much-needed relief to the city residents, who have been bearing the brunt of inconvenience caused by various projects being undertaken by Madurai Corporation under the smart city scheme. An array of projects is slated to be completed in 2021. A portion of Periyar bus terminal, which officially commenced in January 2019, is expected to be completed by March. It should have been completed by mid-2019, but the lockdown and the subsequent migration of guest workers to their native places have delayed the work.A corporation official said the corporation commissioner inspected the work a few days ago and instructed the contractor to increase the number of workers in night shift to complete the project at the earliest. The western part of the terminal will be completed by March, whereas 80% of the eastern part will be completed by then.Projects such as reconstruction of Periyar bus terminal, smart scaping of Masi Streets, Vaigai riverfront development, round-the-clock water supply scheme for Area Based Development (ABD) area and heritage sites development scheme have been causing much inconvenience to the residents.Corporation officials said that people can heave a sigh of relief with all projects are inching towards finishing. They will be opened for public use in the first half of 2021. Conversion of street lights into LED lights was completed in early 2020, but work completion order was not issued to the contractor as frequent complaints were raised by residents. The complaints have gradually come down.The 7.3-km elevated flyover, the longest of its kind constructed by the National Highways Authority of India in the region, from Chinna Chokkikulam Junction on the Natham Road at Rs 694 crore is expected to be completed by September 2021. It is the first project taken up in Madurai under Bharatmala scheme. Once the work is completed, it will reduce travel time between Madurai and Chennai by an hour.Train services between Madurai and Theni that was closed for years for the broad gauge conversion of the 90.4-km stretch from Madurai to Bodi is likely to resume once the 17-km stretch from Andipatti to Theni is completed by May. Gauge conversion for 58 km from Madurai to Andipatti via Usilampatti has already been completed. The 15-km stretch from Theni to Bodi will be completed by September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/better-infrastructure-to-ease-life-of-madurai-residents/articleshow/80053937.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Kochi||Rush: KU suspends spot admission to UG courses||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala University (KU) had to call off a spot admission drive to undergraduate courses midway following overcrowding of applicants and those accompanied them at the varsity headquarters here on Thursday. Following the violation of Covid-19 protocol, the university authorities had to seek police help for crowd management and call off the admission process temporarily. There were close to 5,000 degree seats vacant in colleges affiliated with the university and around 7,000 candidates have registered for participating in the spot admission process, said university authorities. To choose the meritorious candidates eligible for admission, the university had announced spot admission in four district centres under the jurisdiction of the varsity. “The university expected around 1,500 people at the Senate Hall where the spot admission in Thiruvananthapuram was organized. However, the numbers went beyond 3,000 as candidates and their parents from far off places reached the university headquarters in large number, forcing the authorities to abandon the drive midway,” university sources said. Recruitment to BA courses was completed braving the overcrowding. But spot admission to BSc and BCom had to be postponed. “The university vice-chancellor has given instructions to organize spot admission in more centres by adhering to Covid-19 protocol,” an official statement from the university said. University has put in place a centralized online seat allotment system for admission in colleges affiliated with the university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/rush-ku-suspends-spot-admission-to-ug-courses/articleshow/80158963.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 1, 2021||Madurai||Minors held in snatching case||Madurai: The Madurai city police arrested two minors aged 15 and 17 for snatching gold chain and cash from a woman near Avaniyapuram on Wednesday. The juveniles in conflict with law hailing from Keerathurai were traced by the Avaniyapuram police based on the registration number of the two-wheeler they used while snatching. Police said that G Devi, a resident of Vivekanandar Street near Avaniyapuram was walking at Kaliamman Kovil Street when the minors started following her and snatched her gold chain weighing two sovereigns and cash Rs 2,500. They were not wearing a helmet or face mask during the robbery. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/minors-held-in-snatching-case/articleshow/80053935.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Pune||Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation schools may start from Monday||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has issued an order about reopening of schools for standards IX to XII from January 4. The order is on the lines of Pune Municipal Corporation’s. However, mayor Usha Dhore, said the final call about reopening will be taken after studying the situation. “Since there are reports of other civic bodies deciding to delay reopening of schools, we too will take a final call before January 4,” she said, adding that she will discuss the matter with additional commissioner Ajit Pawar, who has been given additional charge as the acting commissioner in the absence of municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar. Rajendra Singh, working president of the Independent English Schools’ Association in Pimpri Chinchwad, said the schools should reopen after January 8. “We have received the order from the PCMC about reopening of schools, but the private schools would be able to reopen from January 8 and a memorandum regarding the same will be submitted in a day or two to the civic body,” he said. Activist Maruti Bhapkar said the safety of the students remains paramount. “Considering the new UK strain, the administration and schools should wait and watch the situation for a few days and then take a call,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-schools-may-start-from-monday/articleshow/80052949.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 1, 2021||Madurai||Radio lessons for class I-XII to be aired for students in remote areas||Madurai: After introducing video lessons covering SCERT text book syllabus through Kalvi Tholaikatchi TV to reach government school students, radio or audio lessons are now set to be broadcast for students in remote areas. The content for radio lessons covering SCERT syllabus of Class I to XII is ready and likely to be broadcast through various stations by February.The content was prepared over months through the District Institute of Education and Training (DIET) centres across districts, which also produced the video lessons. “It was found that a section of school students did not have coverage of TV or internet connectivity. It is to reach these students that radio lessons were produced. These lessons can be greatly useful especially in remote and mountainous areas. Even if students cannot afford, teachers can buy pocket radios and give them for students’ use,” said a co-ordinator at one of the DIET institutions. While in video lessons, the teachers used objects, live demonstrations or animations to make learning interactive, in radio lessons, they made use of imaginary scenarios, analogies, songs and stories to teach lessons. “It was challenging to create the content as well. As teachers, we had to become story writers, lyricists, screenplay writers and even mimicry artists. We had to spend long hours for a 15-minute episode, breaking it down minute by minute. The language should be simple so as to reach kids or even the layman,” said T N Latha, a teacher who worked to create radio lessons for primary school students. Teachers said that radio lessons, if used properly, may also help develop listening skills, improve students’ concentration and capacity for imagination. A DIET official said the content produced has been submitted to SCERT and review is under way. By February, everything is expected to be finalised and radio lessons will be broadcast based on a district-wise schedule through various local radio stations across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/radio-lessons-for-class-i-xii-to-be-aired-for-students-in-remote-areas/articleshow/80053970.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
January 1, 2021||Madurai||MKU PG students can register for internship||Madurai: The Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) has invited registrations from final year PG students for the ‘1st internship scheme for post-graduate students’ for the academic year 2020-21. While the last date for registration was initially supposed to be in December, it has now been extended to January 8, 2021. The internship will focus on themes like environment, climate change and biodiversity for which budding final year PG students from various disciplines of life sciences, social sciences, computer science etc., of universities, colleges, research institutes from across the country can register. The three-month internship scheme consists of comprehensive support including mentorship, laboratory facilities, chemicals and consumables. A studentship of Rs 10,000 will also be provided for the PG students, who are interested to carry out research work on thrust areas of environment, climate change and biodiversity in the integrated resource centre for environment climate change and biodiversity (IRCECCB). For further information, interested students can contact S Chandrasekaran, coordinator, UGC-STRIDE programme, department of plant sciences, school of biological sciences, MKU or send an e-mail ID to ugcstride@mkuniversity.ac.in. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-pg-students-can-register-for-internship/articleshow/80053968.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||COA urges IIM-A to restore dorms||AHMEDABAD: The Council of Architecture (COA), a government of India statutory body, has taken strong objection to the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad’s (IIM-A) recent proposal to demolish most of the dormitories at the campus designed by legendary American architect Louis Kahn. The council has suggested that the institute continue with their earlier plans for restoration, in which they had already found success in one dormitory. “Such a huge outcry and protest from organizations, architects, historians, academicians, corporate leaders and several others from all across the globe is unprecedented in the history of modern architecture in India,” said Habeeb Khan, president of the council in an interview with TOI. The council plans to hold a round table discussion involving architects, experts and other stakeholders including decision-makers at IIM-A to positively pursue the restoration process and see that the decision to demolish the structures is reversed, Khan said. He said any right minded architect will not heed the institute’ expression of interest (EOI) published on their website in the first week of December to raza and rebuild the dormitories. Khan said architectural works such as the Auroville project in Pondicherry by French architect Roger Anger, the city of Chandigarh whose masterplan was prepared by Swiss-French architect Le Corbusier or Kahn’s IIM-A, they are all significant in terms of modern architecture and its evolution in the country. “Like rare fragments of ancient texts, or artefacts protected in museums, the unique inner city of Ahmedabad and its stepwells, IIM-A too represents a significant moment in the history of human habitation,” the COA president wrote to the IIM-A management on December 31. It represents a moment in history, when the founding fathers and patrons at IIM-A, thinking of the long term, invited Kahn to concretize their vision. Thus your initial decision to restore the campus, respects that rare founding vision, and hence reinforces the need to sustain, conserve, renew and reinforce its beginnings. “Today, several eminent institutions, around the globe hope to emulate the restoration and renewal programme initiated by IIM-A,” he wrote. The institute, in 2014, had announced a competition for the restoration and updating of all of Kahn’s buildings on the campus. A Mumbai-based firm, Somaya and Kalappa (S&K) Consultants, with a record of restoration, won the challenge to preserve Kahn’s architecture while updating the functionality of the interiors. The renovation of the Vikram Sarabhai Library at IIM-A carried out by the firm received the award of distinction at the Unesco Asia Pacific Award for Cultural Heritage and became a model for conservation projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/coa-urges-iim-a-to-restore-dorms/articleshow/80053176.cms||Maulik Pathak
January 1, 2021||Madurai||GRH opens rehab ward for patients without attenders||Madurai: An exclusively ward to cater to patients without attenders was inaugurated at the Critical Care Block at Government Rajaji Hospital on Thursday. The move comes after the State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) recently issued a notice to the director of medical education (DME) after a migrant worker without attenders was found abandoned on the road outside the hospital during the course of treatment. GRH dean Dr J Sangumani, medical superintendent M Balasubramanian, ACP TK Lilly Grace and Idhayam Trust director GR Sivakumar were present at the inaugural function.The Rehabilitation Ward, set up in ward 99B at GRH, and will cater to all patients who are without attenders or next of kin. The ward will be helpful for patients, especially in trauma cases involving road accidents. It will also cater to the homeless and abandoned.GRH is collaborating with Idhayam Trust, Madurai, an NGO actively engaged in rescuing the impoverished and homeless living on the streets. “Our aim is to ensure reintegration of abandoned patients at GRH and also prevent them from turning into beggars. Often we find cases of people, mainly elderly, who are left abandoned on the streets after they suffer serious injuries like losing a limb. This in turn drives them to be beggars. By collaborating with GRH, we want to rescue as many people and prevent patients from being forced into begging,” said Sivakumar. The director added that four volunteers, in two shifts each, from the NGO will be at the ward from 6am to 10pm, acting as attenders and helping patients.While police at GRH are immediately notified in case patients are without attenders, there are some cases when they are unable to trace the kin. “This ward is set to help such patients until they can be taken to a care centre. Post surgery, patients are discharged and asked to rest at home. But, for those without kin, there is nowhere to go. They can stay here until they can be properly rehabilitated,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/grh-opens-rehab-ward-for-patients-without-attenders/articleshow/80053957.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Madurai||Southern dists record 964 active cases, central region 827; 4 dead||Madurai/Trichy: The ten southern districts of the state on Thursday reported 109 Covid-19 cases and two deaths, taking the tally to 1,33,541, which include 964 active cases, 1,30,470 recoveries and 2,107 deaths. No UK returnees have tested Covid-19 positive in south TN on Thursday. Meanwhile, the central region registered 105 fresh cases for the second consecutive day on Thursday taking the tally to 73,908, which include 827 active cases and 72,157 recoveries. The region also recorded two deaths pushing the toll to 924. Kanyakumari reported 24 new cases, the highest in the south TN, followed by Dindigul (19). All other districts in the region reported less than 15 new cases. Madurai (161) remains on top in the number of active cases in the southern region, followed by Dindigul (157), Tirunelveli (131) and Kanyakumari (129). Tuticorin (79), Sivaganga (65), Theni (60), Tenkasi (49), and Ramanathapuram (29) recorded less than 100 active cases. Theni (7), Ramanathapuram (4), Sivaganga (3) and Tenkasi (3) reported new cases in single digits on Thursday. Madurai (14), Virudhunagar (13), Tirunelveli (12), and Tuticorin (10) also added new cases. The death rate of the region is 1.57%. The two deaths included one each in Madurai and Virudhunagar. A 53-year-old woman from Virudhunagar with rheumatoid arthritis died with Covid-19 on Wednesday at a private hospital in Madurai. A 75-year-old man from Madurai with hypertension died with Covid-19 at Government Rajaji Hospital on Tuesday. In the central region, Thanjavur (37) registered the highest number of cases taking its tally to 17,178. It is followed by Trichy and Nagappattinam with 22 cases each on Thursday. Perambalur registered zero fresh cases, while Ariyalur and Pudukottai registered two and seven cases. The casualties are in Nagappattinam and Thanjavur. Thanjavur (237) is on top in the number of deaths, while Nagappatinam has recorded 128 deaths. The casualty in Nagapattinam is a 58-year-old man. He died due to acute respiratory disease syndrome and Covd-19 pneumonia at a private hospital in Thanjavur on December 30. He tested positive for Covid-19 on December 28 and was admitted to the hospital the same day. A 70-year-old man from Thanjavur died due to ARDS and Covid-19 pneumonia at a private hospital in Thanjavur on December 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/southern-dists-record-964-active-cases-central-region-827-4-dead/articleshow/80053971.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Pune||Another chance to apply for courses in ITI up to Monday||Pune: Students who have passed in the supplementary board exams of secondary school certificate will get a chance to participate in the Industrial Training Institute (ITI) common admission process (CAP) rounds from Friday. New students can fill up the forms while those who have already participated in the first three rounds can edit their preferences. Director of Directorate of Vocational Education and Training (DVET), Deependra Sinh Khushwa, said, "We have revised the schedule taking in view the supplementary exam results announced last week. We are looking to fill up vacant seats. Those who want to make corrections in the CAP form can also take advantage of the revised schedule." The form will open on Friday and all admissions rules would remain the same, Khuswa said. A notification regarding the new schedule has also been announced on the DVET website. Students who are facing problems in filling up the form or many any changes can reach out to their nearest ITI between 10am and 6pm. The DVET has also developed an app called 'MahaITI' through which students can fill up the option form. Only 36% of student who sought entry have been confirmed at the end of the third round. Admissions started in August and the state directorate of vocational education and training had completed three rounds and only 53,886 seats had been accepted by the students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/another-chance-to-apply-for-courses-in-iti-up-to-monday/articleshow/80052984.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Apps turned a Rs 5,000 loan into Rs 2.5-lakh debt, killed agriculture officer in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Agriculture extension officer Kirni Mounika, who ended her life due to harassment by firms running loan apps, took the loan not for herself but to help some farmers who were in distress to buy seeds and pesticides. Some hand-written notings in Mounika’s diary were discovered by the family mentioning the amounts and names of farmers who she had helped with the money to buy what they needed. Mounika (25) consumed poison on December 14 and succumbed two days later. She took the extreme step after she was defamed by the instant loan apps which gave her small amounts of loan which she could not repay in time. “My daughter was on her death bed when she sruggled to tell me something. I could not understand immediately what she was trying to say. But I went through some jottings in her diary, I found that she had helped some farmers by taking the loan,” Mounika’s father Kirni Bhoopani of Rajagopalpet village in Nanganur mandal told TOI on Thursday. “As my mind was full of my daughter’s memories, I got up at 1 am and went through a notebook she had maintained as a diary. It has all the details,” Bhoopani said. The amounts ranged from Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000. “It was a trap. When a small amount was not repaid in time, the instant loan app gave her another loan through another app to repay the first loan. In this way, they put money in 55 apps for my daughter,” Bhoopani said. Effectively, a loan of just Rs 5,000, ballooned into a loan of Rs 2.6 lakh. “I do not expect anyone to return the money. My family knows only how to give and not take,” Bhoopani, an ex-sarpanch of Rajagopalpet, said. The family owns some properties in Siddipet. It was on December 13 that one of Mounika’s friends who had studied BSc (agriculture) with her called up Bhoopani and informed him about the messages that she had got about Mounika taking instant app loans. “I told my daughter that whatever the amount she had taken as loans should be repaid and arrangements were made to do it the very next day,” he said. That day Mounika went to the temple, then to a farmers’ meeting. Instead of returning home to the village, she went to a room the family had kept for themselves in Siddipet town and consumed poison. After Mounika’s death, some agriculture staff collected money to help the farmer but Bhoopani did not accept it. Instead, he asked them to hand it over to the sarpanch to use it for the benefit of farmers. Bhoopani, who owns a dairy, poultry and engages in agriculture, is crestfallen. “By unearthing the loan app scam and going after those running them, police have saved many lives. Or else many would have committed suicide like my daughter,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-suicide-victim-took-loan-from-instant-apps-to-help-farmers/articleshow/80052991.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 1, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot wishes happiness and prosperity in New Year||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has greeted people on the New Year and wished them happiness and prosperity. Gehlot said that the New Year is an opportunity to work with a new thinking and new energy to achieve new goals. He prayed to God that in the New Year, the country and the state should get rid of challenges including the Covid-19 pandemic, economic crisis and wished for happiness and positivity in everybody’s lives. नववर्ष की हार्दिक बधाई एवं शुभकामनाएं, इस अवसर पर सभी की सुख-समृद्धि की कामना है।#HappyNewYear2021— Ashok Gehlot (@ashokgehlot51) 1609439841000The chief minister said that the state government is running several welfare schemes and programmes to take the state forward on the path of continuous progress. “Our effort is to present a new picture of the lopment of the state by efficient management in every field,” he said. The chief minister appealed to the people to wear masks and follow health protocols to prevent Covid and celebrate the New Year by distributing clothes, blankets, ration to the needy affected by the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-wishes-happiness-prosperity-in-new-year/articleshow/80052997.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘Institutions with ageing modernisms look to IIM-A’||Ahmedabad: A letter to IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A) director Prof Errol D’Souza and members of the governing council of the B-school, has garnered the support of over 900 architects, academicians, and scholars, many of international stature, representing 118 universities from over 30 countries. The signatories include B V Doshi from India, Raphael Moneo from Spain and Alejandro Aravena from Chile — all Pritzker Prize winners, the equivalent of the Nobel Prize for architecture.The letter, initiated by Sarosh Anklesaria, professor of architecture at the US-based Carnegie Mellon University, Riyaz Tayyibji, team lead at NIUA, and Shubhra Raje, a practising architect and visiting faculty at CEPT University, argues that done right, the entire heritage campus would warrant a UNESCO World Heritage Site status as one of the pieces of modernist architecture worthy of conservation. The signatories are ‘a diverse community of architects, academics, cultural critics and historians’ which include scholars like Juhani Pallasmaa, Rabindra Vasavada, (noted conservationist and part of the Indian team of architects and engineers who worked on the IIMA with Kahn), and former associates of SNK Consultants that is restoring the Louis Kahn Plaza.‘We beseech you in the strongest terms possible to reconsider your decision. These buildings represent the finest examples of the late work of Louis Kahn and demolishing them amounts to an act of cultural vandalism,’ says the letter. ‘It seriously jeopardizes the legacy of Louis Kahn and of modernist architecture, especially in the Indian subcontinent, where there is a dire need for the conservation of modernist heritage.’ The letter termed the dorm buildings intrinsic to the historic core of IIM-A. ‘It cannot be separated formally or experientially from the buildings around the Louis Kahn Plaza… Together they make a singular campus setting with no precedent nor match in the world. To keep one and not the other would destroy the architectural soul of your esteemed campus,’ the letter reads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/institutions-with-ageing-modernisms-look-to-iim-a/articleshow/80053155.cms||Parth Shastri
January 1, 2021||Pune||No FASTag on over 30% Pune vehicles||PUNE: More than 30% vehicles in the district still don’t have a FASTag, officials from the Pune division of the National Highway Authorities of India (NHAI) have said. The ministry of road, transport and highways on Thursday extended the deadline for mandatory FASTags on all vehicles until February 15 from the earlier deadline of January 1. However, a senior official with the NHAI Pune division said that they were yet to receive the order. “The order has come from the ministry. However, the NHAI head office is yet to communicate the same to us. Until an official communication is made, we will treat January 1 as the deadline for FASTag on all vehicles,” said the official. The NHAI official added that vehicles without a FASTag need to act quick. There are around 30 toll plazas on national highways traversing across Maharashtra. President of Maharashtra State Vahan Chalak Malak Pratinidhi Sangathna Baba Shinde said that the extension in deadline would not impact truck transporters. “There are around 60,000 trucks registered in Pune district and all of them have the FASTag. We had been told about it almost a year ago and the RTO doesn’t give passing certificates to vehicles unless they have FASTag. The problem is that FASTag has been made mandatory for all vehicles be it school vans, school buses, company buses, which usually ply in the city limits. It is a financial burden for them and we recently met union transport minister Nitin Gadkari to discuss the matter,” said Shinde. Officials at the Pune regional transport office (RTO) said that their role in the FASTag project has been defined and limited. “While registering a vehicle, the owner must ensure that it has a FASTag and the dealer too needs to be aware. The RTO will not provide the registration certificate for new vehicles that don’t have FASTag. It will be the same when a vehicle gets its annual fitness certificate,” deputy RTO Sanjiv Bhor said. “The lockdown and pandemic has kept people indoors for months and travel has been limited within the city limits. However, now vehicle owners will have to get a FASTag,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-fastag-on-over-30-city-vehicles/articleshow/80053010.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||52% of new cases in Dec in 4 cities||Ahmedabad: On the last day of the ‘pandemic year,’ four major cities of Gujarat – Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot – accounted for 57% of the 780 daily cases and 100% of the four deaths of positive patients. The statistics was in the line of the trend observed in December where the major cities – despite the night curfew – remained the highest contributors of the daily cases. In November, 48.4% of the positive cases and 82.6% of the Covid deaths were recorded from these four cities. The figures increased in December as the cities accounted for 52% or 18,265 cases, and 85% or 270 of the deaths. “The multi-pronged approach such as night curfew, crackdown on the violators, and quick identification of contacts is working. We see the dip in cases after the post-Diwali surge but it cannot be a permanent solution,” said a city-based epidemiologist. “Onus also lies with the citizens to ensure that there is no lowering of guard in the new year even when the vaccine is available.” Several of the districts’ daily rise has now reached in single digit despite no restrictions such as night curfew. Experts attribute the phenomenon to lower congestion. The state health department figures show that 71% of the active cases in the state are in the four major cities alone. In fact, three out of every 10 active cases in the state are in Ahmedabad city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/52-of-new-cases-in-dec-in-4-cities/articleshow/80053129.cms||Parth Shastri
January 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||HC notice over GST returns deadline||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Thursday issued notice to the Centre in response to a PIL seeking extension in deadline to file GST returns due to the prevalent Covid-19 situation. The PIL was filed by Surat’s Abhishek Tulsyan stating that persons having Goods & Services Tax (GST) registrations and turnover exceeding prescribed limit are required to furnish annual return and reconciliation in Form GSTR-9 and GSTR-9C. The last date for filing the return is December 31. The petitioner has contended that due to Covid-19 lockdown and restrictions imposed by the governments, as well as due to the slowing down of the economy, many taxpayers were facing issues. Hence, people should be given some relaxation by way of granting extension in deadline, or they should get waiver of paying penalty on late submission. Justice Vaibhavi Nanavati issued notice to the Centre, the GST Council and the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs and posted further hearing on January 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-notice-over-gst-returns-deadline/articleshow/80053080.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Nagpur||NMC flouting norms, asked to stop water supply to commercial consumers||Nagpur: As many as 11,000 commercial users and institutions, including Indian Railways, airport and restaurants, are facing threat of disconnection of their water supply. The Maharashtra Water Resources Regulatory Authority (MWRRA) has objected to Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) supplying water to such commercial establishments across municipal limits. NMC is also supplying water to industries, said MWRRA member (law) advocate Vinod Tiwari, who advised the civic body to revive its existing water bodies in the city to meet its commercial demands. As per MWRRA condition, NMC is drawing water from two sources — Navegaon Khairi and Kanhan — for domestic purposes, while it is also providing water to commercial consumers. Following an objection by MLA Ashish Jaiswal, MWRRA has asked NMC to stop supplying water to commercial establishments in city limits, as it violates the conditions under which water was being supplied. A senior official from NMC’s water works department confirmed this and said MWRRA recently asked NMC to stop supply to all commercial establishments, including Indian Railways, airport, hotels, restaurants and educational institutions. The meeting was attended by member water resources engineering SD Kulkarni, Tiwari, MLA Ashish Jaiswal, NMC’s water works department superintending engineer Shweta Banerjee, and executive engineer M Ganvir among others. According to information obtained from NMC’s water works department, NMC was supplying potable water to around 3.73 lakh consumers. This includes 10,988 commercial consumers, including 5,982 institutional connections and 5,006 pure commercial connections. NMC levies Rs8.15 per unit water from domestic consumers, while for institutional and commercial consumers, the rate varies from Rs21.17 to Rs97.74 per unit. Though it is supplying water by levying different charges for both residential and commercial consumers, it is depositing almost fixed charges for raw water. Jaiswal pointed out that NMC is not depositing different charges to MWRRA. For lifting water from Navegaon Khairi, NMC is paying around Rs74 lakh per month to the irrigation department, while for pumping Kanhan river water it is paying Rs18 lakh per month. Besides this, NMC is spending almost Rs5.74 crore per month towards electricity charges for uninterrupted power supply to its different water pumping stations. In a hearing by MWRRA, Jaiswal pointed out that the civic body is getting water from Navegaon reservoir, which was actually meant for irrigation purposes. He also contended that despite clear instructions to create its own water resources, the civic body did nothing in this regard. He pointed out that in 1998, the irrigation department had agreed to provide 78 million cubic meter water on conditional arrangement that NMC would develop its own reservoir. Now, farmers are being deprived of their rights, Jaiswal pointed out and demanded that NMC should submit month-wise demand and supply data. With no month-wise planning, NMC exhausts entire water allocation, and is taking no efforts to legalize the 50,000 illegal water connections, it was pointed out during the meeting. Its demand has risen from 78 MCM in 1998 to 173.5MCM today. “NMC will submit its reply after it receives minutes of the meeting,” said a senior NMC official. Water going down the drain! Over an year later, the civic body is yet to plug leakage in 2300mm pipeline of Pench, which is supplying water to the city. As a result, thousands of litres of water is being wasted. Water supply and standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke on Thursday visited the site and expressed anguish over lethargic attitude of the water works department to plug the leakage. He directed them to undertake the repair work immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-flouting-norms-asked-to-stop-water-supply-to-commercial-consumers/articleshow/80051448.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 1, 2021||Coimbatore||283 of 349 cases of murder for gain, robbery, burglary solved||Coimbatore: The city police have solved 283 of the 349 cases of murder for gain, robbery and burglary that were reported in 2020 and recovered stolen properties worth Rs 2.15 crore.In a press statement, police on Thursday said 27 murders, three murders for gain, three dacoity, 53 robberies, 56 burglaries and 232 theft cases were reported in the city in 2020. They estimated the value of stolen properties at Rs 2.97 crore. “Out of this, we have recovered stolen items worth Rs 2.15 crore from the accused.”It said the number of crimes had come down by 320 in 2020 compared to 2019 and attributed it to the intense patrolling both at day and night.There was no let-up in crimes against women and girls. Two rapes and 46 cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act were reported in the city. In all the cases, accused were arrested. Th city also saw 106 women harassment cases.It was also the year when police cracked down on illegal sale of liquor by registering 2,448 cases. While 125 were booked for possession of ganja, 142 were held with banned lottery tickets and another 1,871 with banned tobacco products. Gamblers too had a tough time with police booking 248 cases.The year also saw fatal road accidents drop by 50%. A police officer said, “While 126 people had lost their lives in road mishaps in 2019, only 65 had died in 2020.” The city police had booked 15,35,591 cases of traffic violations and collected a fine of Rs 7.79 crore. “We have recommended 1.67 lakh driving licences for temporary suspension and 1.41 lakh licences have been suspended so far,” the officer said.During the complete lockdown, the city police had registered 8,030 cases for violating the curfew and arrested 11,856 people. They had also seized 6,764 vehicles for violating the lockdown norms and collected a fine of Rs 13.78 crore.With the help of public participation, police had installed 18,424 CCTV cameras in the city in 2020.The Tirupur city police, meanwhile, cracked down on ganja peddlers and people involved in gutka business by registering 114 and 686 cases, respectively. They also seized 112kg ganja and 2,950kg banned tobacco products from the offenders.Tirupur city had reported 20 murder cases and as many robbery cases. While all the murderers were arrested, police managed to solve 19 robbery cases. Of the 50 burglary cases, police solved 35. While properties worth Rs 1.43 crore were stolen, police have recovered items worth Rs 1.18 crore. “The theft cases came down to 180 from 287 in 2019. Patrolling helped reduce thefts. The city had reported 34 Pocso cases as well,” said a senior police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/283-of-349-cases-of-murder-for-gain-robbery-burglary-solved/articleshow/80053020.cms||A Subburaj
January 1, 2021||Coimbatore||Drug control inspector, cop arrested for taking bribe||Coimbatore: Sleuths of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-corruption (DVAC) on Thursday arrested Narcotics Intelligence Bureau CID (NIB-CID) inspector Sarojini and head constable Ramasamy while receiving Rs 70,000 from a ganja peddler’s wife.NIB-CID had arrested Vijayakumar of Bhavani in Erode district several times for selling ganja. Even after Vijayakumar stopped drug sales and began working as a supervisor at a construction site, Sarojini used to pick him up and threaten to register FIR against him unless he pays up.Vijayakumar’s wife Maheswari was forced to bribe the officer several times to save him. A few days ago, Sarojini picked up Vijayakumar and threatened to register a fake case against him for possessing 15kg ganja, a non-bailable offence. Sarojini demanded Rs 1 lakh to save him. As Maheswari gave her only Rs 30,000, Sarojini registered a case against Vijayakumar on Tuesday for possession of 500g ganga, a bailable offence.When the special court for the essential commodities Act granted bail to Vijayakumar, Sarojini demanded the rest of the money. Maheswari approached DVAC, who laid a trap. Maheswari contacted Sarojini, who asked her to give Rs 70,000 to Ramasamy at the NIB-CID police office. DVAC caught Ramasamy red-handed while accepting the bribe and also arrested Sarojini. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/drug-control-inspector-cop-arrested-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/80053026.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Jaipur||Jhalawar dist goes on alert to prevent bird flu outbreak||JAIPUR: After dead crows tested positive for H5 avian influenza virus in Jhalawar, the district administration and forest department have rushed quick response teams and imposed Section 144 in the affected area. The deaths of crows have been reported from Radi Ke Balaji in Jhalawar from December 25. Following this, the state animal husbandry department had sent samples of dead crows on December 27 to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal. The administration swung into action on Wednesday night after the samples of dead birds, including three jungle crows and two common crows, tested positive for the H5 avian influenza virus. Jhalawar collector Ngikya Gohain said, “Curfew has been imposed in the 1km of Radi area and containment operations has been initiated in accordance with guidelines. A rapid response team has been constituted to collect samples from poultry retailers.” An advisory has already been issued to the team, which includes sub-divisional magistrate, deputy superintendent of police (DySP), animal husbandry and forest department officials, asking them to minimise human-bird interface to prevent an outbreak of bird flu. No poultry death has been reported so far, but the administration has started the preventive exercise. “There are no poultry farms in the close proximity of the city. However, as a precautionary measure, our teams will also collect samples from farms, which are away from the city. In case the birds at poultry farms test positive, they will be culled and suitable compensation will be given, as per provision,” Gohain said. The forest department also sounded a high alert on the possibility of bird flu spreading among migratory birds present in many waterbodies, including Mugeliya Khedi. Jhalawar DFO Hemant Singh Shekhawat said, "Our team will collect faecal samples of migratory birds. The migratory birds have arrived in good numbers in the current season. The health of migratory birds is being constantly monitored. We have asked our teams to inform us immediately if they observe indifferent behaviour in migratory birds. Immediate action will be taken, if any death is reported.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jhalawar-dist-goes-on-alertto-prevent-bird-flu-outbreak/articleshow/80053073.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Rural dept engineers withdraw strike after assurance||JAIPUR: The engineers of rural development and panchayati raj department, who were on strike since December 21 over delay in promotion, withdrew their boycott on Thursday after they were given a written assurance during a meeting with additional chief secretary (ACS) Rohit Kumar Singh. Rajesh Sharma, president of rural development and panchayati raj engineers association said, “We have been assured that once the file pertaining to DPCs (departmental promotion committee) up to 2012-13 is cleared by the finance department, the rural development department will send it (DPC file) to RPSC for clearance within 15 days.”  Earlier, the rural development department had sent the promotion file to the finance department for post-facto approval. Earlier, RPSC had refused to give clearance for promotion to these permanent posts on December 15. It raised an objection and sought to know from rural development department about the consent given by finance department on DPCs done up to 2012-13 for the posts. Currently, there are 284 posts of assistant engineers, 70 posts of executive engineers and 4 posts of superintendent engineers in the department. The engineers had boycotted work in protest over delay in their promotion. The JTAs demanded that their posts should be regularized by merging their posts with 2,100 vacant posts of junior engineers. They also demand a raise in their pay scale and transfer to their home districts since their pay scale was low.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rural-dept-engrs-withdraw-strike-after-assurance/articleshow/80053044.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Nagpur||NIT turns encroacher, builds water tank and road on plots||Nagpur: For nearly six years, 317 plot owners in a layout of Crown Co-operative Plot Holders Association, Chinchbhuvan, are being forced to run from pillar to post after Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) allegedly constructed an overhead water tank and its approach road by “encroaching” on a few plots in the layout. When the aggrieved plot owners, instead of demanding action on concerned officials, devised a compromise formula and requested for revision in the layout plan so that they could construct their houses after accommodating the tank and also the road, nothing is being done for over two years. According to the plot owners, layout with an area of 67,461.8 sq.mt was laid on land bearing khasra no. 32/1 and 32/2 in 1996. NIT had regularized the plots under Gunthewari Act and also approved the layout plan in 2001. Area under plots was 43,649.90 sq.mt, 22,473.60 sq.mt for roads and 1,338.31 sq.mt for open space. The land was vacant at that time and now three houses have been built. President of the association Sharadchandra Banait told TOI, “NIT started overhead water tank construction some six years ago. We were not informed about it. When we visited there, NIT’s board was already erected at the construction site. The site supervisor told us that NIT is the authority and can construct the tank anywhere. Thereafter, the NIT laid a nine-meter-width approach road connecting the tank with a 24-meter road. We had lodged a complaint with the NIT citing that the road was built on 16 plots. We also got done demarcation of layout from city survey office and obtained ‘ka-prath’. It clearly showed that the tank and road was constructed on plots.” Banait added, “All plot owners are from middle class and many of whom are retired persons. We had purchased the plots with a dream to have our own houses. In 2019, we approached the then guardian minister Chandrashekar Bawankule, who held a meeting with officials of NIT, NMC and collector office on July 17, 2019. The meeting was held at NIT’s office, during which the officials admitted to their mistakes.” “Finally, a decision was taken to earmark the plots on which the tank has already been constructed as public utility (PU) land. Also, decision was taken to construct a road in an adjacent place. Bawankule and top NIT officials had directed subordinates to do all these works within 15 days. These two things would have solved all the issues. Accordingly, we submitted a revised layout plan to the NIT. However, nothing happened in the last two years,” he said. Banait said, “NIT officials expressed their inability saying NMC has now become the planning authority for entire city. We made several rounds to the NMC, only to learn from civic officials that NIT has not sent the file to them yet.” “After filing an RTI query in this regard, NMC officials found the file with the civic body itself. However, even after this, NMC officials are forcing us to make rounds to the civic body and they have not even visited the site once,” he said. Banait said, “NIT has now proposed to lay sewage line in our area. The line will be laid along the road and will cause more damage to us.” Banait told TOI that he has written letters to NMC, NIT and collector office on December 9 requesting to put on hold the sewage line work and approve the revised layout plan. NIT officials say, “Land of MIHAN Rehabilitation is situated adjacent to this layout. There was no compound wall around MIHAN Rehabilitation when we constructed the tank. It seems either MIHAN occupied a few plots of this layout or there is overlapping of land between MIHAN Rehabilitation and this layout. This now requires measuring all layouts around this particular one. However, NMC is the authority for the area now so it should take appropriate decision.” Association secretary Kiran Lanjewar said, “Owners have spent their hard-earned money and savings on purchasing the plots. Also, the owners are shelling out money for the mistake of the NIT. At the same time, the plot owners are paying rent where they are staying due to the delay in construction of their own houses. We are in a deep trouble and none is helping us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nit-turns-encroacher-builds-water-tank-and-road-on-plots/articleshow/80051476.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 1, 2021||Pune||Dedicated lanes & stalls at expressway toll posts||Pune: The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) will soon introduce dedicated lanes for FASTag users on the Pune-Mumbai expressway. It will also put up stalls of different banks to provide FASTag services at the Urse and Khalapur toll posts. “We will upgrade infrastructure at toll plazas before making FASTag mandatory, work is already underway in this regard,” said Kamlakar Phand, chief general manager (toll) of MSRDC. As of now, the expressway has a hybrid system so vehicles with or without FASTag stickers pass through its toll gates. “There will be dedicated lanes as well as hybrid lanes on the expressway. Motorists, who do not have FASTag, will not be allowed to move on dedicated lanes while at the toll plazas. However, they can enter hybrid lanes, where toll would be collected in cash. FASTag vehicles can also pass through hybrid lanes,” Phand said. He added that the MSRDC along with the road maintenance agencies in Pune and Mumbai will also undertake an awareness drive for vehicle owners and drivers in January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dedicated-lanes-stalls-at-expressway-toll-posts/articleshow/80053047.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Bareilly||Govt ambulance rams bike in Bareilly, kills two cousins||Bareilly: Two cousins were killed on Wednesday night after their bike was hit by a speeding ambulance on 102 emergency service on the Sheeshgarh-Dhaneta road in Fatehganj West of Bareilly district. After the accident, the ambulance driver ran away, leaving the ambulance on the spot. By the time police arrived, one of the victims had died. The other succumbed to his injuries before he could be taken to hospital. The victims were identified as Ram Prakash (29) and his cousin Indrapal (21), residents of Tursapatti village who used to work at a hotel. Ramprakash was married and the sole earning member of his family. Police said the ambulance hit the bike while trying to overtake it at around 7pm, when it was dark and visibility was low due to fog. The driver of the speeding ambulance was returning to base after dropping a patient at Bhitora Nagla village. Additional SP (rural) Sansaar Singh said, “Two bikers died after their bike was hit by a government ambulance, whose driver has been identified. An FIR under sections 304A (death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving) has been registered against him. We’ve found there was no patient in the ambulance and that the driver was speeding.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/govt-ambulance-rams-bike-in-bareilly-kills-two-cousins/articleshow/80050129.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 1, 2021||Bareilly||Five killed in separate road accidents in Sambhal dist||Bareilly: Five people were killed in two accidents in UP’s Sambhal district on Thursday. Three people — two of them had gone to take delivery of newspapers — on separate bikes were killed after an unidentified vehicle run over them in Nakhasa area of Sambhal district on Thursday morning. Police said the accident was reported around 5 am and could have been caused due to dense fog and zero visibility.The victims were identified as Shaukeen (40), Shamshad alias Nanhe (24) and Balram (26). Shaukeen and Shamshad were going to Rithali village to take delivery of newspapers for distribution while Balram, who used to work at a factory in Kanpur and had recently returned home, was going to meet his relatives in Sambhal. The victims, all residents of Lakhori village, were known to each other and had left together on separate bikes. The deaths sent a shock wave across their village.Sambhal circle officer Arun Kumar Singh said, “The accident took place near Lakhori village during early morning hours. After receiving information, police rushed to the spot, but all the three bikers had died by then. It appears that a speeding unidentified vehicle rammed their bikes. We have registered an FIR on the complaints of the victims’ kin. Efforts are on to trace the vehicle that ran them over. The bodies were sent for autopsy.”The second accident took place on the Sambhal-Chandausi road under the jurisdiction of Sadar kotwali, where a UP state roadways bus rammed a motorcycle on Thursday evening. Both riders sustained critical injuries in the accident, while the bus driver attempted to flee the spot but the passengers handed him over to police. The riders were rushed to the district hospital where they were pronounced dead upon arrival. Police said they were trying to establish the identity of the victims by collecting the registration details of their bike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/five-killed-in-separate-road-accidents-in-sambhal-dist/articleshow/80050122.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||HC notice to Gujarat Technological University over exam mode||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Thursday issued notice to Gujarat Technological University (GTU) over a petition filed by students seeking directions to the university to hold semester examinations online. GTU has decided not to take semester exams online, but to go for in-person exams. GTU was the first university in the state to conduct exams online. It had conducted final-year examinations online earlier this year due to Covid-19. However, the university decided not to hold tests online for the semester exams. The university cited format restrictions in online examination, and that it can test students only through OMR, which is not adequate for engineering students. The university’s decision led some students to approach the high court complaining that the university’s stubborn attitude would unnecessarily put students at risk of infection. They have contended that the students will be required to move to the places of examination and gather in exam halls. The hostels are closed due to Covid-19 situation and this would pose great difficulties for the students. After a preliminary hearing, Justice Vaibhavi Nanavati issued notice to the university and sought its response by January 6. It was only after GTU successfully conducted its final year examinations online in three rounds that other universities in the state decided to go for this method of examination. There were nearly 60,000 students who appeared for their final year examinations. Some 52,000 of them took the test online, whereas those left out went for pen-paper exam. As GTU has decided to conduct offline exams, the Gujarat University has once again offered option for online exams to its students for the semester exams. Various faculty members have opposed GU’s bid to conduct exams online. Sources said that GTU students argued that a survey conducted by college managements revealed that 80% of the students wanted the tests to be conducted online. They also contended that when there were 60,000 students in the final year examinations, GTU conducted exams online, but when the number is more than 1 lakh, the university’s insistence on offline exam is not justified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-notice-to-gtu-over-exam-mode/articleshow/80053082.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Chill to lose bite as winds shift||AHMEDABAD: With change in wind direction — from northerly to north-easterly for the past few days to north-easterly to easterly — the cold wave conditions may get milder in the coming days in several regions of the state including Ahmedabad, mentioned forecast by India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday. Citizens on the last day of the year experienced chilly weather. On Thursday, the maximum temperature was 24C which 4 less than normal, whereas minimum temperature was of 12.4C which was 0.1 higher. The forecast for the city mentioned that the minimum temperature is likely to be around 14C on Friday. ‘Rise in minimum temperature by 2-3 degrees Celsius very likely over the region in coming 2-3 days,’ mentioned IMD website. The forecast also mentioned possibility of light rainfall in Sabarkantha and Dahod on January 2 and 3. Cold wave conditions prevailed in Junagadh and Kutch on Thursday. At minimum temperature of 5C , Naliya was the coldest weather station, followed by 7.6C in Keshod, 8.3C in Deesa, 8.8C in Rajkot, and 9.4C in Kandla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/chill-to-lose-bite-as-winds-shift/articleshow/80053115.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Jaipur||50 IAS, 42 IPS and 20 IFS officers promoted in Rajasthan||Jaipur: In an order issued by department of personnel (DOP), 50 IAS officers, 42 IPS officers and 20 forest service officers were promoted in the state on Thursday. While Hemant Gera will now be principal secretary in-charge of DOP, Naveen Mahajan will be principal secretary in-charge of water resources and PHED. Gayatri A Rathore will now be principal secretary in-charge of social justice and empowerment department. Arushi Ajey Malik has been promoted to the post of secretary in-charge of animal husbandry, fisheries and Gopalan department. While Gajanand Sharma will now be commissioner disabilities, Rajan Vishal will be special secretary to the chief minister. Archana Singh will be commissioner, industries and (investment & NRIs) and special secretary in-charge of corporate social responsibility (csr). One IAS officer Sudhansh Pant has been promoted to Level-17 in pay matrix. 4 IAS officers Hemant Kuma Gera, Naveen Mahajan, Gayatri A Rathore and Rohit Kumar have been promoted to Level 15 in pay matrix. Among others, 12 IAS officers including - Arushi Ajey Malik, Joga Ram, P C Kishan, P Ramesh, Poonam, Bhanwar Lal Mehra, Prem Chand Bairwal, Kailash Chand Meena, Gajanand Sharma, Suresh Chand Gupta, Binita Srivastav and Dinesh Kumar Yadav - have been promoted to Level-14 in pay matrix. 16 IAS officers have been promoted to Level-13 in pay matrix, 7 have been promoted to Level-12 in pay matrix and 10 IAS officers have been promoted to Level-11 in Pay Matrix. As many as 42 IPS officers in the state were promoted by the state government on Thursday. The promotions included 3 IGs who were elevated to the posts of additional director general (ADG), 10 deputy inspector generals (DIGs) to the rank of inspector general, 7 superintendent of police (SPs) were promoted to the posts of deputy inspector general. The officers would be getting via Pay Matrix as per their elevated grades. Two senior Indian Forest Service (IFS) service officers Anand Mohan and Uday Shankar have been promoted to the rank of additional principal chief forest conservator. In all, 20 IFS officers have been promoted. As per an order of Department of Personnel, IFS officer Akansha Mahajan and Vijay N. have been promoted to rank of chief forest conservator. Apart from these, 12 other IFS officers have been promoted to Level-12 in pay matrix whereas four other officers have been promoted to Level-11 in pay matrix.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/50-ias-42-ips-and-20-ifs-officers-promoted-in-state/articleshow/80053088.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 1, 2021||Ludhiana||Businessmen resent change in validity of e-way bill||Ludhiana: In a big setback for businessmen, especially those who send their goods to far-off states, the limit for validity of the e-way bill will be reduced from January 1, 2021. Till date the e-way bill is valid for one day for travel up to 100km and for every additional 100km one additional one day is allowed. But from New Year the limit of kilometres has been revised to 200km, which is a big setback for the businessmen. Huge resentment is being witnessed among the business community due to this change, which will come into effect in the New Year. Meanwhile, giving more information about the new change, a taxation expert NK Thamman said, “As per the new changes in the GST rule, which will come into existence from January 1, 2021, the validity period of e-way bill has been reduced. Now, the e-way bill will be valid within the country for one day if the distance of goods to be transported is up to 200km. For every additional 200km thereof, one additional day is allowed. Earlier, this condition was for distance up to 100km. The period of validity shall be counted from the time at which the e-way bill has been generated and each day shall be counted as period expiring at midnight of the day immediately following the date of generation of the e-way bill.” Speaking on the issue, GS Kahlon, president of Auto Parts Manufacturers Association, said, “It is mandatory to get e-way bill issued for sale of goods out of state and for transactions above Rs 49,999 within the state. Every business, whether small or big, having a GST number needs to comply with the e-way bill rule. Already, a large number of problems related to e-way bills are being faced by businessmen, especially those having micro and small units and now the reduction in the validity of e-way bill is going to hit the industry hard. The government should not go ahead with this change as it was not in the favour of industry.” According to Narinder Mittal, general secretary of Ludhiana Business Forums, “Earlier, we used to get two additional days for transport of goods for 200km beyond the date of issue of e-way bill, but now the validity period has been halved, which means that we will be given only one day for the additional 200km. This change will have a huge impact on the industry of Ludhiana, especially those factories which sell their goods to far-off states like Maharashtra, West Bengal, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, etc. as one can never be sure that goods will reach at the stipulated time every time. There can be several delays like breakdown of the trucks transporting the goods, traffic jams or diversions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/businessmen-resent-change-in-validity-of-e-way-bill/articleshow/80051498.cms||Mohit Behl
January 1, 2021||Chandigarh||Pvt schools to charge only tuition fee for online classes||Shimla: Amid protest by various organisations against the exorbitant fee being charged by the private schools, education department has finally issued the written instructions to the director of higher education to tell private schools to charge only tuition fee for online education. In case, private schools collect annual charges or other funds then such matters would be referred to the district level grievances redressal committee headed by deputy commissioner of respective districts. In a communication dated December 29, joint secretary (higher education) Ved Prakash has stated that the director should bring it to the notice of private educational institutions concerned, insisting upon them to resolve the issue immediately after considering demand of parents sympathetically for charging of tuition fees. Communication further advised that in case issue remains unresolved then the matter may be referred to the grievance redressal committee. While pointing towards the reports that certain privately managed educational institutions are also withholding the annual results and pressing the students as well as parents to pay various charges, communication said privately managed educational institutions should be directed to refrain from such coercive actions. It further said privately managed educational institutions should also be advised not to send threatening short messages to the students or their parents. The grievance redressal committee at the district level will have deputy director of higher education as the member secretary and decision of committee will be final and binding on parties concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pvt-schools-to-charge-only-tuition-fee-for-online-classes/articleshow/80053084.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Coimbatore||Food safety officials tighten quality control measures||Udhagamandalam: The food safety department has put up 19 banners with the WhatsApp complaint number in tourist spots across the district as part of quality control exercise.Pointing out that tourist inflow has been on the rise, food safety officials said it was important to ascertain the quality of food served in hotels, roadside eateries, bakeries and confectionaries.Dr Thangavignesh, district food safety officer, said, “We have been receiving complaints from the public regarding expired food items, adulteration in tea shops, and eateries located in unhygienic places. Many people don’t take an effort to complain about unhygienic food courts or expired food being sold in shops. Hence, we have erected 19 banners in various locations such as the government botanical garden, rose garden, bus stands, markets and Ooty railway station, to create awareness among the general public, especially tourists.”The banners feature the WhatsApp number for the people to register their complaints. “It is a centralized WhatsApp complaint number at the commissionerate of food safety in Chennai. People could send written or voice messages. The complainant should mention the exact location in the town or a picture of the shop or hotel,” the official said.Hotels, confectionaries, bakeries and shops selling food and packed items are supposed to maintain the prescribed quality and norms with regard to labelling with date of manufacture and expiry, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/food-safety-officials-tighten-quality-control-measures/articleshow/80053086.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Fear, myths cloud citizens’ minds ahead of Covid jab in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Fighting a combination of misinformation and myths clouding the minds of the public ahead of the Covid vaccination drive is becoming a major challenge for civic health authorities. Myths ranging from side effects or adverse effects of the vaccine to talk that people who are vaccinated need to be put under electronic surveillance for between 30 minutes and 28 days and religious beliefs that fat from certain animals are used for the vaccine, is proving to be major hindrance. In municipal health surveys, citizens from areas like Sarkhej, Maktampura, Behrampura, Danilimda, Rakhial and Gomtipur are refusing to register for the vaccine, thanks to a flood of false messages circulated on social media. Gyasuddin Shaikh, the MLA from Dariapur, says, “Fear of the vaccine is one reason. Then there are false reports being circulated which claim that the vaccination drive may harm a particular community. There are reports of use of fat from certain animals. This is being circulated on WhatsApp and hence people are against registering. Once the ingredients of the vaccine are made public, more and more people will come forward.” Mirza Haji Asarbeg, a former municipal councillor from Maktampura, said, “People in my area are afraid and its true. There is distrust and there are misinformed people who spread messages on side effects. Messages that appear in the form of news reports with side effects being reported during trial stage are being shared. We have requested people to only rely on trustworthy news sources. In several societies people were not allowed to give their data to health authorities,” says Haji. He is worried that if the misinformation is not fought several people including children and the elderly and those with comorbidities will be left out. Iqbal Shaikh, also a former municipal councillor, said, “Said the corporation asking for data like the PAN details, voter IDs or even driving licences has created fear of the National Register of Citizens and that this data would be used for it and they would be chased later.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fear-myths-cloud-citizens-minds-ahead-of-covid-jab/articleshow/80053144.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 1, 2021||Coimbatore||Nilgiri Mountain Railway services resume after nine months||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) resumed service between Mettupalayam and Ooty on Thursday after a gap of nine months. With four compartments that had 180 seats, the steam engine reached Ooty by 12.30pm. It was operated with full passenger capacity, NMR sources said. The train was cancelled in March due to the pandemic. However, before the regular service was launched, charter services by a private player were operated from the first week of December, which attracted criticism from all quarters. Further such services were subsequently cancelled. “We were lucky to get seats in the NMR train. It was a memorable journey and an experience of a lifetime,” said A Sheik Mohamed and M Sofia from Erode, who are on a honeymoon trip. The train had 180 passengers on the first day of operation. The Southern Railway had announced the resumption of services two days ago. ‘Get ready to soak in the beauty of Nilgiri Mountain Railway. This UNESCO world heritage site will resume operations from December 31. A visual delight for tourists, it offers breathtaking views all along the way,’ tweeted minister of railways Piyush Goyal. “After the relaxation of e-pass to the hill district, tourists have been looking forward to resumption of NMR service. For many tourists, a trip to the Nilgiris will not be complete without a journey in the mountain train,” said K Natarajan, managing trustee, Heritage Steam Chariot Trust. “NMR is in the process of regaining its lost charm. Authorities should operate more special trains to glorify the heritage mountain railway, Asia’s steepest and longest meter gauge.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nmr-services-resume-after-nine-months/articleshow/80053119.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Ludhiana||Virtual PTM on Jan 7, 8 to discuss Dec exam result||Ludhiana: To discuss the report of December exams, a virtual parent-teacher meeting will be organised by the secondary section teachers for Classes I-XII on January 7 and 8. Over these two days, teachers will make phone and video calls to each parent in their respective schools, to have one-to-one discussions on a child’s learning and also the challenges faced by families in these times. The education department has been told to give positive feedback to parents and various agendas should be discussed with them. Parents will be told about ‘Mission 100%’, besides the December test. Teachers should also motivate students on attendance, their homework and worksheets. Parents will also be apprised about other initiatives like buddy groups and each one ask. Jasvir Singh, district mentor, science, said, “The teachers were regularly engaging with the students through phone calls, providing support and ensuring that the learning continues. However, there still were questions looming, which need to be answered — Were these mediums effectively reaching every child across the district? What were some of the challenges the parents faced in sending children to schools, which affected the education of their child in December test and the solutions.” District education officer Swaranjeet Kaur said, “We will have a meeting with cluster heads and block mentors beforehand and would discuss these challenges with the teachers and provide relief to parents. The mission allowed the children to continue following a schedule during the day, along with an increase in one-to-one interaction with their teachers. The latter have been regularly making calls to the students and providing support for their learning. The virtual PTM will give them the opportunity to reach out to the parents to find out about any support that the parents and students need and plan their days accordingly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/virtual-ptm-on-jan-7-8-to-discuss-dec-exam-result/articleshow/80051523.cms||Mehak Jain
January 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||20k likely to take CBSE final exams in May-June||Ahmedabad: More than 20,000 candidates across schools affiliated with Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) in Gujarat are expected to take the final year exams to be held in the month of May and June. The final exams for Class 10 and 12 will be held from May 4 to June 10 and results will be announced on July 15, Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank announced on Thursday. The exams have been delayed by three months due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Usually, practical tests are conducted in January and theory exams begin in February and conclude in March. Mrugen Shah, principal of Prakash High School, said the new schedule will give students four more months to prepare for the exams. This year, the CBSE Board has reduced the syllabus of Class 10 and 12 by 30% which will benefit the students. It had also announced earlier that board exams in 2021 will be conducted in written mode and not online. Ritika Shah, a Class XII science student at Prakash High School, said the delay in the examination will also give enough time for students who could not prepare for all these months due to some reason or other. Several schools had already conducted pre-board exams online to keep the students prepared. Recently, the state education board also decided to conduct Class 10 and Class 12 final exams in the month of May instead of March due to the Covid-19 situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/20k-likely-to-take-cbse-final-exams-in-may-june/articleshow/80053138.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Coimbatore||Fashion students wave bye to Covid-hit 2020||Coimbatore: Two fashion apparel students of NIFT-TEA College of Knitwear Fashion have put up an installation to bid farewell to 2020.Bye Bye 2020, made by first year students Kaviya Govindaraj and Dharshini G, depicts the pain and loss caused by Covid-19.The concrete installation, spread across 250sqft, has 30 art forms from 30 countries. “Covid-19 affected almost every country and lakhs of people. We believe that art can express so many things that words can’t. Hands are usually the body part we use most when we ask for help, are anxious or worried,” says Kaviya. “So, we designed our concept around hands.”The students, guided by assistant professor G Boopathy Vijay, decided to take an art form that originated from the most-affected countries. “Some examples are monochromatic paintings from Greece, dot and zentangle painting from America, doodle paintings from Germany and impressionist paintings from France,” says Vijay. “Under each hand, we have put up small placards explaining the form of painting depicted and which country it originated from.”The students began working on the installation two months ago by trying out materials like plaster of paris and sand. They decided on concrete after visiting construction sites. “We poured concrete mix into gloves and left them overnight. Once they became hard, we removed the gloves and scraped the outside with sandpaper to make the surface smooth. We covered them with plaster of paris and then painted over with acrylic colours,” says Vijay.The art installation, which will be displayed in a dark classroom for a few days, will later be shifted to the campus park, so that general public can also enjoy it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fashion-students-wave-bye-to-covid-hit-2020/articleshow/80053111.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Chandigarh||497 recover in Haryana, doubling rate now 90 days||Chandigarh: Haryana, on Thursday, reported the lowest new case count of 271 and six fatalities during the second wave of Covid-19. In what comes as good news on the eve of the New Year, as many as 497 persons recovered. Also, for the first time, doubling rate in the state has reached 90 days. With this, the overall tally of the state has reached 2,62,325 cases, 2,55,853 recoveries and 2,905 deaths, sources said. However, there are 3,567 active cases and 137 patients are still critical. Even though a total of 29,658 samples were taken during the day but the positivity rate managed to come down to 5.77% while fatality rate remained 1.11%. Increased number of recoveries has further pushed the recovery rate to 97.53% . Two deaths each were reported from Hisar and Panipat while one death each was reported from Jhajjar and Kaithal districts. Gurgaon reported 61 new cases while Faridabad reported 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/497-recover-in-haryana-doubling-rate-now-90-days/articleshow/80053100.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Ludhiana||ICAR removes the post on farm bills||Ludhiana: The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) website post which said that, ‘Agricultural scientists, students and researchers and research institutes support the new agricultural laws for the benefit of agriculture and farmers’ was removed from the website a day after on Thursday. PAU students and research fellows had written many mails to the ICAR director general to remove the post. PAU students were glad about the move and said, “It is sad and worrisome to see that the ICAR’s website had been misused by the ICAR authorities to give the wrong impression among the common man of the country that the students of agriculture favour the new farm laws. We strongly oppose these new farm laws. We, along with other students and seniors, believe that these laws are death warrants for our farmers and blessing for corporates. This was an exaggerated statement, which has to be removed with immediate effect from the webpage of this reputed platform, which is currently letting the wrong perception to be developed among the citizens of the country.” Meanwhile, PAU students celebrated the New Year by gathering at gate no 1 at 5pm by wearing green clothes and green ribbons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/icar-removes-the-post-on-farm-bills/articleshow/80051512.cms||Mehak Jain
January 1, 2021||Chandigarh||HP reports 3 deaths, 163 positive cases||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh reported three deaths and 163 positive cases of Covid-19 on Thursday even as 341 positive patients recovered. One death each was reported from Shimla, Kangra and Una districts. The state has 55,277 positive cases, of which 2,615 are active and 51,692 patients have recovered. So far, 7,72,021 people have been tested for Covid, of which 7,15,032 have tested negative while results of 1,712 samples are awaited. Positive cases were reported from Bilaspur district (6), Chamba and Hamirpur (10 each), Kangra (39), Kinnaur and Mandi (3), Kullu (5), Shimla (34), Sirmaur (17), Solan (19) and Una (17). Those recovered were from Bilaspur (40), Chamba (21), Hamirpur (59), Kangra (25), Kinnaur (4), Kullu (8), Mandi (47), Shimla (82), Sirmaur (22), Solan (30) and Una (3). tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hp-reports-3-deaths-163-positive-cases/articleshow/80053118.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Kutty met Dawood’s men at Karachi party||Ahmedabad: Key accused in 1996 arms and explosive haul case of Mehsana, Abdul Majid Kutty, 58, who was nabbed by Gujarat ATS on last Sunday from Jamshedpur, Jharkhand, had been to Pakistan twice before the arms and explosives were smuggled into India through Barmer border of Rajasthan. ATS sources said during interrogation of Kutty it came to light that in 1996, he had met Dawood gang members in Pakistan at a party in Karachi. ATS sources said that Kutty, who was born and brought up in Mumbai while his parents hail from Kerala, had gone to Pakistan on his original passport issued in Mumbai. “We suspect that in that party, the conspiracy of terror attacks in Gujarat and Maharashtra were hatched and for the same the four kilograms of RDX. ten detonators, 130 pistols including 115 made in Pakistan, 118 magazines and 750 cartridges were smuggled into India,” said an ATS official. After the arms and explosives were seized from Mehsana and three persons, Mohammed Fazal Mohammed Usman from Ajmer, Anwar Qureshi from Mumbai and Shakeet Qureshi from Mumbai, were arrested, Kutty went underground. In 1997, Kutty fled to Jamshedpur and obtained a new passport in the name of Mohammed Kamal from Patna in Bihar and went away to Malaysia. “There he started a fabric business and lived under the assumed identity of Mohammed Kamal. In 2000, he came back to India and lived in Jamshedpur for some time and again left for Malayasia. From there he travelled to Thailand, Bangkok and Dubai,” a senior ATS official said. In May 2019, Kutty returned to Jamshedpur and started an export business of grocery and dry beans in the name of Mohammed Kamal.  His plans to return to Malayasia were thwarted by the Covid-19 lockdown, said an ATS official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kutty-met-dawoods-men-at-karachi-party/articleshow/80053159.cms||Sarfarazuddin Shaikh
January 1, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: After internal revolt, it is a big task ahead for EPS in dealing with allies||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami may have deftly handled the internal revolt by his deputy and AIADMK cooridnator O Panmeerselvam and got himself to be named as the CM candidate. With the mandate from his party, Palaniswami has launched a full-fledged  campaign in the western districts and Cauvery delta region. But EPS has a tougher task on hand in maneuvering the tough posturing by his potential allies, especially the BJP and the PMK, who continue to defer accepting him as the CM candidate of the alliance. He has to tackle the aspirations of power sharing and demand for more seats from allies, including the DMDK, to set the house in order to take on the formidable looking DMK alliance. Leader after leader in the BJP have been maintaining that the NDA will decide and name the chief ministerial candidate, though the party’s Tamil Nadu in-charge C T Ravi had conceded that the chief minister will be from the largest party in the alliance and that is the AIADMK. The saffron party, trying its best to break ground in Tamil Nadu and send elected representatives to the state assembly, has maintained its stand on power sharing. This, despite actor Rajinikanth’s decision not to launch his own party and enter electoral politics limiting its navigability on the alliance front. The PMK too has been playing the hard ball. “We neither have an elected MP nor an MLA. If we can’t have even 25 MLAs, what is the purpose of having a party for more than 30 years?” PMK founder S Ramadoss lamented at the party’s general council on Thursday. “It is a calculated move by the BJP not to acknowledge EPS as the CM candidate and maintain it as an NDA-led alliance, with firm hopes of sharing power if the alliance emerges victorious. Unlike a Jayalalithaa or Karunanidhi, who were automatic CM candidates of their respective alliances, parties such as the PMK may not like the unilateral decision of the AIADMK and are hence taking a tough stand,” said M Kasinathan, political analyst. But AIADMK media coordinator and former Rajya Sabha MP A W Rabi Bernard terms the AIADMK’s decision to name its CM candidate and launch the campaign as a “marketing” and “branding” exercise. “It is the AIADMK, with its established vote bank, that will lead the alliance with all other parties in the alliance coming a distant second with their respective vote share. While the alliance partners have their own formalities to formally announce it, our chief minister is well equipped to handle such negotiations,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/after-internal-revolt-it-is-a-big-task-ahead-for-eps-in-dealing-with-allies/articleshow/80051565.cms||D Govardan
January 1, 2021||Coimbatore||Rain revisits city, proves nightmare for motorists||Coimbatore: People who woke up to a cloudy and chilly morning on Thursday, saw light rainfall from 10am, which steadily turned to heavy rain by 12.30pm. The two hours of continuous rainfall left the city’s underpasses unusable and led to the old Avinashi Road flyover getting clogged with vehicles in the afternoon despite it being a non-peak hour.Water stagnated in many parts of Sungam, Ramanathapuram and Podanur. Weather experts predict that light and isolated rain will continue in the district until January 6.The cyclonic circulation over the Bay of Bengal, which was initially expected to bring rainfall only to coastal areas, saw the rain extend well into the state right up to Coimbatore. Maximum temperatures were as low as 23 C for most part of the day and dipped to 21 C. The extent of rain received will be known only on Friday morning.“Light and highly isolated rains will continue on and off in Coimbatore until January 6,” said Mahesh Palawat, chief meteorologist, Skymet Weather Services. “These showers are also part of the northeast monsoon. However, from January 1, we do not expect to receive rain as heavy as Thursday. It will be light and almost negligible,” said S P Ramanathan, director of the Agro Climate Research Centre of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University.The showers left many roads in parts of Sungam, Ramanathapuram, Singanallur and Podanur in a mess. The affected areas also included R S Puram, Saibaba Colony and Vadavalli. “Those roads were dug up for drainage connection and water connection work,” said Anandhi V, a resident of Sungam. “Mud scooped out while digging turned to slush covering the roads by Thursday afternoon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rain-revisits-city-proves-nightmare-for-motorists/articleshow/80053160.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Coimbatore||1 more UK returnee tests +ve for Covid||Udhagamandalam: One more UK returnee and a contact have tested positive for Covid-19 in the Nilgiris. With this, three returnees and two of their contacts are infected with the virus in the district, collector J Innocent Divya said. Their throat swabs were sent to Pune lab to check whether they were infected with the new strain of the virus. All the five were admitted to the Ooty government hospital. Meanwhile, clubs and public places in the district were told to close by 10pm on New Year’s Eve, as per a government order. Pointing out that many tourists are staying in the hill town, the collector said public gathering must be avoided. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/1-more-uk-returnee-tests-ve-for-covid/articleshow/80053135.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur civic body collects Rs 7 crore UD tax in 2 months of property survey||JAIPUR: The new firm hired to carry out a property survey and collect urban development tax (UD Tax) has mopped up around Rs 7 crore in two months while surveying over 50,000 properties in Jaipur JMC, Greater and Heritage. The new property survey was started after 15 years to increase the number of commercial properties in Jaipur. According to an estimate, if the properties are surveyed properly, then JMC can earn over Rs 600 crore revenue per year instead of just Rs 60 crore collected at present. Naveen Bhardhwaj, deputy commissioner, revenue, said, “Last year, using our own resources, we were able to add 30,000 properties in a year, but this firm did that in just two months. It’s just the first phase of survey and in the next phase, properties surveyed will be geo-tagged as well.” However, in the initial collection, it has been revealed that JMC, Heritage might have to face revenue crunch as most of the commercial properties are in JMC, Greater. Tax collection in the last two months from JMC, Greater was Rs 5.47 crore and in JMC, Heritage Rs 3.22 crore. At present, JMC has 1.34 lakh properties surveyed under house tax in 2007. This firm will start surveying the property from the scratch and will also collect the tax from the owners till six years. It will geo-tag the property giving each and every property its unique QR code. The firm will be paid 9.95% of the total amount collected from the properties surveyed. On a trial basis, 50 properties in Greater and 50 in Heritage, whose data were already with the corporation, were surveyed by the firm. A lot of discrepancies were found in them. The firm has been asked to survey 6 lakh properties in the first year and provide at least Rs 80 crore of revenue to the JMC. A year later, the firm has to provide 75% of the revenue of the properties surveyed, only then it will be able to get its own share.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-collects-rs-7cr-ud-tax-in-2-mths-of-property-survey/articleshow/80053162.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Man shot six times, killed by former business partner||Ahmedabad: A resident of Odhav, Jashwantsinh Rajput was shot dead in the security office located in Radhe Chambers by two persons on Thursday night. Deputy commissioner of police, Zone -5, Achal Tyagi said both the assailants, Arpan Pandey, 32, of Vastral and Sushilsingh Thakur of Bhargav Road in Memco, have been apprehended and are being interrogated. “We have just reached the spot. We have come to know that the incident took place over a monetary dispute. The deceased and the assailants used to run a security business, but parted ways sometime back. Rajput, who also runs a security business, was owed Rs 1.80 lakh by the assailants,” said Tyagi. According to police sources, late on Thursday night Rajput came to the accused’s office at Radhe Chambers to demand money. “While they were talking, things went out of control and Arpan Pandey shot six rounds at Rajput from his licensed revolver. while Thakur stabbed him in the neck. All the six bullets hit Rajput the head and on his back when he tried to run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-shot-six-times-killed-by-former-business-partner/articleshow/80053208.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Pune||Highway robbers nabbed||Pune: A six-member inter-state gang of highway robbers were nabbed by the Pune rural police on Wednesday night before they could rob a container transporting cigarettes near Lonikand. Police probe revealed that the gang had robbed a truck carrying cigarettes worth Rs5.4 lakh near Shikrapur around four days ago. Gold ornaments, six cellphones and sharp weapons, collectively worth Rs8.3 lakh, have been recovered from them. The suspect had robbed these ornaments from Gujarat. “We arrested the gang near Lonikand on a tip-off received by a police constable,” Padmakar Ghanwat, inspector of the local crime branch of the Pune Rural police, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/highway-robbers-nabbed/articleshow/80053202.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: No new strain in first 6 Covid samples of UK returnees||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state can heave a sigh of relief for the time being as the first results received from NIV, Pune, on the samples sent of the UK returnees, have tested negative of the new strain of Covid-19. The results of the six samples have come, of which all the six have tested negative of the new strain found in the UK. Of the results, three are from Pathanamthitta, two from Ernakulam and one is from Kozhikode. So far 20 samples have been sent for testing to NIV, Pune, as per Centre’s directions. The remaining nine samples will be sent on Friday. A total of 22 persons, who returned from the UK, have tested positive and seven of their contacts too tested positive. These 29 persons have been isolated and are under strict monitoring. So far 1,800 persons have returned from the UK after the new strain was found there. The state health department has been keeping a close watch on all those who returned from the UK, and the positive cases are being isolated in separate quarantine centres. Meanwhile, Covid-19 cases were reported among 5,215 people in the state on Thursday and the total cases reported in the state till date has become 7,60,933. Among the new cases, 4,621 were cases of local transmission and the contact source of infection was not traceable for 405. There are 67 medical or paramedical staff among those infected and 122 persons arrived from outside the state. At the same time, 5,376 patients have recovered from the disease. Meanwhile, 30 deaths that occurred in the last few days were confirmed as due to Covid-19, taking the related death toll in the state to 3,073. In the last 24 hours 58,283 samples were tested with a test positivity rate of 8.95%. Ernakulam with 574 reported the highest number of cases, followed by Kozhikode 520, Thrissur 515, Pathanamthitta 512, Kottayam 481, Alappuzha 425, Thiruvananthapuram 420, Kollam 402, Malappuram 388, Kannur 302, Palakkad 225, Idukki 190, Wayanad 165 and Kasaragod 96. There are a total of 2,46,285 persons presently under observation in various districts of the state, of which 2,34,053 are at their homes or institutional quarantine centres and 12,232 are in isolation at hospitals. One new place was declared as hotspot while four areas were excluded.  There are currently 458 hotspots in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/no-new-strain-in-first-6-covid-samples-of-uk-returnees/articleshow/80050760.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Goa||Two deaths take mortalities to 740||Panaji: Goa saw 85 fresh cases of Covid-19, 75 recoveries and two deaths, bringing the tally of active cases to 938 on Thursday. The mortality count rose to 740 with the death of two men – a 66-year-old from Sanguem and an 84-year-old from Parra – at Goa Medical College (GMC). Both had comorbid conditions. The state saw 30 hospital admissions and 50 patients home isolated during the day. December witnessed relatively less Covid casualties as compared to the previous month. There was a 60% drop in mortalities compared to November. Last month, 45 people died to Covid-19 and 3,103 cases were reported. For the corresponding period in November, 4,337 cases were reported. Till date, Goa has reported a total of 51,066 cases, and 49,388 people have been cured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-deaths-take-mortalities-to-740/articleshow/80053197.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Nilesh Desai new SAC director||Ahmedabad: After P D Bhavsar, the man who was involved in launching India’s first sounding rocket, the Rohini, and was also the third director of Space Applications Centre, Isro, in 1985-86, the prestigious institution gets another Gujarati director, after a gap of 35 years, in Nilesh Desai. Desai has been an expert in SATCOM and navigation applications and has made leading contributions towards deploying India’s very own Global Positioning System (GPS) in NavIC, earlier known as the Indian Regional Navigation Satellite System (IRNSS). Only a few countries or unions today have functional systems such as GLONASS and Galileo. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nilesh-desai-new-sac-director/articleshow/80053192.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Rajkot||Farmer flaunts new revolver with blank fire, held||Rajkot: A farmer from Bhangda village in Rajkot was arrested by Amreli police when he tried to flaunt his unlicenced weapon by firing in the air near Sardar circle on Wednesday afternoon. According to police, Jaiveer Vala stopped his car near Sardar circle and abruptly fished out his revolver to flaunt, and thereby shocking local people who informed the police. Cops learnt that the accused was Vala from his car’s registration number that was found in footage of CCTV cameras installed at the junction. Meanwhile, on Thursday police nabbed Vala from Babra and also recovered the revolver and two cartridges from him. “The accused is claiming that he had fired from the gun only to flaunt around,” said sub-inspector M A Mori of special operations group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/farmer-flaunts-new-revolver-with-blank-fire-held/articleshow/80051531.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Coimbatore||Residents protest against Tasmac outlet near hosp||Coimbatore: Despite the pouring rain, more than 20 people, mostly women, staged a protest in front of the Tasmac outlet near the Tirupur government hospital on Thursday. The women, mostly residents of Chellam Nagar, said that alcoholics from the Tasmac shop 1965 pose a danger to children and women. The protesters did not allow anyone to enter the shop and demanded that it be relocated immediately.The protesters refused to leave even after cops tried to pacify them. They had submitted several petitions to the district administration to shift the liquor outlet, they said and demanded written assurance from Tasmac authorities that the shop would be shifted. They dispersed after Tasmac officials held talks with them. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/residents-protest-against-tasmac-outlet-near-hosp/articleshow/80053194.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Coimbatore||Pastor among 7 booked in cheating case||Krishnagiri: A seven-member gang, including a pastor, cheated a Coimbatore-based jewellery store owner of Rs 95 lakh here on Wednesday. The Krishnagiri town police booked a case against the seven and launched a search for them.Police said K Rajasekar, 40, of Krishnagiri, contacted Aswin, 38, of Coimbatore and offered to sell gold bars weighing over 2kg for less than Rs 1 crore. So Aswin departed for Krishnagiri with the money on Tuesday. “On reaching there, Aswin was taken in a car to Panagamutlu village by the gang. They made him get out of the car and sped away with money,” a police officer said. After receiving a complaint from Aswin, the police registered a case and initiated an inquiry. They found Martin, a CSI church pastor, of Nagarcoil, was also involved in the theft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pastor-among-7-booked-in-cheating-case/articleshow/80053183.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Jaipur||Regulator to tighten screws on builders over pending projects||Jaipur: After issuing show-cause notices to 95 builders and promoters in the state over pending projects, the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) is preparing another list of defaulters.There are approximately 350 developers under the authority’s radar who failed to adhere to self-set deadlines.An official source at RERA said notices will be slapped on more developers under the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act 2016.As per the rule, the builder and promoters are required to submit a completion report with RERA before the final date of project completion declared by them during registration. In case of any delay in project completion, they are required to apply with the regulatory authority for an extension to complete the remaining work.“Many builders and promoters have not fulfilled any of the two conditions. Notices will be issued to remaining defaulters soon. Penalty will also be imposed on them if they fail to respond.” said an official.In previous notices that were issued to developers, the RERA mentioned imposing penalties on the guilty builders. Also, RERA to arrange completion of remaining works with assistance from third parties.An official said, “Directions were issued to lapsed projects to stop further booking or sale of any apartment, plot or building in the project. Also, the promoter could be penalised under Section 61 of the Act if this requirement is not met. Under this section, the promoter shall be liable to a penalty which may extend up to 5% of the estimated cost of the real estate project,” said the official.This year in May, on the ground of force majeure, extension of 12 months was granted to the real estate projects expiring on or after March 19. As lockdown in the state was imposed two days before the Centre announced such a lockdown, the state RERA fixed the above date. Those projects that had already lapsed before March 19 were also allowed the benefit of the extension if the promoter first applies for usual extension and pay extension fee, standard fee and penalty.Sources said, “The notices are issued to all violators who are not adhering to the act and missed the deadline.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/regulator-to-tighten-screws-on-builders-over-pending-projects/articleshow/80053186.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Mahonnatha Seva Pathakam for 12 cops||Hyderabad: The state government on Thursday awarded Mahonnatha Seva Pathakam to 12 policemen, including a former National Investigation Agency officer who investigated Dilsukhnagar twin blasts. Rachakonda additional deputy commissioner of police (Traffic) Mohammed Tajuddin Ahmed, who worked in NIA, DSP (Intelligence) A Balakoti, intelligence security wing AR sub-inspector A Jagapathi Reddy, counter intelligence cell sub-inspector K Srinivas Rao, TS Special Police Battalion additional commandant K Veeraiah, Afzaluddin Khan, Hyderabad assistant commissioner of police (Begumpet Division) P Naresh Reddy, AR sub-inspector M Ramana, Chigurumamidi sub-inspector M Surender, Cyberabad CAR head constable P Dharma Rao, Crime Investigation Department assistant sub-inspector Younus Khan, Police Transport Organisation Driver K Tirupati Raju. The government announced TS Police Uttama Seva Pathakam to 97 policemen, TS Police Katina Seva Pathakam to 50 policemen and TS Police Seva Pathakam for 458 policemen in different wings. Government declared awards for security men working in TS Anti-Corruption Bureau, TS Vigilance & Enforcement, TS Disaster Response and Fire Services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mahonnatha-seva-pathakam-for-12-cops/articleshow/80051573.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Cruise tourism in Chambal could be a reality this year||JAIPUR: The hardest hit tourism sector looks to make a new beginning despite uncertainties in overseas source markets. If everything goes as per plan, the state can start cruise tourism in the Chambal river between Kota and Dholpur. A meeting has been planned on January 6 where officials from the Union shipping ministry will be participating along with state tourism and forest department officials. Lok Sabha Speaker and MP from Kota Om Birla has been the driving force behind the cruise tourism project in the state. Similarly, the light and sound show projects at eight locations, including Kumbhalgarh and Chittorgarh, will be operational adding new attractions. Alok Gupta, principal secretary, tourism, said the focus this year will be on domestic tourists and the new products will create fresh interest among tourists. “With the vaccination programme starting from January, the threat of the pandemic will recede slowly, generating confidence among people to go on vacations. We expect tourism returning to normalcy in the new year even though foreign tourist movement remains a concern,” said Gupta. He said the last week of December has been very good with celebrities preferring destinations in Rajasthan like Ranthambore to usher in the New Year. “It shows Rajasthan still enjoys a premium as a tourist destination in the country and their visits are a good advertisement for the industry,” added Gupta. In fact, Ranveer Singh, Deepika Padukone, Ranbir Kapoor and Alia Bhat among others are in Ranthambore to celebrate the New Year. However, experts in the industry said that the state tourism department should now look at short-haul foreign countries like South East Asia, Australia, New Zealand and Middle East instead of Europe, which is still in the grip of the pandemic. The department is also planning to hold roadshows in domestic source markets to attract domestic tourists. Officials in the tourism department said in the last year’s budget Rs 100 crore was set aside for promotional activities, but because of the pandemic that could not be used. “We expect that the funds this year should be used to promote domestic tourism,” said a tour operator. However, the hospitality industry in the state said that neither the Centre nor the state government has offered any relief to the tourism sector. Randhir Vikram Singh, president of Indian Heritage Hotels Association, said, “This is the right time that the state government should start providing benefits of industry to the hospitality sector. The state has declared tourism as an industry, but we are not getting the benefits. Fixed electricity charges, incentives in land conversion and relief in bar licences should be extended so that the units can again stand on their feet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cruise-tourism-in-chambal-could-be-a-reality-this-year/articleshow/80053195.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
January 1, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Head constable arrested for bribery in Bhilwara||AJMER: ACB on Thursday arrested the head constable of Pinder police station of Bhilwara district for taking a bribe of Rs 7,000. The head constable was demanding the bribe for removing a name from an FIR and had demanded Rs 10,000. The complainant already paid him Rs 3,000 and had promised to pay the rest on Thursday when the ACB team arrested him while accepting the bribe. A complainant reached ACB with a complaint that the head constable of Pinder police station of Bhilwara, Mukesh is investigating a matter of fraud in which his name was taken without any substance. When he approached the head constable during investigation, he showed the papers in which he tried to prove that he is not involved in the case. The head constable demanded Rs 10,000 to remove his name from the FIR and the complainant paid Rs 3,000 and promised to pay the remaining bribe on Thursday. ACB have arrested the accused and also seized the file in which he was investigating the case. Another team of ACB went to the house of the accused head constable to search for any black money. Officials said they are investigating as to how many accused were removed from the FIR after taking bribe during the investigation of the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/head-constable-arrested-for-bribery-in-bhilwara/articleshow/80053220.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Goa||Year-end surge in visitors brings biz to shacks finally||Calangute: Tourism stakeholders in Calangute-Candolim beach belt heaved a sigh of relief with a surge in domestic tourist arrivals for the extended New Year’s weekend. Shack Owners’ Welfare Society (SOWS) general secretary John Lobo said the beach is packed with tourists even late into the night. “The crowd is there. They’re not the spending type. Still, it is good that there is some business because for so many months there was no business at all,” he said. Except for a handful of beach shacks at Candolim, which are in an isolated area, most are getting business because the large number of domestic tourists are spread all over. The current season has been a tough one for the tourism industry with next to nil foreign arrivals. Stakeholders worry that once the New Year weekend is over, they will be left to wind up for the current tourism season. With only domestic tourists, many of the small hotels, resorts and guesthouses have slashed their room rates, Lobo said. “Foreign tourists used to form the bulk of guests in beachside properties. A hotel which used to charge Rs 3,500 is now charging Rs 1,500. But domestic tourists are staying in hotels three-four km from the beach because the room rates are even lower. Then they hire two-wheelers to come to the beach,” he said. Owners of shops selling T-shirts, shorts, and accessories are also relieved that finally there are customers. “It’s less than 50% of the sales we used to do, but at least it’s something,” Damien Teles, who operates a stall at Candolim beach, said. “A large part of the crowd are tourists who arrive in vans. They buy liquor, beer from wholesale shops, go to the beach, drink and spend the night there and return the next day. They end up littering the beach with broken bottles,” Lobo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/year-end-surge-in-visitors-brings-biz-to-shacks-finally/articleshow/80053219.cms||Joseph Zuzarte
January 1, 2021||Pune||Speeding tanker runs over pillion rider after bike skids on gravel||Pune: A 36-year-old pillion rider was run over by a speeding tanker after the motorcycle she was on skidded on the gravel lying on the Phursungi railway overbridge around 7am on Thursday.Police said Laxmi Malusure fell off the bike onto the right side of the thoroughfare and came under the left rear wheels of the speeding tanker. The bike rider and woman’s husband, Pramod (42), escaped unhurt, while her two kids, also on the bike, suffered minor injuries.“The couple and their two children left on the motorcycle from their Dhamalwadi residence in Bhekrainagar on Thursday morning. They were heading towards Saswad from Hadapsar. The tanker was also proceeding in the same direction. Laxmi fell after the bike skidded on the gravel lying on the bridge and was run over by the tanker,” sub-inspector Sachin Thorat from the Hadapsar police said.Police said the couple, both conductors with the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited, were not wearing helmets.“The husband told the police that the bike skidded while they were ascending the bridge. While Laxmi fell on the right side of the gradient, his children hit the ground on the left,” Thorat said. The officer said the tanker driver, Seshrao Pawar (35) from Kunjirwadi near Loni Kalbhor, fled the scene following the incident. “Passersby took the family to a private hospital for treatment. Laxmi’s body was sent to the Sassoon General Hospital for autopsy, and the report was awaited,” Thorat said. The officer said the tanker driver has been arrested on the charge of causing death due to negligence under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Motor Vehicles Act. “The incident threw the vehicular traffic out of gear for nearly 45 minutes,” Thorat added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/speeding-tanker-runs-over-pillion-rider-after-bike-skids-on-gravel/articleshow/80053218.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Telugu actor Narsing Yadav passes away||HYDERABAD: Telugu film actor Narsing Yadav, popular for the roles he essayed speaking in typical Telangana dialect, passed away on Thursday. The 57-year-old actor, who was suffering from a kidney ailment, died in a corporate hospital in Somajiguda. Narsing was popular as a villain and in comedy roles. The actor, born in Hyderabad, acted in nearly 300 films in various languages, including Hindi and Tamil. He is survived by his wife Chitra and son Rithvik Yadav. In April this year, the actor was said to have gone into a coma after he had a fall in his house and suffered a head injury. He was on a ventilator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/actor-narsing-yadav-passes-away/articleshow/80051585.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Doctor on way to meet wife in Bhilwara dies in mishap||AJMER: A 35-year-old paediatric doctor who was on his way to Bhilwara died in an accident near Bijaynagar on Thursday. He was going to meet his doctor wife and one-year-old son in Bhilwara. According to police, Manish Agarwal, a resident of Chandwardai in Ajmer was practicing medicine in Beawar. On Thursday morning, after work, he hit the road to meet his wife Sonam Bansal. According to police, when he reached Bijaynagar, Agarwal lost control of the wheel in a bid to save stray cattle on the road. The car turned turtle and Manish died on the spot. Police identified him through the papers in the car and sent the body for post-mortem in Bijaynagar government hospital. The staff at the hospital told police that Agarwal was happy to have got three-day leave and was going to meet his wife and son to celebrate the New Year with them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/doc-on-way-to-meet-wife-in-bhilwara-dies-in-mishap/articleshow/80053212.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Rajkot||Elderly jeweller kills self on b’day over fund crunch||Rajkot: An elderly jeweller in Chotila tok his own life on his birthday over monetary crisis. In his suicide note Hasu Soni (67) who owns a jewellery firm on Anandpura Road in Chotila names a few debtors who did not repay money they took from him.Soni ended his life sometime after Wednesday midnight and his son, Hitesh, found him hanging from the ceiling fan in the temple room on Thursday morning. It was Soni’s birthday on Thursday. Hitesh found a suicide note from his father’s pocket which stated that he is ending his life as several of his debtors are not repaying the money and he, in turn, has to make payments to those from whom he had borrowed money. Deceased had written a list of debtors’ names in the suicide note and also told his son that more such names were written in the accounts book at the shop. He wrote that the accounts book mentions the amount which he had lent along with interest. Police said that Soni had recently constructed a complex on Anandpura Road due to which he had incurred a debt. Since his borrowers were not returning his money, he was under stress as to how he would repay his lenders, cops said. Police have registered a case of accidental death as of now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/elderly-jeweller-kills-self-on-bday-over-fund-crunch/articleshow/80051556.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Goa||Rane’s curfew remark leaves tourists uncertain and stakeholders worried||Panaji: Tourism stakeholders were left worried after health minister Vishwajit Rane went public on Thursday saying he had moved a file to impose a night curfew to contain any possible spread of Covid-19. Chief minister Pramod Sawant subsequently clarified that no decision had been taken with regards to the night curfew. “It would have killed the spirit of celebrations and our business as well,” a shack operator in Candolim said. Goa has seen a surge in footfalls for the Christmas-New Year period and any curfew imposed at this stage would prove to be a damper for the industry that took quite a hit during the pandemic, stakeholders said. President of Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG), Nilesh Shah, said this type of “knee jerk” reaction from one of the ministers is not good for the industry. “It puts us (the tourism industry) under unnecessary stress. We received queries from several tourists asking if the curfew would be imposed. People are on their way to Goa and someone talks about night curfew on December 31 at the 11th hour. Imagine how they will react,” Shah said. He said that if at all the government wanted to impose a night curfew, the decision ought to have been announced at least 15 days in advance. Secretary of the Shack Owners’ Welfare Society (SOWS) John Lobo said he received calls from several shack operators who were looking forward to finally making some money at the year-end. “Most shacks in Candolim have had very little business as their main clientele has traditionally been foreigners,” he said. Shah said that he understands the concern. Covid-19 hasn’t disappeared. However, to lessen the danger, the government has to strictly implement the SOPs in place, he said. “Crack down on illegal parties and unregistered villas that are in operation. Install signage at tourist and other places. Penalise those who defy SOPs. We don’t mind even if the fine is hiked, but imposing a night curfew is not the solution,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ranes-curfew-remark-leaves-tourists-uncertain-and-stakeholders-worried/articleshow/80053213.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Bareilly||Muslim man, 56, paraded on donkey with face blackened, goes missing, son fears the worst||Bareilly: The family members of a Muslim man desperately searched for him for the second day running, fearing the worst, as there was no trace of the 56-year-old who was publicly humiliated by a group of people who paraded him on a donkey after sullying his face with black paint in UP’s Budaun market on Tuesday night. He was accused of harassing a woman with whom he was allegedly involved in a dispute a few hours earlier. Local police also couldn’t find him, two days after claiming that he was “safe” at a relative’s home in Rampur district. The mobile phone of the man also remained switched off. The family members feared that he might have taken some extreme step. “Or he may have been killed by the accused,” his son feared. He had filed an FIR at Bisauli police station on Wednesday, and had told police that his father had an altercation with a woman on Tuesday morning. “Later in the night, Vipin, Suresh, Vijendra, Madanlal and some others barged into our house and dragged my father outside. They beat him up, abused him and threatened to kill him,” the son said in the complaint to police. They later blackened his face and paraded him on a donkey, he added. The four named persons were booked under IPC sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke), 506 (criminal intimidation), 452 (criminal trespass) and 501 (defamation). Two of them, Vijendra and Madanlal, were arrested and sent to jail. The son told TOI on Thursday, “Police claimed that my father was traced to Shahbad area in Rampur, but my relatives told me that he never came there. It is extremely difficult to pass even a moment and the action of the police is not satisfactory. Kin of one of the accused came to my house and threatened to withdraw the complaint. I am afraid that they may have done something to him. My father had never harmed anyone.” Station house officer (SHO) of Bisauli, Rajeev Sharma, said, “The man is still not traceable. We are searching for him. We are also continuously in touch with his family.” Senior superintendent police (SSP) of Budaun, Sankalp Sharma, told TOI, “The man may be hidden somewhere presuming that a complaint is given against him, this is also a possibility. Teams are deployed and we will recover him soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/muslim-man-56-paraded-on-donkey-with-face-blackened-goes-missing-son-fears-the-worst/articleshow/80050152.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||HC clears way for Vipul Chaudhary||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Thursday stayed the district registrar’s decision to hold the Jodiya Kheralu Dudh Utpadak Sahkari Mandli Ltd, as disqualified to participate in Dudhsagar Dairy elections and cleared the path for the former home minister, Vipul Chaudhary, to contest in the elections. Chaudhary is a member of this milk cooperative and he has filed his nominations from this cooperative, which was held disqualified for participation in elections after its audit. The milk cooperative moved the HC after it was disqualified for participation in election process. Chaudhary filed the nominations earlier this month after his police custody got over. He had obtained permission from the trial court to sign nomination papers and affirm an affidavit because he was in custody. On part of the milk cooperative, it was submitted before the HC that many cooperatives, which are in support of Chaudhary, were held disqualified for participation in election process. Chaudhary was arrested on December 13 by CID (crime) in connection with alleged financial irregularities in the dairy. He is accused of siphoning off Rs 14 crore from the bonus amount of dairy employees last year. Chaudhary has claimed in his bail pleas that he was arrested so that he could not participate in the elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-clears-way-for-vipul-chaudhary/articleshow/80053214.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Chennai||Edappadi K Palaniswami a weak CM, not my rival: M K Stalin||CHENNAI: DMK president M K Stalin on Thursday termed chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami as a “weak chief minister” who could not even become general secretary of his party despite being in power for four years. “Neither I nor the DMK considers EPS as a political opponent,” Stalin said, addressing a virtual public meeting organized by the Ariyalur and Perambalur district units of the party. “CM Palaniswami has been working only for the benefit of his close relatives and to amass wealth for himself for the past four years, and by holding the highways portfolio for the past 10 years. It is ironical that he is blaming the DMK for being a family-run party,” Stalin said. Stalin said his party has not prevented the state government from giving Rs 2,500 to the people (as Pongal gift). The DMK has been asking why not more, especially since he has been demanding the government to offer Rs 5,000 for people affected by Covid-19. “Even now the AIADMK government is not giving the money out of any love for the people but with an eye to winning the election,” Stalin said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/eps-a-weak-cm-not-my-rival-stalin/articleshow/80051593.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Goa||‘Repair cold storage room at abattoir’||Panaji: The slaughter of animals at the Goa Meat Complex seems to have hit yet another bump with meat traders demanding the repair of the abattoir’s chilling room. Even as the supply of fresh beef from Belagavi has somewhat been restored, meat traders were given the option of bringing live animals from Karnataka by the directorate of animal husbandry and veterinary services (AHVS). While the AHVS and meat complex officials maintain that they are set to restart operations, traders are now demanding that the chilling room be repaired so that they can store the slaughtered beef for sale the next day. “The Goa Meat Complex is functional. We have asked them to bring animals. Unless they do so they will not be able to slaughter,” said AHVS director, Santosh Desai. Traders said that a clash in timing of when live animals are delivered and the supply of beef is the reason for the need of a chilling room. “The animals are mostly delivered in the morning. After going through several tests we will slaughter the animals and procure the beef, but the delivery of meat to beef stores across Goa will be done mostly post 3pm. By that time we don’t have many customers,” general secretary of the Quraishi Meat traders’ Association, Anwar Bepari said. He also said that the delivery of fresh beef can be done only the next day. “This is how we would work even prior to the closing of the Goa Meat Complex some years ago. The animals were slaughtered and kept in the chilling room,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/repair-cold-storage-room-at-abattoir/articleshow/80053235.cms||Nida Sayed
January 1, 2021||Pune||‘E-Chhawani’ service begins for Pune Cantonment residents||PUNE: The Pune Cantonment residents no longer have to visit the Cantonment board head office near Golibar maidan for services such as securing birth and death certificates, trade licences, GLR extract, property tax payment, among others. All these services have now been introduced via the ‘E-Chhawani’ online system by the Director General Defence Estates (DGDE) at five cantonments in the country, including in Pune, from Wednesday onwards. The most important aspect of the service is to have a separate window for registering grievances related to any issue of the Cantonment.  “Each section of the board has to answer or respond to complaints registered on the portal. A dashboard of public complaints will be monitored by the DGDE office. So, we will not only have to answer them, but also provide solutions. This is going to make a positive change in providing services to the public,” Amit Kumar, the chief executive officer of Pune Cantonment Board (PCB), said. The PCB has eight wards, comprising around 70,000 people.  Earlier, they would drop their complaints in a letter box and often they would remain unaddressed, the board official said. “With the proper monitoring system, we will carry out a review of each department on a regular basis. If a particular complaint is not addressed for a long period, we will hold a separate discussion on it to find solutions,” Kumar added. According to the PCB records, they often get complaints about lease renewal, civic issues, among others. “In the coming days, we will address issues pertaining to building plan, lease renewal and land matters via the portal only,” Kumar said. The DGDE has started this service in Delhi, Agra, Kanpur and Secunderabad Cantonments too.  “By January 15, all 62 cantonments across the country are expected to start the service. This is the target set by the ministry of defence,” a senior DGDE official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/e-chhawani-service-begins-for-pune-cantt-residents/articleshow/80053234.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 1, 2021||Goa||Goa cops recover pistol from undertrial||PANAJI: Crime Branch of the Goa police recovered the pistol from the hideout where accused Vivek Gautam had taken shelter after escaping from the Mapusa district hospital on Wednesday. On the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday, Gautam escaped from police custody at the hospital. Early morning, six teams were formed, including the staff of Crime Branch and ATS, to scan all possible leads in his escape.  Crime Branch superintendent of police Shobhit Saksena said that through strong human intelligence and technical surveillance, the teams converged at a homestay hotel in Morjim where the accused was hiding with his wife Pooja. “Upon search, the pistol was also recovered,” he said. During his interrogation, Vivek revealed that he along with his close friends and family members had hatched a plan to escape from hospital and celebrate the new year in full freedom on a beach. Saksena said that as per the plan, his accomplices, wife Pooja and brother Ankit and Mohit arrived in Goa. Thereafter, he feigned illness and was brought to the hospital from where he escaped with the help of his accomplices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cops-recover-pistol-from-undertrial/articleshow/80053227.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Pune||9 PMC officials issue pay for retd teachers||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has issued show cause notices to nine staff members for issuing salaries to municipal teachers even after their retirement. The staff members have been given 15 days to reply to the notice. They have been warned that failure to provide satisfactory replies would lead to suspension. The issue was raised at the standing committee meeting following which an inquiry was ordered and merit found in the complaint. Mahendra Pathare, a corporator from Nagar road area, had raised a complaint in this regard. “It is shocking to see that such mistakes can happen. Salary disbursal would have continued if the matter was not brought to light,” he said. He said that the incident has raised questions about the efficiency of the education department. As per the complaint, 25 people, mostly teachers in the education department, received payment even after their retirement. The officials responsible for the mistake will be liable for recovery of money paid to the retired municipal teachers. “The suspension will be made effective once replies from the employees are received. The civic administration had ordered an inquiry into the matter,” said Rubal Agarwal, additional commissioner of the Pune Municipal Corporation. The education department of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) looks after municipal school education. More than 200 schools are being run by the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/9-pmc-officials-issue-pay-for-retd-teachers/articleshow/80053230.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Rajkot||AIIMS to create 5,000 direct jobs in Rajkot||Rajkot: The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Rajkot will not only strengthen the medical network in the region, but also create large number of jobs once it is set up.PM Narendra Modi said that AIIMS will create nearly 5,000 direct jobs and provide indirect employment through related facilities like lodging, food, transport etc.Modi also took a swipe at previous governments saying that after Independence only six AIIMs were established and six others which were conceptualized by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government in 2003 took nine long years to come up.In the last six years, 10 new AIIMS are being built and work on some of them is in full swing he said.“We are looking at setting up one AIIMS in each state and 29 other super speciality hospitals. There should be one medical college between three Lok Sabha constituencies,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/aiims-to-create-5000-direct-jobs-in-rajkot/articleshow/80051578.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Pune||Pune: Elderly woman duped of cash & gold worth Rs 2.1 lakh||PUNE: A youth duped a 70-year-old woman of her gold ornaments and cash, collectively worth Rs2.1 lakh, on the pretext of helping her in getting a free sari from a shop in Pimple Gurav on Wednesday morning. Sub-inspector Yashwant Salunkhe of the Sangvi police said, “The complainant, Parubai Kale, was walking towards a temple around 10.15am on Wednesday, when a youth stopped her. He told her about a new garment shop being opened in the area and its owner gifting saris to elderly women.” Salunkhe said the youth took the woman towards a shop and made her sit along the road. “The woman told us that the youth requested her to remove her gold ornaments and keep it in her own bag so that the shopowner felt she was not rich and gave her the sari easily,” he said. The sub-inspector said Kale removed her two gold chains and purse containing Rs1,800 and kept them in her bag. “The youth then diverted Kale’s attention, and stole her ornaments and cash, collectively worth Rs2.1 lakh,” Salunkhe said. By the time the woman realised that her ornaments and cash were missing, the youth had fled.  “We are checking the CCTV footage in the area to ascertain the identitiy of the suspect,” Salunkhe added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/elderly-woman-duped-of-cash-gold-worth-rs-2-1l/articleshow/80053242.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Rajkot||Ayushman Bharat helped save Rs30k crore of poor: PM||Rajkot: The Ayushman Bharat scheme launched in 2018 has helped save Rs 30,000 crore in medical expenses of the poor people and unburdened nearly 1.5 crore of serious financial concerns, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday.Modi said the Jan Aushadhi Kendras have complimented this scheme by helping the poor save an average Rs 3,600 crore annually through inexpensive medicines. “Nearly 3.5 lakh people are benefiting from these centres daily,” he informed. “Earlier, the possibility of poor people not preferring to get medical treatment at all was high due to financial constraints, other expenses and responsibilities. Many suffering from serious ailments left it to God and got engaged in prayers as the only panacea. This is not any superstition but a situation arising out of lack of money for proper treatment,” the PM said. Many of them aged between 40-45 years, said Modi, endured illnesses for years fearing that the money they borrow for treatment would only burden their children with concerns of repayment. “But getting such a health security cover has brought about sea change in the attitude and mindset of the poor and instilled confidence in them,” he said, adding the welfare schemes like toilets, water taps and cooking gas brought in lot of optimism among people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ayushman-bharat-helped-save-rs30k-crore-of-poor-pm/articleshow/80051596.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Pune||74 repeat offenders arrested in Pune police raids||PUNE: The city police carried out an elaborate combing operation on Wednesday night in New Year eve drive, recovering eight firearms, 66 sharp weapons and eight stolen vehicles from 74 criminals on record. Police also took action against 16 criminals for breach of externment order. In addition, preventive action was taken against 312 criminals. Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta had instructed the crime branch and all police stations to conduct combing operation owing to the New Year’s Eve. Additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale said, “Out of 2,813 criminals checked, 756 were found at their residence during the combing operation which started at 10pm on Wednesday and concluded at 2pm on Thursday. The operation helped us to monitor current activities of criminals and deter them from committing new crimes. It has also sent a message among them that the police is vigilant.” Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bachchan Singh in a statement said, “We have recovered eight country-made pistols, one revolver, nine rounds and 66 sharp weapons like sickles, swords, choppers and knifes following the arrest of 74 suspects under the Arms Act.” Singh said, “We have filed 414 cases for taking preventive action against 443 criminals. We have served notices to 176 suspects and others to maintain peace under relevant sections of the Criminal Procedure Code. We have registered cases against 16 criminals for breach of externment orders under relevant sections of the Maharashtra Police Act.” “We have taken two suspected men in custody and recovered eight stolen vehicles from them. We have also taken action against many criminals and others under relevant sections of the Prohibition Act and Gambling Act,” he added. Earlier in December, the city police had carried out a combing operation in the residences of 1,213 history-sheeters and recovered as many as five pistols, three country-made revolvers, nine cartridges and 50 sharp weapons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/74-repeat-offenders-arrested-in-police-raids/articleshow/80053239.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Jaipur||Ajeet Singh Gehlot takes over as GOC of Battle Axe division||JAISALMER: Major General Ajeet Singh Gehlot, Sena Medal has taken over as General Officer Commanding, Battle Axe division situated in western front from Major General Rakesh Kapoor. The General Officer is an alumnus of National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla, Pune. He was commissioned into the 6/11 Gorkha Rifles in June 1989 and has commanded his parent unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ajeet-singh-gehlot-takes-over-as-goc-of-battle-axe-division/articleshow/80053238.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Jodhpur||Minor accuses mother of selling her to Jodhpur man||AJMER: A minor girl on Thursday filed a complaint with Dargah police against her mother alleging that she sold her to a man in Jodhpur The complainant further stated that she was repeatedly raped for over two months, but somehow escaped from Jodhpur and reached Ajmer. She stayed here for two days and came out to register a report. Dargah police registered a Zero FIR and forwarded it to Mahamandir police station of Jodhpur. According to police, the minor girl was staying in Longia Mohalla with a tempo driver for the last two days and came to police station on Thursday. She alleged that her mother, a resident of Surat, sold her to a man in Jodhpur two months ago. Police said the matter is of Jodhpur jurisdiction, however, they have registered a Zero FIR. Jodhpur police will investigate further into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/minor-accuses-mother-of-selling-her-to-jodhpur-man/articleshow/80053255.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Bareilly||24-year-old girl found hanging in her room||Pilibhit: A 24-year-old girl’s body was found hanging in her room in Nai Basti locality here on Wednesday evening. Police were informed by neighbours. By the time they reached the spot, the family had taken down the body. The deceased, Ruby Pal, had left behind a suicide note, saying she was unhappy with her job, said Atar Singh, SHO of Sungarhi police station. police. She was working in a private company at Manesar, Haryana. She had come home two days ago to celebrate the new year with her family. The body has been sent for an autopsy and the suicide note to a government forensic lab for testing. Singh said the body was discovered by her sister. Their mother and other siblings had gone out to the market at the time. Their father had died of cancer six months ago. But the family had refused to answer why she took the extreme step, he added. A probe was on and action would be taken after receiving the autopsy report, the SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/24-year-old-girl-found-hanging-in-her-room/articleshow/80050175.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 1, 2021||Pune||Donation drive for Ram Temple||Pune: The donation drive for construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya will be held between January 15 and February 27, Swami Govinddev Giri, treasurer of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirthakshetra Nyas, said here on Thursday. Giri said that a plan has been drafted for reaching 4 lakh villages and 11 crore people during the drive. Coupons worth Rs1000, Rs100 and Rs10 will be made available to people for contributions, he said. In Maharashtra, the state coordinators of the drive have set a target of reaching 2.5 crore families in 45,000 villages while volunteers are considering reaching 50 lakh families from 10,000 villages in western Maharashtra. Giri said that about 1.5 lakh volunteers are expected to participate in the drive, which will be spearheaded by separate committees in each region. Donations are expected to come even from other countries. In Pune, around 8,000 volunteers are planning to reach one lakh families between January 15 and 31. Giri said that the temple work is expected to be completed in three-and-a-half years. Only stones will be used for the foundation, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/donation-drive-for-ram-temple/articleshow/80053256.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Ajmer||Minor accuses mother of selling her to Jodhpur man||AJMER: A minor girl on Thursday filed a complaint with Dargah police against her mother alleging that she sold her to a man in Jodhpur The complainant further stated that she was repeatedly raped for over two months, but somehow escaped from Jodhpur and reached Ajmer. She stayed here for two days and came out to register a report. Dargah police registered a Zero FIR and forwarded it to Mahamandir police station of Jodhpur. According to police, the minor girl was staying in Longia Mohalla with a tempo driver for the last two days and came to police station on Thursday. She alleged that her mother, a resident of Surat, sold her to a man in Jodhpur two months ago. Police said the matter is of Jodhpur jurisdiction, however, they have registered a Zero FIR. Jodhpur police will investigate further into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/minor-accuses-mother-of-selling-her-to-jodhpur-man/articleshow/80056518.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Pune||WCD minister directs an inquiry into Beed case||Pune: State women and child development (WCD) minister Yashomati Thakur on Thursday said that she has directed the state women’s commission to conduct an inquiry into the allegations made by the Beed rape survivor against the gram panchayat of three villages that passed a resolution to oust her from the village in August this year. Having received reports from officials of the WCD department, the minister has written to the state women’s commission to intervene in the issue. The National Women’s Commission has also announced that they would intervene in the matter. “This is inhuman and strict action would be initiated after a detailed inquiry,” Thakur told TOI. State WCD department officials said that they have coordinated with officials of Beed Zilla Parishad, who will conduct a detailed inquiry regarding the survivor’s complaint as well as allegations and submit their report. Block Development Officer (BDO) Aniruddha Sanap from Georai in Beed shared that he personally visited the villages — Pachegaon, Vasantnagar Tanda and Jairam Naik Tanda. According to Sanap, upon inquiry it was found that the gram sevak was not present at the meetings so the CEO of Beed Zilla Parishad has served a notice to the villages. The CEO has also sought a copy of the order of their resolutions, he said. The National Women’s Commission too has called for a verification of the resolutions, Sanap added. All three villages, located adjacent to each other, had allegedly passed the resolutions in August as per information gathered from villagers, Sanap said. Resolutions will be submitted before the authorities, he added The woman (30), who was gang-raped in 2015, has alleged the village panchayats had passed a resolution to oust her. She has claimed that she was being forced to leave the village in Beed district. Officials said that the police have confirmed that the woman had lodged a complaint against villagers accusing them of using abusive language.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wcd-minister-directs-an-inquiry-into-beed-case/articleshow/80053246.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 1, 2021||Chennai||Work like RSS cadres do for BJP, PMK chief tells functionaries||Chennai: PMK leader S Ramadoss on Thursday expressed disappointment over the party functionaries’ lack of commitment to strengthen the PMK into a formidable force such that it can form a government of its own. He urged the functionaries to work like RSS cadres to realise the dream. The party has faced several assembly and parliamentary polls but it does not have an MLA or a Lok Sabha MP at present, he lamented while addressing a virtual special general body meeting. He questioned the rationale behind running the party without being able to win a single seat. Citing lack of commitment on the part of cadres, he said the dream of forming a PMK government with Anbumani as chief minister would not materialise. Hailing the RSS cadres and their dedication, Ramadoss said they have been reaching out to the people through door-to-door campaigns to help the BJP win the poll. He urged the party functionaries to emulate the RSS work ethics to achieve their (PMK) goal. The council passed resolutions for Ramadoss to make alliance call, 20% reservation for vanniyars, 80% reservation for Tamil youths in jobs in the state, one against the Chennai-Salem Expressway.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/work-like-rss-cadres-do-for-bjp-pmk-chief-tells-functionaries/articleshow/80051610.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Pune||PMPML to get 150 more electric buses in 2021||PUNE: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) will have a fleet of 650 electric buses by 2022, out of which 150 are expected to join the fleet between April and December in 2021, senior officials of the city transport body said on Wednesday. “Under the second phase of the Faster Adaption and Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles (FAME), the PMPML will get 150 e-buses of 12 metre length each. These buses will arrive in batches from April till December in 2021. The transport body currently has 150 e-buses,” PMPML chairman-cum-managing director Rajendra Jagtap said while addressing a news conference. The Pune Municipal Corporation has a plan to procure additional 350 buses for the PMPML. This procurement will take some time and one can expect a fleet of 560 e-buses by the end of 2022, he said. Under the Union government’s FAME-1 scheme, 11 cities have been selected for funding. They are Delhi, Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Jaipur, Mumbai, Lucknow, Hyderabad, Indore, Kolkata, Jammu and Guwahati. “Pune couldn’t be selected in the first phase as the rates for e-buses weren’t approved by the board of directors. However, Pune has been included in the second phase. The buses will be procured through the gross cost capital (GCC) model,” Jagtap said. “A subsidy of Rs55 lakh will be given to the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited for each bus. Under the gross capital model, the contractor from whom the buses will be procured will be responsible for maintenance. The cost of each bus is in the range of Rs1.3 crore to Rs1.6 crore,” another PMPML official said. Jagtap said that they have approached the board of directors for increasing the fares of e- buses. “Olectra, a Hyderabad-based company, has been given the work order for the new buses,” the chairman-cum-managing director of the transport body said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-to-get-150-more-electric-buses-in-2021/articleshow/80053270.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 1, 2021||Jaipur||Missing Jaipur woman found after same-sex marriage in Maharashtra town||JAIPUR: A 21-year-old woman who went missing from the Nahargarh police station area on December 18 was recovered by city police from Maharashtra. Police found that the woman got into a relationship with a woman from Maharashtra through social media and the duo eloped and got married. Police treated it as a missing person’s case and stated that since the recovered girl is an adult, she would be allowed to go wherever she wants. According to the police, the woman (police did not name her) went missing on December 18 from Nahargarh police station area. “When we started investigating the matter, it was found that she would chat on Facebook and talk over phone with a girl from Maharashtra. After various technical inputs, our team went to Gadchidoli town of Maharashtra, from where the woman was recovered,” said a senior police officer on Thursday. In the statements, the woman who went missing stated that she got in touch with a woman from Maharashtra who is 22-year-old, and they became friends almost a year ago. “The woman admitted that she had gone away with the woman from Maharashtra and both got married,” said an officer. The women stated that they got married at a temple and are living as a couple, the officer added. Police stated that since both the women are adults, they won’t interfere in their lives and decisions. “We have brought the woman to Jaipur. Now, the woman and her family will take further decisions as she is an adult and we can’t interfere much,” said Dharmendra Sagar, additional deputy commissioner of police (north). The Jaipur girl was not carrying her mobile phone. “We traced her through Facebook and her chats. The cyber cell played an important role in tracing the missing girl,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/missing-city-woman-found-after-same-sex-marriage-in-maha-town/articleshow/80053262.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Rajkot||PM pays tribute to frontline Covid workers||Rajkot: Stating that 2020 was a year of ‘extraordinary challenges in health sector’, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday paid tributes to all the frontline workers who relentlessly worked by risking their own lives to work in the last nine months of Covid pandemic.“Today, I bow in respect to lakhs of doctors, health warriors, sanitation workers, pharmacy employees and other frontline warriors who protected humanity by constantly risking their lives. This is the year to remember all those who laid down their lives in the fight against the pandemic,” Modi said in his address after laying the foundation stone for AIIMS, Rajkot.Modi said the scientists and all those burning their midnight oil to improve the country’s health infrastructure also deserve lot of respect.“This is also the year to remember those who selflessly served the poor and ensured that they did not sleep hungry for so many months,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/pm-pays-tribute-to-frontline-covid-workers/articleshow/80051608.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Pune||24 criminals’ externed from Pune district||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Thursday externed 24 history-sheeters from Pune district for a period of two years. “In all, we externed 93 criminals on the police records in 2020,” Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash said. He said, “It has been observed that many criminals flout the externment order and return to the city. We have issued an order stating that every externed criminal must share their photographs and location daily to the concerned police personnel. If we do not receive these details, we will immediately police station where the history-sheeter was residing after extrenment for action.” The commissioner also stated that the Pimpri Chinchwad police would visit the externed criminals’ homes. “Besides externment, we arrested 44 under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act and two under Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities Act,” the commissioner said. “We have also decided to extern a gang of suspects who run illegal gambling dens and were involved in supplying raw materials for manufacturing illicit liquor,” he commissioner added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/24-criminals-externed-from-pune-district/articleshow/80053284.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Chennai||Stalin, TTV ask TN to withdraw cases against govt staff||Chennai: DMK president M K Stalin and AMMK general secretary T T V Dhinakaran on Thursday asked the state government to immediately withdraw cases filed against government employees and teachers for taking part in the strike early this year. They had withdrawn the strike and returned to work after a request by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami but are facing trouble as the cases have not been withdrawn, the two leaders said. “It is improper on part of the state government to not to drop disciplinary and departmental level inquiries launched against them and it is affecting their promotions, salary and retirement benefits,” Stalin said. “The cases must be withdrawn since more than 5,000 employees are affected,” Dhinakaran said in his statement.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/stalin-ttv-ask-tn-to-withdraw-cases-against-govt-staff/articleshow/80051615.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Goa||Goa: Guv, CM, archbishop call for optimism||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant has extended his best wishes to the people of Goa for 2021. “The Covid-19 pandemic, being the prime highlight, has undoubtedly given us a very different insight. Let us be hopeful that this difficult phase will pass as soon as possible, and year 2021 will be filled with cheer, optimism, and good health and usher in progress and development in the state,” Sawant said. Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari said that though the year gone by was a “difficult”, the government has been able to successfully contain the infection and loss of lives. “Every crisis presents an opportunity and this was the time when new ideas such as ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ and ‘Swayampurna Goa’ were born,” he said. Archbishop Filipe Neri Ferrao, in his New Year message said, “Whatever the new year has in store for us, we can make it better by resolving to live more as one human family, with the world as our common home.” Goa Forward Party president Vijai Sardesai said his party has dedicated “our actions and responsibilities in 2021 to the youth of Goa”. “We together are Team Goa, we together can turn this year into victory, and we together can use Hope to save our beloved Goa!” Sardesai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/guv-cm-archbishop-call-for-optimism/articleshow/80053305.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Nashik||Admin’s New Year resolution: Promote self-employment||Nashik: District collector Suraj Mandhare has said that the administration would take steps to bring all government schemes on self-employment announced for the citizens belonging to various classes and categories on a single platform through a specially designed website.Spelling out the New Year resolution for the district, Mandhare said the administration would compile the schemes in the interest of the people seeking government-support for their new ventures.“The state and the central governments have already launched a number of schemes that help people become self-employed and the government also provides subsidy or concessions through the schemes — as the case may be. It has been found that a large number of people, especially the tribals, simply fail to understand exactly which scheme to select. Therefore, a dedicated website will provide a one-stop solution to the future entrepreneurs,” the Nashik district collector said.The website will contain a description of the schemes and the criteria required. As far as the application is concerned, a tab will be inserted in the main website that will take the visitor to the website concerned, the collector added.Mandhare has also announced that the district administration will have a dedicated server that will host the number of services that have been adopted by the district administration under the Right To Service (RTS) Act.It may be noted that the district administration had recently earned praise from the Right To Service chief commissioner Swadheen Kshatriya for providing services to more than 10.5 lakh citizens in the district.“Currently, we have only 20 services guaranteed by the state government under the RTS being provided through the online system. Nashik is the only district in the state that has added another 81 services to the list of RTS. It has provided services to 11 lakh people since January 1, 2020, when the services were launched,” the collector said“We now intend to provide the services online. A dedicated service server will help seek the applications from the citizens, provide services, maintain records and perform other RTS-related activities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/admins-new-year-resolution-promote-self-employment/articleshow/80050795.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 1, 2021||Rajkot||Need united global effort for health solutions||Rajkot: Describing 2021 will be a year of health solutions, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday called for united global efforts in searching for remedies and working in silos is not going to help. Modi also said that India has emerged as the nerve centre of global health and effectively tackled the coronavirus pandemic with timely steps. “In the country of over 130 crore and population density, nearly one crore people have defeated corona. India’s record in tackling the pandemic has been much better than other countries,” he said. “If 2020 was the year of health challenges, 2021 is going to be the year of health solutions. We are seeing how diseases are becoming globalized. The world will be more conscious and alert about health and more towards finding solutions This is the time when the entire world has to unite for developing responses. Working in silos is not going to help,” he said. India, he said, will play a key role in these efforts with its competent medical professionals, experience and expertise in mass immunization and giving the world health solutions integrated with technology through its startups and startup ecosystem which has made healthcare better and accessible. Modi said India’s preparedness to launch the world’s biggest vaccination drive is in the final stages to ensure that everyone gets the jab. “If 2020 became synonymous with despair, 2021 has come with a hope for treatment,” he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/need-united-global-effort-for-health-solutions/articleshow/80051619.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Goa||Winter may be less harsh this season||PANAJI: The India meteorological department (IMD) winter forecast reveals that Goa may not have a harsh winter this season – which ends in February 2021. “As per the IMD seasonal outlook for temperatures during December 2020 to February 2021, the minimum temperatures are likely to be higher than its normal values by 0.2 degree Celsius for the season as a whole over the region. Being a tropical region, drop in minimum temperature mainly depends on the northerly component of winds,” said IMD scientist Shambu Ravindren. During the last week of December 2015, the minimum temperature departures were normal during most days. It was below normal to normal in 2016 and 2017. The minimum was normal to above normal during most days of December 2018 in the last week. In 2019, the departures were appreciably above normal during last week of December. In 2020, the minimum temperature departure from normal are below normal to normal till December 24 and above normal on December 25. “It is normal thereafter till December 30,” Ravindren said. Former NIO scientist Ramesh Kumar said that moderate to strong La Nina conditions will prevail over the equatorial Pacific Ocean up to February which can result in harsher winters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/winter-may-be-less-harsh-this-season/articleshow/80053332.cms||Nida Sayed
January 1, 2021||Kochi||Cong demands criticism against PM in resolution||Thiruvananthapuram: The Congress-led UDF in the assembly urged the government to condemn the act of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not holding talks with the agitating farmers. But chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that there was no need for mentioning the Prime Minister’s name in the resolution. “The resolution is against the farm laws brought out by the Centre and that includes the Prime Minister,” said Vijayan. When the opposition pressed for an amendment to include specific criticism against the PM in the resolution, the assembly dismissed it through voting. Congress also demanded the government to flay the governor’s act of initially refusing permission to convene a special assembly session. K C Joseph, Congress deputy leader in the House, said, “There was no need to fear anyone.” The LDF government had a mild response when the governor refused permission for the first time. “What was the need for the government to send two ministers with Christmas cake to Raj Bhavan? The government had fallen at the governor’s feet. We should show no reluctance in telling the governor that he had acted in an anti-democratic and partisan manner,” Joseph said. It’s a shame that the state government could not bring in a legislation to repeal the central acts, he said. The Congress governments in Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan, besides passing resolutions, had also introduced new laws that would render the central laws inoperable in these states. However, the chief minister said the governor can use his discretion only in certain instances. If a government with a clear majority recommends something, the governor cannot use his discretionary powers., Vijayan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cong-demands-criticism-against-pm-in-resolution/articleshow/80050824.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Agra||Three kids buried alive under mud in Agra||AGRA: A mound of earth collapsed in Runakta area of Agra on Thursday, trapping under it seven children playing nearby. By the time rescuers dug them out, three of the kids had died, while a fourth was admitted to hospital in a serious condition. The mound had been created from earth dug out of an old pond. According to police, the accident took place around 4 pm. The children were identified as Mendki (12), Naina (6) and Daksha (5), all of whom died, and Teti (5), who was severely injured and had to be admitted in hospital. Three others were discharged after being given first aid. Superintendent of police (city) Botrey Rohan Pramod said work has been suspended on the old pond that was being dredged by Runakta’s gram pradhan on Thursday. He added the matter is being inquired and an FIR will be registered under relevant sections of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/3-children-buried-under-collapsing-mound-of-earth/articleshow/80050828.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 1, 2021||Aurangabad||Nylon manja: Interested in knowing what action has been taken, says Aurangabad bench of Bombay HC||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court said in no uncertain terms on Thursday that it wanted to know from the authorities what action had been taken or was being taken not only against those selling nylon manjas (kite strings) but also against those using it for flying kites. The bench of Justice Ravindra Ghuge and Justice Vibha Kankanwadi made this observation after government pleader (GP) Dnyaneshwar R Kale, representing the respondent revenue and police authorities, told the court that a notification warning of action under the Bombay Police Act against those found violating the ban on nylon manja, had been issued by the police. Incidentally, the police notification came on Wednesday evening after the HC had passed an order converting two news reports, published in the Times of India on December 30, as suo motu public interest litigation (PIL). One of these reports was related to the death of a woman scooter rider on December 28 due to nylon manja in Nashik and the other was about activists seeking a ban on sale of nylon manja during the impending `Makar Sankranti' festival. "We have seen many such notifications," Justice Ghuge said and went on to refer to the news reports. "We are interested in knowing what action you (authorities) have taken," the judge said. Earlier, lawyer Satyajeet Bora, appointed amicus curiae (friend of the court), filed an exhaustive petition following which the HC directed notices to the respondents i.e. the state department of environment, Union ministry of environment, forest and climate (MoEFC), Maharashtra pollution control board (MPCB), Aurangabad’s district collector, divisional commissioner, police commissioner and superintendent of police (rural) and the administrator of Aurangabad municipal corporation (AMC), in that order. The HC has kept the matter for next hearing on Friday (Jan 1). Bora furnished two orders of July 11, 2017 and January 21, 2020 passed by the National Green Tribunal’s principal bench in Delhi, prohibiting the use of nylon thread or synthetic material coated strings, which are non-biodegradable, for kite flying, and seeking details of compliance of the same. Kale then submitted that the district collector, city police commissioner and the SP (rural) “have immediately swung into action and they are ensuring that none of the shopkeepers, traders, selling outlets etc. would be permitted to sell such types of threats for kite flying or for any purpose whatsoever.” Kale submitted that such shops/outlets were being subjected to surprise inspections on Thursday itself on a war footing and offences would be registered against such shops/outlets. He further submitted that the authorities won’t hesitate to even shut down such shops after following due procedure of law. “The action which is to be initiated today (Thursday) itself, would be brought to the notice of this court tomorrow (Friday), considering the extreme urgency involved in the matter,” Kale told the HC. The bench then said, “In view of the above (GP’s statement), stand over to January 1, 2021 in the `Urgent Orders Category’. The action taken in the course of the day shall be brought to our notice tomorrow.” “Moreover, whichever shop/outlet, selling booth is found with such type of threads, the entire quantity of such threads would be confiscated and offences would be registered against such shopkeepers. So also, the police authorities would ensure that such threads are not being used even for flying kites and those citizens found to be using such threads for kite flying, either on the streets or on roof tops, would be subjected to police action,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nylon-manja-interested-in-knowing-what-action-has-been-taken-says-hc/articleshow/80050813.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 1, 2021||Goa||GSL inks contract with Army for specialised patrol boats||Panaji: Goa Shipyard Limited (GSL) on Thursday signed a contract to build 12 high-performance specialised patrol crafts for the Indian Army which will be utilised along the disputed waters at the Line of Actual Control, particularly Pangong Tso. The specialised boats will be delivered to the Indian Army by December 2021, said GSL officials. While GSL has built warships and patrol vessels for the Indian Navy and the Indian Coast Guard, construction of high-performance patrol vessels which are capable of performing at high altitudes will add to the defence public sector undertaking’s diverse capabilities. Though GSL had earlier built over 170 glass-reinforced plastic (GRP) boats for the Union ministry of Home Affairs, the 12 boats for the Indian Army will be based on a new design and fitted with specialised equipment to operate in the harsh conditions up north of the country. “These are composite hull boats and will have advanced sensor systems to help the Army fulfil its role,” said chairman and managing director B B Nagpal who was in New Delhi to ink the contract with the Indian Army. GSL bagged the contract after emerging as the lowest bidder for the tender where public and private ship builders also participated. With skirmishes between Indian and Chinese soldiers increasing along the LAC which passes over water bodies and mountains, the IndianArmy floated the tender to procure 12 specialised boats. “These craft will be among only few crafts in the world for such specialized operations,” GSL stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gsl-inks-contract-with-army-for-specialised-patrol-boats/articleshow/80053321.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Kochi||Kerala govt to provide house, Rs 10 lakh for orphaned children||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The cabinet on Thursday decided to provide land and house to the children of Rajan and Ambili, who lost their lives while trying to resist eviction by police from the property on which they were residing. The cabinet also decided to provide Rs 10 lakh to the children from the chief minister’s distress relief fund. The money will be deposited as fixed deposit of Rs 5 lakh each in the name of both the children, Renjith and Rahul. The cabinet entrusted Thiruvananthapuram district collector to deposit the money in the name of the children. The government also decided to take care of the expenses of education of the younger child, who is a school student. After the cabinet meeting, social justice minister K K Shailaja visited Renjith and Rahul at their residence at Pongil, near Neyyattinkara. She said that the women and child development department would take over the guardianship of the children. “The younger boy is pursuing higher secondary course. The elder one now works in a workshop. If he wants to pursue higher education, the government will make arrangements for that,” Shailaja told reporters after visiting the children. Meanwhile, the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) handed over the emergency financial assistance of Rs 1 lakh to the children. KPCC general secretary K P Anil Kumar handed over the cheque to the children. He also informed them that they could seek any help and will be provided by the KPCC. Youth Congress leaders and MLAs K S Sabarinadhan and Shafi Parambil handed over a cheque of Rs 5 lakh to the children on behalf of the organization. As part of providing proper care to the children, the district administration also offered to move them to a proper house immediately. But, Renjith and Rahul told officials that they preferred to stay in the makeshift house constructed on the disputed plot where the bodies of their parents are buried. Meanwhile, SP (Thiruvananthapuram rural) B Ashokan visited the children as part of inquiring into the incident and the lapses on the part of the police. He recorded the statements of the children. The couple, Rajan and Ambili, were threatening to self-immolate when the police arrived to evacuate them from the property on the basis of a court order on December 22. The police had tried to snatch the lighter from the couple, when the couple were set alight accidently. The duo succumbed to the burn injuries while undergoing treatment at medical college here. Rajan breathed his last on Sunday night and Ambili passed away on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/state-govt-to-provide-house-rs-10l-for-orphaned-children/articleshow/80050835.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Nashik||MSRTC starts weekly buses to tourist spots in Aurangabad||Nashik: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC), Nashik division, has started special Shivshahi bus for passengers visiting Bhadra Maruti and Ellora caves near Aurangabad city.The weekly bus service will operate on every Saturdays from New CBS - bus terminal at 7 am and return at 6 pm.“The MSRTC has started the bus service especially for the tourists in Nashik to enable them to visit tourist destinations in Aurangabad, including the Shree Bhadra Maruti temple among others,” said KS Patil, the divisional transport officer. Titled as ‘Shree Bhadra Maruti Darshan’ the bus service will be available on booking.A single round trip will cost Rs 695 per person while the seniors will be charged Rs 400, and Rs 10 will be charged for the reservation.The entire journey is of 11 hours and the tourists will have approximately two hours to visit the places. The tourists will be allowed a fixed time to return to the bus. The MSRTC plans to benefit from the tourism being promoted by the state government.Nashik is a well-known religious tourist spot with important places like Trimbakeshwar, Saptsrungi Devi and Shirdi being in the vicinity of up to 90 km on each side. When the people come to stay at Nashik, the MSRTC’s one-day tour to Aurangabad will be an important facility. Ranjit Patil, a tour operators, said, “The time limit allowed for the tourists to visit the spots is insufficient and the MSRTC needs to add another hour or two collectively.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msrtc-starts-weekly-buses-to-tourist-spots-in-aurangabad/articleshow/80050832.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Mumbai||Actor to cops: Hubby forced me to convert||Kalyan: A television actor has filed a domestic violence case against her husband in Kalyan, alleging he physically abused her and tried to force her to convert to Islam. Actor Preity Talreja alleged her husband, Abhijit Petkar, has converted but not changed his name. Petkar, who runs a gym in Kalyan, told the police he is a Hindu. Police said their primary investigation has revealed that Petkar is a Hindu and he has not converted. DCP Vivek Pansare said, “In her written complaint, the complainant has so far alleged domestic violence and physical assault and not mentioned any religious issue.” Ashok Pawar, senior inspector of Khadakpada police station, said, “The probe so far has found that Petkar is a Hindu and has not converted but he claims to have faith in Islam too.” Petkar has been booked under IPC sections for cruelty by a husband and punishment for criminal intimidation. Before filing the FIR, Talreja had tagged chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in a tweet saying her husband had cheated her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/actor-to-cops-hubby-forced-me-to-convert/articleshow/80173245.cms||Pradeep Gupta
January 1, 2021||Rajkot||‘Dawai bhi, kadai bhi’ PM’s new mantra for 2021||Rajkot: Despite preparations for world’s largest Covid-19 vaccination drive being in full swing, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday cautioned people against letting the guard against down as said that ‘caution along with medicine’ should be the mantra for 2021 “Earlier I used to appeal ‘dawai nahi toh dhilaai nahi’ (Till there is no medicine, don’t get complacent) Now we have the vaccine and it’s a matter of few months, but our mantra for 2021 should be ‘ Dawai Bhi, Kadai Bhi (Caution Along With Medicine),” he said after laying the foundation for All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Rajkot, through video conferencing. Modi said although Covid-19 cases in the country are surely declining, people should not take it easy as the virus still the potential to rapidly infect people. “So, there should be no compromise with social distancing, masks and cleanliness,” he said. “Don’t be under the impression that you can have got all the freedom since we have got the vaccine. Even the scientists are saying this,” the PM said. Modi also impassionately appealed people not to heed to any rumours which could possibly flow in full swing during the vaccination drive and asked people not to mindlessly forward messages on social media without proper checking. “Rumours spread fast in our country. Various people resort to spreading misinformation for their selfish gains or out of irresponsible behaviour. In a bid to show someone in poor light, these rumour mongers don’t think about the immense harm they are causing to common people by spreading countless imaginary canards. Some gullible poor people and others with malafide intentions send such messages with conviction," he said. Stating that the fight against Covid-19 pandemic is the one against an unknown enemy, the PM said, "Be alert about rumours and as responsible citizens refrain from forwarding messages on social media without proper verification," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dawai-bhi-kadai-bhi-pms-new-mantra-for-2021/articleshow/80051644.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Agra||HC-admonished Hathras DM gets ‘routine’ transfer to UP’s Mirzapur||MATHURA: The district magistrate (DM) of Hathras, Praveen Kumar Laxkar, whose controversial tenure oversaw the alleged gang-rape, murder and hasty cremation of a Dalit woman in the dead of the night on September 30, was on Thursday transferred to Mirzapur in the same capacity. It comes close to two months after the Allahabad high court expressed reservation over his continuance at the post, and about 27 days ahead of the next hearing. After the court’s observations, the Uttar Pradesh government had said the state will not shift Laxkar “as the Opposition had politicised the issue and there was no case of slackness made out against him”. Soon after news of the transfer became public, the victim’s younger brother told TOI that though the family was happy with the development, they would be happier had his services been terminated. “His behaviour will never change. And he will continue this way wherever he goes,” he said, adding that they can never forget the day his sister was forcibly cremated without their consent in gross violation of their fundamental rights. “We could not even see her face for the last time,” he said. The woman, 19, was allegedly gang-raped by four upper caste men on September 14. She died on September 29 at Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital. And a few hours later, she was hastily cremated on the outskirts of her village amid heavy police deployment. Luxkar was at the centre of a row after a video of him purportedly issuing veiled threats to the woman’s father surfaced in October. “Half of the media have left today, the rest will leave by tomorrow. Only we will be with you. It is up to you whether you want to change your statement or not,” Laxkar was purportedly heard telling the elderly man, who stood by his statement and withstood all pressure. CBI, which later took over the probe from the UP Police, filed a charge-sheet accusing all the four men of gang-rape and murder of the woman, setting the stage for the trial. Laxar has been replaced by Ramesh Ranjan, who was joint MD in UP Jal Nigam. The high court, which had taken a suo motu cognizance of the “forcible cremation”, had asked the government’s additional chief secretary (home), Awanish Awasthi, if the decision to cremate the victim in the night was a collective one. "Then why was only the superintendent of police suspended while the district magistrate was allowed to continue," the court had asked. The court had also asked the government if it was proper or fair to allow the DM to continue. On the last day of the year, several other IAS officers in UP were also transferred by the state government in a reshuffle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/hathras-dm-shunted-out-in-routine-transfer/articleshow/80050842.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 1, 2021||Kanpur||One more suspended for Chhota Rajan, Munna Bajrangi postal stamps||Kanpur: The postal department has suspended deputy postmaster for laxity in verifying the application form for issuing stamps of underworld don Chhota Rajan and slain sharpshooter Munna Bajrangi under the ‘My Stamp’ scheme of the government. Under the ‘My Stamp’ scheme, one can get personalised sheets of postage stamps of India Post. “Earlier, Philately desk in charge Rajneesh Kumar was suspended. Now, a suspension order has been issued to deputy postmaster Shiv Kumar Yadav,” said chief postmaster Himanshu Mishra after issued the order on Thursday He said all employees will have to be careful in future while verifying the pictures. “Postal department provides the facility to get ‘My Stamp’ made, by submitting a form along with an ID. Our employees will have to be careful in verifying the pictures,” said Mishra. Twelve stamps each of Rajan and Bajrangi were printed under the scheme, which was launched by the department a few years back. Calling it to be a lapse by the employees manning the ‘My Stamp’ desk, a probe was launched. It came to fore that the request for these stamps having a face value of Rs 5 was made anonymously by a person who paid Rs 600 for them. Without asking for identification papers, which is essential, the person manning the ‘My Stamp’ desk released 12 stamps each with the pictures of Rajan and Bajrangi. Philately department in charge Rajneesh Kumar, who was prima facie found guilty, was placed under suspension. Rajan is currently in a Mumbai prison, while Bajrangi was murdered in Baghpat jail in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/one-more-suspended-for-chhota-rajan-munna-bajrangi-postal-stamps/articleshow/80053370.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Containment zones to be in lockdown till Jan 31||Ahmedabad: The state home department has issued a fresh notification on Thursday extending the lockdown in containment zones from January 1 to January. The notification also states that limits on the number of persons attending events or functions like marriages, funerals etc will remain the same as that mentioned in the earlier notification of November 24. “According to the November 24 notification, 100 persons are allowed for marriage ceremonies and not more than 50 in last rites or funerals. For marriage ceremonies, registration is mandatory according to the Covid-19 guidelines,” said senior police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/containment-zones-to-be-in-lockdown-till-jan-31/articleshow/80053406.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Nashik||Visitors flood tourist spots to celebrate New Year’s eve||Nashik: A number of tourist destinations in the city were teeming with visitors from across the country who arrived in Nashik to celebrate New Year’s eve. Places like the Boat club on the backwaters of Gangapur dam, wineries like Sula Vineyards, Someswhar waterfalls and many such tourists spots in the city were hubbub of fun and frolic on Thursday. According to Datta Bhalerao, a senior member of Travel Agents Association of Nashik (TAAN), around 10,000 tourists from Mumbai, Pune, Surat and other parts of the country came to Nashik to ring in the new year. “The pleasant climate of the city attracts people to spend the new year here. Many tourists also travel to Igatpuri which is a small hill station here.” The boat rides started by the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MIDC) on the backwaters of Gangapur dam have become a major hit with around 7,000 tourists visiting the destination in the last one week. Around 2,000 people visited the boat club on Thursday alone. Sarang Kulkarni, MTDC’s general manager said tourists who visited the Boat Club on Thursday were mainly those who lived in cities within a radius of around 200-300km. The wineries in Nashik district have had a fair share of tourists this year. All the resorts and villas in the wineries are fully occupied till January 3. “Visiting wineries to welcome the new year has become a trend in the past few years. We had a good footfall of wine tourists throughout the day on Thursday. Over 2,000 tourists visited our winery on the last day of the outgoing year. We maintained all the Covid safety protocols and government guidelines,” said Monit Dhavale, vice-president (hospitality), Sula Vineyards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/visitors-flood-tourist-spots-to-celebrate-new-years-eve/articleshow/80050845.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 1, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Four of a family found dead in Perumbavoor||KOCHI: In a case of suspected suicide, four members of a family were found dead at Chelamattom in Perumbavoor on Thursday. The deceased were identified as Parapurathuveetil Biju (45), his wife Ambily (40) and their children Aditya (15) and Arjun (13). Bodies of the kids were found hanging in the main hall while that of Biju and Ambily were found hanging in their bedroom. Police say the incident might have happened on Wednesday night. There are reports that the family committed suicide over financial burden as their private chit fund business faced severe loss. The family used to sell milk. When a woman from the neighbourhood came to collect milk on Thursday morning, she found an empty milk bottle outside the closed door. There were no responses despite several knocks. Then she noticed a paper, which appeared to be a suicide note, kept beneath the empty bottle. Then, the neighbours alerted Perumbavoor police. “We received a call around 8.30am, rushed to the spot and found the bodies. Biju sustained heavy loss in chit business and the family has a debt of Rs 35L, as per the suicide note found. We suspect that stress over this issue forced them to take this extreme step. The victim had reportedly asked his moneylenders to reach home on Thursday morning to clear dues. All of them were greeted with this tragic news,” said police sources. A list of persons who owed money to Biju was attached to the note with their phone numbers and the amount due. He stated that the amount he borrowed from each person will be repaid and police should help by recovering the amount from those who had borrowed the money from him. A request, not to display the bodies in public and family relatives, was found scribbled on the house’s wall. The family had reportedly left some gold ornaments for meeting funeral expenses. The bodies were shifted to hospital for autopsy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/4-of-a-family-found-dead/articleshow/80050843.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Rajkot||Stock trader allegedly stabbed, kidnapped on Kalavad Road||Rajkot: A 24-year-old stock trader living in Mahudi was allegedly stabbed and abducted on Wednesday afternoon near Avadhna Dhadiya on Kalavad Road by unidentified persons.The family of Karan Gogra learnt about the kidnapping after an unknown caller called up his cousin Aebhala from Gogra’s mobile phone at around 1.50 pm informing that some men stabbed “the owner of the mobile phone before taking him away in a car” and asked him to reach Nyari Dam immediately. While the family members rushed to Nyari Dam they couldn’t find Karan or his bike or the mobile phone. Meanwhile, Karan’s friend Vishal Rajyaguru, who works in Metoda GIDC and was on his way to Nyari Dam after knowing about the incident, saw Karan’s bike and phone near Avadhna Dhadiya. The Gogra family has approached Rajkot Taluka police station to find Karan. As the area falls on the outskirts of the city there are no CCTV cameras installed, however police said they will scan CCTV footage of cameras installed on Kalavad highway for clues. “The man had called up his wife to inform her that he will be late for lunch and, within next 45 minutes, his cousin received the call about his abduction. The family has not received any ransom call yet, and so we are investigating his call detail records,” said sub-inspector V P Ahir of Rajkot Taluka police station. Cops suspect that Karan may have been either picked up people who owe him money, or may have staged his own kidnapping to avoid paying his debt. Karan lives with his wife and daughter with Mahudi while his parents live in their native of Koyali village in Morbi taluka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/stock-trader-allegedly-stabbed-kidnapped-on-kalavad-road/articleshow/80051661.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Rajkot||PM to lay foundation of affordable housing project today||Rajkot: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone for affordable housing ‘lighthouse project’ in Rajkot along with five other cities of the country via video conferencing on Friday. Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) is going to construct houses under the Rs 118 crore project in Raiya smart city with innovative technology. The other cities are cities of the country Chennai, Ranchi, Indoor, Agartala and Lucknow.To enable speedier construction of affordable housing, the union housing and urban affairs ministry had opened Global Housing Technology Challenge (GHTC), India, last year that threw up a challenge to the cities to construct ready-to-live houses within a very short period of time. The cities will have to source housing construction technologies from across the globe and identify a suitable technology for adoption in their respective cities. The Rajkot civic body intends to construct 1,144 housing units.According to a statement issued by the RMC, a monolithic construction technology will be used in the construction of the houses in Rajkot. While the central and state governments will each give Rs 1.5 lakh financial assistance for the houses, the central government will give a special technology grant of Rs 4 lakh for each house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/pm-to-lay-foundation-of-affordable-housing-project-today/articleshow/80051671.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Curfew silences year end revelry||Ahmedabad: Who would have thought CG Road, the go-to destination to ring in the New Year in Ahmedabad and that usually sees more than 50,000 revelers, would be completely empty on the night of December 31? The celebrations to welcome 2021 were private affairs for Amdavadis, who chose friends or relatives’ place for watered-down parties. Ayyan Karmakar, professional, said, “There’s the night curfew in place and there is nothing much one can do during this pandemic. So we are celebrating the New Year with family, enjoying delicious home-cooked feast.” It was pizza and pastry time for many, as long queues were seen outside popular joints from 6pm. Some Amdavadis also started celebrations early to dodge the 8pm deadline to get home. Several citizens went outside the city for celebrations. Jaydeep Zilka, a professional from the city, was in Dubai. “I had a work-related commitment, which coincided with the New Year’s Eve. It is fun to have a change of place after a long time,” he said. Citizens took celebrations online with video calls and countdowns to feel the spirit of festivities and pray for a better and healthier 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/curfew-silences-year-end-revelry/articleshow/80053480.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Nashik||Five booked for selling nylon manja in Nashik||NASHIK: Police on Thursday formed 12 teams and along with the officials of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) conducted raids at various kite selling shops across the city to check for nylon manjas. During the operation five shopkeepers were booked for selling or storing banned nylon manja (string). “We have booked five people under section 188 for violating the prohibitory orders issued under section 144 of the Indian Penal Code. Under this section the suspects are not arrested but presented before the court,” deputy commissioner of police (Zone 2) Vijay Kharat said. It should be noted that a woman — Bharti Jadhav, a resident of Hirawadi — was found injured on a flyover at 6 pm on Monday after her throat was slit by nylon manja. She was taken to the civil hospital where she was declared brought dead. A case under section 304 (A) was registered for causing death due to negligence. Following this, commissioner of police Deepak Pandey ordered crackdown against those selling nylon manja in the city. All-out drive in Aurangabad City police on Thursday started an all-out drive against the sale and supply of nylon manja (string) in the city and ended up registering nine cases. In all 21 police teams, including four from the crime branch, started the drive to check all the shops selling kites and strings. At most of the shops, police teams could not find nylon strings. However, the shop owners were warned of issuing an ultimatum against selling the banned product. Aurangabad commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta on Wednesday issued a notification banning sale and use of nylon strings ahead of Makar Sanktranti. The officer has asked police teams to carry out surprise checks at shops situated under their respective jurisdictions. Within hours of issuing notification, Jinsi police station, which has large number of kite shops under its jurisdiction, turned out to be the first to raid a shop and seize nylon strings worth Rs 2,700. An offence in this regard was registered against the person who was selling the banned product. Assistant commissioner of police (crime) Suresh Wankhede said, “Aurangabad city police are making all out efforts to ensure there is no sale, stocking or use of nylon strings.” The officer said that the police teams have even searched godowns of the kite shops in the city, to ensure that the banned strings are not stored there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/five-booked-for-selling-nylon-manja/articleshow/80050854.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 1, 2021||Delhi||DDA to sell 215 flats at Rs 2 crore each, its costliest ever||NEW DELHI: The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Saturday launched its Housing Scheme 2021. On offer are 1,354 flats, including 215 in Jasola for Rs 1.9-2.1 crore each—the priciest DDA flats ever. A total of 757 flats priced up to Rs 1.2 crore each are in Dwarka sectors 16-B, 19-B and Vasant Kunj. The DDA's website saw nearly 10 lakh hits after the launch of its housing scheme. Housing Scheme 2021 was launched by DDA’s vice-chairman Anurag Jain. Applications for the scheme will be received till February 16, with the draw of lots expected by the first week of March. The scheme offers 252 3bhk Higher Income Group (HIG) flats with prices ranging between Rs 70 lakh and Rs 2.1 crore, 759 2bhk Middle Income Group (MIG) flats priced between Rs 40 lakh and Rs 1.3 crore and 52 1bhk Lower Income Group (LIG) flats costing Rs 17.5 lakh to Rs 35.5 lakh.  The scheme also has 291 flats for economically weaker sections priced between Rs 7.5 lakh and 29.5 lakh. “As the scheme offers largely MIG and HIG flats located close to Delhi Metro corridors, we were sure that the scheme would attract a lot of applications. The response on the first day was very good,” a DDA official said. Any Indian can apply for a flat as long as they, their spouse or dependent children don’t already own a plot or flat in Delhi. Both husband and wife can apply but in case both land a flat, only one would be allotted. The application has to filed online through  dda.org.in.The scheme comprises 1,354 flats, including 254 HIG flats spread over 162 to 167 square metres and costing between Rs 1.9 and 2.1 crore. Of these, 215 flats are in Jasola, located near the Jasola Vihar-Shaheen Bagh Delhi Metro station. The costliest flats sold by DDA till date were the Rs 1.7 crore HIG flats in Vasant Kunj F Block, which were part of the housing scheme launched in 2019. The total number of two-bedroom, Middle Income Group (MIG) flats is 757, out of which 352 flats are located in Dwarka Sector 19-B and 348 in Dwarka Sector 16-B that are spread over 120 to 130 square metres with price ranging between Rs 1.1 and 1.2 crore. There are also some other MIG flats located in areas like Vasant Kunj. Though DDA officials had earlier said that there would be no one-bedroom, Lower Income Group (LIG) flats, the final scheme has 52 of these and scattered over locations across the capital, including Rohini, Dwarka Sector-23, Kondli Gharoli and Narela. The area of these flats ranges between 33 and 47 square metres and the price varies between Rs 21.4 and Rs 23.5 lakh. There are also 276 flats meant for economically weaker sections, located in Manglapuri in Dwarka that are part of the scheme. “All the flats are completely constructed and ready for disposal. The quality of construction of the flats is at par with the best private developers in NCR, the location is extremely good and these are all freehold properties,” said a DDA official. Watch Delhi: 1,354 flats on offer in DDA Housing Scheme 2021||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/on-offer-ddas-costliest-flats-ever/articleshow/80051701.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 1, 2021||Nashik||Highs & lows of Nashik’s Covid pandemic fight in 2020||NASHIK: The year 2020 witnessed the Covid pandemic with a total of 72,353 positive cases, 70,349 recoveries and 975 fatalities. The first Covid patient in the city was identified on April 6 and first Covid death here took place on May 5. There had been only 49 positive cases till May 19. By May 31, the city had seen 234 Covid-19 cases, 81 recoveries and 10 deaths. The number of cases started going up after the movement of people increased following lockdown relaxations in June. The city had 2,182 cases in June and the number tripled to 9,441 cases by July. There was a significant spike in cases in the month of September with 887 cases being recorded on average every day. By September 30, the overall tally of Covid positive patients in the city had increased to 51,472. Of them, 26,021 cases were recorded in September alone. Things changed for better in October due to various measures implemented by the civic body. The average daily case count dropped to 338 in October. In November, the daily count further reduced to 157. Moreover, the recovery rate also increased from June-end’s 42.6% to 96.9% now. Increased tracing, testing and timely treatment led to the drop in the number of cases and the death rate. Though the number of cases had increased in September, the recoveries too had increased, said Bapusaheb Nagargoje, the medical superintendent. “Moreover we also conducted a survey to find the suspected Covid cases under the ‘My Family My Responsibility’ campaign,” he said. The Covid death rate reduced from 4.8% in June to 1.3% now. The average number of daily cases increased marginally in the city in December when compared to cases in November.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/highs-lows-of-nashik-citys-pandemic-fight-in-2020/articleshow/80050861.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 1, 2021||Kochi||Pile-up of 10 vehicles kills 3||Thrissur: In a pile-up involving ten vehicles, three people lost their lives at Kuthiran on Thrissur-Palakkad route on Thursday morning. The mishap occurred when a truck lost control and hit two cars, two bikes and a mini lorry. The truck had reportedly hit two pick-up vans, a jeep, and a tempo traveller too. The deceased have been identified as Vijesh Varma, 25, son of Muraleedharan from Kakolithara near Mannapra in Palakkad district, Nikhil, 28, son of Puthenvazhi Veettil Kumaran from Mannapra in Palakkad and Shobhan, 35, son of Sisiram Veettil Chandran from Pookattupady, near Kizhakkambalam in Ernakulam district. Nikhil and Vijesh Varma were bike riders, Shobhan was driving the car involved in the accident. Six others have been injured and one of them is reported to be serious. The car was mashed up in the accident, and Shobhan could be taken out only after prolonged rescue work. The truck had first run over the bike, taking the lives of both the riders. Subsequently, it hit a tempo traveller and two pick-up vans, and later hit the car from behind. The accident caused a major traffic snarl on the Thrissur-Palakkad route for hours together. Kuthiran area has been witnessing several fatal accidents, and the defects in the road stretch in the area is cited as a major reason for the spate of accidents. District authorities had announced some weeks ago that the road would be repaired soon. But no significant work has been undertaken so far, according to residents in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pile-up-of-10-vehicles-kills-3/articleshow/80050857.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Pune||Pune: PMC areas enter New Year without containment zones||PUNE: The Pune municipal limits ushered in the New Year without any micro-containment zone on Thursday, while the sealed areas in Pimpri Chinchwad localities stayed at 31. There were six micro-containment zones in Hadapsar and Pune-Satara Road areas of the civic limits as per the December 4 order. Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said the officers of the respective ward offices will work as incident commander from now as all the micro-containment zones were removed, effective midnight. If any area, building or housing complex registers Covid-19 cases, the ward officers may declare that particular location as a micro-containment zone, Kumar said. Most of the time during the lockdown and unlock phases, the lowest number of cases were found in Kothrud ward office, followed by Aundh and Baner ward office. The densely populated areas such as Peth areas, Parvati and Patil Estate had maximum number of positive cases. Hence, they were in containment zones for the longest time. Varsha Dange, assistant medical officer, PCMC, on Thursday said there were 31 active containment zones in the eight zones in the civic limits. PCMC additional commissioner Ajit Pawar told TOI that the civic body was focussing more on home isolation due to the asymptomatic nature of the Covid-19 patients, rather than containment zones from the past few weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-areas-enter-new-year-without-containment-zones/articleshow/80054155.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Agra||Mob sets Agra police post, many vehicles ablaze||AGRA: Angry locals set ablaze a police post and several vehicles in Agra’s Tajganj area on Thursday afternoon following the death of a 22-year-old man in the morning after his sand-laden tractor-trolley fell into a ditch while being allegedly chased by police. Two policemen were injured while trying to control the violent mob that had gathered at the hospital, which declared the man, Pawan Kumar, as brought dead when the police personnel brought him for treatment soon after the accident. Angry family members of the victim soon blocked the Fatehabad road and started pelting stones on police and later torched the Tora police post under Tajganj police station. According to police, the man lost control over his vehicle while trying to make a 'U-turn' in a bid to flee after seeing the policemen, but the tractor-trolley fell into the ditch. The relatives of the victim, however, alleged that he was being chased by police as he had refused to pay them Rs 100 as bribe. Laptops and walkie-talkie sets at the police post were allegedly looted by the mob, claimed police. The situation was brought under control only after senior police officials, including inspector general (IG) A Satish Ganesh and senior superintendent of police (SSP) Babloo Kumar, reached the spot. Heavy police force was deployed in the area. ADG (Agra zone) Ajay Anand told TOI that CCTV footage of the area is being scanned to identify the attackers at the police post. Each and every person involved in the violence will be booked under relevant sections of the IPC. Anand said a detailed investigation will be conducted into the incident. Superintendent of police (city) Botrey Rohan Pramod said the deceased’s body has been sent for postmortem and an FIR is being registered in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mob-sets-agra-police-post-many-vehicles-ablaze/articleshow/80050858.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Rush in Gir leads to Diu on New Year||AHMEDABAD: Not just local tourists, but even VIP visits to the Gir Sanctuary are on the rise. Diwali season had failed to attract the required tourists, but the ban on the New Year’s Eve celebrations on December 31 has given the required boost to tourism in Gir, as the sanctuary falls on the way to Diu. Sources in the forest department said that at present there are hardly any weekend spots where the permit limits (150) have not been exhausted. If the numbers of all tourists who have come to the Gir Sanctuary (since resuming on October 15) after the lockdown is added with the tourist numbers to Devalia, then it would be around 40,000. Officials said that Bollywood star Amir Khan’s recent visit with 50-odd persons, and the visit of the Gujarat governor on Monday, signalled people were touring again. Gir forest officials said that till December 31 almost all the permits in the three morning slots have been booked and even afternoon slots are also full barring a couple of permits. A senior official said that the rush on the eve of New Year in January was higher than that during Diwali. Usually one found similar visitor numbers in Diwali and in the year-end festive season. “We have learned that majority of the tourists are heading to Diu for their New Year’s Day celebrations, and this is causing the rush to Gir. Diu is just a two-hour drive from Gir Sanctuary. Beat guards who talk to tourists say that around 60% tourists are heading to Diu,” said a senior forest officer. Mohan Ram, deputy conservator of forest, said tourists are returning to the sanctuary, and the department is also taking all precautions to ensure their safety. “We have installed thermal cameras, hand sanitizers, and even sanitize the vehicles after every trip. On weekend, all permits are exhausted, while during the weekdays only a few evening slots are available,” Ram said. Dinesh Mehta, a businessman from Ahmedabad said, “We decided to go to Diu and visit Gir and then head to Somnath where we will spend a day or two, and then head back to Diu for New Year’s Day.” Ritesh Maheshwari a tourist from Vadodara said, “My parents had come from Jaipur and we decided to visit Somnath and Dwarka. We will begin the trip from Gir, and it will end on New Year’s Day in Dwarka.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rush-in-gir-leads-to-diu-on-ny/articleshow/80053479.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 1, 2021||Rajkot||nCov choked crime rate in Rajkot to a 20 year low!||Rajkot: If the ravages of the global pandemic and lockdown shook the commercial capital of Saurashtra-Rajkot to its core, it also cleansed the city of many societal ills. One of the main positive aspects was the pulling down of crime rate drastically, to a two-decade low! The relief can partly be attributed to extended night curfew in the city as well as increasing presence of police on roads for patrolling during the lockdown. According to Manoj Agarwal, Rajkot police commissioner, the city recorded the lowest crimes in last 20 years and 30 % less than last year, in which, strict enforcement of law and order played a crucial role. Crimes that plagued the city once including rampant vehicle thefts, rioting, loan shark menace and land disputes too got significantly reduced in Covid times, he said. While increasing CCTV network helped reduce vehicle thefts, patrolling during lockdown and night curfew cut down on skirmishes leading to rioting and other crimes in the city. Moreover, the stringent economic conditions also led to a decline in crimes related to money laundering and other disputes in the city. And what was the biggest relief was the arrest of burglary with the city witnessing 48 percent decline in theft cases in 2020 as compared to the previous year. “Our vigilance helped catch more cases under the Arms Act in 2020 with 37 cases reported this year compared to 26 of 2019. Moreover, 19 cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 were found in 2020 and as many accused were arrested. Six accused got bail but we detained them under PASA and sent them to different jails in the state,” Agarwal said. Police data states that 124 people were sent to different jails under PASA while 34 have been externed in 2020. Not only this even organized crimes too took a beating this year. “To break organized crime syndicates in the city, we booked 23 members of two gangs — Imtiyaz alias Lalo and Azaz alias Tako — under the stringent Gujarat Control of Organised Crime Act (GUJCOCA) and sent them behind the bar,” the top cop added. Moreover, city police pro-actively helped victims of domestic violence by enforcing court orders in 19 cases where court ordered alimony to victims but were not given as the orders. Rajkot city police helped them provide Rs 65.62 lakh to women. And that’s not all. Rajkot cyber crime police recovered as many as 1,702 stolen mobile phones and returned to their rightful owners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ncov-choked-crime-rate-in-rajkot-to-a-20-year-low/articleshow/80051695.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Delhi||Delhi University unable to fill chunk of seats reserved for poor||NEW DELHI: As Delhi University completed its undergraduate admissions, there is one concern among colleges. They have not been able to fill the seats reserved for aspirants under the Economically Weaker Section category. Last year, DU implemented the 15% reservation for this section and added another 10% to the category this year. There are courses for which none of the EWS seats have been filled despite the cutoff having dropped significantly. Even the coveted BCom (H) seats haven’t been claimed. In Ramanujan College, for instance, of the 19 seats available, 13 are free, while at Rajdhani College only seven of the 15 seats have been taken. TimesViewDU authorities must find out the exact reasons why the seats are not being filled. Extra concessions, if required, must be provided. Seats are reserved for EWS students because they are socially and economically disadvantaged. Positive discrimination, as enshrined in the Constitution’s Article 46, cannot be reduced to empty words on paper.The vacancies remain high in both BSc programme and vocational courses. At Ramjas College, as many as 14 of the 16 seats for the course on physical sciences with chemistry have not been filled, while 10 of 14 reserved seats for the tourism course in the College of Vocational Studies are vacant. Kumar Ashutosh of CVS attributed this to eligible students being unable to procure the family income certification necessary for admission under this category. “DU has a rule that the certificate has to relate to the period after March 31. Because of the lockdown, many couldn’t get this certificate,” said Kumar. He conceded that compared with the unfilled vacancies last year, the number was much higher this year. According to RK Dwivedi, admission convenor at Aryabhatta College, many students were unaware they could apply under the EWS category. “They did not select the option of EWS in the admission form. Without that, they don’t cannot be considered under that head.” Many others felt the EWS lethargy was due to the high initial cutoff in the category when the difference between the qualifying marks for general category and EWS category was just 0.25-1%. Hansraj College principal Rama Sharma attributed the high cutoff to the seats remaining unclaimed. Hansraj, however, has only 13-14 seats vacant overall under the category. “We ensured that the cutoff for the reserved categories were brought down at the outset and that helped us fill most of the seats,” said Sharma. Many colleges ultimately lowered the eligibility marks. At Hansraj College, the first-list cutoff for history (H) was 97%. By the time the seventh list was published, the benchmark had slipped to 92%. In the third special cutoff drive, it was set at 85%. There are colleges that even brought down the cutoff to 70-80%, to little avail. “We do not know what will happen to the seats still unfilled. Maybe conducting a special drive based on a merit list will help,” suggested Kumar. It’s a perplexing situation given that even admissions for courses with entrance exams have fared well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-unable-to-fill-chunk-of-seats-reserved-for-poor/articleshow/80051767.cms||Shradha Chettri
January 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Take opinion of religious scholars: Waqf tribunal||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat State Waqf Tribunal has ordered a trust to obtain opinions from Islamic scholars on whether a mosque can be used as a place of worship, if it is constructed on a graveyard. The tribunal has delivered a split verdict on a dispute between two Muslim groups following different schools of thought – the Tabligh Jamaat and the Barelwis. The dispute pertains to administration of a graveyard in Badarpur village near Palanpur town in Banaskantha district. Those trustees having a leaning towards the Tabligh Jamat constructed a mosque in a graveyard. The other group alleged that graves were demolished and a shrine – Balapir dargah – was also damaged. The permission to construct the mosque was granted by the Waqf Board on condition that the trust would get an approval for the construction from local authorities. After the mosque was constructed, members of the Barelwi group moved the tribunal and complained against the construction by damaging the shrine and the graves. The tribunal stayed offering of namaz in the mosque during pendency of the appeal, but the Gujarat high court later permitted religious activity in the mosque. The tribunal finally delivered its verdict last week. Two members – the chairman A I Shaikh and member Rizwan Qadri opined that building a mosque on a graveyard was not proper. They ordered the trust to consult the muftis and aalims, the Islamic scholars, on the issue of what to do with the mosque. The tribunal has ordered the trust to use the mosque after obtaining the guidance of religious scholars. They also found irregularities in the process and ordered local authorities to register an FIR against concerned trustees. They also ordered for appointing new trustees by calling a meeting of the villagers. The majority verdict also reflected on the activities and approach of the Tabligh Jamat and how the Islam that is being followed in India is comparatively liberal. Tribunal’s third member, U A Patel rejected the appeal with observation that those, who challenged the Board’s permission to construct the mosque before the tribunal, are not even the trustees. They have misled the tribunal. He held that the existence of shrine (dargah) from the beginning is doubtful. Like the majority order, he also directed the trust to restore two graves that were demolished while construction of the mosque.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/take-opinion-of-religious-scholars-waqf-tribunal/articleshow/80053487.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Pune||Pune: Amid Covid, three happy surprises for this couple||PUNE: Pammi Tiwari, 19, had set off a scramble at the PCMC-run YCM hospital. It was 3.30am on December 3. Worried about catching Covid from hospitals or clinics, she had skipped critical antenatal check-ups. Doctors quickly realised they had an emergency. Here was a young woman with no medical records or advice, in acute labour pain. “We rushed her in for emergency delivery,” said YCM’s chief gynaecologist, Mahesh Asalkar. Pammi went on to give birth to premature but healthy triplets, a completely unexpected event through normal delivery. “She first delivered the twin girls. And just when we thought the delivery was over, she started to push again. Then came the boy,” said Asalkar. The newborns were soon moved to the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU). “Our emergency unit gets at least two to three pregnant women every day, who arrive with active labour pains. Since most are not registered for antenatal checks, these emergency deliveries become a daunting task,” said Rajendra Wable, dean of the YCM hospital and medical college. The World Health Organisation recommends that throughout pregnancy, all women should have a minimum of eight contacts with a health provider.  Pammi recovered within 48 hours of her delivery. All through their NICU stay, the triplets were fed their own mother’s milk, via tiny tubes. Paediatrician Deepali Ambike, said, “Only when the mother is sick or has inadequate milk do we need to source from a milk bank. In Pammi’s case, her positive attitude helped in milk ejection, as it is all dependent on hormone control.” Her doctors were also impressed with the father. “Sandip cooks food at home and turns up with these nutritious dabbas three times a day to keep his wife’s energy up,” Ambike said. He is currently unemployed and the couple, who moved to Pune from Bihar for work in 2017, is in financial distress. But Pammi is relieved. “I want to get back home with our babies,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/amid-covid-three-happy-surprises-for-this-couple/articleshow/80054164.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 1, 2021||Pune||Pune: District officials say there’s now surplus blood plasma||PUNE: There has been a drastic drop in the demand for convalescent plasma in Pune district. Officials from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) said the district now has 205 units to spare — a first since plasma therapy was introduced to treat Covid-19 patients. Suresh Patil, the joint commissioner of the FDA, Pune division, said, “Till September, the district had a shortage of convalescent plasma. Units were selling fast and blood banks were struggling to find donors. The banks continued to stock up because many were expecting a second wave.” Patil added that 3,683 people, who recovered from Covid, went on to donate blood plasma in the district. Officials were able to harvest around 7,412 units of from them. “We now have 205 units available. In September stock was usually at nil or in the double digits,” he said. Patil said blood plasma can be stored for a year in -18°C temperature. Those infected in May or June can no longer donate plasma as antibodies in their blood may have reduced, he said. “These 205 units were accumulated after September. But the number of new cases has been dropping drastically, including hospitalisations that’ll need plasma. Blood banks have now said there’s no need for donors. Storage of these units will run up additional costs,” Patil said. Doctors said they have reduced reliance on plasma therapy. “It has not been a standard therapy for Covid-19. There’s little scientific evidence on its effectiveness,” said Sanjay Lalwani, medical director of Bharati Vidyapeeth Medical Hospital and Research Center.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/district-officials-say-theres-now-surplus-blood-plasma/articleshow/80054160.cms||Neha Madaan
January 1, 2021||Pune||Recoveries rise past 3.48 lakh in Pune Metropolitan Region, 10 more fatalities take toll to 8,818||PUNE: The Covid-19 recoveries increased above 3.48 lakh in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Thursday, with 832 patients being discharged in the last 24 hours. As many as 544 people tested positive for Covid-19 in PMR on Thursday, taking its caseload above 3.62 lakh so far. Barring the PCMC areas, where recoveries were fewer than the new cases, the PMC and rural areas continued to record more recoveries than new infections. While 60 patients were discharged in the PCMC areas against 125 new cases, 421 patients were declared cured in the PMC limits as against the addition of 229 new cases. The rural areas declared 351 patients cured as against 190 new infections on Thursday. The region conducted 7,878 tests in the last 24 hours, pushing the total sample testing above 18.70 lakh. The PMC tested 3,819 samples on Thursday. A report released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated that 10 more patients succumbed to the infection in PMR on Thursday, taking the total death count to 8,818. While five deaths were reported in the PMC limits, three people succumbed to Covid-19 in the rural areas and two in the PCMC limits. So far, as many as 4,802 people have succumbed to Covid-19 in the PMC limits, while the rural areas have reported 2,259 deaths, followed by the PCMC limits (1,757). Of the total 8,818 deaths, about 55% deaths have been reported in the PMC limits, 25% in the rural areas and 20% in the PCMC areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/recoveries-rise-past-3-48l-in-pmr-10-more-fatalities-take-toll-to-8818/articleshow/80054167.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 1, 2021||Nashik||Flower biz blossoms as Nashik’s air connectivity with metro cities improves||Nashik: The business of farmers growing flowers, especially roses, in the region has started blooming from the second half of November after a low-cost private airline started flights from Nashik to Delhi, Bangalore and Hyderabad. In November, farmers sent five quintal of roses to these three metro cities by domestic flights while around 80 quintal were sent between December 1 and 24.Earlier, it would take around three days to send flowers to Delhi and other destinations by train. However, improving the city’s air connectivity has facilitated the farmers to send their produce to the metro cities in a span of a few hours. According to Halcon – a joint venture between the Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL) and Container Corporation of India (Concor), they are getting good response for export of flowers to the metro cities after Nashik city’s air connectivity improved. “The flowers grown in Nashik district are of good quality and are much in demand. The air connectivity from Nashik to Delhi, Bangalore and Hyderabad has proven to be a boon for farmers growing flowers in the region,” said Halcon CEO Sudharkar Sen.“These passenger flights also carry cargo with a capacity ranging from one tonne to three tonne. The Delhi flight is big and carries up to three tonne,” added Sen. Halcon facilitates handling of the cargoes and provides custom clearance and all such facilities required for the export of goods to various domestic destinations.“We are a group of 40 farmers engaged in rose farming. There has been a demand for flowers, like roses, in domestic markets in Delhi and other metro cities. Starting flights from Nashik to other metros has helped boost our sales as we can send the flowers instantly once the order is placed,” said Sunil Maule, a rose farmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/flower-biz-blossoms-as-nashiks-air-connectivity-with-metro-cities-improves/articleshow/80050876.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 1, 2021||Pune||5 UK arrivals positive in PCMC limits||Pimpri Chinchwad: Five more UK returnees tested positive for Covid in Pimpri Chinchwad, taking the twin towns’ total count of such cases to six. All UK returnees are being traced and tested for Covid as part of nationwide efforts to check if they have been infected by the new virus variant. The PCMC's health department said 268 UK travellers have been traced so far. The six who turned out to be positive were among 188 tested. Out of the 268 travellers tracked from Mumbai airport, officials said 14 ended up not entering PCMC limits. Another 50 are believed to have left for other locations after returning to Pimpri Chinchwad. Another 16 have completed 28 days since arrival and have not had symptoms. Results of 23 are awaited. Varsha Dange, assistant medical officer, said officials were waiting for genome analysis of positive samples that were sent to the National Institute of Virology. Abhay Tidke, additional district health officer, said Pune district has not yet reported a case of the UK variant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/5-uk-arrivals-positive-in-pcmc-limits/articleshow/80054171.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Delhi||More times for Boards, a relief for most||NEW DELHI: Students, parents and teachers heaved a sigh of relief with Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) declaring the dates for classes X and XII exams on Thursday. Many said the schedules would give students some time to prepare themselves. These students have not attended a single physical class, making all stakeholders apprehensive about their preparation level for the final examinations. “This is what we were expecting. The whole idea was that the classes X and XII students should get eight-10 weeks of remedial classes to help them clarify concepts. It will also help them build confidence and provide them psychological strength,” said Ashok Pandey, director of Ahlcon Schools. Parents, anxious over the past few months, are also relieved. “Now the Board should quickly clarify on how the practicals will be done,” said Tanisha Chandra, a parent whose child will appear for the Class XII exams. As per the announcement, schools will start practical tests on March 1. A student said, “Hope we will now be called to school soon so that we can brush up the online classes.” The private school body also welcomed the decision. Bharat Arora, general secretary of Action Committee, an umbrella body of private schools, said, “We appreciate the strategic planning of the Union ministry of education & Central Board of Secondary Education. Starting the examinations in the first week of May will give ample time to students and teachers to prepare better.” Earlier, Delhi government had also written to CBSE asking the exams to be held after May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/more-times-for-boards-a-relief-for-most/articleshow/80051815.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Pune||Pune, Nandurbar, Jalna & Nagpur to hold vax drills||Pune: The state is set to carry out vaccination dry runs in the districts of Pune, Nandurbar, Jalna and Nagpur on January 2. The move is part of the nationwide drills that are being held to test the inoculation process ahead of mass drives later this year. State health minister Rajesh Tope, who announced the dry runs, said the four districts were selected to check preparedness levels. “The state is ready with vaccinators and facilities,” he added. This week, the states of Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and Punjab held their own vaccination dry runs. The drills practice transport of an ‘approved shot’ to a designated site, the arrival of beneficiaries and uploading of dosage details onto the CoWin app — all without an actual vaccine. The Centre had asked states to pick their capitals for the dry runs, but state health officials said regions here were selected based on specific features. “Nandurbar was picked because of difficult terrain and spotty internet connectivity. Nagpur was selected because it has a good mix of urban and rural areas,” said principal secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas. The states that conducted dry runs have provided feedback. “We will do the same,” said Dr Vyas. At each vaccination site, monitors will be present to oversee the sessions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-nandurbar-jalna-nagpur-to-hold-vax-drills/articleshow/80054178.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 1, 2021||World||With little ado, a divided United Kingdom casts off into the Brexit unknown||LONDON: The United Kingdom left the European Union's orbit on Thursday, turning its back on a tempestuous 48-year liaison with the European project for an uncertain post-Brexit future in its most significant geopolitical shift since the loss of empire. Brexit, in essence, took place at the strike of midnight in Brussels, or 2300 London time (GMT), when the United Kingdom ended the de facto membership, known as the transition period, which lasted 11 months after it formally left on Jan. 31. For five years, the frenzied gyrations of the Brexit crisis dominated European affairs, haunted the sterling markets and tarnished the United Kingdom's reputation as a confident pillar of Western economic and political stability. After years of Brexit vitriol, one of the most significant events in European history since the 1991 fall of the Soviet Union, passed with little fanfare: The United Kingdom slipped away, serenaded by the silence of the COVID-19 crisis. Supporters cast Brexit as the dawn of a newly independent "global Britain", but it has weakened the bonds that bind England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland into a $3 trillion economy. "This is an amazing moment for this country," Prime Minister Boris Johnson said in his New Year's Eve message. "We have our freedom in our hands and it is up to us to make the most of it." As EU leaders and citizens bade farewell, Johnson said there would be no bonfire of regulations to build a "bargain basement Dickensian Britain" and that the country would remain the "quintessential European civilization". But Johnson, the face of the Brexit campaign, has been short on detail about what he wants to build with Britain's "independence" - or how to do it while borrowing record amounts to pay for the COVID-19 crisis. His 80-year-old father, Stanley Johnson, who voted to remain in 2016, said he was in the process of applying for a French passport. BREXIT In the June 23, 2016, referendum, 17.4 million voters, or 52%, backed Brexit while 16.1 million, or 48%, backed staying in the bloc. Few have changed their minds since. England and Wales voted out but Scotland and Northern Ireland voted in. The referendum showed a United Kingdom divided about much more than the European Union, and fuelled soul searching about everything from secession and immigration to capitalism, the legacy of empire and what it now means to be British. Leaving was once the far-fetched dream of a motley crew of “eurosceptics” on the fringes of British politics: the UK joined in 1973 as “the sick man of Europe” and two decades ago British leaders were arguing about whether to join the euro. It never did. But the turmoil of the euro zone crisis, attempts to integrate the EU further, fears about mass immigration and discontent with leaders in London helped Brexiteers win the referendum with a message of patriotic, if vague, hope. "We see a global future for ourselves," said Johnson who won power in 2019 and, against the odds, clinched a Brexit divorce treaty and a trade deal, as well as the biggest Conservative majority since Margaret Thatcher, in the 2019 election. Supporters see Brexit as an escape from a doomed Franco-German project that has stagnated while the United States and China surged ahead. Opponents say Brexit will weaken the West, further reduce Britain’s global clout, make people poorer and lessen its cosmopolitanism. When the Great Bell known as Big Ben tolled 11 through a scaffold, there were few outward displays of emotion in Britain as gatherings are banned under coronavirus pandemic restrictions. UNITED KINGDOM? After the United Kingdom leaves the Single Market or the Customs Union, there is almost certain to be some disruption at borders. More red tape means more cost for those importing and exporting goods across the EU-UK border. After haggling over a trade deal for months, the British government published 70 pages of case studies just hours before its departure advising companies on what rules they would have to follow at the new UK-EU border. The Port of Dover expects volumes to drop off in early January. The most worrisome period, it says, will be in mid- to late January when volumes pick up again. Support for Scottish independence has risen, partly due to Brexit and partly due to COVID-19, threatening the 300-year-old political union between England and Scotland. Scottish leader Nicola Sturgeon has said an independence referendum should take place in the earlier part of the devolved parliament's next term, which begins next year. "Scotland will be back soon, Europe. Keep the light on," Sturgeon said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/with-little-ado-a-divided-united-kingdom-casts-off-into-the-brexit-unknown/articleshow/80054770.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Delhi||Rooms with a view: A peak into planned offices in the all-new Central Secretariat||NEW DELHI: The new Central Secretariat buildings will have space for yoga, gymnasium, creches, pharmacy and first-aid centre. The offices in these buildings will be spacious and rooms of ministers will be almost identical and all secretaries will also have similar types of office space. The housing and urban affairs ministry held a consultation with the heads of departments of around 23 ministries on Thursday. Earlier it had held similar stakeholder discussion with top officials from some other ministries. Similarly, it had made presentations before MPs about the new Parliament Building and office complex for the lawmakers. The ministry is working on the dedicated website for the Central Vista project for larger dissemination of details of the projects to the public amid concerns raised over limited public consultation for such a large-scale project being undertaken post independence. Sources said different ministries and departments have made suggestions to the urban designer and architect of the project considering their requirements. They added consultations are still on and the project is evolving. A total of 10 office buildings and one conference facility will be constructed as part of the Central Vista redevelopment project. TOI has learnt that each building block will have lifts at four corners of the buildings and seating arrangement will be like that of corporate offices. “These buildings will have modern and user-friendly features such as dual water supply systems for reuse of the treated water for flushing and gardening, water harvesting and design to ensure lesser consumption of electricity. These will be built as green buildings,” said a source. Processed construction waste from the existing buildings will also be used in this project. Considering the increased use of video conferencing facilities, the new workstations and conference halls will be equipped to meet these requirements. Sources said the buildings will also put an end to the practice of ministers and secretaries often revamping interiors of their new offices soon after taking charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rooms-with-a-view-a-peak-into-planned-offices-in-the-all-new-central-secretariat/articleshow/80051881.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Pune||A silent goodbye to the decade on FC Road & other party streets||As the time ticked and the night grew on Thursday, the crowd thinned on FC Road, MG Road and East Street — the places people throng on New Year’s Eve in the hope of a fresh start the day after. Not a single reveller was on FC Road as Pune silently walked into 2021. The deafening noise of vuvuzelas was missing. Balloons did not fly. The wide road looked wider in the absence of motorists. It was 12 midnight. The reveller count on the city roads was virtually indirectly proportional to time this New Year’s Eve. Silence all around Police started barricading the FC Road around 10.30pm, as Thailand ushered in the new year. The few revellers still around started their vehicles in a haste, lest they got stuck. Deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Rahul Shrirame said, “On Wednesday, we had decided to stop the vehicular movement on FC Road and JM Road in Deccan, and MG Road in Camp on Thursday because we anticipated large number of people visiting these areas for New Year celebrations. But as very few people came, we allowed motorists to use them. As the number of people visiting the FC Road increased around 10pm, we barricaded it.” In half-an hour, the road was deserted. No vehicles on roadside and shutters down of all shops. “I can’t recall when FC Road looked like this on New Year’s Eve,” said a resident of a society tucked away from the arterial road. Time ticks for revellers At 8.30pm, when Japan stepped into 2021, MG Road was sparsely crowded. Few patrons walked into eateries, too few zoomed past the road. A few kilometres away, FC Road was comparatively livelier. Some revellers were busy buying balloons. A few walked into bars for a quick drink. “I shall quickly have a beer and head home. Roads might be closed tonight (Thursday night) much before the stipulated curfew hours,” said Subhojit Choudhary, senior manager of an IT giant. Far from usual When Team India welcomed the New Year in Melbourne at 6.30pm India time, some colourful balloons were up in the skies on FC Road. Many walked down the pavements along the thoroughfare, but nothing in comparison to the usual crowd on the last day of a year. The manager of a popular south Indian restaurant said, “Managing the crowd on this day in other years is an uphill task. This time, tables are empty despite seats being fewer.” Another day At 4.30pm, when the New Zealanders ushered in 2021 in Wellington, there was almost bumper-to-bumper traffic on FC Road and JM Road. The scenario was almost the same on East Street and MG Road in Camp. Some enthusiastic youngsters queued up at popular eateries dotting the FC Road. “I have come early to meet my friends because of possible curbs on vehicular movement on this road later in the day,” said Meenakshi Joshi, a first-year IT student. (With inputs from Gitesh Shelke)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/a-silent-goodbye-to-the-decade-on-fc-road-other-party-streets/articleshow/80054192.cms||Chandan Chatterjee
January 1, 2021||Rajkot||Teased, lioness attacks farmer||Rajkot: An irritated lioness mauled a 40-year-old farmer in a village of Bhavnagar district and left him with minor injuries on Thursday morning. According to forest officials, Ganesh Makwana, a farmer in Galthar village of Mahuva taluka is being treated for his injuries on his back at the Mahuva government hospital.A group of seven lions were sighted in nearby village on Thursday, said Nilesh Vegada, range forest officer of Mahuva. “A group of 15-20 people gathered at the spot and teased the lions which got separated in confusion. The group also had cubs. One of the lionesses went towards Makwana’s farm and fearing that she may attack his cows tried to protect his herd. In this situation, the already confused and irritated wild cat attacked the man,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/teased-lioness-attacks-farmer/articleshow/80051786.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Rajkot||Crypto cruise ship headed to Alang for breaking||Rajkot: A 30-year-old cruise ship, which was to be converted into a swanky floating hub for crypto currency business in the Gulf of Panama, is headed to Alang, one of the biggest ship dismantling yards in the world.The 811 feet long ship named ‘Satoshi’ was purchased by Panama-based Ocean Builders who had invited people to relocate their business headquarters.Sources in the shipping industry and Alang said that the ship was purchased as scrap by a company based in St Vincent island in the Caribbean. Talking to TOI, Rishi Aggarwal, India-based consultant for the company said: “The ship is expected to soon depart from Panama for Alang and it’s expected to reach the ship breaking yard by end of February 2021.” He, however, refused to divulge the price of the ship.The ambitious plan to convert the cruise into a buzzing commercial as well as residential hub ran into rough seas due to various reasons including stringent insurance rules in Panama, said sources.The 1991-built ship was brought by Ocean Builders a few months ago. According to the web portal of the company, they had invited people to relocate their business headquarters in this floating ship. The major attraction was that the ship owners wanted bitcoin to be accepted throughout the ship. Mukesh Patel, owner of Shree Ram Group in Alang said, “We have information that this ship is coming for dismantling to Alang but currently it has not been sold to anybody here. The cash buyers generally finalize the deal to sell it to Alang plot owners once the vessel reaches near Dubai or Mumbai.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/crypto-cruise-ship-headed-to-alang-for-breaking/articleshow/80051858.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
January 1, 2021||Nagpur||OF plans to deliver 3 more Dhanush guns to army in a week||Nagpur: The Ordnance Factory, which is undertaking proof fires of next batch of indigenous Dhanush 155mm gun made in lines of Bofors, plans to deliver three more pieces to the Army in a week. During the proofing trial under way at Balasore, one of the Dhanush guns had suffered a snag in one of the components between the barrel and rest of the gun. Sources said the incident may not hamper further supply of guns. After an inspection, it was found that there was a snag in the particular spare, which will be replaced in over a week. As no design flaw has been found, the firing on rest of the guns will continue, said a source. With three more guns sent this year apart from the six inducted for the first time in 2019, the Army is expected to have two batteries of the indigenous guns. Six guns make one battery. By end of the current financial year, the Ordnance Factory hopes to send 20 guns in all to the Army. Dhanush is being made at the Gun Carriage Factory (GCF), Jabalpur. The proofing trials could have happened earlier but were delayed due to Covid, which ultimately hampered the supply. The GCF is targeting to make 40 Dhanush guns in the next financial year followed by 48 after that. The project was initiated over nine years ago after which the first batch was inducted in 2019. During the trial stage, the project had faced set back a due to snags at different stages. However, the weapon has finally cleared the Army’s evaluation and is now under the process of induction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/of-plans-to-deliver-3-more-dhanush-guns-to-army-in-a-week/articleshow/80047280.cms||Shishir Arya
January 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Set up tribunals to resolve agriculture land disputes: Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Thursday asked the district collectors to set up tribunals to resolve agriculture land property-related cases of revenue courts. A high-level meeting with senior officials and collectors, the CM directed them to solve all agriculture properties’ disputes within 60 days, barring the cases pending in courts. He said Dharani land web portal will have more additional features for the benefit of the people. The CM asked the officials to solve the problems of land parcels, which were put under part-B (which involves disputed parcels of land) during the comprehensive land records survey. “They should undertake field inquiries and take decisions and finalise the ownership rights,” he told officials. KCR said that two months after the launch of Dharani, 1.6 lakh people have booked slots and 80,000 have already completed the registrations. He said the collectors will also examine the applications for regularisation of Sada Bainamas and finalise the ownership rights. “If the land is registered under the names of minors and guardians, issue pattadar passbooks on both minor and guardian names,” he said. If government and private lands are in the same survey number, they are put in prohibited list (22/A). The collectors should inquire into these survey numbers and decide which is a government land and which is a private land and put up the details on Dharani portal and issue passbooks. Dharani will now have the facility to register lease agreements apart from the facility to register agreement of sale-cum-GPA. “The portal will allow registration of agriculture land sale deeds and exchange deeds,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/set-up-tribunals-to-resolve-agri-land-disputes-kcr/articleshow/80051901.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 1, 2021||Jamshedpur||Banna’s supporters burn effigy of E S’bhum SSP over ‘police failures’||Jamshedpur: Supporters of state health and disaster management minister Banna Gupta along with Congress workers from the Kadma area took out a rally against the East Singhbhum SSP Tamil Vanan in Steel City and burned his effigy in protest against the alleged failures of police to maintain law and order in the city. BJP has termed the incident as personal vendetta of the minister against the SSP. The rally led by Gupta's in-charge of IT cell Pappu Singh along with presidents of Congress's Kadma and Mango zones, Babua Jha and Naushad. Sources said on Thursday that the rally was taken out to highlight the failures of the Jamshedpur police in curbing law and order. The protestors covered various areas and later burnt the effigy of the police super in front of Kadma police station. The rally was led by the in-charge of minister's IT cell, Pappu Singh, along with Congress Kadma zone head Babua Jha and Mango's Naushad. Sources said the rally and effigy burning programme was organized with due consent of the minister. In another stir, the SSP's effigy was burnt in Mango chowk area for the same reason. Pappu Singh said after Vanan took over as the SSP earlier this year, there have been several cases of theft and spurt in gambling. Other protesters claimed that police have failed to deal with the "rising substance abuse" cases in the city and demanded immediate removal of the SSP. Opposition BJP has termed the rally and the burning of the effigy as personal vendetta of the minister and his followers against the SSP. Former BJP mahanagar head Dinesh Kumar said the effigy burning does not send the right signal and lowers the morale of the cops. Kumar claimed that since the SSP has not followed the minister's instructions to appealed the minority vote bank, which Gupta enjoys, the party workers protested against the senior officer. "How can the minister's supporters burn the effigy of the SSP, who is appointed by the government, in which Gupta is a cabinet minister?" Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/bannas-supporters-burn-effigy-of-e-sbhum-ssp-over-police-failures/articleshow/80052254.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
January 1, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand records 240 cases, 3 deaths||RANCHI: Jharkhand registered an increase in active cases for the third straight day with fewer recoveries recorded than the number of fresh infections. On Thursday, out of 14,446 samples tested in the state, 240 were found to be positive for Covid-19, taking the positivity rate to 1.66%. About 218 persons were also declared recovered during the day. The maximum number of cases were once again reported from Ranchi with 110 new cases and one out of three deaths reported in the state. The second death was from Khunti and the third from Bokaro. East Singhbhum with 31, Dhanbad with 26 and Bokaro with 13 cases remained in the list of districts with a high rate of infection. Five districts — Dumka, Giridih, Jamtara, Pakur and Sahibganj — did not report any fresh infections while the remaining 15 districts reported new cases in single digits. The total number of cases reported in the state since the outbreak of the pandemic reached 1, 15,113 while the recoveries stood at 1, 12, 424, indicating a recovery rate of 97.66%. The seven-day growth rate was 0.14%, while the seven-day doubling rate deteriorated slightly to 479.47 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-records-240-cases-3-deaths/articleshow/80053055.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Ranchi||Palamu peppermint growers urge govt to set up distillery, make plant seeds available in J’khand||Daltonganj: Peppermint growers in Palamu urged the state government to set up a distillery and make seeds of the plant available in Jharkhand. The farmers here mostly buy seeds of peppermint from Barabanki in Uttar Pradesh. A farmer, Priya Ranjan Singh, from Doomar Hata village under Dangwar panchayat of Hussainabad sub-division said, “Peppermint seeds are not available in Jharkhand. So we have to buy them from Barabanki. As a result, we are also charged the transportation cost, which is pretty high.” A kilogram of peppermint seeds cost Rs 80, Priya Ranjan said. Priya Ranjan also complained about the lack of a processing plant in the vicinity. “We have to take peppermint leaves to Bikramganj in Bihar for distillation.” Another farmer said they began growing peppermint here in 2019 but even after nearly two years, the difficulty in procuring seeds and in getting the leaves distilled persisted. “Despite challenges, we did not lose hope. By April next year, the Palamu administration has assured us of setting up one processing plant. The Niti Aayog has appreciated our endeavour. It has also asked the district administration to provide a processing plant,” Priya Ranjan said. About 15 to 16 litres of peppermint oil is distilled from 20 quintals of peppermint leaves. A litre of peppermint oil can fetch anywhere between Rs 1,500 to Rs 1,800. Priya Ranjan said: “Farmers come from Bihar’s Bikramganj and Buxar to buy leaves from us.” Peppermint oil is used in a variety of beauty products, besides being used to treat irritable bowel syndrome, nausea, common cold, itching and pain, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/palamu-peppermint-growers-urge-govt-to-set-up-distillery-make-plant-seeds-available-in-jkhand/articleshow/80052288.cms||M F AHMED
January 1, 2021||Ranchi||Infection scare keeps admin on toes as New Year revelry peaks||Jamshedpur: The district administration has decided to deploy six Covid test teams across all the popular picnic spots in Jamshedpur and in Ghatshila for conducting random tests on the revellers that are expected to throng the spots throughout the first week of January. On Thursday, additional chief medical officer Sahir Pall, who is also the district surveillance officer, said, “Each team will comprise two health workers and some support staff who will conduct RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen tests on the picnickers.” In addition to this, a few police squads have been constituted which will patrol the picnic spots and coordinate with the health officials to make sure that the picnickers undergo the test. “Five police squads have been formed to keep a close vigil on these spots, especially the ones in Ghatshila as they are frequented by those living in Bengal, besides the district’s residents,” SSP M Tamil Vanan said. Galudih dam, Phuldungri hill, Dharagiri Falls, Ratmohana and Burudih dam in Ghatshila and Dimna Lake in Steel City are some of the popular spots which get visitors from West Bengal. The administration’s decision to conduct tests at random comes a day after the district officials in Ranchi decided to go for a similar arrangement across all its popular tourist/picnic spots. Pall said it is crucial that the administration adopts such strict measures keeping in mind the new virus strain detected in United Kingdom (UK) and the fact that several UK returnees to India have already tested positive for the new variant. Recently, seven UK returnees to Steel City had tested negative for it but they were put in home isolation for a week as a precautionary measure. “Given the gravity of the situation, it is important that we keep a close watch on the revellers who need to follow the Covid-control measures, including wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and sanitising their hands frequently, while indulging in their New Year merriment,” Pall said. Vanan said that some people have become complacent and are not complying with the safety measures, especially in crowded areas, which is an alarming trend given how the district is still getting fresh cases almost every day. As of Thursday morning, the district recorded 40 new cases. So far, East Singhbhum has reported 17,545 cases, including 16,963 recoveries and 374 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/infection-scare-keeps-admin-on-toes-as-new-year-revelry-peaks/articleshow/80052304.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 1, 2021||Ranchi||PM to launch housing project in Ranchi today||Ranchi: In a New Year gift for Jharkhand, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually lay the foundation of the Centre’s ambitious Light House Project (LHP), which will be set up on 75-acre land in Ranchi’s Dhurwa area to accommodate 1,008 families of the economically weaker section. LHP, conceptualized to offer affordable housing for the poor with the state-of-the-art construction process along with global technologies and facilities, is being launched in six different cities across the country under the Global Housing Technology Challenge. The project is part of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) but the only difference is that LHP would use the latest technology. Governor Droupadi Murmu and chief minister Hemant Soren will also take part in the online foundation laying ceremony of the project, which will be constructed using NAVARITIH (new, affordable, validated, research innovation technologies for Indian housing). Director (municipal administration) of the state urban development department, Vijaya Jadhav, said, “The idea is to use advanced technology for building houses that don’t just withstand the vagaries of weather but are also made of environment-friendly materials as much as possible. In Ranchi, we will be using pre-cast concrete and prefabricated materials for building the houses, which will also help us in finishing the project in record time.” Informing that the total cost of the project is estimated at Rs 133.99 crore, Jadhav said, “We have roped in M/s SGC Magicrete LLP, a Mumbai-based firm for construction of the houses. Building Materials Technology and Promotion Council (BMTPC), a PSU, will provide technical assistance for this project.” Rao said. She added, “The size of each house will be 315 sqft and will have one hall, a bedroom, one kitchen, a balcony and one toilet. There will be water and power facilities in the building complex along with high-speed elevators, community park, parking space for four and two-wheelers. The cost will be borne for the Centre and the state along with some share of the beneficiary.” The department is targeting to finish the project in one year. Any person, whose annual income is Rs 3 lakh or below would be eligible to get these houses. Besides Ranchi, the foundation stone in the first phase will be laid in Indore (Madhya Pradesh), Rajkot (Gujarat), Chennai (Tamil Nadu), Agartala (Tripura) and Lucknow (Uttar Pradesh).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pm-to-launch-housing-project-in-ranchi-today/articleshow/80052313.cms||ASRP Mukesh
January 1, 2021||Goa||CM calls for improved governance through sustained training||Panaji: In the new year, the administration will be improved to better serve the people of the state, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday. He listed the need for repeated training programmes for personnel and people-friendly premises as among the requirements for improved administration. “If we need good administration and want to provide better services to the public, then we keep ourselves updated,” Sawant said. Taking a jibe at some elected representatives, he said they think that just because they have got the people’s mandate they know everything. Even employees have a similar mindset, Sawant said. The chief minister was speaking at the function to lay the foundation stone for the new Goa Institute of Public Administration and Rural Development (GIPARD) building at Ella Farm, Old Goa. He released a video highlighting the work carried out by GIPARD in training government employees, panch and ZP members, among others. Suggesting that GIPARD organise a training program for all government employees, he said, “The training process should be continuous. After this not only will knowledge get updated, but it will also help the staff to serve people better. Also, through training we learn about our responsibilities.” During the pandemic, GIPARD has trained more than 4,300 people, Sawant said. GIPARD conducted surveys in 191 villages as part of Swayampoorna Goa and now it should monitor the project, he said. “It is my dream to make Goa swayampoorna. It does not mean that Goa should be swayampoorna in dairy, horticulture, etc. I want Goa to be swayampoorna in skilled manpower,” the chief minister said He said that the people of the state should support the vocal for local call given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-calls-for-improved-governance-through-sustained-training/articleshow/80053565.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Jamshedpur||Covid: Jamshedpur hotel sealed after 11 foreigners, 1 employee test positive||JAMSHEDPUR: The District administration on Thursday sealed Fortune Park Center Point hotel in Jamshedpur after 11 foreigners and one hotel staff tested positive for Covid-19. Additional chief medical officer (ACMO) Sahir Pall said that the foreigners were employees of Mill Track International company. While tracing their contacts, the district health department conducted tests on 29 staff members of the hotel and one employee was found to be positive, he said. “The administration has, therefore, sealed the hotel for carrying out containment measures to prevent the spread of the disease,” he said. Notably, 46 foreign nationals of Mill Track International company had arrived in Jamshedpur between December 5 and December 8. They hail from Philippines, New Zealand, Ghana, Zambia and South Africa. The Mill Track International is implementing a project at the pellet plant of Tata Steel, sources in the district administration said. “During a routine test of the foreign nationals, 11 were found infected,” the ACMO said. The East Singhbhum administration had put six UK returnees in home isolation on December 26, as a precautionary measure even though they tested negative for Covid-19. The six, including a woman, are residents of Rahargora (Pursudih), Mango, Sonari, Bistupur and Agrico.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/steel-city-hotel-sealed-after-11-foreigners-1-employee-test-positive/articleshow/80053022.cms||B Sridhar
January 1, 2021||Ranchi||JMM to contest Bengal election, ‘finer details being worked out’||RANCHI: The Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, which is currently governing Jharkhand in an alliance with the Congress and the Rashtriya Janata Dal, has announced to contest the West Bengal assembly polls, likely to be held in April-May next year. “The central committee of our party has decided to contest the upcoming West Bengal election with all our might. The finer modalities are being worked out,” JMM general secretary-cum-spokesperson Vinod Kumar Pandey said. The party wanted to expand its base in West Bengal as a part of the outfit’s vision of ‘vrihat Jharkhand (greater Jharkhand)’, senior functionaries in Ranchi said. In 2016, JMM had fielded candidates across 23 assembly constituencies in West Bengal, which were spread across Purulia, Bankura, Jhargram, Birbhum, Darjeeling and Alipurduar districts. While Purulia, Bankura, Jhargram and Birbhum share their borders with Jharkhand, West Bengal’s northern districts of Darjeeling and Alipurduar have a sizeable tribal population which originally settled as workers in tea estates. The 2016 sojourn was a dismal affair for the JMM as it failed to open its account. Speaking to reporters in Dumka recently, Soren had said a team of senior JMM functionaries was dispatched to West Bengal to study the ground conditions before zeroing in on the party’s prospective seats and candidates. As BJP tries to make inroads into West Bengal, it remains unclear whether JMM will forge a pre-poll alliance with Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress, which is eyeing a third consecutive term in office. In 2019, Banerjee had accepted Soren’s invitation and attended his swearing-in ceremony at Ranchi’s Morhabadi ground. In early 2019, Soren addressed a mega rally of opposition parties convened by Banerjee in Kolkata’s Brigade Parade grounds ahead of the Lok Sabha polls. “There has not been any discussion about alliances at present,” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya told TOI. However, Bhattacharya hinted that JMM will hold talks with like-minded parties. In October, JMM had walked out of the RJD-led mahagathbandhan in poll-bound Bihar and contested independently in seven seats after differences cropped up over seat sharing. However, it did not win any.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jmm-to-contest-bengal-election-finer-details-being-worked-out/articleshow/80053124.cms||Dhritiman Ray
January 1, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Temple towns brace for New Year crowd, roll out measures to maintain Covid norms||CHATRA/DUMKA: Anticipating a rush of devotees who usually make a beeline for temples and other places of worship on the first day of a new year, authorities across Ramgarh, Chatra and Deoghar – which are home some of the most revered temples in Jharkhand – are making elaborate arrangements to ensure that the Covid-control measures are maintained on Friday. Rajrappa-based Maa Chinnamastika Temple — located 28km away from the Ramgarh district headquarters at the confluence of Damodar and Bhera rivers — has deployed volunteers along the river banks to keep on the revellers who go there for picnics. “We are engaging divers on boats with life jackets to prevent incidents of drowning. The district administration and the temple committee are jointly working to curb liquor consumption around the temple area. The administration has been conducting raids in the area for the last 15 days to nab the culprits in this regard,” the joint secretary of Maa Chhinamastika Mandir Nyas Samiti, Asim Panda, said. Inside the temple, the devotees – who usually come from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, besides Jharkhand -- must wear masks while the volunteers will make sure that the former maintain social distancing. “The administration will also deploy security personnel inside the premises for the overall safety of the devotees,” Panda said. At Maa Bhadrakali Temple in Itkhori (in Chatra district), barricades have been put up to make sure that the devotees maintain social distancing. Temple secretary and Itkhori circle officer Baidyanth Kamati said, “Police teams will be deployed tomorrow to make sure that there’s no trouble and the Covid norms’ violators will not be spared.” Deoghar deputy commissioner Manjunath Bhajantri said they have decided to extend Baba Baidhyanathdham temple’s timings and keep it open for 12 hours (from 4am onwards) on January 1 keeping in mind the rush of devotees. “Besides deploying latge numbers of magistrates and security personnel, the temple authorities have been directed to ensure the strict implementation of Covid norms tomorrow. The DC added that they have taken stock of security arrangements across all the entry points of the temple, including Sanskar Mandap and Queue Complex. Bhajantri also directed SDO (civil)-cum-temple in-charge to conduct sanitisation drives across the premises, make sure that the lavatories clean and that there is uninterrupted supply of power and drinking water for the devotees. He has also asked the officials concerned to put up barricades on the roads leading up to the temple to prevent overcrowding or a stampede-like situation. The Deoghar administration has deployed magistrates at other areas of the temple town, including Nandan Pahad, Tapovan and Trikuti hills where picnickers gather in large numbers. In Dumka, similar arrangements have been made by the district administration at Basukinath shiva temple. Dumka DC Rajeshwari B has directed the authorities concerned to remain vigilant to avoid any untoward incident owing to the overcrowding of visitors both at the temple and the nearby Massanjore dam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/temple-towns-brace-for-new-year-crowd-roll-out-measures-to-maintain-cov-norms/articleshow/80052956.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
January 1, 2021||Ranchi||Fish farming thrives in coal capital Dhanbad||SINDRI: The coal capital of India – Dhanbad, which is surrounded by nearly 112 coal mines – has added another feather to its cap. The district now has a thriving fish farming business which has given livelihood opportunities to thousands of uneducated and unemployed youngsters and even the government is now providing them with all kinds of assistance in order to double their income. “We were able to produce 1,36,00 tonnes of fish in the last fiscal year and this year, we are planning to produce 1,50,00 tonnes,” district fisheries officer Mujahid Ansari said on Saturday. He said, “With the slogan ‘Jahan Bhi Dekho Paani, Wahin Palo Machhli Rani’, we are now encouraging even the educated youths to take up fish farming since it has proved to be a profitable form of self –employment.” He added, “The government subsidy on fish spawns ranges from 80% to 90% and fish feed, fishing net and recharge coupons are being provided to all the trained fish farmers, especially to those engaged in rearing of spawns and fry-fishes of 1 to 1.5inch size.” To make spawns available to the farmers on time, the government is running seven hatcheries in Dhanbad where artificial breeding with brooder fishes is being conducted. “The state government has also set up a fish feed mill in Dhanbad for the benefit of farmers,” Ansari said. He further said, “Since only 30% of the ponds in the district are perennial, the government is promoting cage culture in rivers and in dams which produce fish in large quantities in a protected environment. Cage batteries have been provided for this purpose to around 10 fish farmers on subsidy.” In Dhanbad, there are 2,975 government-owned tanks and ponds spread over an area of 1,204 hectares, 7,779 private ponds spread over an area of 3,624 hectares, reservoirs covering 15,425 hectares, 104 dovas (small ponds) spread over 85 hectares, check dams having a water area of 100 hectares, coal mine pits having a water area of 368 hectares and 312km area of rivers are being used for fish farming. As many as 2,000 fish farmers are engaged in cooperative fish farming and most of them are earning well now. Kalimuddin Ansari, who hails from Kusumdaha, has started his own packaging and marketing unit of fish produced in Panchet Dam. Not only does he own pick-up vans for collecting fish from different ponds, but he also helps the other fish farmers in availing the benefits of various government schemes. Loyabad-based Ranjit said he has already sold more than 250 quintals of fish in September and the money is enough to support his family of eight. “I got Rs 2 lakh as financial assistance, a bike and a pick-up van from the government, besides fish spawns on subsidized rates,” he added. Kamardih Tundi-based Tatbir Ansari has been in the business for the last 30 years and now all his 30 family members are helping him in farming across 42 big and small ponds. He has his own fish shop in the area and has started supplying fish spawns, fry and fingerlings to farmers in the nearby districts of Giridih and Jamtara. “I also procure fish spawns and fry from the neighbouring districts of West Bengal, as and when required,” he added. He also has got a bike from the fisheries department, besides spawns, net and feed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/fish-farming-thrives-in-coal-capital-dhanbad/articleshow/80052883.cms||Anil Ashutosh
January 1, 2021||Ranchi||10 passenger trains to resume services from Ranchi division||Ranchi: After 10 months of closure, passenger trains will resume operations from the Ranchi railway division from January 2 onwards, a statement issued by the South Eastern Railways (SER) said on Thursday. The statement said 10 trains — Ranchi-Dumka special, Tatanagar-Hatia-Tatanagar MEMU, Ranchi-Tori-Ranchi MEMU, Ranchi-Lohardaga-Ranchi MEMU (three trains), Kharagpur-Ranchi-Kharagpur special, Adra-Barkakana-Adra MEMU, Hatia-Rourkela Passenger and Hatia-Tatanagar-Hatia passenger — will ply from from Ranchi, Hatia and Adra railway stations. The passenger train services were shut since March 2020 to comply with the nationwide lockdown norms. Though the railways introduced special trains and festival special trains since July, normal passenger train services remained grounded. In Jharkhand, lawmakers from BJP demanded the restoration of the passenger trains since October citing the adverse impact on the local economy and the movement of thousands of workers, vegetable sellers and traders to cities like Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Bokaro and others. Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth had written to Union railway minister Piyush Goyal and the outgoing railway board chairman (cum CEO) Vinod Kumar Yadav demanding urgent reinstatement of the services. While 10 passenger trains were restored, festival special trains will remain operational in place of the regular express trains up to March 2021 citing growing demand for berth occupancy among its passengers, the SER statement said. Prem Kataruka, secretary of Jharkhand Passengers Association and member of the Zonal Railway Users’ Consultative Committee (ZRUCC), questioned the rationale behind the running of special trains. “At a time when people are struggling with the economic woes caused by Covid-19 and the prolonged lockdown, what is the logic behind running special trains where passengers are being charged anywhere between 25%-50% higher than the actual price of the tickets? The festival special trains should be suspended at once and regular express trains should be resumed to provide relief to the passengers,” Kataruka said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/10-passenger-trains-to-resume-services-from-ranchi-division/articleshow/80052318.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 1, 2021||Goa||30 Albert_Dark road stretch in Loliem finally gets solar lamps||PHOTOS EMAILED TO VALENCIA, ANURADHA, RAKESH, SHARMILA Poinguinim: Fourteen solar lights, funded through the tourism department, have helped finally light up the one kilometer road stretch connecting from National highway 66 to Loliem. Loliem-Polem sarpanch Sachin Naik said that Rs 15 lakh for the work was provided by the tourism department, which helped fulfill a long pending demand of the villagers. The area was a secluded one and the absence of street lights was further leading to safety issues, locals said. The road is an important stretch for villagers as it connects the NH66 highway to Loliem village, cutting short the distance. “After this road has been lit up by installing 14 solar lamps, this will benefit passersby, senior citizens, those going towards the crematorium on this route and the villagers in general as this will improve safety for them,” said former sarpanch and sitting panch Ajit aka Ajay Lolyekar. In absence of lights, some miscreants were seen using the place to dump garbage, as the rarely anyone used this road at night fearing for their safety. In addition to the solar lamps, improvement work on a new road leading to St Sebastian church cemetery also began. The estimated cost is learnt to be around Rs 12 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/30-albert_dark-road-stretch-in-loliem-finally-gets-solar-lamps/articleshow/80053570.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Goa||Cortalim residents demand water supply||Vasco: Frustrated over receiving little or no water supply over the last three months, Cortalim and Quelossim villagers got together to protest at the PWD office in Baina, Vasco, recently. The villagers, who reside in areas located on hill slopes, said that from receiving water at low pressure six months ago, they stopped receiving water altogether three months ago. The villagers asked the PWD engineers what use the newly constructed storage tanks at Cortalim were of, if the locals were not receiving water. They alleged mischief by PWD staff and demanded an inquiry into it. “The water meant for Cortalim constituency is being supplied elsewhere and so we are not receiving water,” alleged former Cortalim sarpanch Anton Joao Fernandes. PWD assistant engineer Vishwambher Bhende assured the villagers that he would conduct an inspection soon. “There is a new pipeline coming in from the highway and work on a 90m stretch is to be completed. Once ready, within a month these people will get connected to the new pipeline and their issue will be addressed,” Bhende said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cortalim-residents-demand-water-supply/articleshow/80053588.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Goa||In remote Goa, organic farming gets bumper crop||Keri: Today, when use of chemical fertilisers and pesticides to enhance crop yield has become the norm, villagers in some remote parts of Goa are returning to the traditional organic manure, especially to grow some indigenous crops. The farmers claim that their yield has never been better. The organically grown produce, the farmers said, is valued more today by the increasingly health-conscious consumer and therefore fetches a better price in the market. Farmer Dasharath Morajkar from Pelavade, Ravan in Sattari, said he has received abundant yield of tuber crops and ginger this year after turning to organic manure. “As I realised the role of organic manure in maintaining soil fertility and increasing crop yield, I completely gave up using chemicals. This year, following the use of organic manure, I am happy to have had a bumper yield of tuber crops and ginger,” he said. At Pirla, Quepem, Vitthal Khandeparkar has been using organic manure for some years now on his horticultural as well as agricultural crops, with more than satisfactory results. He first purchased Gir cows, the urine and cow dung from which are the key ingredients for what Khandeparkar considers his magic organic manure formula. “I have been using organic manure for more than five years now and I have been getting good yields of paddy, banana, coconut, arecanut, spices and seasonal vegetables. Students, tourists and researchers come here now to witness and learn and understand the use of organic manure,” Khandeparkar said. In Goa, farmers interested in organic farming are mainly using mulching (recycling farm waste) and biological pest control through use of neem and cow urine. Prashant Rane from Keri, Sattari, is another success story. “During the Covid- 19 pandemic, my patch of land yielded organic brinjals, lady fingers and other vegetables and marigold flowers. Villagers would throng to my field to purchase the chemical-free produce,” Rane said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-remote-goa-organic-farming-gets-bumper-crop/articleshow/80053630.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
January 1, 2021||Goa||Poor banking services due to internet issues irks Canacona residents||Poinguinim: GFP has alleged that the services offered by nationalised banks across Canacona taluka are sub-standard and threatened an agitation if they are not upgraded with immediate effect. Stating that the poor services are causing locals a lot of suffering, GFP said that most ATMs in the taluka are often found to be in non-functioning condition. Due to ATM breakdowns and non-availability of cash due to technical problems, villagers are getting stuck in long queues. “With poor banking services experienced, especially at the branches of nationalized banks in Canacona, the Goa Forward Party has approached the bank authorities and told them to improve the services within a week or else face agitation,” said GFP general secretary Prashant Naik. Naik alleged that customer services in most of the bank branches in Canacona and, especially in Mashem, are pathetic. He said there are more than fifteen branches of public sector banks operating in various parts of the taluka and customer services in most of the bank branches in the municipal area and in villages like Poinguinim, Mashem, Agonda and Gaondongrim need to improve on priority. He said the authorities are blaming the Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) for the poor internet connectivity, but Naik said the banks have to rope in another internet service provider so that the customers are not inconvenienced. He said that customers often have to shuttle from village branches to taluka centre branches, where again they cannot get the required services resulting in disappointment. Naik said most of the time the passbook printing kiosks too are inoperational putting the customers, including senior citizens, through a lot of hardships.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/poor-banking-services-due-to-internet-issues-irks-canacona-residents/articleshow/80053643.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Vizianagaram sees rise in crimes against women, children||VISAKHAPATNAM: Vizianagaram district saw a 4.5% increase in crimes against women and 20% increase in crimes against children in 2020 compared to 2019. Bodily offences saw a rise in the district even as property offences dropped slightly. Vizianagaram police chief B Raja Kumari said that a total of 505 cases were reported under the crimes against women category in 2020. In 2019, the number was 483. Among crimes against women, there were four rapes, ten murders, two dowry-related murders, 31 statutory rapes, 231 cases of harassment, seven cases of abetment of suicide and 214 cases of outraging the modest of a woman. Cases of crimes against children rose from 64 in 2019 to 77 in 2020. Police said that rape cases went up from four in 2019 to 10 in 2020. Cases of kidnapping of girls rose to 22 from 13. According to Raja Kumari, 63 cases were registered under the POCSO Act. Further, a total of 309 property offences were reported in the district and Rs 1.34 crore-worth property was misappropriated. This was a slight drop from 327 cases in 2019. Police managed to detect 53% of the offences and recovered 64% of stolen property. There was a marginal decrease in cases related to cybercrime. A total of 75 cybercrimes were reported in 2020, a drop from 98 in 2019. Over 50% of the cybercrimes were related to financial fraud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vzm-sees-rise-in-crimes-against-women-children/articleshow/80050523.cms||Nalla.Babu
January 1, 2021||Vijayawada||Tirumala saw sharp drop in hundi collections in ’20||Tirupati: Pilgrim footfall and Hundi collections declined considerably at the Lord Venkateswara temple in the year just gone by due to the Covid-19 pandemic induced restrictions. While the temple had to close its doors to devotees for three nearly months due to the nationwide lockdown, the curbs imposed on pilgrim influx into Tirumala continue to check the spread of the virus. While 2.74 crore devotees visited Tirumala in 2019, only 80 lakh devotees could offer prayers at the temple in 2020. The hill temple, which received Rs 1,281 crore in the form of Hundi collections in 2019, the figure was Rs 500 crore in 2020 as pilgrim footfall dropped to one fourth in comparison to 2019. About 22.09 lakh and 21.28 lakh devotees worshipped at Tirumala in January and February 2020, with the Hundi collections being Rs 92.09 crore and Rs 88.85 crore for those two months respectively. After the temple reopened on June 8 after three months of lockdown, about 3.89 lakh devotees visited the temple in June, 2.38 lakh in July, 2.29 lakh in August, 2.53 lakh in September, 5.49 lakh in October and 8.47 lakh in November. The Hundi collections received between June to November were Rs 11.04 crore in June, Rs 16.69 crore in July, Rs 18.43 crore in August, Rs 32.05 crore in September, Rs 47.53 crore in October and Rs 61.30 crore in November. The average monthly pilgrim footfall in Tirumala was around 20 lakh while the average Hundi collections per month used to vary between Rs 90 to Rs 100 crore during the pre-Covid days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tirumala-saw-sharp-drop-in-hundi-collections-in-20/articleshow/80050542.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
January 1, 2021||Visakhapatnam||VMRDA plans to develop 4 new layouts||Visakhapatnam: The Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority plans to develop four layouts in four corners of the city in 2021, VMRDA vice-chairman and MD Koteswara Rao said on Thursday. “Despite our revenue dipping by 60% in 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic, we have planned several projects for 2021. Plots would be allotted through auction in the four layouts. The NAD flyover, Visakha valley road, Boney road, Ramanagar shopping complex, and several other projects worth Rs 380 crore would be completed during the year,” he said. He said the Sea Harrier museum would be completed soon. Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation commissioner G Srijana said the civic body is expecting a better Swachh ranking and targeting a 5-star or 7-star rating in the garbage-free city rankings in 2021. GVMC was ninth in Swachh Survekshan rankings and got a 3-star rating in garbage-free city category in 2020.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vmrda-plans-to-develop-4-new-layouts/articleshow/80050533.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Vijayawada||Tirupati: Man impersonating as IPS officer arrested||TIRUPATI: A man, who impersonated himself as an IPS officer and as Hyderabad city police commissioner and duped several women in Tirupati, was arrested by the police on Thursday. Tirupati SP Avula Ramesh Reddy said the accused, identified as Mohammed Musthak from Hyderabad, worked as a real estate broker and married a woman in Srikalahasti in 2013. During his frequent visits to his in-laws’ place, Musthak first befriended a woman who operates a milk refreshment stall at Tirupati railway station by introducing himself as police chief of Hyderabad. “Through her he befriended several other women of a self-help group by promising their children jobs in TTD, allotment of mining quarries etc. After collecting around Rs 39 lakh from the women, he disappeared and stopped responding to their calls. We have recovered Rs 12 lakh from the accused,” Ramesh Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-impersonating-as-ips-officer-arrested/articleshow/80050555.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Vijayawada||Amid pandemic, Vijayawada’s civic body goes beyond call of duty||VIJAYAWADA: With the novel coronavirus on the loose, the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) was busy attempting to stem spread and take other healthcare measures. But when the lockdown was announced, the civic body used the opportunity to complete some long-pending projects. In this story, Venu Lanka, looks at the civic body’s workings through the year. Coronavirus and its implicationsVMC and its health and sanitation wings played a major role in flattening the virus curve in the city. Krishna district, which saw the second highest number of cases in April and May, was gradually able to stem the tide. Vijayawada was the first city in the state to prohibit spitting in public and make mask-wearing compulsory. VMC also shifted vegetable markets to open grounds and took up sale of groceries to avoid overcrowding. The lockdown The VMC operated special shelters for migrant workers and the destitute during the lockdown. The civic body provided 1,000 kits full of essentials to destitute taking shelter in VMC schools. It also provided food and transport to its 2,500-strong sanitation workforce who worked round-the-clock to stop spread of the pandemic. Corridor improvement plan VMC has undertaken a corridor improvement plan across a 39km-stretch to ease traffic congestion in the city. The corridor will cover MG Road, Eluru road and other main roads in the city. Avenue plantation, divider plantation and hawker zones will be planned as part of the plan. Execution will cost the VMC around Rs4crore per kilometre. The civic body has requested to sanction Rs200crore to execute the plan. Development of parksThe civic body increased its focus on maintenance of green spaces and development of parks this year. The 45-acre Ajith Singh Nagar dumping yard was transformed and VMC started developing a nature park in 13 acres. VMC also bagged SKOCH silver award for this initiative. Once complete, it will be the biggest park in the city. It is scheduled for inauguration in July, 2021. Sport infrastructureVMC used the lockdown to ramp up the city’s sports infrastructure. DRR Indoor Stadium at MG Road and Chennupati Ramakotiah Stadium at Patamata were developed completely at an estimated cost of Rs4crore. The swimming pool at Guru Nanak Colony, the Gymkhana ground and the KL Rao Park were renovated. RevenueDespite the pandemic, the VMC’s tax revenues improved in 2020. The civic body has a tax demand of Rs144crore, which includes dues of Rs82crore from central and state government companies. Around Rs40crore is pending from South Central Railways. The civic body has collected Rs68crore in property taxes till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/amid-pandemic-vijayawadas-civic-body-goes-beyond-call-of-duty/articleshow/80050580.cms||Venu Lanka
January 1, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Journey through the decade: Story of Vizag’s transformation||A port city with an industrial hub, that’s how Vizag would have been characterised back in the 2010s. But rapid urbanisation fuelled by industrial development has made the world take note of this city by the beach. Slated to soon become the executive capital of Andhra Pradesh, V Kamalakara Rao goes down memory lane to bring to light the journey that defined the decade for Vizag. Asilmetta Flyover: The city’s first flyover came to life in 2013. Also known as the Telugu Talli Flyover, this 1.6km stretch connects Asilmetta Junction to Visakhapatnam Railway Station. It is part of the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) under Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission. Beach road: A tourist magnet, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation significantly transformed the beach road through the decade. A coconut orchid was developed along the beach. More than a hundred trees were planted on the sandy beach to attract tourists in all seasons. The project materialised in the summer of 2019. Lighthouse: Built in 1903, the 59-feet-tall lighthouse guided ships to harbour till 1962. In 2015, the lighthouse was restored and thrown open to the public. Since then, it has been attracting tourists in numbers. In fact, the lighthouse is the final destination on the itinerary of APTDC’s daily city tour. NAD Junction: The Rs113 crore flyover project at NAD Junction is perhaps one of the largest infrastructure projects of the decade after the Telugu Talli Flyover. It bears the burden of over one lakh vehicles every day. Works for the project began on April 6, 2018 and the project is slated to be completed by February, 2021. YSR Central Park: Developed in the old Central Prison site at the heart of the city, the YSR Central Park has become a major attraction for tourists. Opened for the public on September 15, 2016, the park is spread over 20.5 acres land. The park boasts of the third largest musical fountain in the country. Railway station: The Visakhapatnam railway station was redeveloped after 2013. Equipped with all modern facilities, it bagged the National Tourism Award as the ‘best tourist-friendly railway station in India’ in 2019. Through the decade, platforms have been renovated with granite flooring, more retiring rooms commissioned and cloak rooms have been constructed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/journey-through-the-decade-story-of-vizags-transformation/articleshow/80050597.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
January 1, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Decade saw Vizag weather many a storm||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh weathered many a storm through the decade. The state has faced the brunt of six cyclones and one depression since January 1, 2010 and December 31, 2020. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD) director K Nagaratna, cyclone Hudhud was the most severe and the strongest cyclone to have hit the state. “Perhaps Hudhud was the first storm that directly made a landfall on a big city like Vizag. Our Doppler weather radar too was slightly damaged in the storm,” Nagaratna said. “Vizag city went completely dark for nearly five days,” recalled state housing secretary, Ajay Jain, who was in the city on Wednesday accompanying the chief minister on his Vizianagaram tour. Apart from cyclone Hudhud, cyclone Titli and cyclone Phethai in Kakinada caused immense damage in the state. NC Ramachandra Reddy, freemason and president of Ramakrishna Seva Samiti at Pakala in Chittoor district, said, “We also experienced the winds of cyclone Nivar that crossed the Tamil Nadu coast this year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/decade-saw-vizag-weather-many-a-storm/articleshow/80050606.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
January 1, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s positivity rate less than 5% in December, but Covid-19’s ‘fat tail worrying’||MUMBAI: After being the worst Covid-19 hotspot in India for most of 2020, Mumbai begins the new year on a good note: a positivity rate of less than 5% throughout December. As per data with the BMC public health department till December 29, the overall positivity rate in December has been 4.59%. Around 4.3 lakh Covid-19 tests were done between December 1 and 29, with 19,744 people testing positive. The 5% mark is the thumb rule laid down by World Health Organisation for governments; 5% positivity for two weeks means further reopening of facilities can take place. For a city that has had a positivity rate of 20% or 30% in the initial period of the pandemic, the 5% rate is heartening, said city’s health officials. In fact, the positivity rate in Mumbai’s peak periods (May-June and September) was so high, the overall positivity rate in the February 3-December 30 period is still high at 12.42%. Around 23 lakh Covid-19 tests have been performed in the city in this period. In December, the city reached a landmark in terms of daily tests: on December 20, 22,654 tests were done in a single day while December 22 saw 25,138 tests – the highest ever in the city so far. The lowest positivity rate for a single day was on December 28, when 13,860 tests were done with 537 patients testing positive (rate of 3.8%). The change in Mumbai’s Covid curve was first noticeable in November around Diwali. For over a week after Diwali day on November 14, the positivity rate among daily Covid-19 tests was around 7%. BMC executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare said, “In December, we conducted the highest number of tests so far, with an average of over 16,000 tests a day.” She said BMC teams have been testing domestic air passengers as well as international ones. “We are testing at railway stations and crowded places. Despite such activity, the positivity rate has been consistently low in December,” she said. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state task force on Covid-19, however, said there are two reasons to continue to be on the guard. One is emergence of the new highly contagious strain in the UK and another is the lower temperature due to winter. He said Mumbaikars should to be careful and observe Covid-appropriate behavior of wearing face masks, sanitising and washing their hands frequently and maintaining social distance. Dr Joshi said Mumbai’s Covid graph seems to have a “thick tail” that refuses to budge. While in global cities, the drop from three-digit cases to single digit took place within two months, the “tail” in Mumbai has been constant, between 500 and 800 cases every day. “This thick tail is worrying. Cases should have dipped to 200 a day or lower by now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-positivity-rate-less-than-5-in-december-but-covid-19s-fat-tail-worrying/articleshow/80054798.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 1, 2021||India||Sangh role diluted? In major rejig, BJP 'scraps' joint general secretary posts||NEW DELHI: BJP on Thursday effected major organisational changes, virtually doing away with the influential position of joint general secretaries with V Satish appointed as coordinator, a new post to oversee the parliamentary party and Dalit outreach. The changes that affect functionaries, seen to be RSS deputees, can be seen as diminution of the Sangh role but Satish has been given significant responsibility. The role of overseeing the parliamentary party is viewed as an important assignment for the low-profile functionary and is seen as a streamlining exercise. He will coordinate with the parliamentary party, SC Morcha and BJP's Dalit outreach campaigns. Joint general secretary Saudan Singh was elevated as national vice-president. He will be based in Chandigarh and look after party affairs in Haryana, Punjab, Chandigarh and Himachal. These are key states for BJP which also represent political challenges. Shiv Prakash, another joint general secretary, will retain the post but his role has been expanded. He will be based in Bhopal and look after MP, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Andhra, Telangana and Bengal. While the changes can be seen as the BJP brass asserting its position in its arrangements with RSS, sources said PM Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah have been careful about keeping RSS in the loop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sangh-role-diluted-in-major-rejig-bjp-scraps-joint-general-secretary-posts/articleshow/80054822.cms||Akhilesh Singh
January 1, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: To avoid large gatherings, night curfew on Day 1 too||NEW DELHI: The night curfew imposed across the city by Delhi government on New Year’s Eve to avoid large gatherings will remain in force from 11pm on January 1 to 6am on January 2. While the night curfew means not more than five persons can assemble at any public place during the period, there are no restrictions on interstate or intrastate movement of persons and goods. “The night curfew will be implemented to ensure there are no lapses, which can lead to a spike in Covid cases like earlier,” state health minister Satyendar Jain said at a press briefing on Thursday. Delhi Police has also appealed to Delhiites to spend the New Year in the comfort of their homes. DCP Eish Singhal said restrictions on gathering of people after 11pm at places like India Gate and Connaught Place, where people usually gather to celebrate the New Year, will be there on Friday (January 1) too. Singhal, also the spokesperson for Delhi Police, said only licensed places are allowed to hold gatherings and that too, by following Covid-19 guidelines as issued by Delhi Disaster Management Authority. “They will operate at 50% capacity, maintaining social distancing, ensuring guests wear masks and following other norms as laid in the guidelines,” the officer added. The DCP said that traffic policemen will be deployed in sufficient numbers to book violators and ensure a peaceful and safe New Year for Delhiites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-to-avoid-large-gatherings-night-curfew-on-day-1-too/articleshow/80054846.cms||Piyal Bhattacharjee
January 1, 2021||Pune||Covid-19: Vaccination dry run in four Maharashtra districts on Saturday||PUNE: The districts of Pune, Nandurbar, Jalna and Nagpur will carry out vaccination dry runs on Saturday. The process involves a dummy shot to 25 participants at select sites. State health minister Rajesh Tope, who on Thursday announced the dry runs, said that the four districts were selected to check for preparedness levels. “The state is ready with vaccinators and the facilities,” the minister said. This week, the states of Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and Punjab held their own vaccination dry runs. The drills involve transport of an “approved shot” to a designated site, the arrival of “beneficiaries” and uploading of dosage details onto the CoWin app — all without an actual vaccine. The Centre had asked states to pick their capitals for the vaccination dry runs, but state health officials said regions here were selected based on specific features that would help test the efficacy of the delivery system. “Nandurbar was picked because of difficult terrain and spotty internet connectivity. Nagpur was selected because it has a mix of urban and rural areas," principal secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said. The states that conducted the dry runs have provided feedback that could fix loopholes in the process. “We will be doing the same,” Dr Vyas said. Health authorities said that the vaccination dry runs, besides being a field test for the CoWin app, will also test linkages between planning and implementation before the full inoculation drives are able to start. “This will give our staff and trainers confidence,” a health official with knowledge of the vaccination plan in the state said. At each of the vaccination sites, a medical officer will identify 25 test beneficiaries or health workers. Monitors will be present at all the sites to oversee the sessions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vaccination-dry-run-tomorrow-in-pune-nandurbar-jalna-nagpur/articleshow/80054836.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 1, 2021||Noida||‘Very poor’ air days ahead, step up action: CPCB||NEW DELHI: Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Thursday reviewed air quality and meteorological conditions expected in the New Year and stated that it was likely to remain “very poor” for the next few days. Track the pollution level in your city“Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), state pollution control boards of NCR and various central and state agencies have been requested to take effective steps to control pollution immediately,” said CPCB. According India Meteorological Department forecast, ventilation conditions are likely to slow down in Delhi, causing poor dispersion of pollutants, which is expected to push the air quality in the “very poor” category in the coming days. In view of the deteriorating air quality and likely increase in activities during New Year celebrations, CPCB, on December 23, had issued an order directing DPCC and state boards of Haryana, UP, and Rajasthan to shut down all hot mix plants and stone crushers until January 2. It has also directed to increase frequency of sprinkling, mechanised cleaning of roads and dust mitigation measures. Since October 15, a total of 50 teams have been deployed by CPCB across Delhi-NCR to check polluting activities on the ground. Each team has been visiting pollution hotspots in the region and locations where violations were reported on CPCB’s SAMEER app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/very-poor-air-days-ahead-step-up-action-cpcb/articleshow/80055115.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Faridabad||‘Very poor’ air days ahead, step up action: CPCB||NEW DELHI: Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Thursday reviewed air quality and meteorological conditions expected in the New Year and stated that it was likely to remain “very poor” for the next few days. Track the pollution level in your city“Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), state pollution control boards of NCR and various central and state agencies have been requested to take effective steps to control pollution immediately,” said CPCB. According India Meteorological Department forecast, ventilation conditions are likely to slow down in Delhi, causing poor dispersion of pollutants, which is expected to push the air quality in the “very poor” category in the coming days. In view of the deteriorating air quality and likely increase in activities during New Year celebrations, CPCB, on December 23, had issued an order directing DPCC and state boards of Haryana, UP, and Rajasthan to shut down all hot mix plants and stone crushers until January 2. It has also directed to increase frequency of sprinkling, mechanised cleaning of roads and dust mitigation measures. Since October 15, a total of 50 teams have been deployed by CPCB across Delhi-NCR to check polluting activities on the ground. Each team has been visiting pollution hotspots in the region and locations where violations were reported on CPCB’s SAMEER app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/very-poor-air-days-ahead-step-up-action-cpcb/articleshow/80055116.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Gurgaon||‘Very poor’ air days ahead, step up action: CPCB||NEW DELHI: Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Thursday reviewed air quality and meteorological conditions expected in the New Year and stated that it was likely to remain “very poor” for the next few days. Track the pollution level in your city“Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), state pollution control boards of NCR and various central and state agencies have been requested to take effective steps to control pollution immediately,” said CPCB. According India Meteorological Department forecast, ventilation conditions are likely to slow down in Delhi, causing poor dispersion of pollutants, which is expected to push the air quality in the “very poor” category in the coming days. In view of the deteriorating air quality and likely increase in activities during New Year celebrations, CPCB, on December 23, had issued an order directing DPCC and state boards of Haryana, UP, and Rajasthan to shut down all hot mix plants and stone crushers until January 2. It has also directed to increase frequency of sprinkling, mechanised cleaning of roads and dust mitigation measures. Since October 15, a total of 50 teams have been deployed by CPCB across Delhi-NCR to check polluting activities on the ground. Each team has been visiting pollution hotspots in the region and locations where violations were reported on CPCB’s SAMEER app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/very-poor-air-days-ahead-step-up-action-cpcb/articleshow/80055114.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Delhi||‘Very poor’ air days ahead, step up action: CPCB||NEW DELHI: Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Thursday reviewed air quality and meteorological conditions expected in the New Year and stated that it was likely to remain “very poor” for the next few days. Track the pollution level in your city“Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), state pollution control boards of NCR and various central and state agencies have been requested to take effective steps to control pollution immediately,” said CPCB. According India Meteorological Department forecast, ventilation conditions are likely to slow down in Delhi, causing poor dispersion of pollutants, which is expected to push the air quality in the “very poor” category in the coming days. In view of the deteriorating air quality and likely increase in activities during New Year celebrations, CPCB, on December 23, had issued an order directing DPCC and state boards of Haryana, UP, and Rajasthan to shut down all hot mix plants and stone crushers until January 2. It has also directed to increase frequency of sprinkling, mechanised cleaning of roads and dust mitigation measures. Since October 15, a total of 50 teams have been deployed by CPCB across Delhi-NCR to check polluting activities on the ground. Each team has been visiting pollution hotspots in the region and locations where violations were reported on CPCB’s SAMEER app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/very-poor-air-days-ahead-step-up-action-cpcb/articleshow/80054857.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Two teachers convicted for bid to end life||MUMBAI: In a rare conviction, two teachers who tried to end their lives in 2019 by jumping off Mantralaya’s second floor, but were luckily saved by the safety nets, have been held guilty on the charge of “attempt to commit suicide.” The court, however, instead of handing sentences, fined the duo—Osmanabad’s Arun Niture (45) and Jalgaon native Hemantrao Patil (29)—Rs 5,000 each. They had pleaded guilty, forfeiting their right to a trial. “In default of payment of fine amount, they shall suffer SI (simple imprisonment) for 15 days each, for the offence punishable under Section 309 of IPC,” additional chief metropolitan magistrate A H Kashikar said on Tuesday. Teachers sought leniency, said they were ‘sole breadwinners’Under Section 309, a person who attempts to commit suicide and does any act towards the commission of such an offence will be punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year or with a fine, or both. Pleading guilty voluntarily, Niture and Patil appeared before the court and sought leniency. They submitted that they were poor and their families were dependent on them as they were the sole breadwinners. The incident took place on September 18, 2019 at about 5 pm when the teachers, part of a delegation that had arrived at the state secretariat building seeking funding for schools meant for differently-abled students, attempted to make the jump. In 2018, the safety nets were installed to cover the central atrium of the Mantralaya building after a spate of suicides. Days prior to its installation, a 45-year-old murder convict, Harshal Raote, died by suicide after jumping off the fifth floor of the building. While the IPC makes attempt to suicide a punishable offence, Section 115(1) of the Mental Healthcare Act states that any person who has attempted to die by suicide should be presumed to have severe stress, unless proven otherwise, and should not be tried and punished. The Act also states that the appropriate government will have the duty to provide care, treatment and rehabilitation to a person having severe stress and who attempted to die by suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-two-teachers-convicted-for-bid-to-end-life/articleshow/80054865.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 1, 2021||Delhi||Delhi sees 2nd coldest December in 15 years; 8 cold wave days highest in 55 years||NEW DELHI: Delhi had its second coldest December in 15 years with the national capital recording a mean minimum temperature of 7.1 degrees Celsius, according to Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). The city also recorded eight cold wave days this month which was joint highest in 55 years, as the same number of cold wave days were recorded in December 2018. In 1965, nine cold wave days were reported in December, IMD data shows. On Thursday, Delhi recorded the season’s lowest minimum at 3.3 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal. The coldest December was reported in 2018 with mean minimum temperature of 6.7 degrees Celsius and before this, the average monthly temperature dipped below in December was in 2005 at 6 degrees Celsius. Met official said a cold wave day is declared when the minimum temperature is 4 or more notches below normal or when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degrees Celsius. The mean minimum temperature of December is 8.3 degrees Celsius. In 2020, city had coldest Nov in 71 yrs, coldest Oct in 58 yrsMet officials said the factors that led to cold wave and below normal temperatures in December were chilly north-westerly winds from western Himalayan region, which received snowfall, clear sky mostly in second half of the month, uplifted fog, global factor La Nina and less influence of western disturbances in the plains. According to IMD, the first 12 days of December mostly remained warmer than usual. “Minimum temperature was near normal till December 12 due to western disturbances which affected plains of North West India. Clouds and rainfall due to these western disturbances put the temperatures near normal,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre. After December 12, western disturbances mostly affected Western Himalayan region. The mountains in Jammu and Kashmir and Himanchal Pradesh under the influence of western disturbances received snowfall and rainfall. “After passing of the western disturbance, cold north-westerly winds are reaching Delhi-NCR from Jammu & Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. ‘Uplifted fog’ over Punjab & Haryana made the winds reaching Delhi even colder,” said Srivastava. In 2020, the national capital had recorded coldest November in 71 years and coldest October in 58 years. The maximum temperature recorded on Thursday was 17.4 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal. According to IMD, the maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be 19 and 4 degrees, respectively, on Friday. Cold wave conditions are expected at isolated places. However, the maximum and temperatures may go up from January 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-sees-2nd-coldest-december-in-15-years-8-cold-wave-days-highest-in-55-years/articleshow/80054867.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
January 1, 2021||Goa||Consumers urged to study effect of power dept’s proposed rates||Panaji: Electricity consumers, both domestic and commercial, need to study the implications of the electricity department’s tariff proposal for 2021-21 as it seeks to remove the present slab benefits and introduce uniform billing rates for the entire units consumed, said Goacan. The consumer activist group has urged power consumers in the state to submit their objections, suggestions and comments by January 20 so that the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) can take the views into account before taking a decision. Goa’s power department has projected a revenue gap of Rs 301.4 crore which will be met by income from electricity supply at Rs 122.7 crore and Rs 178.65 crore as budgetary support from the state government. JERC issued a public notice a few days earlier stating that the electricity department has submitted a petition for approval of “truing up” for 2016-17, review of 2020-21 along with aggregate revenue requirement and tariff proposal for 2021-22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/consumers-urged-to-study-effect-of-power-depts-proposed-rates/articleshow/80053543.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 1, 2021||Goa||Sawant directs depts to meet revenue targets within 3 months||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday directed various departments to complete their revenue generation target within the next three months without putting additional burden on the state exchequer. Sawant said that there is only 10 percent reduction in expenditure while there is revenue drop of over 25 per cent. Sawant had called meeting of eight department but covered only five departments. Sawant held meeting with the officials of registration department, WRD, excise, GST and electricity. Sawant said that the with PWD, directorate of mines and geology and revenue will be held next week. Speaking to TOI Sawant said he has directed department to come out with new scheme or to revive old schemes to generate revenue. “I have instructed officials to think to generate revenue without putting additional burden on the exchequers,” he said Chief minister told officials that they have to seriously generate the revenue to meet revenue target. During the meeting registration department said that there is number of flats exist in the state without deed of sale. Sawant said most of the flats are on agreement of sale and if we get a good scheme then people will come forward and register the deed of sale which will generate the revenue for the state. He also said that once they register deed of sale then they can become the owner of the flat. During the meeting, each department have made presentation on the available resources and how to generate revenue from various sources for next three months. To address the fiscal crunch triggered by the nationwide lockdown, Sawant had unveiled a series of austerity measures. The drastic steps had included a freeze on new government jobs and infrastructure projects, which were withdrawn in November. With around 60,000 employees, the government has to shell out around Rs 50-60 crore per month just on salaries, pension, provident fund, gratuity, group insurance and other heads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-directs-depts-to-meet-revenue-targets-within-3-months/articleshow/80053562.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Opposition demands trust vote, TMC questions logic||KOLKATA: The opposition in West Bengal on Thursday demanded a trust vote in the assembly, prompting Trinamool Congress to question its logic. “There are political rallies and meetings. Then why is restriction imposed only in case of an assembly session? Is the government scared to face the assembly because they don’t have the numbers?” CPM parliamentary party leader Sujan Chakraborty said at a joint press conference on the assembly premises on Thursday. “If the government lacks majority, then why is the chief minister making public announcements? We gave a letter to the CM demanding a trust vote. If we don’t get a proper reply, then we will have no other option but to go to Nabanna,” Chakraborty added. Congress parliamentary party leader Abdul Mannan said: “We are hearing that many people have left Trinamool and people are confused. Has the government lost majority? If they have enough MLAs, they should go for a floor test immediately to win the confidence of people.” Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh went a step further to say Trinamool had lost its majority and so they were shying away from an assembly session. “There is none in Trinamool. They know if they go for floor test, they will get exposed. They will go for a vote-on-account in the budget session. Let them test their strength in the assembly and everything will become clear,” he said. Trinamool was prompt to react. Speaking to TOI, Bengal minister of state for parliamentary affairs Tapas Roy said: “This again proves that CPM, Congress and BJP are hand in glove against the government. They oppose not for a reason but because they have to do that; else they will lose their relevance. Let CPM and Congress first give their test of popularity and then they will demand it from us. We will prove our majority to people and not to them.” Asked about the issue, Bengal Speaker Biman Banerjee said: “I have not seen any notice so far. I cannot make a comment unless I have gone through the notice.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/oppn-demands-trust-vote-tmc-questions-logic/articleshow/80053862.cms||Saibal Gupta
January 1, 2021||Kolkata||GRSE delivers hi-tech vessel to Indian Navy, ends year in style||Kolkata: City-based defence shipyard Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineers (GRSE), which created history a few days ago by launching the country’s first advanced stealth frigate, ended the year on a high note by delivering the last and eighth in a series of landing craft utility (LCU) to the Indian Navy on Thursday. This was the 106th warship delivered by GRSE and the advanced LCU will join the Andaman and Nicobar Command (ANC). In addition to the achievement, GRSE has also begun construction of the first anti-submarine warfare shallow water craft (ASWSWC) for the Navy. “Despite the pandemic, we succeeded in carrying out all trials for the LCU, a Mark-IV variant that is unique and most-advanced in its class globally. The role of LCUs is crucial to protecting islands in the Andamans. These are quite close to the South China Sea. The LCUs can berth in shallow waters with troops and equipment. They are used jointly by the Navy and the Army. These vessels can also be used for humanitarian aid and disaster relief (HADR) operations,” GRSE CMD Rear Admiral V K Saxena (retd) told TOI. LCUs of this class are 62.8m long and 8m wide; they move quite fast and are also equipped with two guns to provide artillery support to embarking troops. They can also carry main battle tanks. The design of these vessels is in-house and the extent of indigenisation is nearly 90%. The first vessel of this class was delivered in 2016. “GRSE has delivered 14 ships over the past 41-42 months. This is a record in itself. We have also bagged the order for the ASWSWCs and work on the first has started. These are very advanced vessels as well and will be packed with sensors and weapons systems. These vessels will have hull mounted and towed sonar to detect enemy submarines, and torpedoes and rockets to eliminate them if needed. Propelled by water jets, these will also be capable of search and rescue,” the CMD added. The GRSE’s order books are nearly full for the next several months. Apart from the three stealth frigates and eight ASWSWCs, the shipyard has been entrusted with the building of four advanced survey vessels by the Navy. Construction of the first one has already started. These orders were bagged by GRSE through competitive bidding and the shipyard, having already delivered a ship to Mauritius, is now looking out for more international orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/grse-delivers-hi-tech-vessel-to-indian-navy-ends-year-in-style/articleshow/80053881.cms||Jayanta Gupta
January 1, 2021||Kolkata||Suvendu tipped to be Jute Corpn chairman||Kolkata: Suvendu Adhikari, who joined BJP barely two weeks ago, is likely to be appointed chairman of Jute Corporation of India. While the central government has sought his bio-data, sources close to the development said his appointment is likely to happen in January. Suvendu, who had for long been a minister in the West Bengal government before he switched sides, will enjoy the status of a cabinet minister by virtue of the new post. Suvendu could not be contacted. But Bengal BJP vice-president Raju Banerjee said: “It is good news for the state. A lot of farmers are dependent on jute cultivation in Bengal. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also spoken about the importance of jute in the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. He (Suvendu) will have an important portfolio to work for farmers in the state.” Jute Corporation of India was formed in 1971 with the sole purpose of helping farmers get the minimum support price (MSP) for their produce. Accordingly, JCI had been intervening when farmers faced challenges in getting MSP. Headquartered in Kolkata, JCI has played a key role in jute cultivation in nearly 17 districts of Bengal. Sources close to the development indicated Suvendu’s appointment comes at a time when JCI is going through a phase of transformation. It has already introduced geomapping of jute growing areas with the assistance of Isro. It has also introduced an e-passbook for farmers to eliminate middlemen. Bengal farmers, however, faced a challenge this year due to Cyclone Amphan that brought down production. Suvendu, who was provided Z-category security even before he joined BJP, will now get the facilities that a cabinet minister is entitled to. “It clearly indicates BJP is focused on development in the state. It does not differentiate between a newcomer and an old-timer when it comes to taking a step for development. The myth about newcomers not getting a prominent place in BJP will be busted now,” said Anupam Hazra, BJP national secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/suvendu-tipped-to-be-jute-corpn-chairman/articleshow/80053841.cms||Rohit Khanna
January 1, 2021||Kolkata||CBI issues lookout notice for TMC youth leader||Kolkata: The CBI on Thursday conducted statewide searches in at least three properties of Vinay Mishra, general secretary of Trinamool Youth Congress, in connection with the central investigating agency’s ongoing probe into illegal coal mining and cattle smuggling. The agency has issued a lookout notice against Mishra, who is untraceable. The CBI teams reached Mishra’s premises on Thursday morning, looking for him. Agency sources indicated Mishra has been untraceable for the past few days. When officials reached Mishra’s Rashbehari Avenue home, family members initially refused to open the door. Mishra, CBI officials believe, is a crucial link between illegal coal traders and some “powerful persons” in West Bengal. He allegedly got some of the coal traders introduced to these powerful persons, who in turn provided immunity to him. The officials on Thursday issued a summons, asking Mishra to appear at CBI’s Nizam Palace office here on January 4. During a seven-hour-long search, agency officials retrieved some documents and electronic gadgets from his home. The CBIbelieves Mishra also had a role to play in cattle smuggling and was close to kingpin Enamul Haque. Earlier, the agency had got hold of a diary of Haque. On Wednesday, the CBI counsel submitted the diary to the special CBI court in Asansol. The counsel argued that the diary had names of several persons who were linked to the illegal cattle trade. Enamul had allegedly been paying hefty amounts to these persons in exchange for safe passage. Haque’s advocate Shekhar Kundu said: “The diary has no connection to the case. Neither does Enamul have any link to that diary. The CBI has to prove that the money allegedly paid by Haque went to BSF or Customs officials.” CBI on Thursday also searched the homes of two businessmen at Konnagar in connection with the illegal coal mining case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cbi-issues-lookout-notice-for-tmc-youth-leader/articleshow/80053917.cms||Rohit Khanna
January 1, 2021||Kolkata||After CM visit, govt team surveys village||Santiniketan: Birbhum district officials reached out to villagers in tribal-dominated Ballavpurdanga on Thursday, within 24 hours of chief minister Mamata Banerjee spending over 30 minutes hearing them out and promising to address their grievances without delay. The villagers had told the CM that Ballavpurdanga, among other things, needed electricity and toilets. Representatives from Bolpur BDO’s office and Ruppur village panchayat met villagers on the issue on Thursday. “A brief survey was done. We have noted down their requirements and the reasons why they have not received some of the government facilities until now. We have advised them on the process of application and mandatory documents. They will be provided the facilities as soon as possible,” an official said. Menoka Bagdi had approached Banerjee with the electricity issue. “I told the CM our children cannot study properly because there is no power. She took note of the problem and assured me that it will be resolved soon. I was really surprised by her humility,” Menoka said. Churki Soren recalled: “I told Didi we don’t have any toilets. She immediately asked officials to construct toilets for us. She is so simple and listened patiently to our problems.” The villagers had told the CM that Ballavpurdanga, among other things, needed electricity and toilets. Representatives from Bolpur BDO’s office and Ruppur panchayat met villagers on the issue on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-cm-visit-govt-team-surveys-village/articleshow/80053861.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Jobs lost, changed, found again on road to ‘normal’ 2021||KOLKATA: A tentative return to the old normal has marked the end of a roller-coaster year for many of those who make up the city’s job market, indicating the local economy’s slow revival to go back to pre-Covid levels of functioning in the New Year. Covid-19 forced millions out of work and many to shift professions as they lived through lockdowns. But as the year ends, several of those who had shifted livelihoods have either gone back to their old jobs or have started multitasking. Gariahat hawker Sunil Thakur, who had started selling vegetables on the footpaths of Golpark during the lockdown, reopened his glassware and plastic cutlery stall two months before Puja. But sales have not picked up, and he continues to struggle to make ends meet. “I have a family of eight to feed and during the lockdown, I started selling vegetables to make ends meet,” says Thakur, who has a stall on the footpath near Gariahat market. “But I could not make much of a profit. So, the moment I got the opportunity to switch back, I did so. Business hasn’t picked up, but I am hopeful the situation would improve in the New Year.” ‘At one point, I was making more money selling masks’It’s a similar situation for property broker Niladri Basu, who sat at his home, jobless, for more than three weeks into the lockdown before he took to selling milk outside his home in Thakurpukur and deliver newspapers and milk at homes in Behala and New Alipore. “Property sales were virtually non-existent during the lockdown and I had no clue how to run my family. That is when a friend suggested I sell milk packets. I somehow survived selling milk and newspaper. But I have switched back to my old profession for the last two months. There have been some property queries over the last few weeks, and I hope things get better in 2021,” said the 31-year-old. Many out-of-work job-seekers also started selling homemade masks and cheap sanitizers outside markets and cycling along the deserted city roads and its lanes and bylanes. By the end of the year, most of them have returned to their old professions again. “Masks were a hit when I had started selling them. In fact, at one point I was earning more by selling masks than what I used to earn stitching vests at a local cloth unit,” says Jainal Abedin, a resident of Behala Silpara. “Over the past few months, however, the demand for cloth masks — which I had been selling — has dwindled. Now, with my old employer reopening his unit, I have rejoined work. I still sell masks on my days off and occasionally before heading to office, but the profit margin of the initial days has dipped.” Citing data from Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, TOI had reported in June how the lockdown had led to a nearly threefold jump in Bengal’s share of the unemployed, which had risen from 6.9% in March to 17.4% in May, indicating roughly one in six persons in Bengal was unemployed. However, the all-India scene was much worse, with the national unemployment rate rising from 8.8% in March to 23.5% in May (roughly one in four unemployed). A number of white-collar professionals, too, had to change professions and shift to something very different from their core skills to survive the lockdown. But over time, most of them too have returned to their careers. Take for example, Tanima Banerjee, a senior administrative executive with a city-based corporate firm, who had lost her job and was out of work for two months during the lockdown. After pleading with her employers to reconsider their decision, they put her into an online marketing division of the company, about which she was initially clueless. “However, I learned the job quickly and, after a few weeks, I even started generating new sales. But once our office reopened and people started coming back in the last two months, I have been re-designated to my old job profile,” Banerjee says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/jobs-lost-changed-found-again-on-road-to-normal-2021/articleshow/80054086.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
January 1, 2021||Ranchi||‘JUT wants to play key role in empowering native people of state’||Ranchi: Vice-chancellor of Jharkhand University of Technology (JUT) Pradeep Kumar Mishra on Thursday said that his university aims to play a key role in promotion of technical knowledge, empowerment of native people and progress of the state. While addressing the media at the JUT campus, he announced the university would start an entrepreneurship promotion centre, environment conservation laboratory and a centre for tribal empowerment and self-dependence soon. He stated, “The University aims to develop an entrepreneur incubation centre that will help youths take up start-ups and self-employment tasks. Jharkhand has rich natural resources, which is favourable for startups.” He said since the state has a vast biodiversity and industries, there is a need to strike a balance between environment protection and development. He said under the tribal empowerment programme, the University wants to upgrade people skills in various fields, including local knowhow like herbal medicine. Mishra said that an extensive plan is also being prepared for upgradation of the University after interaction with the students, teachers and the employee groups. He said that the University would soon have a strong working system with formation of a steering committee and examination board and appointment of heads of departments. He added the university will also form a grievance cell and issue helpline numbers. Mishra said, “The entrance examination and results of the different institutions giving technical education in the state would also be streamlined. The university aims to create a suitable education environment that will give new technical and educational dimension to the progress of the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jut-wants-to-play-key-role-in-empowering-native-people-of-state/articleshow/80159564.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 1, 2021||Kolkata||Soumendu Adhikari moves Calcutta HC over removal as civic board chief||KOLKATA/CONTAI: The tussle over control of Contai Municipality reached the Calcutta High Court on Thursday. The petition filed in HC argued against the removal of Soumendu Adhikari as chairman of the municipality’s board of administrators (BoA). The HC did not pass any interim order. Newly appointed BoA chairman Siddhartha Maiti took charge on Thursday. Soumendu is the brother of former Trinamool minister Suvendu Adhikari, who recently switched over to BJP. Speaking at a rally in Khardah on Tuesday, Suvendu had said lotus would bloom in his home. Suvendu’s father Sisir Adhikari and brother Dibyendu are Trinamool MPs. Dibyendu said: “I am still with Trinamool and I believe in the ideology of Mamata Banerjee. Hope she will give justice, as I had written to her.” It was on Tuesday that Soumendu was removed from the BoA chairman’s post. Soumendu said he had challenged his removal in HC and expected a hearing on Monday. “I was removed without any chance of self-defence. Thus it violated the principle of natural justice, for which I moved the HC. I wrote to the DM and SDO, but did not get any reply,” he said. Soumendu added: “I got the removal order on Wednesday. On Thursday afternoon, I came to know that a gazette notification was issued by the state government.” He had appealed for holding early polls to Contai Municipality. New BoA chairman Maiti faced some resistance from Soumendu’s followers on reaching the municipality around 2pm. Even the municipality’s executive officer was reluctant to allow him to take charge in absence of Soumendu, who had conveyed in a letter he would be out and unable to hand over charge until January 4. Maiti assumed charge in Soumendu’s absence after approval from the Contai SDO. Suvendu is supposed to hold a rally in Kanthi on Friday. Soumendu, asked whether he would attend the BJP rally, said: “Wait till tomorrow, you will see.” CPM’s Rajya Sabha MP and advocate Bikash Bhattacharya, who is representing Soumendu, said his removal was illegal and so they moved the HC. Senior Trinamool MP Saugata Roy said: “Soumendu was appointed chairman of BoA by the state government. The municipality’s term had ended. The state government does not want him. So a different person was appointed chairman of BOA, as per rules.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/soumendu-moves-hc-over-removal-as-civic-board-chief/articleshow/80053856.cms||Suman Mandal
January 1, 2021||Delhi||December 2020: Colder, but cleaner||NEW DELHI: Despite a series of cold waves and cold days recorded through the month, this December was still "cleaner" than the last two in terms of pollution levels, with an average air quality index (AQI) of 332 as compared with 337 in 2019 and 360 in 2018, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data shows. However, it was more polluted than December 2017, which had just one "severe" day and an average AQI of 317. Track the pollution level in your cityDelhi ultimately recorded less number of "severe" days this December as compared to the last two years, with AQI crossing 401 in only four days on CPCB's daily index. December 2019 and 2018 had eight "severe" days each. There were 16 "very poor" days this December, as against 12 in 2019 and 18 in 2018. The CPCB data also showed that the pollution peak was higher in the last two years, with AQI touching only 433 this month as compared to 446 in 2019 and 450 in 2018. In terms of the lowest AQI, 2020 fared the best with a reading of 160 in comparison to 163 last year. While the average AQI in 2017 for "severe" days was far lesser, experts said a comparison would not be accurate as Delhi had only half the number of stations it did in 2019. In 2017, readings were taken from 16 air quality monitoring stations, while there were 36 in 2018 and 38 in 2019 and 2020. An AQI between 201 and 300 is classified as "poor", between 301 and 400 as "very poor" and beyond 401 as "severe", according to CPCB's index. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director at the research and advocacy of Centre for Science and Environment, said slight improvements were being recorded year on year, both in terms of the annual and monthly pollution data. "This year and over the last few years, we are seeing the duration and intensity of the smog built-up is reducing and after the poor patch in November where we had Diwali and stubble burning, we are yet to see a major smog build-up like we used to see in December and January earlier. This also shows background emissions are reducing gradually," said Chowdhury. Experts say Delhi tends to see a second pollution spike in the last week of December and the first week of January. The data analysed over 15 years - between 2001 and 2016 - by IIT-Delhi's Centre for Excellence for Research on Clean Air showed that after recording a pollution peak between October 29 and November 4, Delhi saw a second peak from December 31 to January 6. While Delhi recorded three straight days of "severe" pollution from December 28 to 30 last year, AQI has been in the "poor" to "very poor" range since December 26 this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/december-2020-colder-but-cleaner/articleshow/80054898.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Mumbai||Year of virus ends in Maharashtra with 19.3 lakh Covid-19 cases, 49,521 deaths||MUMBAI: Almost 11 months after the first test was conducted in the city to detect the novel coronavirus, the Covid-hit year ended in the state with 19.3 lakh cases and 49,521 deaths. On the last day of 2020 on Thursday, the state registered 3,509 cases, including 714 in the city, and 58 deaths, including nine in the city. It was a far cry from September, when daily cases rose to over 25,000 in the state. The overall picture, according to state health minister Rajesh Tope, is positive. On Thursday, during a video-conference with divisional commissioners, civil surgeons and health officers, Tope said the Covid-19 cases “are under control in the state”. He said everyone should continue with precautions like wearing a face mask and maintaining social distance. In the city, the daily caseload was 714 for the second consecutive day. Daily deaths dropped from 13 to nine. The doubling rate, which was lower than 10 days at the start of May, slowed to 364 days in the city. BMC officials said that despite the decline in cases and deaths they would not close down jumbo facilities and they would take a review of bed capacity every fortnight in the New Year. The city’s tally has gone up to 2.93 lakh since March and the death toll has climbed to 11,116. On Thursday, 3,612 patients were discharged from various hospitals in the state, taking the total of recovered patients to 18.28 lakh. In the city, the state health department update said that 426 patients were discharged in the 24-hour period ending on Thursday morning, taking the recovery rate to 93% (2.72 lakh recoveries). In Thane, 138 Covid-19 cases and two deaths were reported, taking the tally to 55,446 and the toll to 1,247. The recovery rate was 96%, with 984 active cases. In Kalyan-Dombivli, 84 positive cases were reported, taking the tally to 57,483. One death was recorded, taking the toll to 1,102. There were 1,025 active cases in Kalyan-Dombivli. In Navi Mumbai, there were 67 positive cases and one death. The total Covid-19 case count rose to 51,002 and the toll reached 1,051. Panvel reported 28 new cases, taking the total to 27, 599. With one death reported, the toll reached 601.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/year-of-virus-ends-in-maharashtra-with-19-3-lakh-covid-19-cases-49521-deaths/articleshow/80054899.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 1, 2021||Business||'Market rally may become more broad-based'||NEW DELHI: ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund MD and CEO Nimesh Shah on Thursday said that the market rally could become more broad-based in the coming months as growth picks up. He added that the current rise is driven by large flows from the developed markets, such as the US, which have low interest rates. While he suggested that valuations were high, Shah also said that it needed to be looked at in the context of low interest rates. Apart from value picks, he said, small and mid -caps stand to benefit as they have under-performed in the last few months besides getting access to capital at lower cost. Further, he said that companies will see an improvement in profitability, helping boost their stock price. "...if an investor is ready to stay put for the next five years, one can consider investing in equity funds, but through the systematic investment plan route. The other investment which investors could consider is funds which take a call based on macro factors or business cycle funds. For those looking for opportunities to invest in international markets, one can opt for non-US Equity funds or Fund-of-Funds," Shah told TOI. At the same time, he said that it was important to adhere to the principles of sound asset allocation and added that investment in debt instruments could be looked at through a mix of dynamic asset allocation and arbitrage and accrual funds. Many see debt to be a safe bet, given the sharp rise in stock markets across the board, driven by aggressive rate cuts by central banks to boost economic activity. Shah said that the current rally is expected to continue for some more time as the US Fed pumps in trillions of dollars to revive the economy. Shah said, "As long as such flows continue, the chances of a major correction in the equity market remain diminished. That said, we usually review our calls based on macro-economic developments. This time, we would review our call if crude oil crosses $60 per barrel, inflation comes back in the Western world and sustains, the US 10-year (treasury yield) surpasses 2%, the surplus liquidity with the RBI comes off sharply, global money market assets under management fall sharply or even if there is some unforeseen geopolitical risk." He suggested that retail investors should watch out for any change in the US Federal Reserve's stance, which can impact markets negatively. Asked about the reasons for outflows from equity funds, the fund house boss said that investors had turned cautious after the steep fall in stock markets in 2020 and some of them have opted to book profits as a precautionary measure. "But this may not last long. We are likely to see flows again. There has been a healthy addition of fresh SIP accounts in the past couple of months as well," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/market-rally-may-become-more-broad-based/articleshow/80054924.cms||Sidhartha
January 1, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sees 2020’s worst air quality on New Year Eve||MUMBAI: The city woke up to polluted skies on the last day of the year. Mumbai recorded an overall Air Quality Index (AQI) of 313, the highest in 2020, according to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). The AQI marginally improved to 309 by Friday evening. Track the pollution level in your cityAQI between 301 and 400 is considered very poor and triggers a health alert for everyone. On day one of the new year, SAFAR has forecast the AQI to be 293. An AQI between 201 and 300 is considered poor and people with heart or lung diseases and the elderly must reduce heavy or longer exertion and outdoor activity. This year’s second-worst AQI was recorded on March 17—272. Mumbai’s worst AQI—323—was recorded on January 1, 2016, the year SAFAR began monitoring air pollution levels. Researchers at SAFAR said that the high pollution levels were as a result of the wind conditions. “AQI in Mumbai will continue to remain in the ‘very poor’ category due to inflow of continental air with low ventilation and hence, slow dispersion of accumulated pollution mainly from biomass burning areas of the city due to favourable wind direction,” said Gufran Beig, project director, SAFAR. Among the 10 locations monitored by SAFAR, six areas—Malad, Mazagaon, Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), Chembur, Andheri and Navi Mumbai—recorded an AQI of over 300. The highest AQI of 363 was in BKC. This year, owning to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, Mumbai recorded a 76% decline in the NO2 level concentration, while PM 2.5 was down by 54% as opposed to the same period in 2019, according to a study by SAFAR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-sees-2020s-worst-air-quality-on-new-year-eve/articleshow/80054952.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 1, 2021||Delhi||ISI man nabbed in Delhi after his arrival from UAE||NEW DELHI: With the arrest of most wanted gangster-turned-terrorist and ISI henchman Sukhmeet Pal Singh alias Sukh Bhikhariwal at IGI Airport early on Thursday, Delhi Police Special Cell and intelligence agencies have wound up one of the most extensive investigations of the year. Sent from UAE on an “Emergency Certificate”, Bhikhariwal was arrested in Delhi on the basis of a lookout circular issued against him. He landed around 6.15am on an Emirates flight and was later produced in a court at Patiala House, which remanded him to eight days in police custody. An intelligence officer stated that Bhikhariwal was nabbed from a flat in Ras-al-Khaimah in UAE on December 5-6 in a covert operation carried out by Special Cell with assistance from UAE Police, a development first reported by TOI on December 8. In the first week of December, two Punjab-based assassins and three Kashmir-based Hizbul Mujahideen operatives were arrested from east Delhi. Since then, intelligence agencies were trying to bring Bhikhariwal to India. He had masterminded several targeted killings, including the assassination of Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu. Police claimed that while this operation had reaffirmed the growing cooperation between India and the UAE, it had also exposed Pakistan’s spy agency ISI’s plan of trying to use Khalistan and the Kashmir network to revive extremism in Punjab and other parts of the country. In the past three years, UAE and Indian intelligence have coordinated several arrests, including that of Agusta Westland middlemen Christian Michel and Rajiv Saxena. Bhikhariwal is currently being interrogated by a team of Special Cell officers. He is learnt to have given police crucial information about the functioning of Pakistan-based Khalistani radicals Harmeet Singh alias PhD, the chief of Khalistan Liberation Force who was murdered in February, and Lakhbir Singh alias Rode, the chief of Khalistan Zindabad Force. The terror-monger is also being questioned about ISI’s “K2 desk” dealing with Kashmir and Khalistan extremism, which has been funding the targeted killings of Right-wing leaders and opponents of terrorism through the spoils of drug trafficking. Bhikhariwal is learnt to have told police about how ISI was once again trying to emulate the model of 2016/17 in Punjab, wherein they executed eight Right-wing leaders and how pro-Khalistani radicals had been employing the services of gangsters for killing Hindu leaders to revive militancy. In the coming days, Bhikhariwal will be interrogated by intelligence agencies before being handed over to Punjab Police for investigation of their cases. Bhikhariwal started as a drug trafficker a decade ago and soon got into organised crime. He was tapped by ISI sometime in 2015 through the narco-terror network. He was assigned to get targeted killings done in Punjab and north India. He started receiving foreign funds and hiring hitmen for jobs, apart from acting as a bridge between Khalistan terror elements based in Pak and other countries and ganglords lodged in Punjab jails.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/isi-man-nabbed-in-delhi-after-his-arrival-from-uae/articleshow/80054959.cms||Rajshekhar Jha
January 1, 2021||Mumbai||Women Police Mitras juggle home, nakabandis to make Mumbai safe||MUMBAI: Bharti Patel hurried around the kitchen on Thursday night, finishing all her chores extra quick, as she prepared to join a team from the Vile Parle police station for carrying out a nakabandi. It was going to be a long night out on the street but the 45-year-old homemaker did not want to give it a miss for anything, not even the New Year’s Eve celebrations at home. Patel is a ‘Police Mitra’ (buddy), part of a bunch of 60-odd men and women from Vile Parle who assist police with some of their duties. These Mumbaikars come from different walks of life and some are engaged in high pressure jobs, but the common thread is taking time out to do their bit for the neighbourhood. The Police Mitra programme was revived by police commissioner Parambir Singh last month for his personnel to build a rapport with the public. “There are scores of citizens who genuinely want to help and are very active in the neighbourhood. We enlist such volunteers and they remain in close contact with the beat chowky officer,” said deputy commissioner of police Manjunath Singe. In the past, residents have helped the police during Ganpati visarjan bandobast. “The fact that women set out at night to patrol the streets speaks volumes about how safe they feel in the city and their faith in us,” said Singe, adding that having Police Mitras around also acts as a force multiplier. Whether they are patrolling the neighbourhood, participating in a nakabandi or assisting at a disaster site, Police Mitras are always accompanied by the men in khaki. “Sometimes, things could get heated at a nakabandi. For instance, when we ask motorists to keep their vehicle papers ready for inspection, some of them argue endlessly. But we have been trained to keep our cool and never answer back,” said Patel. There have been several success stories. “We have worked undercover as decoys to nab chain-snatchers,” said 42-year-old Kusum Sawant, a soft-spoken shopowner who dons a different avatar as a feisty Police Mitra. On one occasion, Sawant and her team mates nabbed a female burglar who used to carry around a ladder to scale apartments to commit break-ins. Sawant spends half the day tending to home, the other half at the shop, and the night on the streets along side the police for nakabandis. “Our families are very proud of us and have met the policemen we work with,” she said. At accident sites and fires, Police Mitras have helped to keep the public at bay and help move victims to hospitals. “We often find that the common man is scared of going to the police station. Our job is to act as a bridge between the police and the common man,” said lawyer Veena Bhagwat, who has been working with the police for decades.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/women-police-mitras-juggle-home-nakabandis-to-make-mumbai-safe/articleshow/80054974.cms||Nitasha Natu
January 1, 2021||World||Covid-19: WHO clears Pfizer vaccine for emergency use||GENEVA: The World Health Organization says it has cleared the Pfizer-BioNTech coronavirus vaccine for emergency use, meaning poorer countries may soon get access to the shot already available in Europe and North America. Every country that has a drug regulatory agency will have to issue its own approval for any Covid-19 vaccine, but countries with weak systems usually rely on WHO to vet the shots. The global body said late Thursday that the decision to issue its first emergency use validation for a Covid-19 vaccine "opens the door for countries to expedite their own regulatory approval processes to import and administer the vaccine." The UN health agency said its review found the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, which has already received clearance in the United States, Britain, the European Union and a dozen other countries, "met the must-have criteria for safety and efficacy set out by WHO." The BioNTech-Pfizer vaccine has to be stored at ultra-frozen temperatures, a big hurdle for developing countries where the required freezers and reliable electricity supply may not be available. "This requirement makes the vaccine more challenging to deploy in settings where ultra-cold chain equipment may not be available or reliably accessible," WHO said, adding that it was "working to support countries in assessing their delivery plans and preparing for use where possible". Watch Covid-19: WHO okays Pfizer vaccine for emergency use||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/who-clears-pfizer-vaccine-for-emergency-use/articleshow/80054979.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Business||Core sector shrinks 2.6% in Nov, 9th month in a row||NEW DELHI: The eight key core sectors contracted for the ninth consecutive month in November, posing some concerns for policy makers in the new year. Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed the key infrastructure sectors contracted 2.6% in November, sharper than the 0.9% decline in the previous month. The core sectors had witnessed 0.7% growth in the same month last year. The crucial sector accounts for nearly 41% of the index of industrial production (IIP) and the November numbers may impact the factory output, which will be released later. Between April and November, the core sector contracted 11.4%. "In future, the eight core sectors' growth would be contingent on the ease in restrictions along with high base effect. On account of fall in eight core sectors' growth, the IIP growth could see only marginal improvement between 0 to 1%," Care Ratings economists Madan Sabnavis and Rucha Ranadive said in a note. Separate data showed the Centre's fiscal deficit touched 135.1% of the 2020-21 Budget estimates. The deficit at the end of November 2019 was at 114% of the Budget target for 2019-20. Sluggish revenues and higher spending commitment has widened the deficit and most economists expect it to be way above the Budget target of 3.5% of GDP set for the current fiscal year. With four months still left in the fiscal year, the government's fiscal deficit had already climbed to Rs 10.8 lakh crore in April-November 2020, 33% higher than the year-ago level, and 35% higher than the full year Budget estimate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/core-sector-shrinks-2-6-in-nov-9th-month-in-a-row/articleshow/80055024.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Delhi||Bilkis Bano one of my wonder women, says Gal Gadot||NEW DELHI: Bilkis Bano, the octogenarian who was the face of the months-long anti-citizenship law protest in Shaheen Bagh, has now found herself on Hollywood star Gal Gadot's list of 'My Personal Wonder Women'. The actor, who was recently seen reprising the titular role in 'Wonder Woman 1984', shared a series of pictures on her Instagram page, acknowledging young girls and women from all walks of life across the globe. "Saying farewell to 2020, with all my love to #MyPersonalWonderWomen," Gadot wrote in the caption of the post. The 35-year-old actor shared the same image of Bilkis on her Instagram story and wrongly captioned it as, "The 82-year-old activist fighting for women's equality in India showed me it's never too late to fight for what you believe in." She later deleted the story, but the senior activist is still part of her post in the feed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bilkis-bano-one-of-my-wonder-women-says-gal-gadot/articleshow/80055076.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Lucknow||Covid vaccination my number one priority for New Year: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: After a challenging year due to Covid-19 crisis, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said that vaccination is his number one priority for New Year. In an interview to TOI about the ups and downs of 2020 and what lies ahead for his government in 2021, the CM said he and his team took on the Covid-19 challenge head on, going into mission mode as soon as the lockdown was announced. “I told my team that we have to be two steps ahead of the virus and thankfully, we more or less managed that and have so far avoided a second wave.” Talking about the much-awaited Covid-19 vaccination drive, the CM said: “We will be immunising over 9 lakh people in the first phase.” Calling the farmers’ protests a “ploy to disrupt life in the national capital”, the CM said farmers across the country have appreciated the work done by the BJP government, especially the new farm laws, which is why protests are only taking place at the Delhi border. “It’s a ploy by the middlemen, who will be impacted by the new laws, to disrupt life in the national capital. They are trying to mislead some farmers and their tricks will be exposed soon,” Yogi said. Faced with a rising number of cases under the new anti-conversion law where interfaith couples have alleged harassment, the CM assured people that ordinance’s misuse would not be tolerated. He said the law was necessitated by “hundreds of complaints of deceitful conversions in many interfaith marriages”. Similarly, he added, action was required against the anti-CAA and NRC protesters as they were part of a “motivated campaign to tarnish the image of the state and the central governments”. Calling the foundation ceremony of the Ram Temple the biggest highlight of the year, he said as soon as Covid restrictions were relaxed, the government would ensure that devotees from across the country come to witness the construction of the temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-vaccination-my-number-one-priority-for-new-year-up-cm-yogi-adityanath/articleshow/80055110.cms||Neha Lalchandani
January 1, 2021||Noida||Will snatch rights in the new year, says farmer leader in Gzb||Ghaziabad: Farmer leader VM Singh, who was at UP Gate on Thursday, said that the protesters will snatch their rights in the new year.  “This year has been so bad. I will pray to god that new paths open for the farmers and they work with renewed energy. At last, the talk about MSP came up in the meeting on Wednesday. It will continue (to be discussed) in the next meeting on January 4. The new year is going to be in the farmer’s name. Farmers across the country are on the roads so the government will have to listen to them,” he said while addressing the crowd. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) press in-charge Shamsher Rana said that the tractor rally that was planned for January 31 has been cancelled. He added that they are preparing themselves for the next round of the talks. “A large number of farmers are planning to gather here. We are continuing with our preparation. Many farmers who are in their villages are now thinking of coming here (to the protest venue),” he told TOI. The national president of the youth wing of BKU-Tikait, Gaurav Tikait, termed the ongoing protest as the first movement in the country where politics has been set aside. “Farmers are sitting up on the dais while political leaders are sitting down,” he said. Referring to those who have lost their lives during the protest he said: “The death of 40 farmers at protest sites will not go in vain. If not today, tomorrow the government will listen to us.” Meanwhile, police and the protesting farmers themselves have been keeping a watch on movement of people in an effort to avoid any incident. The farmers have set up two check posts on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway on the Ghaziabad-Delhi lane. For the past few days, volunteers have been checking the identity of people before allowing their vehicles to pass through the area. With the number of farmers on the rise, the protest venue has now stretched up to about 1 kilometre near UP Gate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/will-snatch-rights-in-the-new-year-says-farmer-leader-in-gzb/articleshow/80053508.cms||Aditya Dev
January 1, 2021||Noida||Will not budge until PM meets us: Chilla farmers||NOIDA: Farmers protesting at the Chilla border have said that they will continue with the agitation, irrespective of what stand the government takes on two of their five demands. The protesters said on Thursday that they will “not budge” till the issues raised by them are resolved and they get to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The government has heard our views on power and crop burning. But the main point on pricing is where the discussion is stuck. Until all the issues are resolved, our protest will continue. Also, the PM should meet us,” said Thakur Bhanu Pratap Singh, BKU-Bhanu president. Around 50 BKU-Bhanu members, some from Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bulandshahr and Ghaziabad, are stationed at the protest site. “We will be hosting some musical events in the evening to strengthen our resolve for protest, as the new year begins. This is how we will start the new year,” Singh added. During the talks held on Wednesday, the Centre has offered sparing the farmers heavy fines for crop-residue burning, as mentioned in an anti-pollution ordinance. It has also offered to continue the current mechanism of giving subsidised power for agricultural use. Although the recent development has given the farmers some encouragement, they are still waiting for the government to change its stance on crop pricing. “We are producing our goods and we have the right to fix the price,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/will-not-budge-until-pm-meets-us-chilla-farmers/articleshow/80053478.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Gurgaon||Farmers break barricades, cops use water cannons||Rewari: A group of around 100 farmers from Rajasthan climbed on to tractor trolleys and broke barricades at Jaisinghpur Khera in their attempt to move towards Delhi on Thursday afternoon. Despite a minor baton-charge by police, the protesters managed to move 20km from the protest site on the Haryana-Rajasthan border before being stopped at Bhudla village in Rewari. Here, the police resorted to use of water cannons and tear gas shells. The sudden uproar led to a traffic mess on the already affected Delhi-Jaipur highway. Many vehicles had to be diverted through internal village roads after being stuck in snarl for hours. Farmer leaders, however, distanced themselves from the protest. They said those who had barged their way in through the barricades did not have their backing and had refused to listen to them despite appeals. Most protesters in Thursday’s agitation were young farmers from Rajasthan. “Yes, we are from Rajasthan and we sat in a protest in our home state too. We are here to raise our voice against the Centre and march to Delhi. But the Khattar government is not allowing us to move. Are we not citizens of this country? In the afternoon, we decided to break the barricades and force our way ahead,” said one of the protesters. As the farmers moved in their tractor trolleys, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait rushed to the protest site and urged the agitators to maintain peace. Sources said most of the protesters were youths from Sriganganagar, Bikaner and other parts of Rajasthan, and had reached Jaisinghpur Khera only a couple of days ago. A few farmer leaders claimed the youths would have been provoked by groups wanting to derail the movement. Trouble at the border started around 2pm, when the group of young farmers got onto their tractors and started pushing the concrete barricades put up by the police. ‘There were around 100 young farmers. They got on to two dozen tractors, broke the barricades and forced their way to Rewari. We made another attempt to stop them at Bhudla village. They then started a demonstration on the highway itself,” said Rajesh Chechi, DSP of Bawal. Asked about the force used by the police to stop them, the officer said: ‘They had turned aggressive and violent. They were not even listening to their leaders. We tried to persuade them through talks. When they did not listen to us, we had to use water cannons and tear gas shells. One of them tried to plough his tractor into a team of policemen. It put the lives of several cops in danger.” The protest at Jaisinghpur Khera, which started on December 13 and is being spearheaded by Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav, has swelled in the past few weeks, with thousands of farmers from Rajasthan, Haryana and Punjab joining in to demand withdrawal of the three laws. Farmers from as far as Gujarat and Maharashtra have also joined the protesters. Farmer leaders at the protest site appealed for peace, saying such acts would weaken the movement. “Some enthusiastic youngsters broke the discipline. We have made it absolutely clear that we will take no decision that does not align with those of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha. Anyone who violates this will weaken the movement,” said Yogendra Yadav. Rampal Jat, president of the Kisan Mahapanchayat, a prominent farmer organisation in Rajasthan, said, “We have been sitting at Jaisinghpur Khera peacefully and asking our members not to resort to violence. But some of the farmers forcibly entered Haryana on Thursday. This was not expected from them. We have sent some of our members to talk to those who broke the barricades.” Hanuman Beniwal, the Nagaur MP who has been supporting the protest, also said dialogue was the only way to end the deadlock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/farmers-break-barricades-cops-use-water-cannons/articleshow/80053371.cms||Shahnawaz Alam
January 1, 2021||Ghaziabad||Night shelters and a store for women at Ghazipur border||GHAZIABAD: With the number of women taking part in the protests at Ghazipur border increasing steadily, a couple of night shelters and a store have been set up at the site to cater to them. Several women and their families from Delhi and the nearby areas have been coming to the border to help out with langar. Most of them, however, return at night. As the agitation enters its 36th day at the border, the number of farmers have gone up significantly and more people are likely to join them in the coming days. Big shelters have been covered with thick plastic sheets and mattresses and blankets have been supplied for the farmers. At least two shelters have been set up for women. Ravneet Kaur, a resident of Udham Singh Nagar, who is a second year law student at a college in Bangalore, along with her friends came up with an idea of setting up a night shelter. “It took us three days to complete it. Around 300 women can stay in the shelter. The best part is that several people and organisations are eager to help out. NGOs, colleagues and entrepreneurs helped us set up the shelter. Kaur said about 50 women from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand are already staying in it and more are likely to come in by Thursday evening. Rampur residents Rajawat Kaur and Davinder Kaur, who have been staying at the shelter for about 10 days, said the place is of great help to them and other women. Next to the shelter, a shop selling items for women, along with clothes and footwear, has also come up. Many families from Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar and Trilok Puri are visiting the protest site on a regular basis and helping out by chopping vegetables and cleaning up. One such resident is Simran from Laxmi Nagar. She, her in-laws and other relatives, have been coming to the border for 15-20 days. Simran often leaves her one-and-a-half month son in the care of her relatives to go to Ghaziapur border and takes part in the protest from 10 am to 7 pm. “It is my small contribution to this big movement. We will keep coming here till the farmers are here,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/night-shelters-and-a-store-for-women-at-ghazipur-border/articleshow/80053453.cms||Aditya Dev
January 1, 2021||Noida||Noida: Sector 18 parking rule? Not many are aware||NOIDA: Khushboo Sachdeva, an assistant vice-president at a career guidance firm, had just stepped into her office when someone told her that her car was being towed away. That was not the first time she had parked her car at the marketplace — everyone else did so. Sachdeva, who had returned to her Noida office after months, rushed to her car and pleaded with the driver of the crane towing away her vehicle that she did not know about the new parking rules. After sustained requests, the crane driver let her car go. She was also not fined Rs 1,000 for wrong parking. Another stretch nearby was lined up with motorcycles, with a poster in Hindi saying “Rs 25 for two hours and Rs 25 for every subsequent hour”. Here, too, cranes were picking up the bikes in clutches and taking them to the multilevel parking. Owners will have to pay a fine of Rs 1,000 for four-wheelers and Rs 250 for two-wheelers and release their vehicles. The whip on surface parking is part of Noida Authority’s efforts to make the Sector 18 market a vehicle-free zone. The move is also aimed at getting visitors to use the multilevel parking, which has not been seeing enough vehicles ever since it was constructed. Shoppers, however, have objected to the decision not to let them park near the market, pointing out that the multilevel parking is at a little distance and not many know about it. “How is one supposed to know about the new rules? There is no signage, nor are there any announcements being made. I parked here because there were other cars. I would take the Metro from Dwarka before the lockdown. I drove to Noida after a long time,” Sachdeva said. Parking points in the main shopping area have been reduced from October 3, when the policy was enforced by the Authority. As against 45 parking spots for four-wheelers earlier, there are only 34 now. Two-wheeler parking points are also down to 7 from 12. At the same time, to encourage shopowners and visitors to park only at the multilevel parking, the Authority has slashed the monthly fee to Rs 600 for four-wheelers and Rs 300 for bikes and scooters. Despite the discounts, visitors have been parking at the main market area. “For years, people who came here for business and other work parked their vehicles along the walkways. Now, the bikes and cars are getting towed away in minutes. In the absence of any signboard or announcements, how will people know about the changed parking rule?” asked Pervez Khan, a showroom employee. The traffic police department said it was the Authority that decided on the parking rules. “Since parking is maintained by the Noida Authority, the regulations, too, are its responsibility,” said Ganesh Saha, DCP (traffic). Authority officials said they would slowly phase out surface parking. “We have started reducing the number of parking points. At the multilevel parking, we have made the rates reasonable enough for shopowners who need to use it regularly. People should use it” an official said. While the fee for surface parking is Rs 50 for the first two hours for four-wheelers, it is Rs 20 for two hours at the multilevel parking. Similarly, for bikes, the rate is Rs 25 for two hours in the market area, while it is only Rs 10 at the multilevel facility. But why hasn’t the low rates attracted visitors? “People don’t want to be inconvenienced. If someone is coming to the market for a quick trip, they don’t want to struggle so much for a parking spot,” said Sushil Kumar Jain, president of the Sector 18 market owners’ association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/sec-18-parking-rule-not-many-are-aware/articleshow/80054446.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
January 1, 2021||Gurgaon||Head constable of Gurugram police booked for daughter-in-law’s murder||GURUGRAM: A head constable of the Gurugram police, his wife and their son have been booked for allegedly killing his daughter-in-law. Kiran, married to the cop’s son Kuldeep since 2013, was poisoned to death at the family’s Palam Vihar home, police said on Thursday. However, the accused are yet to be arrested. In their police complaint, Kiran’s family alleged that the cop had been sexually exploiting the woman and was even forced to take back a complaint that she had filed against her father-in-law some six months back. Kiran was also harassed and subjected to physical torture for the past several months, the family members alleged. On Wednesday, Kiran’s family members received a call from Kuldeep who asked them to reach Gurugram at the earliest claiming she was unwell. “Later we received a call from a neighbour who apprised us of the torture Kiran had faced. The neighbour heard her cries on Tuesday night, and claimed that probably she was beaten but suddenly there was silence,” said Subhash, maternal uncle of the deceased. He said when they reached the hospital, Kiran’s parents-in-law informed them that she had consumed poison and died. Indu Rajput of Raksha Saviour, an NGO, said they received a call from the deceased’s brother and when she reached the mortuary, the family was forced to leave the city. “Neighbours informed the family about the torture and cries of Kiran before her death. But police forced the family to leave the city with the body. They have not yet arrested anyone in this case,” said Rajput. Quoting Kiran’s family, Rajput said the deceased was sexually assaulted by her father-in-law and forced to remain silent. Six months back, the accused again tried to rape her but she was rescued by neighours after she raised an alarm. “At that time a case was filed at the women’s police station. The father-in-law had then apologised to everyone and pleaded Kiran to take back the case,” said Rajput, adding that Kiran’s family has given an application to police to add sections 325, 339, 354, 376, 304B, 506, 509, 34, 120B of IPC in the FIR. Kiran’s family is demanding the registration of an FIR for rape and dowry death as well. On the basis of the complaint of maternal uncle of the deceased, the Gurugram police have registered a case at the Palam Vihar police station under sections 302 (murder), 328 (poisoning) and 34 (common intention) of IPC against her husband and parents-in-law. “The family has levelled some allegations but till now we have not received any evidence to support those allegations,” said SHO of Palam Vihar, inspector Sandeep Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/head-constable-of-gurgaon-police-booked-for-daughter-in-laws-murder/articleshow/80053253.cms||Bagish Jha
January 1, 2021||Chandigarh||Data for governance policy gets Punjab cabinet nod||CHANDIGARH: Punjab cabinet on Wednesday approved the Punjab State Data Policy (PSDP) to track progress and to provide citizens access to services. An official spokesperson said the PSDP would be instrumental in leveraging data and technology to optimize service delivery and citizens’ access and participation through user friendly and secure e-governance systems. The data would be efficaciously utilized for evidence-based policy making and programme decision making. The cabinet also gave a nod to notify PSDP for creating a unified and interoperable data infrastructure for the state. Punjab has now become one of the first states in the country to formulate a comprehensive data policy. Recognizing the potential utility and importance of the data generated by the government departments, organizations, and institutions in the state, the PSDP would define the rules of engagement. The policy will be a guiding principle for all departments to collect, process, manage and use data for efficient, effective, transparent and accessible service delivery to citizens. It shall serve the purpose of facilitating easy access and sharing of government data, in order to support sustainable and inclusive governance and effective planning, implementation and monitoring of developmental programmes, managing and mitigating disasters and scientific research aiding informed decisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/data-for-governance-policy-gets-pb-cabinet-nod/articleshow/80036160.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Gurgaon||Private firm staffer booked for harassing Gurugram doctor over loan||GURUGRAM: Police have booked an unidentified employee of a private finance company for allegedly using offensive language and threatening a city-based doctor for non-payment of monthly instalments of loan taken for purchasing electronics items. Police are trying to identify the suspect and find out if he had made similar calls to other people. Dr Vinita Singh, a resident of sector 46, received a call on her mobile number on December 10 and the caller identified himself as a representative of a private finance company. The caller started abusing and also threatened her for not paying the instalments. “I had not taken any loan, I tried to explain it to him but he started using foul language and threatened me with dire consequences,” Dr Singh said. On the basis of her complaint a case was registered with the Sector 50 police station under Section 506 (criminal intimidation) and 509 (intending to insult the modesty of any woman) of IPC. “We are trying to verify the credentials of the caller,” said a senior police officer. Commissioner of police KK Rao said private finance companies and loan applications have come under the scanner as they have started receiving complaints from people alleging harassment. “After such incidents in Hyderabad, people are coming forward with complaints against the private finance companies for alleged harassment,” said Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/pvt-firm-staffer-booked-for-harassing-city-doc-over-loan/articleshow/80053440.cms||Bagish Jha
January 1, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Woman drowns one of her twin baby daughters in tank||MUMBAI: A 25-year-old woman allegedly drowned one of her newborn twin daughters in the water tank at her Vasai home on Wednesday. Taunts about not having a baby boy drove her to take the extreme step, she allegedly told Vasaigaon police. The woman told the police that she got no help from her family in taking care of the newborns and that the baby she drowned was keeping unwell and kept crying all the time. The woman has been arrested and booked for murder by Vasaigaon police. She had delivered twin girls about 45 days ago. On Wednesday morning, one of the babies was found missing from their Pachubunder home. The family launched a search, but in vain. They approached the police to register a case of abduction. By around 11.45am, as the search for the baby was still on, the mother confessed to having drowned her in the tank on the loft. The baby was taken out of the tank and rushed to hospital, but was declared dead before admission. The body has been sent for autopsy. The woman told the police that she was subjected to taunts by her in-laws for delivering twin girls. She said that her sister-in-law had two daughters and there was pressure on her to deliver a boy. She told the police that on Wednesday, while she was alone with her daughters, she picked up the one crying and drowned her in the tank. The other daughter lay on the bed. She then raised an alarm claiming that one of her daughters was missing. Her mother-in-law, sister-in-law and neighbours looked for the baby. Her husband and brother-in-law had gone fishing when the incident took place. The woman was produced before the Vasai court, which remanded her to five days’ police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/woman-drowns-one-of-her-twin-baby-daughters-in-tank-at-vasai/articleshow/80055182.cms||Sandhya Nair
January 1, 2021||Noida||Went home in despair, back to find a way out||The lockdown drove them home, and lack of jobs at home has brought them back. Abhijay Jha, Shubhra Pant & Bagish Jha speak to two families that returned to NCR despite the scarring experience of March & April when jobs disappeared overnight. They didn’t really have a choice. Coming back was the only shot at a livelihood Raj Kishore Shah (25), He hails from BiharLife hasn’t been easy for the past three years as Raj Kishore Shah was laid off every six months by an employer, only to be hired again for six months when production picked up. However, 2020 brought bigger problems, ones he hadn’t anticipated. Shah, who hails from Bihar, has been workin in Gurugram since 2017. When the pandemic hit, he was with Bellsonica, an automotive company, in Gurgaon. With the lockdown, production slowed down and he was asked to leave. “We were told that we will get three months’ salary. But we were paid only for a month,” Shah said. He wanted to go back home, but could not as trains were not running. “I had to ask my parents for money, food and other essentials,” said Shah. All this while, his parents and wife kept asking him to return. Finally, in June, he and his friends decided to go. They booked a private vehicle and the owner charged them Rs 32,000 to go to their hometown in Bihar. “It was a very high price to pay. But staying back would have been even more difficult,” Shah said. Once home, he started looking for jobs like he does every time. His father worked with the Sahara group that went bankrupt and is now without a job. The family doesn’t have any substantial land to farm on either. “Every time a company removes us after six months, we come back and work as daily wagers,” Shah said while talking about himself and his friends. On a July morning, he got a call from Maruti. “As production started, they needed men and since I had worked for them in 2017, they called me back. I hadn’t imagined getting a job so soon given the lockdown. But I got it,” Shah said. He hired a private vehicle and returned to the city. This time, he thought, the amount was worth it, given that he had found work for at least the next six months. But as his six months are almost over, Shah will again have to look for another job. He is hopeful that with the auto sector doing well, he will not have to go back home soon. Uttam Kumar (32) Mahoba, UP The construction worker moved to Gurugram with his wife Rajkumari and two children in 2015 in search of a job and better opportunities. Together, the couple used to earn about Rs 30,000 a month. Gradually, 15 of their relatives also shifted to the city. All of them stayed in a small tin-shed room in a slum and worked at the same site. With their income, the couple was hoping to save money to build a ‘pucca’ house back home in UP. In February, Kumar met with an accident and exhausted all his savings in treatment. He was planning to resume work when the lockdown was announced. “We lost nearly Rs 35,000. The contractor disappeared and we weren’t able to collect wages for the pre-lockdown work,” he says. Kumar says they managed for two weeks without work and very little money, but then, it was a struggle. “Sometimes we would get food but on other occasions we had to sleep on empty stomachs,” he recalls. The family started walking back home, and with some luck, got a few lifts from truckers. In three days, they managed to reach. Kumar said they had returned thinking that they would never go back, but lack of opportunities in their village forced them to reconsider the plan. “We had no work, there was no option but to come back,” Kumar says. When they returned to the city in October, it was clear getting work was not easy. Their income has dropped to a third. “We are earning just Rs 10,000 a month and managing somehow, hoping things will improve,” says Rajkumari. They have decided against returning to Mahoba. Rajkumari said every time they hear about a spike in Covid cases, they fear they will lose work again. Raju Chauhan (45) Raju Chauhan has returned to his spot at Labour Chowk, just like in the pre-lockdown days, but the jobs have not. As a spot that has for years guaranteed masons like Chauhan one job or another for the day, which is how Labour Chowk got its name, it’s unusual not to find an employer for hours, sometimes days. “Before the pandemic, most of us would get hired for the day within an hour of waiting. But now, not only is the wait longer but also unsuccessful at times,” says Chauhan, who stays at a rented house with his wife and their children in Ghaziabad’s Khoda. His wife Rambha Devi knows from the look on Chauhan’s face that it has been a disappointing day. “Aaj phir kaam nahi mila?” (You did not get work today as well?),” she asks. Chauhan says he understands the frustration. For the past 11 years, after I moved here, I have been saving up a little every month for my daughter Puja’s wedding. She is 17 now. But all that money is gone,” says Rambha, a homemaker. During the lockdown, they had gone back to their village, Tasir Bans in Gorakhpur. “I will not forget that experience in my life and neither will my wife and children. We made at least three attempts to get back to our village and managed to hop on to a bus the third time,” Chauhan says, recalling the journey. “We were herded like cattle in the outskirts of the city and packed into a bus to go to Gorakhpur. We got food and water that volunteers gave us on the way to Tasir Bans. But soon, we realised we were better off in Khoda,” adds Chauhan, who had little hope of finding employment back home. After three months, the family returned to Khoda in September. They knew tough months lay ahead but it was also the best chance of rebuilding their lives. Chauhan and Rambha’s three children Ankit (20), Puja and Jitesh (16) study in a Dallupura school. “I have a loan Rs 2 lakh loan. I had borrowed from a moneylender as I had to pay house rent of Rs 3,500. I have to return the money because the interest is increasing. But given the situation, it is not going to be easy,” says Chauhan, whose earned Rs 1,000 a day on an average. “But now, earning Rs 500 a day is also very difficult. I have asked my elder son Ankit to start looking for a job,” says the 45-year-old anguished father. Dinesh Kumar (40) He has been driving autorickshaws for around 15 years now and two years ago, bought his own vehicle. Without a rent to pay for the auto any longer, Dinesh Kumar’s earnings had begun to look better. The first time he heard about “the virus” was some time in March. He hadn’t imagined it would change life completely within weeks. The lockdown came into effect in the last week of March. Dinesh was suddenly left with no income. His wife was expecting. “My son Shubir, who is now seven months old, was born during the lockdown. It was a very difficult phase for us. By God’s grace and our friends’ help, we managed. But within a few months, I started struggling to buy food for our baby. I have two more children, Aditya (10) and Ishika (7). Both are in school,” says Kumar. Like lakhs of other migrant workers, Kumar went back to his village. “There was no other option. We took a bus from Noida,” he says. On the way to Sanar tehsil in Lucknow, Kumar kept wondering if he had made the right decision. He felt trapped between “kuan aur khai” (devil and deep sea). “But I thought, at least we won’t starve there,” Kumar says. After three months in Sanar, the family returned to Noida. “I had asked him to spend a few more months in the village. But he had to pay EMIs for the auto and there was a loan of Rs 60,000 so he had to start working as soon as possible,” says Sangeeta, Kumar’s wife. “When we reached, the first thing we did was move to a house where the rent was lower,” Sangeeta adds. The family shifted to Khoda colony from their Hoshiyarpur house. Kumar, who plies his auto in Noida, Ghaziabad and Delhi, says his earnings have gradually started improving, though he still makes less than what he did pre-lockdown. “I also spent Rs 2,000 on a plastic sheet for the auto cabin. I felt it would infuse confidence among passengers,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/went-home-in-despair-back-to-find-a-way-out/articleshow/80054465.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Gurgaon||Waste segregation: MCG kicks off drive||Gurgaon: In order to ensure waste segregation is done properly, MCG has started inspecting Ecogreen vehicles engaged in door-to-door waste collection. The civic body on Thursday inspected vehicles to see whether there are partitions in the vehicles to segregate waste. A meeting of the waste collectors was also called by MCG officials to check their knowledge about waste segregation. “We inspected 82 vehicles, which collect waste from the households in zone-1. We also held an interactive session with drivers and helpers to apprise them about waste segregation so that they ensure that segregated waste is collected on the ground,” said Dheeraj Kumar, joint commissioner for Swachh Bharat Mission. Kumar said that a majority of vehicles had partitions for waste segregation. However, he said that the staff told the officials that there are some residents who don’t segregate waste and give mixed waste to the collectors. “Our vehicles were inspected by the MCG on Thursday. Our staff will also ensure that they apprise people about waste segregation,” said Sanjay Sharma, deputy CEO, Ecogreen. MCG officials said that such inspections would be conducted on regular intervals to keep a check on the vehicles. Moreover, the vehicles were also checked whether loudspeakers are mounted on them to spread awareness about waste segregation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/waste-segregation-mcg-kicks-off-drive/articleshow/80053316.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Vijayawada||President notifies Andhra Pradesh CJ’s transfer||VIJAYAWADA: The last day of 2020 saw two senior most judges leaving the AP high court. While second most senior judge, Justice Rakesh Kumar, retired on Thursday, the President notified the Supreme Court collegium’s recommendation of transferring Chief Justice J K Maheswari to the high court of Sikkim. Justice Arup Kumar Goswami, present Chief Justice of Sikkim HC, has been posted to AP high court. Justice Maheswari’s transfer has become a hot a topic of discussion in legal circles as it came after chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy’s letter to the Chief Justice of India, in which he levelled some serious allegations against him, some other judges of the high court, and a senior Supreme Court judge. The President also approved the recommendation to transfer Justice Joymalya Bagchi, presently working at Calcutta high court, to AP HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/president-notifies-andhra-pradesh-cjs-transfer/articleshow/80055181.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Noida||Work on Parthala flyover finally begins||NOIDA: The construction of the Parthala flyover has commenced. The contractor appointed by the Noida Authority has started the excavation and survey work at the busy crossing and is digging up the space at the rotary, which is situated at the intersection of the Noida-Greater Noida road and the Faridabad-Noida-Ghaziabad expressway. Officials said that the work started on the stretch last week and soil is being dug up at the rotary, where the main platform to support the cable-stayed bridge has to be erected. However, the project deadline will have to be revised, they said. Earlier, the Noida Authority had to struggle for six months to find a construction company willing to execute the work at the estimated cost. The tenders for commencing the Parthala flyover construction work were floated six times before the agency was selected. On December 18, the Authority selected Mangalam Buildcon Private Limited and awarded the work order to the company on December 26 to start work. The six-lane project will be 700-metre-long and enable signal free commuting between Noida and Greater Noida via Parthala. The Authority had set aside a budget of Rs 80.92 crore and the agency selected for the project quoted Rs 80.53 crore. “The background, expertise and financial standing of the company was found fit and it was given the tender,” said an official. Meanwhile, the deadline for completion of the project will have to be revised. While the original deadline was December 2021, officials said that the agency will be given time up to June 2022 to finish work. As per a traffic survey conducted at the stretch in 2018, it was estimated that 18,000 vehicles cross the area in an hour during the peak time. Since the span of the flyover will be 75-metre-long at the roundabout, only a cable-stayed flyover can be constructed over the stretch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/work-on-parthala-flyover-finally-begins/articleshow/80054439.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Business||Trump extends freeze on H-1B, other work visas until March 31; Indian IT professionals to be hit||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump has extended the freeze on the most sought-after H-1B visas along with other types of foreign work visas by three months to protect American workers, saying while therapeutics and Covid-19 vaccines are recently available, their effect on the labour market and community health has not yet been fully realised. The decision will impact a large number of Indian IT professionals and several American and Indian companies who were issued H-1B visas by the US government for the fiscal year 2021 beginning October 1. The freeze on various categories of work visas was ordered by Trump through two proclamations on April 22 and June 22 last year. Hours before the freeze was set to expire on December 31, Trump issued another proclamation on Thursday to extend it until March 30. He said that the reasons for which he had issued such a restriction has not changed. The H-1B visa is a non-immigrant visa that allows US companies to employ foreign workers in specialty occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise. The technology companies depend on it to hire tens of thousands of employees each year from countries like India and China. They would now have to wait at least till the end of March before approaching the US diplomatic missions to get stamping. It would also impact a large number of Indian IT professionals who are seeking renewal of their H-1B visas. President Trump said that the effects of Covid-19 on the US labour market and the health of American communities is a matter of ongoing national concern, and the considerations present in the two previous proclamations have not been eliminated. “The 2019 Novel Coronavirus (Covid-19) continues to significantly disrupt Americans' livelihoods. While the November overall unemployment rate in the United States of 6.7 per cent reflects a marked decline from its April high, there were still 9,834,000 fewer seasonally adjusted nonfarm jobs in November than in February of 2020,” Trump said in his proclamation. The current number of new daily cases worldwide reported by the World Health Organization (WHO), for example, is higher than the comparable number present during June, and while therapeutics and vaccines are recently available for an increasing number of Americans, their effect on the labour market and community health has not yet been fully realised, he said. “Moreover, actions such as States' continued imposition of restrictions on businesses still affect the number of workers that can be hired as compared with February of 2020,” Trump said, adding that his latest proclamation may be extended if necessary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/trump-extends-visa-ban-health-coverage-policy-advances/articleshow/80055188.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Vijayawada||Adityanath Das takes charge as Andhra Pradesh chief secretary||VIJAYAWADA: Adityanath Das, a 1987-batch IAS officer, assumed charge as the state’s new chief secretary at Velagapudi secretariat on Thursday. Das succeeded Nilam Sawhney, who retired on the day. Das, currently working as special chief secretary in the water resources department, will serve as chief secretary till June 30, 2021, when he will superannuate. After taking charge, Das said he would work in coordination with all departments and ensure better services to people. He thanked chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy for giving him the chance to serve the state as chief secretary. He said the state is passing through difficult days due to the Covid-19 pandemic and stressed on the need for a combined and coordinated effort from everyone to tide over the situation. Meanwhile, Sawhney has been appointed as principal advisor to the chief minister. She would look after the state’s bifurcation issues, relations with the central government, village and ward secretariats, Covid-19 management, reorganisation of districts and other issues. Sawhney, as chief secretary, headed a committee of senior officials to study and recommend the reorganisation of districts and would continue to monitor the task in her new avatar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/adityanath-das-takes-charge-as-andhra-pradesh-chief-secretary/articleshow/80055201.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Vijayawada||Dalit man killed in Kurnool district, wife blames her family||VIJAYAWADA: A 30-year-old Dalit physiotherapist was found murdered in Adoni town of Kurnool district on Thursday. Adam Smith, a resident of RTC Colony in Adoni town, was found lying near his bike in a pool of blood. His head was smashed with a boulder. Adoni DSP Vinod Kumar told TOI Smith had married Maheshwari (24), an upper caste Hindu, a month ago. “The couple have been in a relationship for eight years and got their marriage solemnised at an Arya Samaj venue amidst severe opposition from family members,” he said, adding that the couple met each other years ago in their native village, Gurazala. After their marriage, they had been staying at RTC colony where Smith worked as a physiotherapist in a local hospital. Eyewitnesses said two unidentified assailants followed his two-wheeler and hit Smith’s head with an iron rod, causing him to fall. They then got down from their vehicle and dropped a large stone on his head. Locals called an ambulance and took him to a local government hospital where he was declared ‘brought dead’. A devastated Maheshwari lodged a complaint with the police, accusing her family members. She said they repeatedly threatened to kill her husband. A case has been registered under 302 of IPC (murder) and relevant sections of SC/ST Atrocities Act at Adoni Two Town police station. Police have detained some members of Maheswari’s family and are on the lookout for her father and uncle who happen to be main suspects in the case. Eyewitnesses said two unidentified assailants followed his two-wheeler and hit Smith’s head with an iron rod, causing him to fall. They then got down from their vehicle and dropped a large stone on his head. Police picket set up in villageMeanwhile, at Benigeri village in Aspari mandal of Kurnool district, tension prevailed after relatives of a 14-year-old girl, who allegedly eloped with a Dalit boy, vandalised the boy’s house premises on Thursday. Police said the boy belongs to SC community while the girl is from Boya community. They were in a relationship for some time and eloped two days ago. A police picket has been set up to avert any untoward incident in the village. Cops have registered two cases — one against the boy for alleged kidnapping of a minor girl and another against the girl’s family members for damaging property.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dalit-man-killed-in-kurnool-district-wife-blames-her-family/articleshow/80055211.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
January 1, 2021||India||Covid cases fall to 6-month low of 8.2 lakh in December||In a year blighted by the pandemic, there was cause for cautious optimism at the end as December recorded the lowest count of fresh Covid-19 cases in six months and the fewest deaths from the virus since the month of May. Some 8,24,000 cases were detected in December, the lowest monthly tally since June and a 35% decline from the count in November. It was also the first time since June that the monthly count of cases in India was below the 1-million mark. July was the first month when more than a million infections were reported in India at 1.1 million. Nearly 11,400 deaths from the pandemic were recorded in December, the lowest toll in seven months. The pandemic last claimed fewer lives in a month in May, when the toll was 4,267. In June, 11,988 fatalities were recorded, slightly higher than the December toll. December was also the third straight month of falling Covid cases and fatalities since the pandemic peaked in September. More importantly, daily cases kept declining through the month of December, with no signs of a spike till date. The seven-day rolling average of daily cases had stood at 40,868 on November 30. A month later, on December 30, it had declined to nearly half that number to 20,507, indicating that daily numbers had almost dropped by 50% during the course of the month. December was also the second month after October to record a decline in the seven-day average of daily cases for every single day of the month. With respect to the previous month, December recorded a 35% fall in cases. This was the sharpest monthly drop recorded till date. Cases had fallen by 32% in November and by 29% in October. India has so far recorded 1,02,87,267 cases of the coronavirus, the second highest in the world after the US. The toll from the viral infection stood at 1,48,976 till late on Thursday, as per data collated from states. India has the third highest toll from the pandemic after the US (3.5 lakh) and Brazil (1.9 lakh). On Thursday, the last day of the year, 19,886 cases had been reported till close to midnight, with numbers from Assam and Meghalaya yet to be received. The day’s death toll stood at 255. There were nearly 2.55 lakh active cases in the country, although the number has currently been shrinking by a few thousand each day. The number of recovered patients stood at 9.88 lakh, accounting for 96% of all cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-cases-fall-to-6-month-low-of-8-2-lakh-in-december/articleshow/80053590.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
January 1, 2021||India||Farmer unions reject govt appeal to suggest repeal alternative||NEW DELHI: A day after talks over new agri laws registered some progress, farm unions on Thursday said the Centre’s appeal to them to suggest an alternative to repeal of the laws wasn’t feasible. “Unless the laws are scrapped, there’s no scope to discuss pro-farmer changes in mandis and processes for ensuring doubling of farmers’ income,” said AIKSCC, umbrella body of the unions. They urged the Centre “to stop being rigid and not indulge in semantics”. It appears to be a posturing exercise on part of the farmers ahead of the next round of talks on January 4 where the main sticking points are up for discussion. Thursday’s remarks came after the union representatives met on the outcome of Wednesday’s talks. Though they called the government’s ‘in principle’ agreement with two demands — shelve the electricity amendment bill and remove penalties for stubble-burning — a “major victory”, they said their mobilisation would continue. The progress in the talks marks a further concession by the Centre but only regarding issues over which it has been ready to alter its stand. The government has looked to keep the unions engaged and has sidestepped the higher bar the unions have set from time to time. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar during the talks on Wednesday urged the unions to suggest any alternative to repeal of farm laws and also insisted on having a committee which can examine the “constitutional validity” of the demand. “The government is unnecessarily painting itself into a corner by widening the trust deficit as it is going on defending the laws in an escalated PR effort and is continuously trying to discredit the farmers' movement in numerous ways. This should not be so,” Kavitha Kuruganti of Mahila Kisan Adhikar Manch told TOI. Reflecting the mood of farmer representatives, Kuruganti, working group member of the umbrella body and only woman farmer representative in the group of 41 who attended the talks, said, “The first requirement is the de-escalation of this posturing, so that this does not become a prestige issue. The government is not dealing with political adversaries but with the largest section of Indian society and economy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmer-unions-reject-govt-appeal-to-suggest-repeal-alternative/articleshow/80053882.cms||Vishwa Mohan
January 1, 2021||Vijayawada||HC imposes Rs 1,000 fine on Andhra Pradesh legislature secretary||VIJAYAWADA: The AP high court on Thursday convicted state legislature secretary P Balakrishnama Charyulu under Contempt of Courts Act for not complying with its orders. The high court sentenced him till the raising of the court on Thursday and imposed a fine of 1,000. If he fails to pay the penalty, he has to undergo one week of simple imprisonment, the HC said. In 2017, some employees working in the state assembly had moved the high court seeking directions to clear pending arrears from the government. The HC had ruled in favour of the petitioners recently and directed the officials concerned to clear their dues. However, the officials failed to implement the orders, following which the employees moved a contempt petition. The court summoned principal secretary (finance) SS Rawat, pay and accounts officer Mohan Rao and Balakrishnama Charyulu. During the course of the hearing, the finance department officials told the court they did not receive any bills from the assembly secretary. ‘Sentence meant to send message’Noting that it was because of the delay in sending bills to the finance department that the arrears were not cleared, the HC found Charyulu guilty of wilful disobedience of its orders. Justice Battu Devanand did not accept the apology rendered by Charyulu and sentenced him to one month in jail and 1,000 fine. However, considering the request of Charyulu in view of his age and health conditions, the high court modified the sentence so that he would be sentenced till raising of the court and pay the fine. He was asked to sit in the court hall till court business was completed on Thursday. Justice Devanand said the sentence is meant to send a message to officials who are negligent in discharging their duties and complying with court orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-imposes-rs-1000-fine-on-andhra-pradesh-legislature-secretary/articleshow/80055220.cms||Srikanth Aluri
January 1, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: 360 UK returnees ‘missing’, test results get delayed||CHENNAI: Special teams consisting of officials from state health, local administration and police departments are on the lookout for UK returnees in Chennai and Chengalpet who could not be traced so far. Approximately 2,300 patients had returned from the UK to the state since November 21 and the government has been able to trace 1,936 people among them. All have been tested by RT-PCR method in local labs. Of them, only 24 have tested positive while 1,853 have tested negative. Results of the remaining 59 are awaited. Another 20 people, who were in contact with these patients, have also tested positive. Samples of all these 44 Covid patients have been sent to National Institute of Virology, Pune, for genomic analysis in order to find out whether they belonged to the new strain or not. So far, two test results have been released. While one person from Chennai has tested positive for the new strain, another one from Madurai tested negative for the mutant strain. Other test results are awaited. In order to avoid delays, the state government has requested permission from the Centre to send samples of UK returnees to two central institutes in Bengaluru NIMHANS and National Centre for Biological Sciences for genomic analysis. The state is yet to trace around 360 UK returnees, all of whom are from Chennai and Chengalpet. Those in all other TN districts have already been traced. On Thursday, the fresh infection rate in the state continued to decline with 937 people testing positive. The death toll increased to 12,122 with 13 people succumbing to the disease on Thursday. With the recovery rate touching 97.5%, the active case count has dropped to 8,501. Among them, Chennai (259 new cases) and its three neighbouring districts have almost 45% of cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-360-uk-returnees-missing-test-results-get-delayed/articleshow/80055226.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram lacks pedestrian infra & bus services, says GMDA mobility plan||GURUGRAM: Insufficient pedestrian infrastructure and inadequate mass transport systems are among major traffic problems that the city is facing, the GMDA’s comprehensive mobility plan has stated. According to the plan, although walking accounts for a large share of movement in the city, there are lack of footpaths and road crossing facilities, which make pedestrians all the more vulnerable to road accidents. Even in places that have footpaths, the plan has raised questions on the quality. “The walkability index within the study area is estimated as low as 0.68,” says the plan, which was approved by the chief minister last month. Not just footpaths, there are no separate lanes for non-motorised vehicles too. The absence of cycle tracks, the plan mentions, not only leads to unsafe traffic conditions in the city but has also force people to shun the habit of using bicycles as a mode of transport. The problem is aggravated by inadequate mass transit facilities, the mobility report says. A senior GMDA official pointed to the lack of bus services in the city. “The city bus services offered by Haryana Roadways and GMCBL have limited coverage and are inadequate for a city that is always on the move. As a result, more and more people are dependent on personal modes of transport. There are inadequate bus terminals too, both inter-city and intra-city,” the official added. The plan also mentions the need to augment road and railway connectivity between Gurugram and Delhi. Referring to the GMDA plan, TOI had reported earlier that more than two-thirds of the residents travelling out of the city are headed to Delhi, either for work or personal engagements. Despite the high traffic with Delhi, there are only two direct links, which cause congestion on the national highway, the report had said. Apart from these infrastructural shortcomings, there aren’t enough bypasses in the city to handle the huge volume of traffic, it says. What makes things worse is the lack of parking spaces. “Overall, there is lack of understanding of the urban transport issues,” states the plan. Told about the deficiencies, GMDA officials said they would work on the suggestions provided in the mobility plan and aim at addressing traffic issues at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/gurgaon-lacks-pedestrian-infra-bus-services-says-gmda-mobility-plan/articleshow/80052977.cms||Shubhra Pant
January 1, 2021||Gurgaon||Hry twitchers cheer 1st sighting of rare owl||Gurgaon: Pallid scops owl, a rare species, has been sighted for the first time in Haryana. The owl was spotted near a water body in Rewari’s Manethi village on Thursday by an enthusiast of Delhi Bird Society. “I spotted the bird near a water body in Rewari. This is the first time that we got a picture of the bird. They are rare in the region. These new birding areas are becoming hotspots as we are able to spot many rare birds,” said Rakesh Ahlawat, the birder from Delhi Bird Society. According to the birders, there has been no previous record of the sighting of this bird in the state. “The owl has been spotted in Rajasthan and Delhi but not in Haryana earlier,” said Pankaj Gupta, another birder from the society. The bird is commonly found in the Middle East and Central Asia. It has black streaks on the back, which distinguish it from European scops owls. It is a small owl species usually spotted in open areas with trees and bushes. The birds survive on insects such as moths, grasshoppers and beetles and also like to hunt small animals like bats and rats. According to experts, the birds migrate towards southern Egypt and Pakistan for winter and their population is stable, and thus the International Union for Conservation of Nature has categorised the pallid scops owl in its “Least Concern” list. The breeding time for the birds is between April and June. They lay eggs in tree holes and also in abandoned woodpecker holes. In Rewari, on December 13, a White-naped Tit, a rare species, was also spotted breeding for the first time in Delhi-NCR, according to the bird experts. This species has been listed as ‘vulnerable’ under the International Union for Conservation of Nature Red List. It is endemic to India and is usually found across Gujarat, Rajasthan, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/hry-twitchers-cheer-1st-sighting-of-rare-owl/articleshow/80053019.cms||Ipsita Pati
January 1, 2021||India||Caution despite vaccination to be mantra for 2021: PM Modi||RAJKOT/NEW DELHI: PM Narendra Modi on Thursday said New Year 2021 is "coming with the hope of treatment" for Covid just as India prepares for a vaccine rollout even as he stressed the need to keep observing safe practices. He also cautioned people against rumours about vaccination. "Different people for their vested interests or due to irresponsible behaviour spread various rumours. May be rumours will be spread when vaccination begins, some have already begun," he said, asking people to be careful and as responsible citizens refrain from forwarding such messages on social media. "Earlier, I said 'Dawai nahi toh dheelai nahi' (no medicine, so no slackness). Now, I am saying 'Dawai bhi aur kadaai bhi' (Both medicine and strict observance)," Modi said after laying the foundation stone of AIIMS in Rajkot, Gujarat. This, he said, should be the mantra for 2021. Modi said though Covid cases are declining, people should not take it easy as the virus still has the potential to rapidly infect people. "So, there should be no compromise with social distancing, masks and cleanliness," he said."Don't be under the impression that you can have all the freedom since we have got the vaccine. Even the scientists are saying this," the PM said. Modi also said India has emerged as the nerve centre of global health and effectively tackled the pandemic with timely steps. "India's record in tackling the pandemic has been much better than other countries," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/caution-despite-vaccination-to-be-mantra-for-2021-pm-modi/articleshow/80054382.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Coimbatore||Teen harassed by neighbour sets herself ablaze in TN's Cuddalore district||CUDDALORE: Harassed and blackmailed with false threats by her neighbour, a 15-year-old girl attempted to end her life by setting herself ablaze at a village near Vriddhachalam in Cuddalore district on Wednesday. The Class X girl sustained 70% burn injuries and her condition is critical. Police arrested her neighbour, a married man, on charges of sexually harassing the teenager. Police said the 27-year-old man had been stalking the girl for the past few weeks. A neighbour in whom the girl ad confided told police that the man had claimed he had taken videos and photos of the girl without her knowledge. He had threatened her and told her that in return for sexual favours he would not release the videos and photos on the internet. The girl, who kept turning down his sexual advances could not bear the harassment any longer and when she was alone at home she doused her body with kerosene and set herself ablaze. Her neighbours on hearing her screams rushed to her house and put out the fire. She was admitted to the Vriddhachalam government hospital that referred her to the Villupuram hospital for further treatment. The Vridhachallam all-women police station sub inspector A Potta said the man had made false claims of taking videos and photographs and he did not have any smartphone. “We made inquiries and found that the accused had made a false claim of possessing videos and photos of the minor girl. He uses a mobile phone that does not have such features. Our investigations also revealed that he was not in possession of any other mobile phone that has such features with a different service provider,” said Potta. The man was booked under Sections 11 (sexual harassment) and 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012 and Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code. Police produced him before a magistrate, who remanded him in judicial custody. If convicted, the man will be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term, which may extend up to three years and shall also be liable to fine. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/teen-harassed-by-neighbour-sets-herself-ablaze-in-tns-cuddalore-district/articleshow/80055246.cms||Bosco Dominique
January 1, 2021||Gurgaon||Trial run for FASTag to continue at Kherki toll||GURUGRAM: Though the the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) has extended the date of 100% implementation of FASTag by 45 days, giving a relief to the Kherki Daula toll management, the three-hour trial run will continue at Kherki Daula toll. The extension of deadline, however, has come with a rider—issued by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI)—that the toll plaza will have to comply with the action plan requiring daily trail runs to attune the toll staff and the commuters with a cashless e-tolling system. NHAI has directed the toll concessionaire—MCEPL—to continue with the daily trial runs during which all the lanes have to be converted into FASTag and cash payments have to be suspended. The non-FASTag users will be stopped and issued the tags on the spot before letting them cross the toll gates. “The extension of the deadline is only to diligently comply with the action plan to enforce a 100% FASTag toll payment system at the plaza. Trial runs are going to be a regular affair till February 15. We appeal to motorists to not take the extension of the deadline as a relaxation but a final ultimatum to switch to the new system and help make accessing toll plaza a seamless, cashless, contactless experience,” said a senior NHAI official. Toll operator—South Asian tollways Pvt Ltd—said, “We will keep just one cash lane on either side and only if there’s traffic congestion and cops ask us to clear the traffic we’ll consider increasing cash lanes. But, during trial runs all cash payment will be suspended.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/trial-run-for-fastag-to-continue-at-kherki-toll/articleshow/80053107.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
January 1, 2021||Gurgaon||No drop in Covid-19 tests, but Haryana sees fewer cases||Gurgaon: Every week in December, Haryana added a lesser number of new Covid cases to its tally — this, despite the testing pattern remaining stable. Last week, the state witnessed a 37% drop in the number of cases from the previous week. In the same period, 1% more people were tested for the virus. According to the state data, last week, Haryana saw 3,263 new Covid cases, whereas, in the week ending on December 20, it had added 5,252 fresh cases. Even though the difference was around 2,000 cases, the number of people tested in the same period was nearly 3,125 more. Notably, the testing rate witnessed a rise in the second and third week of December as well. In the first week of December, the state added 25% fewer Covid cases than the last week of November. The same week, Haryana tested 11% less than the preceding one. In the first week of December, Haryana was adding over 1,500 cases daily but the numbers dipped towards the end of December. From December 7 to December 20, the daily additions stayed below 1,000, reaching even lower than 600. In the fourth week of December, 2,05,053 people were tested for Covid — higher than the first three weeks. Also, in the last two weeks, the daily cases have dropped to below 400 cases even as there has been a rise in testing. According to health department data, Haryana has conducted 44,63,557 tests and a total of 2,61,258 people have been found positive so far. When asked about the reason for the fewer number of daily cases in Haryana, Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, the nodal officer for Covid-19 in that state said: “At present, the infection rate is less than before. The districts have been conducting steady sampling and testing, but the cases remain low. It is a good sign. In the winters, people are covering themselves well and venturing out less, which could be why the infection is less.” The tests, however, have been largely concentrated in Gurgaon, while the other districts are falling way short. The district has conducted 6,55,817 tests so far, while Faridabad carried out 4,15,207, Sonipat 2,67,423, Hisar 2,66,865, Jhajjar 2,34,290, Panipat 1,56,442 and Rewari 1,41,720. The caseloads in these places largely align with the testing figures — Gurgaon has 56,473 cases, Faridabad, has 45,328, Sonipat 14,457, Hisar 16,899, Jhajjar 5,789, Panipat 10,455 and Rewari 11,254. “We have been conducting more than 4,000 tests every day, but the numbers of positive cases came down in December. Even in Delhi, the number of cases dropped compared to November. However, we are expecting the cases to rise in the first week of January,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurgaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/no-drop-in-covid-19-tests-but-haryana-sees-fewer-cases/articleshow/80053165.cms||Ipsita Pati
January 1, 2021||Bhopal||MP farmer kills self; suicide note says ‘sell my body to pay power dues’||BHOPAL: A 35-year-old farmer hanged himself in MP’s Chhatarpur district after discom officials confiscated his wheat grinder (atta chakki) and his motorcycle over power dues of Rs 87,000. In his suicide note, Munendra Rajput asked his family to hand over his body to the government “to sell every part of his body and pay the dues”. This is the fourth farmer suicide in Bundelkhand in a month — two killed themselves in Panna district and one in Sagar. Munendra’s dues were related to the atta chakki he operated in Matgua village, about 18km from Chhatarpur district HQ. His suicide note mentioned a series of setbacks — his crop failed and a buffalo was electrocuted. Besides, there was no work during the lockdown, which is why he couldn’t pay his bills, he wrote. Collector sanctions 25K as relief to kinBesides, there was no work during the lockdown, which is why he couldn’t pay his bills, he wrote. Munendra’s brother Lokendra told reporters that he felt insulted after discom officials confiscated the atta chakki, his only source of income. “It all happened before the whole village. My brother requested the discom people to give him some time, explaining the hardship, the crop failure and the lockdown,” he said. Munendra’s suicide has shaken Bundelkhand region. District collector Seelendra Singh sanctioned Rs 25,000 as compensation to the farmer’s family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-farmer-kills-self-suicide-note-says-sell-my-body-to-pay-power-dues/articleshow/80055252.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Gurgaon||15 UK returnees test negative for Covid||Gurgaon: Results of the remaining 15 residents who have returned from the UK after December 8 turned out to be negative on Thursday when RT-PCR tests were carried out. Even then, as a precautionary measure, the health department has started tracing their contacts. The health department said that it has conducted RT-PCR tests on 369 people who arrived in the city from the UK from December 8 till December 22 and so far 368 people are negative. One person who came positive in the RT-PCR test is in an isolation centre in Sector 22 and his genome sequencing report is pending. As many as 32 passengers are untraceable due to incorrect addresses or mobile numbers and they are under police radar. Gurgaon chief medical officer Virender Yadav, “We have got RT-PCR results of all the UK returnees that could trace and only one person was found positive. We are still waiting for his genome sequencing report from Delhi. Our teams are monitoring all these people who are at present under home isolation to ensure that if they develop symptoms they are put in a different isolation centre.” With 61 cases, the city on Thursday reported less than 100 cases for the 7th day in a row, taking the tally to 56,791. The health department said 97 patients recovered on the day, bringing the total number of recoveries to 55,509. No one succumbed to the infection on Thursday. So far, 343 people in the city have died of Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/15-uk-returnees-test-negative-for-covid/articleshow/80053196.cms||Ipsita Pati
January 1, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Relief in sight, temperature likely to rise from Saturday||GURUGRAM: The city witnessed biting cold on Thursday as the minimum temperature settled at 4°C. The city has been reeling from severe cold wave conditions for the past three days and it is likely to remain the same till Friday. However, India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted that the cold spell will subside after Friday, and there will be light rain from January 2 for a few days. Dense fog engulfed the city in the early hours of Thursday morning, leading to reduced visibility. The visibility was only for 50 meters on Thursday, but it improved after 9am. Later in the day, mild sunshine was witnessed. A maximum temperature of 15.6°C was recorded at Delhi’s Ayanagar, around four notches below the normal. The automatic weather station at Gurugram did not record the maximum temperature on Thursday. According to the IMD’s weekly forecast, the minimum temperature will hover around 4°C on Friday, while the maximum will rise to 18°C. The city will get one or two spells of rain or thundershowers. “Light rain is expected from January 2 to January 5, and the minimum temperature is expected to rise to 7-10°C during this period,” said an IMD official. Amid the cold wave conditions, Gurugram divisional commissioner Rajeev Ranjan on Thursday issued an advisory, asking people to stay indoors. “Ensure adequate clothing is worn. Cover your head and mouth with hats and mufflers to prevent heat loss and for protecting lungs. Eat healthy food and drink non-alcoholic beverages to avoid dehydration,” he stated. He also advised people to visit doctors if they show symptoms of hypothermia and frostbite, which lead to uncontrollable shivering, memory loss, disorientation, loss of feeling and pale appearances on fingers, toes and nose. Meanwhile, the city’s air quality deteriorated on Thursday to ‘very poor’ category. The air quality index (AQI) was recorded at 317, significantly up from Wednesday’s 227, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). According to the IMD official, the air quality in the region is likely to deteriorate due to low ventilation. But it will witness some improvement from January 2, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/relief-in-sight-temp-likely-to-rise-from-sat/articleshow/80053232.cms||---
January 1, 2021||India||Yearender: Why 2020 was a year of BJP, AAP in elections||NEW DELHI: While the year 2019 would be remembered for the victory of Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led NDA in the Lok Sabha elections, 2020 would be recalled as the year when the BJP made handsome gains in the polls held for local bodies across the country. Moreover, while the BJP also won the Bihar assembly elections, Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) decisively won the Delhi state polls for the second consecutive term. The year would also be remembered for the elections which were held during COVID-19 times. The Delhi assembly elections were held in February, when the pandemic had not yet become a threat. By the time the Bihar polls were held in October-November, the coronavirus disease had started receding after reaching its crescendo. The BJP’s performance in the several assembly bypolls held in the year was impressive. It also made rapid strides in the elections to the local bodies in several states from Kashmir to Kerala and from Northeast to Rajasthan. Assembly electionsThe year 2020 started with Delhi assembly elections which were held in February. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal - whose first stint as CM in 2013-2014 is known as AK-49 as his government lasted just 49 days - came out all guns blazing. While AAP had won 67 of the 70 assembly seats in 2015, leaving only three for the BJP, its tally slided slightly to 62. The BJP improved the number of seats in its kitty to eight. The Congress’s performance was as humiliating in 2020 as it was in 2015. It could not open its account in both these elections. In Bihar assembly elections, the BJP’s seat saw a significant rise. It became the second largest party after Lalu Prasad-led RJD. While RJD won 75 of the 243 assembly seats, the BJP was just one seat short of it at 74. Along with its NDA partner - the JD(U) which was then led by chief minister Nitish Kumar - the BJP once again formed the government in the state. The BJP gained at the expense of the Congress, which again was the biggest loser. Assembly bypollsThe BJP was victorious also in the recent assembly bypolls in several states including Madhya Pradesh where it won 19 of the 28 constituencies which went to polls; Manipur where it won four of the five constituencies which went to polls; Uttar Pradesh where it won eight of the nine seats; and Gujarat where it emerged victorious on all the eight seats. Earlier, it had won the Dubakka assembly by-election in Telangana by wresting the seat from the ruling TRS led by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. However, the BJP received a setback in Baroda assembly bypoll in Haryana where it lost to the Congress. Olympic wrestler and BJP's Yogeshwar Dutt had lost the by-election in Haryana's Sonipat district to the Congress's Indu Raj Narwal. It was Yogeshwar Dutt’s second consecutive defeat. He had lost to the Congress's Krishan Hooda. Local bodies’ electionsThe BJP significantly improved its performance in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) election by coming second to the ruling TRS. It left Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM behind. In Rajasthan civic elections too, the BJP won more number of seats than the ruling Congress. In the Kerala local bodies’ elections, the BJP made unprecedented inroads into the state politics. It not just improved its tally of 1200 seats in the previous 2015 elections to 1600 this time but it also made inroads into the strongholds of senior Congress leaders such as former defence minister AK Antony, former chief minister Oommen Chandy, leader of opposition in the Kerala assembly Ramesh Chennithala and Thiruvananthapuram Lok Sabha MP Shashi Tharoor. It emerged victorious also in Sabarimala which falls in Pandalam. Sabarimala was the epicentre of the protests organised by the party along with other Hindu groups against the entry of women of menstruating age inside the temple. The BJP surged ahead in the Northeast also by winning the elections to the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) and Tiwa Autonomous Council (TAC) in Assam and the Arunachal Pradesh civic polls. In the recent BTC elections, the BJP won nine seats and aligned with the United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL) to come to power. In the 2015 BTC elections, the BJP had bagged just one seat and was in power in coalition with its alliance partner in the state government - Bodo People’s Front (BPF). However, it did not align with BPF to come to power in the Bodoland Territorial Council. In the TAC elections, the BJP bagged an overwhelming 33 seats and came to power. In the 2015 elections, it had got only three seats. The BJP was the biggest gainer while the Congress and the PDP were the biggest losers in the first-ever District Development Council (DDC) elections held in Jammu and Kashmir. These were also the first elections after the nullification of Article 370 in August 2019 and change in the status of Jammu and Kashmir from a state to a Union Territory. The BJP made an entry in the Kashmir Valley by winning three of the 140 seats. It was a major boost for the national party. The seven-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD or popularly known as Gupkar Alliance) emerged victorious on majority of the seats in the Kashmir Valley while the BJP performed well in the Jammu region was very much expected. While all the 10 districts of the Kashmir Valley is dominated by the Muslims, six of the 10 districts in the Jammu region are dominated by the Hindus. The remaining four districts of Rajouri, Poonch, Doda and Kishtwar which border the Kashmir Valley have a sizeable Muslim population. The results were more or less a mirror of the 2014 Jammu and Kashmir assembly and 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Out of the 280 seats - 140 each in the Kashmir Valley and the Jammu region - the BJP emerged as the single-largest party by winning 74 seats. While Farooq Abdullah-led National Conference (NC) won 67 seats, Mehbooba Mufti-headed People’s Democratic Party (PDP) bagged 27 and the Congress 26. Going by the pre-poll arrangements, the seven-party Gupkar Alliance consisting mainly of PDP and NC was the overall winner by bagging 112 seats. The BJP emerged victorious also in the Ladakh Hill Council elections. Ladakh was bifurcated from Jammu and Kashmir and was created as a separate Union Territory during nullification of Article 370. The BJP also maintained a handsome lead in the Karnataka panchayat election results. It appeared to be a repeat of the 2018 state assembly elections. The BJP claimed to lead the tally with the Congress coming second and the JD(S) a distant third. However, the year ended for the BJP on a different note. The ruling BJP-Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) coalition government of Haryana received a setback on Wednesday as it could win just one of the three mayoral posts, for which elections were held on December 27. The results assume significance because of the ongoing farmers’ protests against the three agri laws of the central government and several of the 41 farmers unions belong to the state. While the BJP struggled to win in Panchkula, the Congress and the Haryana Jan Chetna Party (HJCP) bagged mayoral posts in Sonipat and Ambala, respectively. It was for the first time that direct elections were held for mayoral posts in the three cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/yearender-why-2020-was-a-year-of-bjp-aap-in-elections/articleshow/80050076.cms||Kumar Shakti Shekhar
January 1, 2021||Bhopal||Poll cash row: MP EOW registers enquiry to look for evidence||BHOPAL/ NEW DELHI: Madhya Pradesh economic offences wing (EOW) on Thursday registered a general preliminary enquiry (PE) to decide if there is enough evidence to register an FIR in compliance with Election Commission’s recommendation to file criminal cases against “those named in the CBDT report” on the alleged cash-in-poll row. The 904-page CBDT report hints at the role of many individuals in the “widespread and well organised racket of collection and transaction of unaccounted cash of about Rs 281crore in MP during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls”. Madhya Pradesh chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bais and additional chief secretary (home) Rajesh Rajora are due to appear before EC on January 5 with an ‘action taken report’, sources said. The CBDT report names around 60 individuals, including three IPS officers, a state police officer, some BJP ministers of Madhya Pradesh and a few firms. “We have registered a PE to examine CBDT’s report. Necessary action will be taken on the basis of evidence,” said EOW SP Rajesh Mishra. Prior to this, the government had sought the advocate general’s opinion and principal secretary to CM, Manish Rastogi, was asked to study the CBDT report, sources said. On December 16, EC had asked the Madhya Pradesh chief election officer to lodge a criminal case against the three IPS officers and others in connection with the alleged use of black money during the Lok Sabha elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/poll-cash-row-mp-eow-registers-enquiry-to-look-for-evidence/articleshow/80055281.cms||P Naveen
January 1, 2021||Bhopal||Justice Md Rafiq to head MP high court||BHOPAL: Justice Mohd. Rafiq will be the 26th Chief Justice of Madhya Pradesh high court. The Centre notified the appointment on Thursday.  Justice Sanjay Yadav, who was officiating Chief Justice of MP HC since September 30, has been transferred to Allahabad high court as a judge. Justice Rafiq was earlier Chief Justice of Orissa high court and Meghalaya high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/justice-md-rafiq-to-head-mp-high-court/articleshow/80055307.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: Woman dies of heart attack on seeing 14-year-old son at ‘gunpoint’||BHOPAL: A 50-year-old woman suffered a fatal heart attack after a car owner allegedly pointed a pistol at her 14-year-old son during a parking quarrel in Bhopal’s Bairagarh on Wednesday night. To add to the tragedy, the dying woman was ‘referred away’ by two hospitals before being declared dead at a third. According to the boy’s complaint, a man and his wife had parked in front of his house and picked a fight with him when he asked them to move. Police have registered a case against Manish Ochani, his wife Sonal and her father Veerumal Ahuja. There are no arrests yet. Police say Sonal has claimed it was a toy gun. The boy’s family and Ahuja are next-door neighbours in a locality near Bairagarh railway station. The couple was visiting Ahuja on Wednesday evening and had parked their car in front of the boy’s house, said investigation officer SI Mohan Sharma. The boy, who is in Class 9, returned home at 9.30pm and was irritated to see the car blocking his house. When he asked Manish to move the car, he started quarrelling, said SI Sharma, adding that Sonal and her father also came out and joined the quarrel. Hearing the commotion, the boy’s parents rushed out and the squabble escalated. According to the schoolboy’s complaint, Manish suddenlyq took out a pistol from his car and pointed it at him, threatening to kill him on the spot, said SI Sharma. Parking of car lead to disputeThis shocked his mother Deepa so much that she collapsed, unconscious. Her family took her to a nearby private hospital and then another, but were told at both places that they didn’t have the facilities to treat her. They rushed her to the state-run Hamidia Hospital where she was declared dead on arrival. The schoolboy and his uncle filed a complaint at Bairagarh police station around midnight. Police registered a case of ‘voluntarily causing hurt’ against the trio and sent Deepa’s body for autopsy. According to SI Sharma, Sonal has told police that Manish had a toy pistol in his car which he pointed at the boy. Bairagarh SHO Shivpal Singh Kushwah said other charges may be added once the post-mortem report comes. Cops went to Manish’s house but he wasn’t there. Police teams are out looking for him. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-woman-dies-of-heart-attack-on-seeing-14-year-old-son-at-gunpoint/articleshow/80055347.cms||---
January 1, 2021||World||North Korea's Kim thanks people in rare New Year's cards||SEOUL: North Korean leader Kim Jong Un thanked the public for their trust and support "in the difficult times" and wished them happiness and good health in his first New Year's Day cards sent to his people. Kim usually gives a televised speech on January 1, but he is widely expected to skip the speech this year since he will address the country's first ruling party congress in five years sometime in early January. "I will work hard to bring earlier the new era in which the ideals and desires of our people will come true," Kim said in his letter, according to the Korean Central News Agency. "I offer thanks to the people for having invariably trusted and supported our party even in the difficult times," he said. "I sincerely wish all the families across the country greater happiness and beloved people, good health." North Korea is one of the world's most cloistered countries, and it's virtually impossible to independently confirm whether its 25 million people received Kim's cards. The cards reportedly were the first a leader sent to North Koreans since 1995. Kim, who succeeded his father as North Korean leader in 2011, is facing the toughest challenges of his nine-year rule due to the pandemic, several natural disasters last summer and the stalemate over U.S.-led sanctions and his nuclear weapons program. Kim will likely use the Workers' Party congress as a venue to muster a stronger unity and lay out new development goals for the next few years, experts say. The congress, the first in kind since 2006, is officially the party's top decision-making body though real day-to-day decisions are made by Kim and his close associates. The rubberstamp body of delegates to the congress is expected to endorse Kim's new initiatives without major debates. State media said North Korea planned to hold the congress early this month but didn't specify the dates. In 2006, the congress was held for four days. Marking the new year's start, a large crowd of people packed Pyongyang's main square to watch fireworks, a concert and a flag-hoisting ceremony. State TV showed the people, wearing masks and heavy coats, waved their hands while standing close together. North Korea has steadfastly claimed to coronavirus-free - an assertion doubted by outsiders. But experts also say any outbreak likely wasn't widespread and so North Korea considered it safe to hold big events like the party congress in Pyongyang.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/north-koreas-kim-thanks-people-in-rare-new-years-cards/articleshow/80055344.cms||---
January 1, 2021||India||Google announces the arrival of New Year with doodle||NEW DELHI: Google on Friday marked the arrival of 2021 with a doodle. The doodle showed a cuckoo bird announcing the arrival of 2021 — a year marked with uncertainties amidst the coronavirus pandemic. Yesterday, Google had unveiled a similar doodle on New Year's eve. "It’s been a cuckoo year, but 2020’s clock is ticking," Google wrote. The New Year's Eve was celebrated across the globe in a sombre manner as the world continued to reel from a pandemic that has taken lives of over 1.8 million people in less than a year. Restrictions were imposed on celebrations across the world. In India, night curfew was imposed in several cities and gatherings banned were banned. The eagerly awaited first seconds of 2021 fell on the Pacific nations of Kiribati and Samoa from 1000 GMT. The uninhabited Howland and Baker Islands will be the last to tip over into the New Year. New Zealand, which has won plaudits for its handling of the coronavirus, followed Kiribati and Samoa, with large crowds gathered in Auckland to watch a fireworks display. In Australia's largest city, Sydney, fireworks lit up the glittering harbour with a dazzling display, but few spectators watched in person. In Russia, President Vladimir Putin acknowledged in a New Year's address that a second wave of Covid-19 was battering the nation. In hard-hit London, 74-year-old American singer-songwriter Patti Smith had been due to ring in the New Year with a tribute to National Health Service workers who have died from Covid-19, projected on the screen at Piccadilly Circus and streamed on YouTube. But due to alarm at rising infections rates, the big screen projection was cancelled with the tribute viewable instead solely online. Elsewhere, the mood was far more downbeat. (With inputs from agencies)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/google-announces-the-arrival-of-new-year-with-doodle/articleshow/80055358.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Shimla||New Year rush jams Himachal Pradesh tourist towns||MANALI: With thousands of tourists making way to Himachal’s tourist destinations to ring in the New Year, all the hotels and parking spaces are full, leading to chaos and snarls. Be it Shimla, Manali, Dharamshala, Dalhousie, Kasol, Manikaran, Kufri or McLeodganj, traffic flow has come to a standstill at some places while it was moving at snail’s pace at other points. Major parking spaces are full and visitors can be desperately seen looking for parking slots. Thousands of vehicles from other states have been entering Himachal since Wednesday night, mostly from Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, UP and Chandigarh. Despite Himachal Police making it clear that night curfew would be implemented after 10pm and midnight parties won’t be allowed, all tourist towns are brimming with revellers, bring cheer to the hoteliers. According to officials, 8,535 vehicles had entered Shimla from Solan side while 4,850 vehicles went out towards Solan from Shimla between 8am and 6pm on Thursday. Manali faces parking challengeTraffic on most roads in Shimla was moving very slowly and parking spaces within city were full. However, some parking could be found at Chhota Shimla, Sanjauli and Tuti Kandi. In Manali, the parking was a challenge with a record 3,450 vehicles from other states entering the town on Wednesday and the number was expected to be higher on Thursday. Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said, "Different units of police have been deployed at all tourist places to deal with traffic and law and order situation. Despite such high traffic, cops are not letting vehicles freeze at a place and are keeping them moving. However, traffic was intentionally made to slow down at some places. Traffic and Covid violations are not being tolerated." As many as765 to urist vehicles crossed the Atal tunnel to enter Lahaul valley on Thursday and 1,650 vehicles returned to Manali till 5pm. "Cops are there from the tunnel to Sissu where parking is available for tourists. We expect similar tourist flow till a few more days. Tourists violating rules and not wearing face cover are being challaned," said Lahaul-Spiti SP Manav Verma. The tourist towns of the state have a limited carrying capacity which was crossed by tourist crowd on New Year Eve. Sources say the tourist footfall has broken all-time records at many places including Manali. While tourist crowd has brought cheer to hoteliers, it has increased the risk of spread of the Covid-19 as tourists were not following social distancing and other protocols. The condition was worse at the Ridge and Mall Road in Shimla and Mall Road of Manali where tourists were bumping into each other given cramped space.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/new-year-rush-jams-himachal-pradeshs-tourist-towns/articleshow/80055431.cms||Suresh Sharma
January 1, 2021||Chennai||Quarantined IIT-M students say food served has worms||CHENNAI: A section of students at IIT Madras, quarantined in hostels, protested saying that the quality of food served is poor. Some students said that they found worms and insects in a few food parcels. IIT-Madras was shut down following a Covid-19 cluster among students on December 13. Students and research scholars have been confined to hostel rooms and are being served packed food. “It's been several weeks since we have quarantined. Good and hygienic food was our first demand. But IIT Madras has not fulfilled it. Many students have found spiders, stones, worms, hair and insects in the parcels,” a researcher said. Some students complained of mental fatigue. “I arrived in the last week of November. It’s not easy to spend 31 days inside a room,” said a postgraduate student. A section of students demanded relaxation in quarantine rules and permission to resume research work for those who have tested negative. An IIT-M spokesperson said there have been “a few instances where foreign matter was found in packages”. “We are serving nearly 3,000 packed meals a day. We have immediately replaced the contaminated packets and investigated the source of the foreign matter. In a couple of cases, we were able to trace it to the vegetable prepared,” the spokesperson said. On the long quarantine period, the spokesperson said it was decided by Greater Chennai Corporation based on the number of positive cases. “Some students had returned before the outbreak and had spent 14 days in individual quarantine. However, the outbreak happened just as their individual quarantine was ending and the quarantine of the entire hostel zone was imposed. This increased the quarantine period,” the spokesperson said. On Thursday night, based on instructions from the city corporation, IIT-M informed students that all the hostels (except Bhadra) will open from Friday. It said packed breakfast will be served, and Himalaya and Nilgiri messes will be opened for dining.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/quarantined-iit-m-students-say-food-served-has-worms/articleshow/80055416.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Noida||Noida: Firm blacklisted? Cloud hangs on habitat centre project||NOIDA: Even before work started on the convention and habitat centre, the flagship project of the Noida Authority has hit a hurdle. A row has erupted over whether the government company selected for the Sector 94 project through a bidding process is authorised to carry out the work. The decision on whether the company can be given the go ahead to execute the project will now be taken at a board meeting of the Noida Authority. Selecting the company itself wasn’t an easy task for the Authority. Bids for the project were floated four times since July. And every time, the participating companies had to be rejected on technical grounds. However, in the latest evaluation of four more companies, the price quoted by Uttar Pradesh Rajkiya Nirman Nigam (UPRNN), a government firm, was the lowest. Sources said UPRNN was ready to execute the project at a cost of Rs 410 crore while its closest competitor had quoted Rs 421 crore. The Noida Authority, which had set aside a budget of Rs 433.5 crore for the construction of the 31-storey building and all other civil work, quickly got the plan vetted by IIT-Roorkee. But then, the project hit its first hurdle. Officials learnt that UPRNN, an undertaking of the state government, had been blacklisted by the Allahabad high court in March this year. Substandard quality of work done by the agency in the past was cited by the court for its decision to bar it from carrying out any work within premises of courts in the state. Since big ticket projects cannot be granted to any blacklisted company, the Noida Authority sought an immediate clarification from UPRNN. “We have received clarification from UPRNN on some queries, including their status. Their response will be produced before senior officials in the upcoming board meeting. The company will be awarded the tender to execute the project only if the board gives its approval in its favour,” said Ritu Maheshwari, the chief executive officer of the Authority. UPRNN, according to sources, has claimed in its written undertaking that it was never blacklisted by the UP government or barred from carrying out any work. It clarified that the high court had asked the company not to carry out any work within court premises, but not outside it. “The chairman of UPRNN, who is an IAS officer and also the principal secretary of the public works department, has provided a list of 15 to 16 projects it has been asked by the state government to execute this fiscal,” said a senior official of the Authority. SK Srivastava, additional managing director of UPRNN, echoed him. “The Allahabad high court’s observations in March pertained to work within the courts only. We have been implementing projects of the UP government and a host of other agencies since then,” he clarified. Officials in the agency said they were confident they would be awarded the tender to execute the convention and habitat centre project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/firm-blacklisted-cloud-hangs-on-habitat-centre-project-/articleshow/80054437.cms||Shalabh
January 1, 2021||Amritsar||UAE deports Tarn Taran murder mastermind||CHANDIGARH: After United Arab Emirates(UAE) deported the alleged mastermind of the Tarn Taran-based Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu’s murder, he given in the custody of Delhi police on Thursday. SSP Tarn Taran Dhruman H Nimbale told TOI that the Punjab police were in touch with their Delhi counterparts and would bring wanted gangster Sukhmeet Pal Singh alias Sukh Bhikhariwal on production warrants to Punjab after the Delhi police’s custody period is over. Bhikhariwal was arrested on December 8 from a flat in Dubai in a joint operation of the Delhi police’s special cell with the UAE police. Gangster’s name came out after Delhi arrestsBhikhariwal’s name had cropped up during the interrogation of the Delhi police after they had arrested five accused following an encounter on December 7 in Delhi. Out of these five persons arrested in the case, Gurjeet Singh alias Bha and Sukhdeep Singh alias Sukha were from Gurdaspur in Punjab and the remaining three were from Kashmir. It had come out during the police interrogation that Bha and Sukha were the two persons who had reached Sandhu’s house in Bhikhiwind on a motorcycle and had shot him dead on October 16. Both are still in Delhi police’s custody and Punjab police are trying to also bring them on production warrants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/uae-deports-tarn-taran-murder-mastermind/articleshow/80055469.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Gang behind Kavi Nagar robberies busted||GHAZIABAD: Ghaziabad police busted an inter-state gang of robbers and arrested four people on Wednesday. The gang leader Aaftab (35), a resident of Delhi who carried a reward of Rs 25,000 on his head, was also arrested. Aaftab is one of the masterminds behind two incidents of robbery, which took place a few months ago in Kavi Nagar. Over a dozen cases, including robbery and dacoity, have been lodged in several police stations of Delhi, Haryana, Ghaziabad, Noida against him. The three other accused have been identified as Raju alias Altmas (38), a resident of Noida, Md Naeem (46), a native of Rajasthan and Tahir (42), from Haryana. All three have criminal history and were wanted in other states as well. The gang was arrested from Avantika area when they were planning a robbery at a house. Avnish Kumar, circle officer 2, told TOI that the accused used to rob a house after taking the family members hostage. The accused have been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/gang-behind-kavi-ngr-robberies-busted/articleshow/80054440.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
January 1, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s forest cover goes up by 11.63 sq km||CHANDIGARH: The forest cover in Punjab registered an increase by 11.63 sq km in 2020 with the plantation of 60 lakh saplings under various schemes. Punjab forest minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot said the state government was committed to increasing green cover and taking effective steps in this direction. He said that as per the latest forest cover report released by the central government, total forest vegetation cover in the state has increased by 11.63 sq km which reflected that the programmes implemented by the government were yielding positive results. The minister said to commemorate 400th Parkash Purb of Guru Teg Bahadur, 60 lakh plants had been planted under various schemes in 6,986 villages in a year and more than 19.5 lakh high quality clonal plants were planted by farmers under agro-forestry for which they were given incentive through direct benefit transfer (DBT) in Aadhaar-linked bank accounts. The department also introduced high value tree crop “rose wood” in Punjab in Phillaur and Chak Sarkar forests besides planting of around five lakh plants of sheesham and other trees along the Satluj and Beas, he added. For the maintenance and upkeep of 550 plants planted to commemorate the 550th Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev, an effective supply chain was ensured by the department to replace dying plants and the survival rate was around 71%. Over 3.6 lakh plants have been supplied to people through I-Hariyali app during the current year adding as many as12.46 lakh man-days of rural employment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjabs-forest-cover-goes-up-by-11-63-sq-km/articleshow/80055499.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||7% of Covid deaths in Gujarat in first 24 hours for past 4 months||AHMEDABAD: Till August 31, Gujarat had recorded 3,022 deaths of Covid-19 patients. Of the fatalities, 5.8% had died within the first 24 hours of hospitalization. With greater awareness and better treatment protocols and medical infrastructure, one would expect mortality within 24 hours of hospitalization to come down. Ironically, from September to December, the state has recorded 1,222 deaths, out of which 7% had taken place in less than one day – indicating an upward trend. If not for this aberration, analysis by the state health department indicates an improved trend in reduction in overall mortality and increase in hospitalization duration for the deceased. The average hospitalization stay before death went up slightly from 6.3 to 6.5 days. Till August, the longest hospitalization before death was 41 days, which touched 67 days in the past four months. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA), said that several city-based private hospitals continue to witness the alarming phenomena of patients coming in severely critical state at the time of admission. “Two factors were at play – the patients or relatives failed to identify early the signs of distress- flags for urgent medical attention, and there was delay in providing prompt care for some patients under home care who suddenly turned critical,” he said. Maximum deaths took place between 4th and 14th days of hospitalization, revealed analysis. Compared to 62% of the deaths during this period till August, the last four months recorded 58% of the deaths during this time. The deaths beyond two weeks of hospitalization increased from 11.4% till August to 15% - indicating better resilience towards the virus. Dr JP Modi, medical superintendent of Civil Hospital, said that the overall mortality has reduced for Covid-19 patients in the past four months compared to earlier phase of the pandemic. “Early intervention can surely improve chances of survival. For any patient, the second week is critical and they should be watchful of any complications,” he said. Age profile analysis revealed that maximum deaths were recorded in 60 years and above age group (64%), followed by 45-59 years (28%). There were only two deaths in the past four months of the patients below 15 years. About 50% of the deceased had one or more comorbidities, whereas 27% others had risk factors like age.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/7-of-covid-deaths-in-gujarat-in-first-24-hours-for-past-4-months/articleshow/80055505.cms||Parth Shastri
January 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Advert of work done for another firm a copyright infringement!||AHMEDABAD: A reference to past association with a known company might land one in trouble, if there is an attempt at promoting products supplied or services rendered without due permission from earlier employers or collaborators. A local court has recently stayed a proprietor of an engineering firm from mentioning in his company profile that it was associated with another city-based engineering company. The city-based engineering company had dragged the engineering firm to court which has restrained it from using the company's registered trademark in their firm's profile which the proprietor had posted on a marketing website. The engineering company, manufacturing machines for the textile industry, has got its trademark registered. In July, the company found out that an engineering firm had claimed in its profile on the internet that it was a regular supplier of products to the company's sister concern. The company took exception to the claim stating it had no past relationship with the firm. It also alleged the firm of committing an act of passing off by misrepresenting and causing confusion and deception amongst the purchaser. The company alleged an infringement on its trademark rights. The company's counsel Jatin Trivedi said that section 6(d) of the Trademark Act prohibits use of a company's registered trademark on business papers or in advertising by another firm. “Here the defendant is not selling his products under the name of the client company but there is an attempt to show that the quality of goods is on par with that of the engineering company by asserting his past association with it. One cannot advertise his products and services by projecting them to be of better quality merely by referring to other companies without authorization,” advocate Trivedi said. The company's counsel Jatin Trivedi said that in the larger context too past work experience is allowed only in the biodata. “One can mention one's past work experience and associations in the personal biodata, but not for the purpose of promoting a new venture without permission. The law bars this practice.” Here, while the engineering firm's proprietor mentioned in his venture’s profile that there was past association with the engineering company, the company asserted that it's records did not reflect any dealing with either the firm or it's proprietor. After preliminary hearing, additional session judge at Mirzapur, S P Shankar, ordered a stay on use of the company's trademark in the firm's advertisement material on the website till further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/advert-of-work-done-for-another-firm-a-copyright-infringement/articleshow/80055544.cms||Saeed Khan
January 1, 2021||India||PM Narendra Modi greets nation on new year||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted the nation on the first day of the new year on Friday. May the spirit of hope and wellness prevail, he wished. "Wishing you a happy 2021! May this year bring good health, joy and prosperity. May the spirit of hope and wellness prevail," the Prime Minister tweeted. Wishing you a happy 2021! May this year bring good health, joy and prosperity. May the spirit of hope and wellness prevail.— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1609466528000||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-narendra-modi-greets-nation-on-new-year/articleshow/80055507.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: CBSE date relief comes with election anxiety||KOLKATA: The Union ministry of education’s decision to hold the Class-X and Class-XII CBSE exams between May 4 and June 10 has left school administrations and students baffled, because the assembly elections in Bengal are likely to be held during that period. Like the Bengal government, the Union ministry has also signalled that the practical exams may be held in March. Since practical classes are unlikely to be held before January 10, students in that case will be left with just 45 days before taking the examinations. The results of both the exams will be published by July 15. “There is an immediate need to resume on-campus classes for the Class-X and Class-XII examinees. We could not hold a single practical class for the 2020-2021 batch. After the face-to-face interaction is allowed, we have to hold extensive doubt-clearing sessions and practical classes for the candidates,” said a school head. She pointed out that a decision has been taken to hold practical classes in multiple batches where not more than 25 to 30 students will be allowed to gather in the laboratory. Krishna Damani, spokesperson for South Point School said that the announcement was much awaited. “It provides some definite direction to the conclusion of the academic year for the board classes... . We hope the dates are finalized keeping the poll schedule in mind,” Damani said. Joyoti Chaudhuri, principal of DPS Ruby Park, said the decision came as a relief. “Schools can now plan with more clarity. We will now wait for exam-related information from CBSE and directives from the government for resuming on-campus classes for board examinees,” she said. Suparna Dev, mother of a Class-X student of Apeejay School, said commuting will be a nightmare if the exams are held during the assembly polls. A city school principal said the students planning to take NEET and JEE exams will now have to divide their timetable. “It will be a stupendous task to simultaneously prepare for the board exams and also the national entrance tests. While the Class-XII CBSE exams will be spread over May and June, the JEE (mains) will be conducted in February and then again in March, April and May,” she said. The date for NEET exam is yet to be announced which will be delayed from its usual schedule in May. Madhyamik would begin from June 1, 2021 and continue till June 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/west-bengal-cbse-date-relief-comes-with-election-anxiety/articleshow/80055669.cms||Somdatta Basu
January 1, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala assembly passes resolution for immediate repeal of farm laws||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Kerala assembly on Thursday unanimously passed a resolution demanding the immediate repeal of the three central farm laws that have triggered an unprecedented protest of farmers across the country. The lone BJP member in the 140-member state assembly, O Rajagopal, defended the farm laws in the discussion but did not oppose the resolution. "I had openly expressed my differences of opinion about the resolution during the discussion but did not oppose it since the popular sentiment in the House was to pass it unanimously. I stood with the democratic spirit and general consensus,’’ he said. However, he later claimed in a statement that he did not support the resolution. The speaker did not ask for those who opposed the resolution and that was why he remained silent then, he said. The resolution, presented by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in a nearly two-hour-long special session convened in compliance with Covid-19 protocols, said Kerala would be the worst hit if the farmers' agitation continued as it was totally dependent on other states for food grains. Terming the laws as pro-corporate and anti-farmer, he said the laws were passed when the agriculture sector in the country was facing a severe crisis. The bargaining power of farmers will be lost and this will put their lives in deep misery. The laws do not prescribe any legal protection for farmers and they will not be able to fight the corporates, he said. The system of the Union govt procuring food grains from farmers should continue. Under the new laws, a minimum support price is not guaranteed for farmers and the centre is in fact shirking the responsibility of fixing it, he said. As agriculture is the state subject and it is an issue which directly affects the states, the Union government should have convened meetings of the inter-state committees and held detailed consultations. There was no discussion even in the standing committee of the Parliament, he said. Replying to the UDF charge that the state was going soft against the Centre, Vijayan said the state government was exploring the possibility of enacting a legislation to bypass the farm laws. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan had earlier turned down the government plea to convene a special session on December 23 to discuss the contentious laws. The session was held after ministers A K Balan and V S Sunil Kumar met him and apprised him of the government decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-assembly-passes-resolution-for-immediate-repeal-of-farm-laws/articleshow/80055706.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur police conduct raid on New Year revellers||NAGPUR: A New Year bash party at an upmarket hotel at Ramdaspeth was raided by DCP (crime branch) Gajanan Rajmane in the wee hours of Friday. Around 62 people were rounded up during the action. As per police source, the hotel management was offering the revellers hookah, liquor and also rooms. A senior officer said that local residents had checked into rooms where they had even tried to take shelter during the raid. "The rooftop party of the hotel too was illegally being conducted. Around 120 is the capacity for which 60 were permitted as per the 50% norms. We have videos where 300-400 customers can be seen," he said. "The hotel was serving liquor and other things even in the corridor which was jampacked," said the officer. Police have initiated serious actions against the hotel owners and manager for multiple violations now. A FIR is under way at Sitabuldi police station, said a senior officer. DCP Rajmane who was on night round said that the raid was conducted following an input regarding the party being under way in the early hours of the day. The staffers from Sitabuldi and other adjoining police stations too had joined the raid. Sources stated the revellers, including women in inebriated condition, were taken to the Government medical college and hospital (GMCH) where they were put through medical examinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-police-conduct-raid-on-new-year-revellers/articleshow/80055741.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 1, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: 80-year-old gifts homes to 5 families||THRISSUR: The members of five families from different parts of the district, who were homeless, will wake up in their own houses at Thengaloor near Velur in the district on this New Year. They are being gifted free houses not by any rich philanthropist, but by an 80-year-old middle-class trader, Koratty Varghese, who donated the land as well as money to build the houses. Not just that, he chipped in hard labour by directly joining in the construction of the houses. The keys of the houses were handed over to the families on the New Year’s Eve on Thursday. The new houses have an area of 600 square feet, and each of them cost about Rs 7 lakh. The entire cost was met by the couple from their savings. Varghese said that the harsh realities of abject poverty in his childhood, which forced him to drop out of the school, had propelled him to undertake some service for the poor when he became reasonably well off in the later years. Hailing from a lower middle class background, Varghese was a driver in armed forces, while his wife Philomena is a retired school teacher. After retirement, Varghese engaged in farming in the land he had inherited, while Philomena was working as a craft teacher in a nearby school. Later he also started a timber unit. By leading a frugal life, the couple could make some savings and they had purchased 25 cents way back in 1981. The houses have been built on this land. “I couldn’t have imagined building a house of my own. We were staying in a rented house in Kochi. I was working as a baby-sitter at a house there, while my husband was a driver,’’ said Glady, who is one of the beneficiaries of the project. “We got this house because of ‘Varghesettan’. We are happy beyond words. He and his family will always be in our prayers,’’ said Simi Joju, who is another beneficiary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-80-year-old-gifts-homes-to-5-families/articleshow/80055770.cms||T Ramavarman
January 1, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Schools opening today, Covid norms in place||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Health minister KK Shailaja urged students and teachers to strictly adhere to Covid-19 protocol when schools reopen for classes X and XII on Friday. "We are not yet out of the clutches of the pandemic. Presence of genetically-mutated virus is reported in several spots in India. But, that doesn’t mean classes can be suspended forever. All should comply with regulations issued to protect themselves from the virus. Nobody should miss classes offered for 10th and 12 classes in schools and college students," she said. Shailaja asked students not to share anything, including pen, pencil or books with fellow students and told them to avoid physical presence in schools if they have symptoms such as fever, cough or cold. The minister said students shouldn’t speak while eating food and teachers should ensure the same during lunch time. Those who use cloth masks may iron them after every wash and keep distance from elderly people and kids while at home, she added. All schools are supposed to have a Covid cell, prepare plans and submit report to health workers. To clear doubts, teachers and students may contact Disha over the following numbers- 1056, 0471 2552056, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-schools-opening-today-covid-norms-in-place/articleshow/80055843.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Schools opening today, Covid norms in place||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Health minister KK Shailaja urged students and teachers to strictly adhere to Covid-19 protocol when schools reopen for classes X and XII on Friday. "We are not yet out of the clutches of the pandemic. Presence of genetically-mutated virus is reported in several spots in India. But, that doesn’t mean classes can be suspended forever. All should comply with regulations issued to protect themselves from the virus. Nobody should miss classes offered for 10th and 12 classes in schools and college students," she said. Shailaja asked students not to share anything, including pen, pencil or books with fellow students and told them to avoid physical presence in schools if they have symptoms such as fever, cough or cold. The minister said students shouldn’t speak while eating food and teachers should ensure the same during lunch time. Those who use cloth masks may iron them after every wash and keep distance from elderly people and kids while at home, she added. All schools are supposed to have a Covid cell, prepare plans and submit report to health workers. To clear doubts, teachers and students may contact Disha over the following numbers- 1056, 0471 2552056, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-schools-opening-today-covid-norms-in-place/articleshow/80055844.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Kolkata||Covid-cautious Kolkata ushers In New Year||KOLKATA: Revellers took to the streets, but the city hotspots did not witness large crowds on the year’s last day even as the celebration remained tempered and the turnout at most places was far thinner than last year due to a heightened police vigil in the wake of Wednesday’s state advisory urging caution. While attendance dropped sharply at Alipore zoo, Eco Park, Nicco Park and the Maidan during the day, there was a gradual build-up of revelry on Park Street, which got packed as the evening progressed. Kolkata’s party street, too, however, missed the frenzy that it’s famous for. Queues were moderately long at Alipore zoo since morning, with a steady stream of visitors. But the crowd was thinner than Christmas. “We had planned this outing for more than a week and had expected a bigger crowd. It was nice to return to the zoo after a long break. We enjoyed the New Year’s Eve ambience,” said Swati Banerjee of Andul who visited with her family. The Maidan greens remained vacant on Thursday, barring the occasional visitor who chose to party away from the crowd. College friends Monopriti Bagui, Sreejita Das and Sayoni Ghosh chose to gather on the Maidan on Thursday afternoon to stay away from crowds. “It is quiet and clean here. We brought food from home and had a nice time. It was safer than meeting at a restaurant, which would have invariably been crowded,” said Ghosh, an IT professional who carried her laptop as well. “I am working from home so I had to use it,” she added. Victoria Memorial saw a decent turnout, though lower than in previous years, and a strict police vigil. The police provided assistance to the visitors and kept asking them to maintain social distancing. They even gave masks to those who were not wearing them. Nicco Park and Eco Park saw a low attendance, smaller than the usual weekend crowd. Soma Mitra Nandi of Dum Dum Park spent the day at Nicco Park with her family. “This is our first outing since March and we had a nice time. Fortunately, there was no crowd so social distancing was not an issue. We plan to follow this up with dinner at a restaurant, provided we can find seats,” she said. On Park Street, the revelry was tempered with the crowd slowly building up, peaking after 8pm. But unlike Christmas, the road was not clogged before evening. The strict police vigil ensured that there was no traffic disruption. Cops intervened to disperse crowds, which kept traffic moving. They even ensured there was social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-cautious-kolkata-ushers-in-new-year/articleshow/80055833.cms||Sudipto Das
January 1, 2021||World||More than 50 countries launch Covid-19 vaccination campaigns||PARIS: Around 50 countries around the world have already started vaccinating their people against Covid-19, barely a year after the first alert by China signalled the start of the epidemic. Here is a snapshot: China, where the pandemic first emerged, was also the first to start vaccinations over the summer, without waiting for a vaccine to be formally authorised but targeting the most vulnerable. To date nearly five million Chinese people have been vaccinated. Beijing on Thursday granted "conditional" market approval to a Sinopharm vaccine with a reported 79 percent efficacy rate against Covid-19. Russia followed on December 5, rolling out vaccinations for those considered high risk with its contentious Sputnik V vaccine, which has since been approved in Belarus and Argentina, which launched their vaccination campaigns on Tuesday. Algeria is set to follow them in January. Britain led the way in the Western world, authorising the vaccine made by US-German pharma alliance Pfizer-BioNTech. Its vaccination campaign started on December 8 and by December 27 close to 950,000 people had received their jabs, according to official figures published Thursday. Britain was also the first on Wednesday to approve the coronavirus vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University. It will be administered for the first time on January 4. Canada and the United States started their vaccination drives on December 14, Switzerland on the 23rd, Serbia the 24th, the vast majority of the European Union on December 27, Norway on Sunday and Iceland on Tuesday. All of them are using the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. The United States and Canada are also the first two countries to have authorised the vaccine by US pharma company Moderna, which is up for approval on January 6 by the EU. Around 2.8 million Americans have already been given their first dose of the Covid-19 jab. In the 27-nation EU Germany has so far given the most injections, with more than 130,000 in five days. In the Middle East, the United Arab Emirates were the first to launch their vaccination campaign with doses of China's Sinopharm, on December 14 in the capital Abu Dhabi. Dubai started its vaccinations on December 23, using doses of Pfizer-BioNTech. Saudi Arabia and Bahrain launched their campaigns on December 17, Israel two days later, Qatar on the 23rd, Kuwait the 24th, and Oman on December 27. All are solely using the Pfizer- BioNTech jab, except for Bahrain which is also using China's Sinopharm. Israel, which has set itself the ambitious goal of inoculating a quarter of its population in a month, has already injected nearly 800,000 people. Bahrain has vaccinated nearly 60,000 and Oman more than 3,000. Turkey, which has received doses of China's Sinovac, will launch its vaccination drive in mid-January. In Latin America, Mexico, Chile and Costa Rica were the first to launch, on December 24, jabs with the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. In Asia, Singapore launched its campaign on Wednesday with the same vaccine. Other countries on the Asian continent however have decided to take their time: India, Japan and Taiwan plan to begin vaccinations in the first quarter of 2021 and the Philippines and Pakistan in the second quarter, while Afghanistan and Thailand plan to start in mid-2021. In sub-Saharan Africa and in Oceania vaccinations have yet to take off. But in West Africa Guinea this week administered its first few doses of Russia's Sputnik V on a trial basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/more-than-50-countries-launch-covid-19-vaccination-campaigns/articleshow/80055859.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Shimla||Soon, take river ferry in Himachal Pradesh||SHIMLA: Two jetties and a common facility will be constructed at Tatapani and Kasol village at an estimated cost of Rs 2.02 crore to develop water transport facilities between Tattapani and Salapar area. Presiding over a review meeting regarding inland water transport here on Thursday, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said the draft agreement from NTPC to sign the MoU for use of land for construction of jetties has been received. Thakur said this would not only provide cost-effective transportation facilities to area residents but also prove to be an added attraction for tourists. He said e-tender for consultancy services has been invited to prepare detailed project reports (DPRs) and tender document for validated feasible locations in Kol Dam, Bhakra Dam, Chamera Dam and Pong Dam reservoirs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/soon-take-river-ferry-in-himachal-pradesh/articleshow/80055916.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: 14 buffaloes die as truck carrying them overturns||DHARMAPURI: Fourteen buffaloes were killed when a truck carrying them overturned after ramming another truck and a roadside house near Thoppur in Dharmapuri district of Tamil Nadu in the early hours of Thursday. Eleven people suffered injuries in the accident. The truck was carrying 40 buffaloes from Andhra Pradesh to Kerala. Driver Selva Kumar of Ottanchatram in Dindigul district lost his control over the truck. The vehicle first rammed a paint-laden truck. Then it rammed a house and a beeda stallbelonging toGanesan, 35,of Thoppur before overturning. The paint-laden trucktoohitthe house. “The house and the beeda stall collapsed,” an officer at Thoppur police station said. Ganesan, his wife and three children were sleeping in their home, and the debris of the house fell on them. The injured include Ganesan and his family members, truck drivers and five others travelling in the trucks. They were rushed to Dharmapuri Government Medical College and Hospital. The Thoppur police registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-14-buffaloes-die-as-truck-carrying-them-overturns/articleshow/80055917.cms||V Senthilkumaran
January 1, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Woman lets lover sexually exploit daughter, both held||CHENNAI: The Madipakkam all-women police have arrested a woman and her boyfriend under the stringent Pocso Act after the 36-year-old forced her minor daughter to be sexually exploited by the man. According to police, the 15-year-old girl is the elder daughter of the accused who separated from her husband a few years ago. The woman allegedly developed a relationship with Sekar, 32, of Sholinganallur, a house painter. Sekar who often visited her home started sexually abusing the woman’s minor girl. She complained to her mother, but the woman instead of warning Sekar allegedly asked her daughter to remain silent and ‘cooperate’. In September, after the girl became pregnant her mother took her to her brother’s house. She did not inform them about her daughter’s pregnancy and left her there. After the girl informed her uncle that she was pregnant, he tried to contact the girl’s mother, but in vain. Later, he lodged a complaint at the Madipakkam all-women police station. A case was registered and the girl was sent to a rehabilitation home where she delivered a male child in October. Police who launched a hunt for the Sekar and the girl’s mother arrested them on Wednesday. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-woman-lets-lover-sexually-exploit-daughter-both-held/articleshow/80055965.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Delhi||Severe cold wave in Delhi on New Year's Day; minimum temperature dips to 1.1 degree Celsius, lowest in 15 years||NEW DELHI: A severe cold wave swept Delhi on New Year's Day as the mercury plummeted to 1.1 degree Celsius, the lowest in 15 years, and "very dense" fog lowered visibility to "zero" metres, affecting traffic movement. On January 8, 2006, the city had recorded a minimum of 0.2 degree Celsius. Delhi wakes up to dense fog on the New Year's dayANI visuals from Rajghat#DelhiFog https://t.co/zVglVrpO64— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1609470677000The lowest minimum temperature recorded in January last year was 2.4 degree Celsius, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said "very dense" fog lowered visibility to "zero" metres at Safdarjung and Palam at 6am. Dense fog engulfs parts of the national capital; visuals from Delhi-Meerut Expressway https://t.co/hSgasFFjt6— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1609472517000According to the IMD, "very dense" fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of "dense" fog, visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, "moderate" 201 and 500 metres, and "shallow" 501 and 1,000 metres. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 1.1 degree Celsius, the lowest in January in 14 years. Watch: Dense fog reduces visibility to near zero on DND Flyway in #Delhi#DelhiFog https://t.co/nWG4ZXVU4E— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1609469839000Delhi recorded a minimum of 3.3 degree Celsius on Thursday. At 15.2 degree Celsius, the city recorded the season's lowest maximum temperature on December 18. Srivastava said the minimum temperature will start rising under the influence of an "intense" western disturbance which will affect northwest India from January 2 to January 6. The minimum temperature is predicted to rise to 8 degree Celsius by January 4-5. Light rain is also expected in the national capital under the influence of the western disturbance from January 3 to January 5. The western disturbance will lead to moderate snowfall in the western Himalayan region, the IMD said. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degree Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degree Celsius or less. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is 10 degree Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal. A "severe" cold wave is when the minimum temperature dips to two degree Celsius or the departure is more than 6.4 degree. The average minimum temperature in Delhi in December was the second-lowest in 15 years. Data released by the IMD on Thursday showed that the mean minimum temperature (MMT) this December was 7.1 degree Celsius. It was 7.6 degree Celsius last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cold-wave-in-delhi-expected-to-last-till-january-2-imd/articleshow/80055949.cms||---
January 1, 2021||Mumbai||Over 340 flyers from Europe, Middle East, South Africa opt for free BMC quarantine||MUMBAI: Unable to afford or choosing not to stay at designated hotels, nearly 350 passengers from Europe, Middle East and South Africa used BMC’s free institutional quarantine at the Byculla jumbo Covid centre. BMC offers free institutional quarantine to returnees from countries in Europe, Middle East and South Africa, at the Richardson and Cruddas jumbo Covid centre. The free quarantine comes with three meals a day and evening refreshments. According to civic data, since December 23, when BMC began the 7-day institutional quarantine for international returnees from those countries, 343 passengers opted for it. Of these, 75 were discharged. “There were many who couldn’t afford hotels or didn't want to stay there. So this arrangement was made. It is completely free. There are no Covid positive patients at the centre, it is for suspect cases,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (Health). Last Tuesday, the BMC issued fresh guidelines for passengers arriving from Europe, the Middle East, and South Africa. Passengers landing from these countries have to undergo 7 days of compulsory institutional quarantine at designated hotels. “This facility is as good as a hotel. We offer free WiFi, and there is a television set also, so those in quarantine are not bored and can stay connected to their families,” said Makarand Dagadkhair, assistant municipal commissioner (E Ward).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/over-340-flyers-from-europe-middle-east-south-africa-opt-for-free-bmc-quarantine/articleshow/80055987.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 1, 2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Vaccination dry run in Delhi tomorrow||NEW DELHI: The capital will witness a dry run for Covid-19 vaccine administration at three sites on Saturday along with all states and Union territories. The central government has asked for the exercise to gear up for the rollout of the vaccine. It has directed that the dry run should be conducted in all capitals in at least three sites. In Delhi, the sites were chosen in three different districts after a meeting of the health department. The sites are Venkateshwara Hospital in South West district, the Daryaganj dispensary in Central district and Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital in Shahdara district. For each site, the medical officer in-charge will identify 25 healthcare workers who will be test beneficiaries. The data of these beneficiaries are already uploaded in the Co-WIN application. The objective of the exercise is to assess the operational feasibility of the Centre’s Co-WIN application in a field environment, test the linkages between planning and implementation and identify the challenges and guide the way forward prior to actual implementation. Health minister Satyendar Jain said Delhi government was ready and all necessary requirements, from storage to application, had been made. Delhi government is preparing 1,000 centres for the vaccine administration and, according to sources, up to 100 vaccines can be administered at each centre daily. This will mean that in a day, around one lakh people can be administered the vaccine. Delhi government has set up the city’s first storage facility at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital in northeast Delhi and two more sites have been identified. “The storage facility at the hospital is spread over 5,000 square metres and will suffice for our storage needs,” a government official said. “We also have an existing facility in Battery Lane in north Delhi’s Civil Lines as a secondary storage point and a third one has been identified at the office of Directorate General of Health Services in Karkardooma in east Delhi. However, two storage facilities will be more than enough for our requirements,” he said. In the national capital, 51 lakh people will be vaccinated in the first phase and three lakh healthcare workers form the first priority group. In the next group are six lakh frontline workers, including Delhi Police personnel, civil defence volunteers and sanitation workers. This will be followed by vaccination of those who are 50 years or older and those below 50 years but with comorbidities. Around 42 lakh people will be covered under this last category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-19-vaccination-dry-run-in-delhi-tomorrow/articleshow/80056013.cms||Sidharatha Roy
