January 2, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Campaign launched to ensure Kannada option at all ATMs||BENGALURU: Karnataka State Level Bankers Committee (SLBC) has launched an initiative to ensure Kannada is available as an option along with English and Hindi at all ATM kiosks across Karnataka. B Chandrashekhar Rao, convener of SLBC, said all banks have been asked to strictly follow the Centre’s three-language policy in banking transactions, as part of which they must provide the regional language of the respective state as an option at their ATM kiosks. A meeting of bank representatives will be convened shortly to take the campaign forward. “Apart from issuing instructions, we are also carrying out on-site inspections. Many banks like Canara Bank have achieved 100% compliance in terms of providing Kannada as an option at ATMs. Some are yet to come around. The campaign will soon see all ATMs offering the option,” said Rao. He said the Kannada option is particularly needed in rural areas, where a majority of people are still dependent on ATM kiosks for transactions as they haven’t yet adapted to mobile banking, aren’t well-versed in English and don’t know Hindi. According to RBI data, the state has 17,776 ATMs, of which 9,931 belong to public sector banks and 6,398 are owned by private sector ones. There are 1,108 white label ATMs which are run by non-banking private entities. As only 40% of these ATMs are found to be following the three-language policy, the state finance department recently sent a circular to SLBC to ensure Kannada adoption in all kinds of banking transactions at ATMs. Following this, Kannada Development Authority held a meeting with SLBC on November 11, where it was decided to launch a massive drive on ATMs. “It is astonishing to note that many leading public sector banks are violating the three-language policy and remain defiant despite repeated reminders. Such banks are being handled through SLBC,” said KDA secretary Muralidhar. KDA chairman TS Nagabharana said the authority has constituted Kannada Kayaka Pade, a team of volunteers, deployed across the state to liaise between banks and customers to ensure smooth implementation of Kannada in banking transactions. “Kannada Kayaka Pade was activated on December 29, which marks the birth anniversary of iconic Kannada poet Kuvempu. The volunteers are organising camps in front of some banks and creating awareness about Kannada usage in banking transactions,” said Nagabharana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/campaign-launched-to-ensure-kannada-option-at-all-atms/articleshow/80064369.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
January 2, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: CM BS Yediyurappa asks officials to speed up Smart City, other projects||BENGALURU: On the first day of the new year, chief minister BS Yediyurappa had a luncheon meeting with top officials to discuss ‘Vision 2022’ and the Bengaluru Smart City project, seeking speedier execution of major works. Newly appointed chief secretary P Ravi Kumar, his predecessor TM Vijay Bhaskar, Bangalore Development Authority chairman SR Vishwanath and officials from key government departments were present at the meeting. Citizens’ complaints about excessive road digging by civic agencies in Bengaluru also figured in the discussion. Yediyurappa reportedly directed officials to ensure that by 2022, all Smart City projects in the state were completed without further delays and there was proper coordination between agencies, including electricity supply companies, municipal bodies and police. According to an official, Friday’s review was the first of five meetings that Yediyurappa has scheduled to discuss budgetary requirements of the state. He plans to meet MLAs from the Hyderabad-Karnataka, Mumbai-Karnataka, Madhya Karnataka, coastal Karnataka and Mysuru regions. The meetings are likely to be held at a hotel in Bengaluru from January 4 to 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cm-asks-officials-to-speed-up-smart-city-other-projects/articleshow/80064370.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Arun Singh’s visit revives hopes of ministerial aspirants||BENGALURU: BJP national general secretary in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh’s two-day visit to the state has kicked off yet another round of murmurs in the BJP about the much-delayed cabinet expansion. Singh will attend the state BJP executive meeting to be held in Shivamogga on Saturday and Sunday. He and chief minister Yediyurappa will fly to Shivamogga from Bengaluru on Saturday. “I will discuss cabinet expansion with Singh. A clear picture will emerge in 4-5 days,” said Yediyurappa, who has been eagerly waiting for a green signal from party high command to expand his cabinet. BJP MLAs are also hopeful that the high command will give permission for cabinet expansion this time. Their hopes were rekindled by Yediyurappa’s public assertion that he would continue as CM for the remaining tenure and Singh’s earlier statements that there will be no change in leadership in Karnataka. “These developments make one believe that the high command and Yediyurappa have reached a consensus on cabinet expansion and also about his continuation in the CM's post. But nothing can be said definitively unless the cabinet rejig happens,” said a senior BJP MLA. Singh, during his maiden visit to the state in the first week of December as Karnataka in-charge, had tried to put an end to the debate on leadership change. But he was not able to convince BJP MLAs on why the CM is not being allowed to expand the cabinet. “They cannot drag it forever as such uncertainty will cause a lot of resentment among MLAs, signs of which are already appearing,” said another MLA. Yediyurappa is under pressure from BJP legislators, especially MTB Nagaraj, Munirathna and R Shankar, who switched sides from Congress to help BJP form the government. The trio has reportedly had a verbal altercation with the chief minister on two to three occasions over the delay in making them ministers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/singhs-visit-revives-hopes-of-ministerial-aspirants/articleshow/80064371.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka govt revisits plan, KV-model schools likely in GPs, wards||BENGALURU: More than 7,000 schools based on the Kendriya Vidyalaya model are likely to be set up in gram panchayats and wards of urban pockets. The idea was proposed in 2004 by the centre for child and the law (CCL), National Law School of India University, and was shelved in 2018 as the government set up Karnataka Public Schools instead. However, earlier this week, primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar reportedly assured VP Niranjanaradhya, senior fellow and programme head, Universalisation of Equitable Quality Education Programme, CCL, of restarting the programme. CCL, which had been working with panchayats and around 26 villages, found schools in rural areas lacked infrastructure and drafted a proposal to provide equitable education along with qualitative amenities. Much before the National Education Policy-2020 proposed to include 12 years of schooling with three years of anganwadi/ pre-schooling (5+3+3+4 pitch), in 2004 the CCL’s proposal mooted schools in villages to house anganwadis or creches till class 4. It also proposed setting up one well-equipped school for classes 5 to 12 in GPs (villages) and at the ward level (urban areas). Niranjanaradhya said these model schools will be in no way inferior to any other institutions. “Younger children will need schools closer to their homes, thus we had proposed the separation of lower classes and shifting higher classes to village headquarters,” he said, adding the model schools will be based on the KV model, which means they will have similar facilities (music, co-curricular activities, playgrounds, etc.), one teacher for each class, trained graduate teacher (TGT) and postgraduate trained teachers (PGTs), among others. In 2014, the same proposal was also made to then education minister Kimmane Ratnakar, who instructed BEOs and DDPIs to identify schools in panchayats and start the preparation. “Unfortunately, in 2018, the concept got derailed and instead of one school in one GP, the Karnataka Public School was started. It was not what we had recommended,” he said, adding they had proposed to retain classes 1 to 4 and anganwadis in villages, while KSP starts from LKG and has classes up to 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-revisits-plan-kv-model-schools-likely-in-gps-wards/articleshow/80064402.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru citizens walk the talk to improve roads, footpaths||BENGALURU: Fourteen days ago, a group of citizens from HSR Layout walked to Kudlu Cremation Centre, 3km away from their locality, to find that it was dimly lit with a pothole-riddled approach road, garbage strewn around and PPE kits lying in a corner. The vowed to make the crematorium more easily approachable and illuminated. This is one of the recent projects taken up by the 22-day old HSR 24th Main Residents Welfare Association, a group of 48 people who believe in solving one citizen issue at a time with each other’s co-operation and support from the authorities. More than 12 apartment complexes and 1,000 houses are part of the activities undertaken by the association. Ramakant Nargund, a member, said the road leading to the crematorium was pockmarked with potholes and on reaching the crematorium they found there were no signboards and the entrance was dingy. “Cremation grounds are our last point of destiny and they should not be in such a pitiable condition. Though the main area of the crematorium is well-maintained, the outer space is in a bad state. We even saw PPE kits lying in a corner,” Nargund explained. Members of the association attended the next ward committee meeting and shared their grievances with the authorities. Work seems to have already begun on the road repair. “We believe in the motto of ‘our street is our responsibility’. People are also interested in doing civic work, but they need a direction and leadership, and we have to start from somewhere,” Nargund said. The association organises ward walks to assess the condition of the roads and pavements, and is also actively involved with local authorities to rejuvenate the neighbouring Somasundarapalya Lake. The members meet every day at 7am and hold a meeting for an hour discussing the issues that need to be tackled while inspiring passersby to join. The group grew from three members to over 40 in just 26 days after people began noticing their work. They have taken up several activities in the past few weeks. “We contacted neighbourhood apartments and showed them how we could solve issues together. We focus on everything from garbage to potholes. We make it a point to educate people to use the footpath and not to litter,” said Nargund. The group began its activities on December 6 with clearing a footpath of waste plants, debris and making it walkable. The members have also been beautifying a wall belonging to a Bescom sub-station with Warli paintings. “We decided to involve families and kids in the painting. That’s when one of the kids posted the work on Instagram and since then we have been getting calls from Rajajinagar and Malleswaram residents asking us if they can join us. This is the whole idea — to develop a model based around citizens to bring about a change,” Nargund explained. The association is also garnering support from the authorities. While Bescom helped them with streetlights, traffic police pitched in to stop the menace of pavement parking and helped with a speed- breaker near a school in the area. The group is also tackling the long-standing issue of waste dumped by Karnataka Compost Development Corporation (KCDC) on Somasundarapalya lake bed and the resultant stink and pollution. Krishna Kumar Puravoor, a resident and member of the association, said residents have been suffering because of the mismanagement on KCDC’s premises. He said now the residents want a forest to be grown on the land handed over to the community by KCDC. “All our activities are based on co-operative, scalable models that are also sustainable,” Puravoor said. In the coming days, they plan to install street furniture and public gym equipment with contributions from residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/citizens-walk-the-talk-to-improve-roads-footpaths/articleshow/80064412.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Bengaluru||Pandemic management: Palike sets up excellence centre||BENGALURU: In order to be prepared in case of an outbreak of another pandemic, the Indian Institute of Public Health (IIPH), in a joint initiative with the BBMP and Asian Development Bank, has established a Centre of Excellence. The centre, which will be based in the IIPH office in the leprosy hospital campus on Magadi Road, will provide technical support in Covid-19 management by doing quantitative and qualitative studies on how to improve existing facilities by bringing together different sectors of society. The centre, which was approved by the ABD on December 21, got the final nod from the BBMP, on Sunday. The idea of establishing it was jointly conceived by N Manjunatha Prasad, BBMP commissioner, and Dr Giridhara Babu, professor and head IIPH and co-chairman of Palike’s public health task force, in September 2020, in the backdrop of the Palike struggling to manage Covid-19 outbreak. TN Venkatesh, district surveillance officer, BBMP, Bengaluru has been appointed the nodal officer on behalf of BBMP. Dr Suresh Shapeti, who heads the project, said, “Covid-19 is not the first pandemic and won’t be the last. A study needs to be done in this vulnerable area to see how to we can better the existing system for smooth functioning during a pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pandemic-mgmt-palike-sets-up-excellence-centre/articleshow/80064543.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Elderly women claim Chennai firm cheated investors of Rs 200-300 crore||BENGALURU: In what appears to be another financial fraud in the city, multiple complaints, mostly from elderly women, have been filed at various city police stations, especially in south Bengaluru, against a Chennai-based financial firm and its officials. The victims have alleged that the firm has cheated hundreds of people of nearly Rs 200-300 crore. According to police, the company has its head office in Chennai. The first complaint was registered in Girinagar by a 73-year-old woman, Indira Murali, on Tuesday. The same day, two more women — Rekha Narayan, 62 and Shanthi M, 50 from Jayanagar — lodged complaints. Another woman, Padmini Balaraman, 75, filed one on Wednesday. Police said they are receiving similar complaints at other stations in the city as well but the number could not be verified. The women said investors with the firm began networking with one another after they realised that they had been cheated. According to Indira and Padmini, the fraud is in the range of Rs 200-300 crore. The main accused is the founder and managing director of the firm. He along with other suspects managed to convince hundreds of people to invest their money via fixed deposits between 2012 and 2016 and promised nearly 10.5% interest. But the firm did not return either interest or principal amount to the investors, said police. Indira had deposited Rs 5 lakh, Padmini Rs 52 lakh, Rekha Rs 10.5 lakh and Shanthi Rs 3.3 lakh. “I did not receive the interest for the deposit and I enquired with the representatives. The agents who approached me told me that the founder along with the others had siphoned off the money deposited by me and the other investors,” Indira stated in her complaint. Police said the accused had their offices in Jayanagar and MG Road till 2016. Later, they closed the Bengaluru offices. “We have taken up cases and will arrest the suspects soon,” a police officer said. ‘He said they have no funds’The managing director told many victims that his company had invested the money in various ventures to make profit, but now it’s left with no funds to either pay the interest on deposit. He also threatened them that he would use political and bureaucratic influence to scuttle all their attempts to ensure action against him, his company or its directors and agents, police said. Police have registered cases of cheating and criminal intimidation under various IPC sections and the Karnataka Protection of Interest Depositors in Financial Establishment Act. Besides the firm and its founder and managing director, four Chennai residens and two Hyderabad residents have been named in the FIRs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/elderly-women-claim-chennai-firm-cheated-investors-of-200-300-crore/articleshow/80064542.cms||Santosh kumar.B
January 2, 2021||Bengaluru||Isro hints at virtual launch & satellite control||BENGALURU: Isro chairman K Sivan, while pointing out the various challenges encountered due to Covid-19, said virtual launch control centre (LCC) and satellite control centre (SCC) may become the new normal, while the agency has a packed year ahead that will also see more reforms. “In the future, when we look back at 2020, we’ll be reminded of trials and tribulations owing to the pandemic. Notwithstanding this, a lot of work progressed in virtual mode in design and development. Major technical issues of Gaganyaan and Chandrayaan-3 were addressed, concept of virtual LCC, SCC got evolved and implemented. In fact, this mode of work appears to be more efficient and can be the new normal,” Sivan said in his New Year message. Sivan said the last 10 years were a decade of many firsts in almost all verticals of Isro: The operationalisation of GSLV with indigenous cryogenic stage and GSLV MkIII, Mars Orbiter Mission, Astrosat, NavIC constellation, heaviest high throughput satellite, and technology demonstration missions of winged body Reusable Launch Vehicle & Scramjet engine. “When we look towards the next decade, we must be aware that globally, the sector is facing disruption due to entry of many private players, changing all aspects, including launch vehicles and human spaceflight, which were hitherto the domain of government space agencies,” he said. In line with global directions, Isro requires to develop heavy lift launch vehicles, semi-cryogenic stages, reusable launch vehicles, advance propulsion, next-generation avionics, advance materials, dynamic space applications and efficient integration of space-based services as well as advanced space science missions, Sivan said. “The situation is not different in our country; for the first time, we have a handful of entrepreneurs who’ve come forward to develop end-to-end launch vehicles and satellites with the aim of providing space-based services...The government announced a series of initiatives to provide policy support and enable them to co-exist and achieve commercial success,” he added. Sivan said the interim committee of the Indian National Space Promotion & Authorization Center is already making efforts to interface with 28 private players and processing applications, which would also put in place a seamless operating mechanism for IN-SPACe, as and when it becomes fully operational.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/isro-hints-at-virtual-launch-sat-control/articleshow/80064545.cms||---
January 2, 2021||World||Delay sought in ex-officers' trial over George Floyd's death||MINNEAPOLIS: Prosecutors in the case against the four Minneapolis officers charged in the death of George Floyd requested that the trial delayed by three months. The Star Tribune reports prosecutors cited the Covid-19 pandemic and the amount of time needed before enough people are vaccinated and health risks are sufficiently diminished. The trial has been scheduled for March 8 for the four now-fired police officers charged in the death of Floyd on May 25 while he was forcibly detained on a south Minneapolis street corner. In its motion, the prosecution argued that putting off the trial until June 7 ``appropriately balances the need to protect public health with the need to ensure that this case is resolved expeditiously.'' Derek Chauvin, Tou Thao, J. Alexander Kueng and Thomas Lane are scheduled to be tried together. Chauvin is charged with second-degree murder and manslaughter, and the others are charged with aiding and abetting murder and manslaughter. Chauvin's attorney, Eric Nelson, said he doesn't intend to object to the prosecution seeking a delay in the trial. Kueng's attorney, Thomas Plunkett, said the prosecution's motion pointing to Covid-19 is puzzling. ``The timing of their motion seems curious to me,'' Plunkett said. ``The pandemic has been around for a while.'' Thao's lawyer, Robert Paule, did not immediately respond to a request for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/delay-sought-in-ex-officers-trial-over-george-floyds-death/articleshow/80064560.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Goa||After 12-day break, Mumbai City look to get in the groove||You don’t really need a broader sample size to judge the suitability of Sergio Lobera at Mumbai City FC. The Spanish coach has fitted like a glove, and made the players a good fit too. Take the likes of Vignesh Dakshinamurthy and Bipin Singh for example. They are better than ever-before, and even though it’s just seven matches into the season, Mumbai are clearly the side to beat. No team has managed that since NorthEast United got the better of them in the opening round, helped no doubt by the sending off of Moroccan midfielder Ahmed Jahouh in the first half. Since then, Lobera’s boys have picked up 16 of the 18 points on offer and should be favourites against Kerala Blasters FC at the GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim on Saturday. “Kerala will be a difficult game because they have a good team, great coach and they try to play a similar style (as Mumbai). It’s good for us and football. There will be more spaces and more entertaining football for the supporters,” Lobera told TOI on Friday. Lobera played a similar opponent – Hyderabad FC – in the previous game and proved two good. But that match happened 12 days ago, possibly disturbing the terrific run that the team enjoyed. Mumbai are now just a point behind ATK Mohun Bagan with a game in hand. “When you are in a good moment, it’s not advisable to stop. You have to continue playing. On the other hand, it’s good to have more time to work with the team because of the very short pre-season. “If I can choose, I prefer not to take a long break and then play two games in three days,” said Lobera, who will face Bengaluru FC (January 5) and leaders ATK Mohun Bagan (January 11) almost immediately. At the other end of the table, Kerala Blasters have had to make adjustments after going winless in the first six games. Against Hyderabad, when they tasted their first win, Kibu Vicuna’s side quite unusually allowed their opponents to have more of the ball. “It is not that we sacrificed possession. Hyderabad are also a possession-based team. We defended better, we created more chances. We are more flexible now, we have different possibilities,” said Vicuna. Against Mumbai, there could be more of the same strategy, possibly with different personnel. While Kibu opted for an all-Indian centre-back pairing of Sandeep Singh and Abdul Hakku in the previous game, the return of foreign defenders -- Costa Nhamoinesu and Bakary Kone – could alter that equation. “We will play with the team that we think is going to be the best. Both Sandeep and Hakku played well. They are training well with more confidence. Costa, (Gary) Hooper and Kone are training. We will play with our best possible line-up,” said Vicuna. Against an in-form team like Mumbai, only the best will do.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-12-day-break-mumbai-city-look-to-get-in-the-groove/articleshow/80064639.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
January 2, 2021||World||Nepal should go for polls to end crisis, feels India||NEW DELHI: While India has not been a factor or played a role in the current phase of political turbulence in Nepal, political and government sources here believe Nepal should take the democratic route, which in this case would mean elections, to resolve the impasse. It’s also becoming clear that although China may have failed in its mission in Nepal for the present, Chinese involvement in Nepali politics has grown deep enough in the past few years to ensure that all shades of political opinion can be influenced by China. All political analysts in Kathmandu agree that PM K P Sharma Oli currently holds most of the cards — on dissolution of the House, on elections etc. How he will play those cards, whether with the help of China or India, remains to be seen. Oli can play the nationalist card or the Hindu card at will. He also is the biggest investment by China in Nepali politics. Sources in Kathmandu say that China has not yet given up the game. Having sponsored many political leaders in Nepal, China’s influence in fairly deep and wide. India’s role currently is restricted to ensuring that New Delhi is not a factor in the current turbulence or even in the forthcoming election campaign. A formal split in the NCP is yet to be announced, but sources say, backroom machinations are on in full swing. They point to several evolving scenarios in Nepal. First, the split would impact the election campaigns of the factions. The election commission would have to decide on who gets the NCP election symbol, which could be a tussle. It could end up with both factions getting different symbols. Second, sources say the question of dissolution of Parliament may have to be decided by the Supreme Court. In addition, they say, Oli could drag the current state beyond May to November before actual elections are held. If there is a question about having a neutral party as interim PM, the chief justice could be acting PM, which could throw up a whole new set of constitutional and political challenges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/south-asia/nepal-should-go-for-polls-to-end-crisis-feels-india/articleshow/80064852.cms||Indrani Bagchi
January 2, 2021||India||CJI seeks Justice Ramana’s response to Jagan’s plaint||NEW DELHI: CJI S A Bobde has sought Supreme Court judge Justice N V Ramana's response to a complaint filed by Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Reddy accusing the judge of influencing the Andhra Pradesh HC, which has been passing orders criticising the state government. Earlier, the CJI had asked the Andhra Pradesh CM to file an affidavit backing his earlier complaint letter dated October 6. The CM had sent the complaint to the CJI days after a bench headed by Justice Ramana had expedited the snail-paced trial in criminal cases pending against sitting and former MPs and MLAs. Over two dozen cases are pending trial against Reddy. CJI Bobde had sought Justice Ramana's response after Reddy backed up his complaint by filing an affidavit. "It is still not clear whether Justice Ramana has submitted his response to the complaint. After receiving the response, it is for the CJI to take a call on the fate of the complaint. The CJI could close the issue on finding Justice Ramana's response adequate. Otherwise, he may decide to further inquire into the issue," SC sources said. CM's complaint had triggered fast-paced developments. First, the Collegium headed by CJI Bobde transferred out the chief justices of the HCs of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, the two states where the criminal cases are pending trial against Reddy. It was followed by a SC bench headed by the CJI staying an AP HC order that had expressed doubts over the working of constitutional order in the state given the spate of preventive and unwarranted detentions. As Jagan Reddy government celebrated the brownie points it scored against the AP HC - the transfer of the chief justice and the stay ordered by the SC on the HC's damaging order, a HC bench of Justices Rakesh Kumar and D Ramesh passed a stinging order on December 30, escalating the unsavoury spat between the state government and the HC. Justice Kumar (who had passed remarks about the breakdown of constitutional machinery in the state) who retired on December 31, listed out the pending cases against Reddy - 11 filed by the CBI, six by the Enforcement Directorate and 18 police cases. He said that the police started filing closure reports in some cases against Reddy immediately after the SC bench led by Justice Ramana on September 16 ordered expeditious trial of pending cases against sitting and former MPS and MLAs. The stinging order from Justice Rakesh Kumar came on an application filed by the state government seeking his recusal from hearing a petition against the government. Justice Kumar said, "...one can infer how the government in the state of Andhra Pradesh is proceeding. Firstly, attack was made on Legislative Council (for refusing to agree with Assembly for three capitals for the state), thereafter another constitutional body, that is State Election Commission; and now the High Court of Andhra Pradesh and even the Supreme Court is under attack by persons, who are in power." The state is readying an appeal against this order before the SC, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cji-seeks-justice-ramanas-response-to-jagans-plaint/articleshow/80064991.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 2, 2021||India||ED traces Rs 55 lakh of bank scam funds to Sanjay Raut's wife||MUMBAI: In a development that may result in further trouble for Shiv Sena leader and MP Sanjay Raut, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached properties of a businessman in a bank scam where the financial trail leads to Raut's wife, Varsha. The ED on Friday attached properties worth Rs 72 crore of businessman Pravin Raut in the HDIL-PMC Bank money laundering case and said Rs 55 lakh of the tainted money was transferred to Varsha Raut through Pravin Raut's wife Madhuri. A press release issued by the ED on Friday said, "Investigation also revealed that Pravin Raut paid Rs 1.6 crore to his wife Madhuri from the proceeds of crime. Out of the said money, Madhuri Raut transferred Rs 55 lakh (Rs 50 lakh on December 23, 2010 and Rs 5 lakh on March 15, 2011) as interest-free loan to Varsha Raut. The amount was further utilised for purchase of flat in Dadar (East). Investigation further revealed that Varsha and Madhuri are partners in Avani Construction. Varsha Raut has received Rs 12 lakh from this entity (as overdrawn capital converted to loan) on a contribution of mere Rs 5,625. The loan amount of Rs 12 lakh is still outstanding." The ED has called Varsha Raut for her statement in the case on January 5. Sanjay Raut was not available for comment, but on December 28, in response to a summons to his wife from the ED, he had said ED wanted some papers and he had submitted those. Varsha Raut was first called by the ED on December 29 but she did not appear before the agency. According to the ED's release, Rs 95 crore has been siphoned off through HDIL by Pravin Raut in active conspiracy and connivance with various persons. The source of the funds were illegal availed loans etc by HDIL from PMC Bank. The ED probe is based on an FIR by the Economic Offences Wing of Mumbai police registered against Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan, Sarang Wadhawan of Housing Development Infrastructure Ltd, chairman of PMC Bank Waryam Singh, and its managing director Joy Thomas and others for causing a loss of Rs 4,355 crore to the bank and gaining themselves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-traces-rs-55-lakh-of-bank-scam-funds-to-sanjay-rauts-wife/articleshow/80065336.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 2, 2021||Goa||After 12-day break, Mumbai City FC look to get in the groove||You don’t really need a broader sample size to judge the suitability of Sergio Lobera at Mumbai City FC. The Spanish coach has fitted like a glove, and made the players a good fit too. Take the likes of Vignesh Dakshinamurthy and Bipin Singh for example. They are better than ever-before, and even though it’s just seven matches into the season, Mumbai are clearly the side to beat. No team has managed that since NorthEast United got the better of them in the opening round, helped no doubt by the sending off of Moroccan midfielder Ahmed Jahouh in the first half. Since then, Lobera’s boys have picked up 16 of the 18 points on offer and should be favourites against Kerala Blasters FC at the GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim on Saturday. “Kerala will be a difficult game because they have a good team, great coach and they try to play a similar style (as Mumbai). It’s good for us and football. There will be more spaces and more entertaining football for the supporters,” Lobera told TOI on Friday. Lobera played a similar opponent – Hyderabad FC – in the previous game and proved two good. But that match happened 12 days ago, possibly disturbing the terrific run that the team enjoyed. Mumbai are now just a point behind ATK Mohun Bagan with a game in hand. “When you are in a good moment, it’s not advisable to stop. You have to continue playing. On the other hand, it’s good to have more time to work with the team because of the very short pre-season. “If I can choose, I prefer not to take a long break and then play two games in three days,” said Lobera, who will face Bengaluru FC (January 5) and leaders ATK Mohun Bagan (January 11) almost immediately. At the other end of the table, Kerala Blasters have had to make adjustments after going winless in the first six games. Against Hyderabad, when they tasted their first win, Kibu Vicuna’s side quite unusually allowed their opponents to have more of the ball. “It is not that we sacrificed possession. Hyderabad are also a possession-based team. We defended better, we created more chances. We are more flexible now, we have different possibilities,” said Vicuna. Against Mumbai, there could be more of the same strategy, possibly with different personnel. While Kibu opted for an all-Indian centre-back pairing of Sandeep Singh and Abdul Hakku in the previous game, the return of foreign defenders -- Costa Nhamoinesu and Bakary Kone – could alter that equation. “We will play with the team that we think is going to be the best. Both Sandeep and Hakku played well. They are training well with more confidence. Costa, (Gary) Hooper and Kone are training. We will play with our best possible line-up,” said Vicuna. Against an in-form team like Mumbai, only the best will do.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-12-day-break-mumbai-city-fc-look-to-get-in-the-groove/articleshow/80065860.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
January 2, 2021||Business||RIL, Mukesh Ambani fined for ‘manipulative trades’||MUMBAI: Markets regulator Sebi on Friday fined Reliance Industries, Mukesh Ambani and two other entities a total of Rs 70 crore for alleged manipulative trading in the shares of Reliance Petroleum — which was merged with RIL in 2009— in a case that dates back to 2007. Sebi, in its 95-page order, said in November 2007, RIL and several other entities closely associated with it, simultaneously traded in RPL in the cash and derivatives segments to profit from it. Sebi imposed a fine of Rs 25 crore on RIL, Rs 15 crore on Ambani, the company’s chairman and managing director, Rs 20 crore on Navi Mumbai SEZ and Rs 10 crore on Mumbai SEZ. The order said that “any manipulation in the volume or price of securities always erodes investor confidence in the market when investors find themselves at the receiving end of market manipulators”. Till late on Friday RIL had not commented on the Sebi order. The regulatory order of Friday said that between October and November 2007, ‘RIL admittedly appointed 12 agents’ to undertake transactions in RPL derivative contracts on its behalf. During November 2007, these 12 agents took short positions in the derivatives segment on behalf of RIL, while the company traded in RPL shares in cash segment. “From November 15, 2007 onwards, RIL’s short position in the derivatives segment constantly exceeded the proposed sale of shares in the cash segment. On November 29, 2007, RIL sold a total of 2.25 crore RPL shares in the cash segment during the last 10 minutes of trading resulting in a fall in prices of RPL shares, which also lowered the settlement price of RPL November Futures. RIL’s entire outstanding position of 7.97 crore in the derivatives segment was cash settled at this depressed settlement price, resulting in profits on the said short positions. The said profits were transferred by the agents to RIL as per a prior agreement,” the order noted. “A common person connected with RIL had placed orders in the cash segment on behalf of RIL and in the derivatives segment on behalf of the agents.” The funding for margin payments for the 12 agents was provided by Navi Mumbai SEZ and Mumbai SEZ, it added. Sebi order also said that being the CMD of RIL, Ambani was “responsible for the manipulative activities of RIL”. Earlier, on March 24, 2017, Sebi had ordered RIL and some of its associated entities to disgorge nearly Rs 450 crore plus interest on it (which could work out to over Rs 1,000 crore) in same case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ril-mukesh-ambani-fined-for-manipulative-trades/articleshow/80066009.cms||---
January 2, 2021||India||Happy New Year: Expert panel clears Oxford vaccine for India||NEW DELHI: India moved closer to the rollout of its vaccination plan against Covid-19 with the subject expert committee of the drug regulator on Friday recommending emergency-use authorisation (EUA) for Serum Institute of India's "Covishield", developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca. Sources said the SEC's recommendations come with certain conditions like every recipient of the vaccine will be given a factsheet about the vaccine prior to vaccination. The company may also be asked to report adverse events every 15 days. The SEC has recommended EUA for 2 full doses of Covishield to be given with a gap of 4-6 weeks. The final marketing approval by the Drugs Controller General of India is still awaited. Follow TOI's live blog for latest updates on Coronavirus"DCGI approval will take another day or two," a source said. The approval is on the cards and the first shots are expected to be given in 7-10 days. This will mark the start of a massive effort to innoculate "priority population" of around 30 crore people by July. PM Modi had on Thursday said that efforts were being made to ensure the vaccines reach those who need them quickly and that 2021 was arriving with a sense of hope that a cure for Covid was at hand. Apart from marketing authorisation, DCGI will approve the label for vaccine vials. Once the label with requisite conditions or details are approved and printed, they will be stuck to the vials before dispatch. "There are some processes before the rollout," an official said. A nation-wide dry run to assess the preparedness on field for the vaccination process is scheduled on January 2. This will be conducted in all state capitals in at least three session sites. Some states will also include districts that are situated in difficult terrain or have poor logistical support. "Preparations are in full swing. As soon as DCGI approves the EUA, the government will place a formal contract or supply order with the manufacturer along with details of supply schedule and locations," the official said. So far SII has built up a stockpile of 50 million doses intended for use in India. In the initial months, the government will procure the vaccine and oversee the inoculation process. The first order is likely to be for 10 crore doses that will be funded through PM Cares. "SII has offered a price of Rs 225-250 per dose for the first tranche, whereas Bharat Biotech has offered Rs 350. For the next lot, the prices may vary," a source said. Bharat Biotech and Pfizer applications are still being evaluated by the SEC, which comprises independent experts. As earlier reported by TOI, around 96,000 vaccinators have been trained so far for the Covid vaccination programme. The Centre has asked all states to be ready with their list of healthcare workers who will be inoculated with the first tranche of supplies. The 30 crore "priority population" includes healthcare and frontline workers, people above 50 years of age and those below 50 but with serious co-morbidities. Once supplies improve, the government will simultaneously start inoculating other categories. The UK's regulator Medicines and Health Products Regulatory Authority approved Covishield for emergency use on December 30. Watch Covid-19: Expert panel gives nod to emergency use of Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield vaccine||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/happy-new-year-expert-panel-clears-oxford-vaccine-for-india/articleshow/80066219.cms||Sushmi Dey
January 2, 2021||India||Congress set to call meet of senior leaders to discuss party revamp||NEW DELHI: Congress is set to call a meeting of senior leaders to discuss organisational overhaul and to follow up on the discussion held earlier in December that was widely seen as an outreach to "letter writers" besides brainstorming on the political crisis facing the party and the need for rejuvenation. Party sources said Congress leaders, including a senior representative of the letter writers group, have been holding discussions on the suggestions made during the marathon five-hour long cogitation held on December 19 that was chaired by party chief Sonia Gandhi and was also attended by Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. It is learnt that AICC general secretary (organisation) K C Venugopal and veteran Ambika Soni, both members of the committee to advise the Congress chief, have met Ghulam Nabi Azad on a couple of occasions to discuss finer points. The next gathering, which is still to be scheduled, will be a "follow up". Going by Congress standards, such a quick follow-up would imply a sense of urgency in the party. Sources said the next meeting is likely to discuss organisational elections, which means the AICC session to be held for election of the new party president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cong-set-to-call-meet-of-senior-leaders-to-discuss-party-revamp/articleshow/80066375.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
January 2, 2021||Business||GST mop-up rises 11.6% in Dec to all-time high of Rs 1.15 lakh cr||NEW DELHI: Goods and services tax collections rose 11.6% in December to reach a record Rs 1.15 lakh crore on the back of higher demand, partly due to Diwali, improved compliance and higher prices of some goods. Latest data released showed collections in December, which were for sales and transactions in November, were higher than the previous high of Rs 1.13 lakh crore, recorded in April, 2019. It also marks three straight months of over Rs 1 lakh crore collections. "This is the highest growth in monthly revenues in the last 21 months. This has been due to a combined effect of the rapid economic recovery post-pandemic and the nationwide drive against GST evaders," the finance ministry said. What seems to have helped was record monthly filing of returns, estimated at 87 lakh, which was 7% higher than December 2019. The government’s decision to closely monitor tax credits and a crackdown on fraudulent transactions has helped. While sectors such as automobiles, white goods, electronics and consumer goods have seen a strong comeback in demand, there are several sectors such as hospitality and tourism that are yet to see a return of normalcy. Besides, the collections in December were driven by a 27% increase in collections from imports, according to data released by the commerce department earlier. “Robust growth in GST collections, even after the festive season is over, is a clear signal that businesses are leaving the ghost of COVID behind now... Significant jump in GST on imports could indicate revival in demand on high end products like cell phones and electronic items. Apart from economic revival, the reason for this growth could be tightening of compliances with measures such as e-invoicing and increased investigations to catch tax evaders even though GST audits for 2017-18 and 2018-19 are yet to start in a big way,” said Pratik Jain, who leads the indirect tax practice at consulting firm PwC India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gst-mop-up-rises-11-6-in-dec-to-all-time-high-of-rs-1-15-lakh-cr/articleshow/80066404.cms||---
January 2, 2021||India||Pandemic forced people to value migrant workers: PM||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday hailed the role of migrant labourers in the country's economic activities, saying cities, businessmen and industries realised the importance of these workers during Covid pandemic after they went back to their home states. Addressing an event on new house construction technologies, the PM said, "Before Covid, we saw in some parts of the country where people used to make foul remarks about migrant labourers who come from other states and villages. There were also instances of people shaming them. But when they went back to their homes, then people realised how life is difficult without them, how running businesses and industries is difficult without them. Then they started requesting the migrant labourers to come back. Corona has forced people to accept the importance and the role of migrant labourers." The Centre launched the Affordable Rental Housing Complex scheme during the pandemic to provide affordable rental housing accommodation to migrant labourers who Modi said often ended up living in unhygienic conditions. "They deserve a good life and that's the responsibility of the government. So, we have gone for construction of affordable rental housing complexes with private participation and effort is to have these complexes close to the workplaces," Modi said. The PM urged government departments to become like start ups - active and innovative - rather than being lethargic and easy going. He said steps taken by the government have helped in resolution of home buyer issues. He said measures like tax relief, interest subsidy on home loans for the poor and middle class has also helped people to own their houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pandemic-forced-people-to-value-migrant-workers-pm/articleshow/80066441.cms||Dipak K Dash
January 2, 2021||India||Rift in MVA as Cong opposes Sena call to rename Aurangabad||MUMBAI: A fresh rift is on the cards in the one-year-old ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) over Shiv Sena's demand for renaming Aurangabad as Sambhaji Nagar. Maharashtra Congress president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat has opposed Sena's demand. For a long time, Sena has been demanding renaming of Aurangabad as Sambhaji Nagar. According to reports, on January 4 last year, the state administration submitted a proposal to the MVA government for the name change. Thorat, who was recently in Aurangabad for the campaign for the gram panchayat elections, strongly opposed the proposal, saying the MVA government will adhere to the common minimum programme (CMP), and that it will be improper to step beyond the CMP. "There is no proposal before the MVA to rename Aurangabad as Sambhaji Nagar. Congress will strongly oppose any such move. We will not move beyond the CMP," Thorat said. Thorat pointed out that changing the name of the city would not result in development of the city. "The MVA has been formed by political parties which are opposed to the theories and ideology of parties like BJP. We are a government of three parties, and we take decisions by consensus. There may be differences on certain key issues, but we will adhere to the common minimum programme. We are determined to ensure the progress and welfare of all sections of society," he said. Thorat said ever since the MVA had taken over the reins of the state more than a year ago, BJP appears to be on the back foot, particularly after the debacle in elections to the legislative council from the teachers' and graduates' constituencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rift-in-mva-as-cong-opposes-sena-call-to-rename-aurangabad/articleshow/80066443.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
January 2, 2021||India||Covid: Sanitation staff, pharmacists may be on 1st vax list||NEW DELHI: Amid speculation whether sanitation workers and pharmacists will be considered for vaccination against Covid-19 in the initial phase, the government has started working to include them in the 'priority' population after PM Modi lauded theirs efforts as 'frontline' corona warriors during his speech on Thursday while laying the foundation for AIIMS, Rajkot. The government aims to inoculate 30 crore people in the first phase of Covid-vaccination which includes around 3 crore healthcare and frontline workers. Apart from doctors, nurses, ANMs and ASHAs, the plan was to include some of the allied health professionals such as those working in diagnostic labs and pharmacists. Besides, sanitation workers, scavengers and ambulance operators are also being considered to get the vaccine in the first phase. While some of the categories lacked clarity, the mention of sanitation workers and pharmacists by the PM has stressed upon the need to include these people in the list on priority, an official said. The list of 'priority' population also includes people above 50 years of age and those below 50 years but with serious co-morbidities. The PM on Thursday also cautioned people against any rumours about vaccination. "Different people for their vested interests or due to irresponsible behaviour spread various rumours. May be rumours will be spread when vaccination begins, some have already begun," he said, asking people to be careful about such rumours and as responsible citizens refrain from forwarding such messages on social media without checking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-sanitation-staff-pharmacists-may-be-on-1st-vax-list/articleshow/80066458.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Nagpur||Be realistic & make New Year resolutions Covid friendly: Experts||Nagpur: All New Year resolutions in 2020 were cut in the middle due to the outbreak of pandemic. But, in 2021, experts have suggested some Covid-19 friendly resolutions. The pandemic is going to stay here for long and we have to learn living along with it. So, simple, realistic and healthy resolutions should be made this year. Losing weight is a resolution which is common for most of the people. Generally, joining gym and working out hard used to be the focus for youngsters willing to lose weight. But this year, though gyms are open, not many are willing to join in at least till Covid-19 vaccination becomes a reality. In such case, dieting will be the first choice. According to dietitians, it’s important to understand that losing weight is a process rather than a phenomenon and should be achieved slowly. “The amount of weight loss should be proportionate to the weight gain and hence should be achieved by a proper lifestyle modification rather than a quick fix,” said Clinical dieticial Malvvika Fulwwani. “Various diet plans are popular and they appear very promising. But, no diet plan out-weighs the benefits of eating healthfully in long term,” she said. The pandemic has tested out psychological stability and many of us must have realized the importance of being mentally and emotionally fit during this period. Psychiatrist Dr Suleman Virani suggested small but important resolutions that everyone can make. “Gratitude is very important. Resolve to thank everyone who helped you in past and respect them for their time and efforts they gave to you. Sharing of time and knowledge is very important for healthy mental and physical life,” he said. Physical trainer Allan Morde said that it can be difficult to motivate people for gym during Covid times. “Try committing to a short, 30 minute walk, run, or bike ride every day, something to get the blood flowing and mind cleared. Going solo is the best way to avoid risk of infection,” he said. Wearing mask in public places like gym is unavoidable. So, better is to walk in gardens or walking tracks alone. Experts also suggested some Covid specific resolutions like watch less of the news, keep in touch with loved ones on phone, learn some new skill, sign up for online classes, and plan next vacation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/be-realistic-make-new-year-resolutions-covid-friendly-experts/articleshow/80064269.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 2, 2021||Meerut||Forest dept to train Bijnor villagers to identify big cat pugmarks||Bijnor: With manifold increase in leopard sightings in the agricultural fields adjoining Amangarh tiger reserve, Bijnor forest authorities are set to train villagers to decipher pugmarks of wild animals so that they can identify a big cat’s presence in the area and take precautionary measures. In an effort to minimize man-animal conflict in the region, forest department teams have started visiting villages around Amangarh and holding meetings with farmers to make them aware about the safety measures they need to take to protect themselves from leopards. The teams are holding sessions to make farmers identify big cats from their pugmarks and inform the department at once. Posters with contact numbers of forest officials are being pasted at various places for the purpose. M Semmaran, Bijnor divisional forest officer, said, “Pugmarks are easy to find and indicate an animal’s presence. With some basic training, plaster casts of the pugmarks can be made for analysis at a higher level. The analysis can provide reliable data on the presence of different species in the area of study along with information about the population and sex ratio of the big cat. Besides, it helps in identification of individual animals with greater accuracy.” Giving details, Semmaran said, “Cat species do not have nails but canines do. We are preparing pamphlets about the pugmarks of big cats and other wild animals. It will help us in conducting census of leopards, which is scheduled by January-end. It will be the first time when we will conduct a leopard census in the plain area also. We have prepared a GPS map of big cat territory for the census.” A special taskforce has been formed to take quick action on getting a tip-off about big cat sightings, he added. There are an estimated 100 leopards and their cubs in the sugarcane fields around Amangarh. Sheeshpal Singh, a resident of Mandawali village, welcomed the plan to train farmers in identifying big cats from their pugmarks and said, now, farmers will be aware of the kind of big cat in their area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/forest-dept-to-train-bijnor-villagers-to-identify-big-cat-pugmarks/articleshow/80063544.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 2, 2021||Kanpur||Three killed, 12 injured in pile-up on Expressway||Kanpur: Three people were killed while 12 others sustained serious injuries on Friday morning in a pile-up of eight vehicles due to dense fog on Agra-Lucknow Expressway in Etawah district. Twelve people, travelling in separate vehicles, who had received serious injuries have been admitted to various hospitals including Saifai medical college, police said. They were informed about the accident on the Expressway near channel no. 132 under Usrahar police station. The incident took place when a DCM crashed into a truck near a cut in the middle of the road, police said. In order to save the crash, the DCM driver applied the brakes but due to sense fog, the other vehicles, around eight in number, piled up, the police further said. Circle officer, Bharthana, Chandrapal Singh, after coming to know about the incident, along with a police team and UPEIDA personnel, rushed to the spot and supervised the rescue operation. "The vehicles were removed from the highway using cranes. The dead included DCM driver -Hira Lal and cleaner Dholu Ram, both natives of Rajasthan and another person, identified as Rohit of Haryana. Some injured are being treated at nearby hospitals, while others were referred to Saifi medical college, the CO further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/three-killed-12-injured-in-pile-up-on-expressway/articleshow/80064792.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Business||Digital payments penetration doubled from 2018||TNN Mumbai: Penetration of digital payments in India doubled between March 2018 to March 2020, according to the Digital Payments Index (DPI) launched by the RBI on Friday. The index was launched with March 2018 as the base period with DPI score for March 2018 set at 100. The index movement captures five broad parameters that enable deepening the penetration of digital payments over different time periods. These parameters are: Payment enablers (weightage 25%), payment infrastructure — demand-side factors (10%), payment infrastructure — supply-side factors (15%), payment performance (45%) and consumer centricity (5%). Each of these parameters has sub-parameters which, in turn, consist of various measurable indicators. According to the index, the DPI for March 2019 and March 2020 work out to 153.47 and 207.84 respectively, indicating appreciable growth. Going forward, RBI-DPI will be published on the RBI’s website on a half-yearly basis from March 2021 with a 4-month lag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/digital-payments-penetration-doubled-from-2018/articleshow/80065779.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Ponnandampalayam folk hoist black flags||Coimbatore: Ponnandampalayam residents erected black flags in front of 400 houses and threatened to go on a hunger strike from January 6, if authorities fail to bring the village under the Kaniyur village panchayat.The village comes under four panchayats, making it difficult for residents to access basic amenities like vaccination and education loan, and even clear passport verification.Ponnandampalayam has the eastern side in Kaniyur, southern side in Arasur village panchayat, western side in Naranapuram and northern parts in Moppiripalayam town panchayat. “As a result, several villagers are struggling. For example, houses in Moppiripalayam have no drinking water connection. Residents from there have to come to Kaniyur to collect water. There are no roads in Moppiripalayam and Naranapuram, and we can’t help them because they don’t come under Kaniyur,” said Kaniyur ward councillor Sivakumar. “Even pregnant women are made to run from one PHC to another because of the issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ponnandampalayam-folk-hoist-black-flags/articleshow/80065334.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Covid-19 vaccine dry run in three districts today||PATNA: Health department officials and medical professionals are ready for the dry run of Covid-19 vaccine administration in three districts of the state on Saturday. Each of the three districts will have different session sites for a mock drill and beneficiaries will have to come there. In Patna, this will be done at Phulwarisharif community health centre, Shastri Nagar primary health centre and Danapur sub-divisional hospital, Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari Singh told TOI. Dr Singh said there will be 25 beneficiaries at each session site and the mock drill will be conducted under the head of the respective health institute. She said all the necessary works pertaining to mock drill, including uploading of information to Co-WIN, a digital platform developed by the Union health minister for real-time monitoring of Covid-19 vaccine delivery, has been done. The mock drill will take two to three hours. “This will be very helpful during the implementation of the real vaccination programme. It will provide practical knowledge to all those involved in this process. We will also get to know if we have to change any procedure or need any correction,” Dr Singh said, adding they have to follow the Centre’s guideline. On Thursday, Union health ministry had held a videoconference with all the states and union territories to discuss the dry run. As per the press release shared by the union ministry of health, objective of this dry run is to assess operational feasibility of Co-WIN app to test linkages between planning and operation and identify challenges along with giving confidence to programme managers at different level. An important focus of dry run will be on management of any possible adverse events following immunization, along with management of infection control method at the session site and prevention of transmission of disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-vaccine-dry-run-in-3-districts-today/articleshow/80063470.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 2, 2021||Patna||Patna: Thousands throng parks, museums to celebrate New Year||PATNA: People of the city put aside Covid blues and celebrated the New Year in style on Friday. The pandemic, however, compelled majority of revellers to spend the New Year day in wide expanse of open, green and hygienic places. The Patna zoo, Eco Park, Bihar Museum, NIT Ghat and other different parks were major attractions for people. Anjali Chaubey, a subject matter expert at an education technology company, spent the day at Sabhyata Dwar with her husband and in-laws. “I am a huge history buff. For me, this is the best place to spend a sunny day and celebrate the New Year,” she said. Buddha Smriti Park and Rajdhani Vatika or Eco Park were brimming with revellers eager to find a picnic spot. Altogether 31,500 people visited Patna zoo. Shashikant Kumar, district forest officer (parks), Patna, said, “Although the crowd was only marginally less as compared to previous years, it was ever so cheerful. All the safety guidelines were followed by the visitors.” In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, certain things were restricted for safety of the people like boating, toy train ride and fish house at the zoo; boating, sports and adventure at Eco Park and eatables at Bihar Museum, Patna Museum and Sabhyata Dwar. “I am a sports enthusiast. Hence, I like visiting the adventure section of the Eco Park with my sons. However, entries were prohibited this time,” said Sanjay Singh (54), a resident of Anisabad. Many people were enjoying the day seen on the banks of the Ganga at NIT Ghat. Though boat rides were prohibited, MV Kautilya Vihar, the cruise boat, was operating with limited people at a time. Pranav Kumar, a civil engineer, said, “I decided to start the day’s excursion with a peaceful visit to the river bank along with my family. We’ll be hoping and praying for a healthy and prosperous 2021.” The queues outside the Patna Museum and Bihar Museum were long enough to reach the exit gates of the premises. People were seen jostling to get tickets. Vimal Tiwari, additional director of Patna Museum, said, “The footfall was better than we expected. People followed all Covid protocols.” For some, partying at home was the best idea to spend the day. Shruti Raj, a student Patna Women’s College, spent her time together with her family and cooked exquisite delicacies. “We go on vacation every year to celebrate the New Year. However, the pandemic compelled us to stay home this time,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/thousands-throng-parks-museums-to-celebrate-new-year/articleshow/80063441.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Business||Consumers to spend on grocery, connectivity||MUMBAI/NEW DELHI: Health, wellness and nutrition products & services will occupy a larger share of the consumer’s wallet in the new year. This is because cautiousness would continue to rule 2021, even as the Covid vaccine’s rollout plan raises hopes. It is estimated that, before the pandemic, households on average spent less than 1% on health and wellness. This changed last year as the consumer started to mark health and wellness products & services as a ‘must-have’ on his list. The percentage of spend on this segment is certainly going to increase in 2021 as well, said industry experts, and this would include the amount a household sets aside towards health insurance. The consumer would continue to spend on household products, grocery and the essentials as usual — this occupies about a third of his wallet (see graphic). In addition, education expenses would be a priority for households. Alongside, internet connectivity required to work remotely would see a higher portion of spends. Subramanyeswar S, group chief strategy officer at MullenLowe Lintas Group, said, “The last three months have been particularly good, with consumers opening their purse strings during the long Indian festive season. What’s aided this is also the surge in online purchases, which became super convenient — to buy from anywhere and through any platform/mode. A large number of them were in fact first-time buyers who found the experience thrilling. Pent-up demand too helped in a generally feel-good spirit that happens during the festive period. However, consumers would be watchful about their spending in future. They would continue to spend on essential items, and would spend more on health and wellness related products & services, mobile & DTH services, online education, apparel, home renovations and food orderings. I expect that the share of the consumer’s wallet in each of these would go up.” Home renovations, which suffered a setback during 2020, will surge. Nilesh Gupta, managing partner at Vijay Sales, said there has been a structural shift in the thought process of the consumer who is now willing to upgrade on the value of a durable, appliance or electronic item. “Everybody stayed at home and has saved money that would otherwise have been spent on travel. The consumer’s attention is now on home enhancements. In 2020, consumers were fine with buying products for functional purposes. But they were highly conscious about the price. Today, they don’t mind spending on a larger capacity refrigerator or washing machine. This is one shift in mindset which is here to stay for the sector,” said Gupta. A laptop too has become a necessity. “This year, given the pandemic, if a household either borrowed a laptop or settled for a cheaper one or a tab, they are likely to invest in a better model in the new year. One would see laptops following the cycle of a mobile phone, which gets replaced every two years,” said Gupta. An urban household on an average would spend Rs 1.5 lakh in a year on a product in the combined sector of consumer durable/appliance/mobile phone. With children also studying online — an exercise that is expected to continue in the new year in some form — the sector’s share of the consumer’s wallet is expected to increase in 2021, said Gupta. What’s also going to catch the attention of consumers are apparel. This segment could account for about 10% of a consumer’s spend on an average. This contribution had come down drastically in 2020 as window-shopping came to a halt. Sanjeev Mohanty, MD (South Asia, Middle East & North Africa) at Levi Strauss & Co, predicts consumers could seek more premium and high quality brands and products as the pent-up demand to dress well has been bottled up for a year now. Pressures on food preparations at home would likely continue in 2021 as well, which means there would be more eating out or food orders being placed for home delivery. Dalip Sehgal, CEO of Nexus Malls, said people are expected to spend heavily on entertainment and dining out. However, certain things like grocery and fast fashion will continue to be ordered online. “To me, the year 2021 is going to be a story of two halves. The first six months, people would still be working from home, schools and colleges will still take some time to reopen and therefore there would be a steady consumption pattern. During these six months, people will continue to spend on electronics, health and fitness, beauty and luxury,” said Sehgal. With the psyche of an Indian household being one of saving, experts said consumers could make more solid investments such as in gold and real estate. Investments form 10-20% of a consumer’s wallet and this would remain unchanged, albeit with a certain rejig of the portfolio.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/consumers-to-spend-on-grocery-connectivity/articleshow/80064825.cms||Namrata Singh
January 2, 2021||Patna||Patna University colleges on toes to resume classes from January 4||PATNA: Colleges and postgraduate departments of Patna University (PU) are gearing up to resume normal offline classes with certain restrictions from January 4 after a gap of more than nine-and-a-half months. All these institutions are busy making necessary preparations for sanitising campuses and classrooms and ensuring complete cleanliness before the start of classes. For the time being, only the classes of final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students would be held with 50% strength on alternate days with a view to maintaining social distancing. Thus, a class of 60 students would be divided into two classes of 30 students each and called on alternate day. New time-table of different classes were also being framed by the heads of respective institutions. The final-year students, who had earlier been residing in different hostels allotted to them but had to leave the same following the nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25 after the outbreak of Covid pandemic, would require hostel accommodation again when their classes begin. The university has already sought the permission of the district administration for allotment of hostel accommodation, said PU registrar Manoj Kumar Mishra. The registrar said all the admissions to undergraduate courses would be completed by January 10 and those of postgraduate courses by January 15. The results of UG and PG examinations of 2020 would also be published by January 15. The answer books of some UG and PG examinations are currently being evaluated at different centres. The results of PG final semester examinations are to be published at the earliest as the chancellor’s secretariat has already directed the state universities to hold their convocation in the second half of January. Mishra said PU would organise an online convocation for its PG scholars sometime later this month after receiving the date of convocation from the chancellor. A request to this effect has already been made by the university. Earlier, the state education department had asked the colleges and secondary schools to resume classroom teaching with full precautions from January 4. Even the UGC, in its guidelines issued in mid-November, had asked the universities to resume classes as per their own convenience with all preventive measures against the Covid-19 pandemic. Educational institutions may also seek written undertaking from students wishing to attend classes, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-university-colleges-on-toes-to-resume-classes-from-jan-4/articleshow/80063502.cms||B K Mishra
January 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Cave-in at Ludh-Delhi highway: Repair work likely to take a week||Ludhiana: Commuters travelling on Ludhiana Delhi National Highway will soon be spared traffic snarls near Khanna, where part of the road has caved in, as the road construction agency is expected to complete repair work in a week. A stretch of the road from Ludhiana to Delhi caved in near Amloh road, after which Khanna police issued a diversion plan to facilitate repair work. Diversion of vehicles on service lanes led to traffic chaos on the narrow roads, much to the inconvenience of commuters from Amritsar, Jammu, Jalandhar and Ludhiana on their way to Delhi and those going towards these cities. Sanjiv Garg, contractor of the company carrying out repair work, said they are almost done and are giving final touches to the repair work. He said work would be completed by around January 7 or 8, after which the road would be suitable for routine traffic. The contractor added that they have put in anti-rodent chemicals to address the rodent problem. On when the road would be opened to traffic, he said it is up to the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) to take a decision on that. Meanwhile, sources in NHAI said even though repair work is almost complete, garbage dumps along the road in Khanna need to be shifted for a permanent solution. They said the NHAI has already written to the municipal council and civil administration asking them to shift garbage dumps elsewhere. SDM Khanna, Harbans Singh said light vehicles are being allowed on the road and normal traffic might be allowed in the next seven days. He confirmed that the NHAI has written to the civic body for shifting of garbage dumps but said the committee needs to identify land for the purpose. Meanwhile, commuters continue to suffer as traffic, mostly heavy vehicles, including trucks and buses have been diverted to service lanes of Khanna. “Service lanes can accommodate city traffic only but as of now, because of repair of the road that caved in, there is traffic problem and commuters both within and from outside the city have to suffer. The road repair agency should complete the work immediately as the deadline set by deputy commissioner was December 28,” said Surjeet Singh, a Khanna resident. ‘Rodents caused cave-in’ The district administration claimed that rodents had dug up the base of the road near the garbage dump, resulting in a part of it caving in. Officials asked the agency concerned to do something for management of rodents.  Project deadline On December 11, the deputy commissioner, in a meeting with the project director and officials of the civil administration and police, fixed December 28 as the deadline for road repair work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cave-in-at-ludh-delhi-highway-repair-work-likely-to-take-a-week/articleshow/80063541.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 2, 2021||Kolkata||2 temples shut, devotees head for Kalighat||Kolkata: Fearing a massive gathering of devotees, the Dakshineswar temple committee decided to keep the temple shut on Friday. With no devotees being allowed at Cossipore Udyanbati either, people thronged Kalighat temple on Friday. Kushal Chowdhury, the trustee of the Dakshineswar temple committee, said they could sense it would be an uphill task to follow Covid protocols for thousands of devotees, especially after Ramakrishna Mission authorities decided to not allow devotees at the Kalpatru Utsav at Cossipore Udyanbati this year. Every year, lakhs gather at Cossipore Udyanbati on January 1. “We could comprehend that it would be impossible to make devotees follow the Covid rules that are being followed these days at our temple complex. The temple will remain open from Saturday as usual. However, the devotees need to follow strict Covid protocols for their safety,” Chowdhury said. Devotees gathered in large numbers at Kalighat temple on Friday. Coming under pressure to let thousands into the main complex, the temple committee had to keep three major gates open throughout the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-temples-shut-devotees-head-for-kalighat/articleshow/80064132.cms||Saikat Ray
January 2, 2021||Patna||Patna: Mercury may plunge in coming days||PATNA: The residents welcomed 2021 with a sunny morning and comparatively warm weather throughout the day even though minimum temperature in the city was recorded at 7.4 degrees C, which was two notches lower than the corresponding normal. Shallow fog was also observed at Patna, Gaya, Bhagalpur and Purnea during the last 24 hours. Patna Meteorological Centre has predicted no substantial change in night temperature during the next 2-3 days, but gradual rise by 2-3 degrees C thereafter. Sudhanshu Kumar, an officer at Patna Meteorological Centre, said minimum temperature dropped over the last 24 hours. Gaya was the coldest place on Friday morning with minimum temperature recorded at 5.6 degrees C. “Cold northwesterly coming from the Himalayan region in north India has led to cold wave conditions over northern plains and reached up to western parts of Uttar Pradesh,” Sudhanshu said. Private weather agency Skymetweather reported that a western disturbance and its induced weather system as cyclonic circulation are likely to affect the northern region for the next five days. Another official at Patna centre, however, said cold northwesterly winds from the Himalayan region may lead to plunge in temperature in the coming two to three days. “The cold northwesterly winds have dropped the minimum temperature to near around 1-2 degrees C in the northern plains up to Lucknow. The winds are expected to move ahead and cause drop in minimum temperature in Bihar as well over the next two to three days,” he said. Patna Met office has predicted minimum temperature to be in the range of 7-11 degrees C in north Bihar, while the maximum is likely to hover around 22-25 degrees C on Saturday and Sunday. The mercury is expected to be in the similar range in southern parts of the state as the Met office has predicted that minimum temperature will be in the range of 8-11 degrees C, while the maximum temperature is likely to hover around 22-25 degrees C in south Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mercury-may-plunge-in-coming-days/articleshow/80063451.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Hyderabad||With 50,000 votes, SC & STs hold trump card in Nagarjuna Sagar||HYDERABAD: Not just the BCs, SCs and STs are likely to tilt the electoral prospects of the parties in Nagarjuna Sagar assembly constituency, which fell vacant due to the death of sitting MLA Nomula Narasimhaiah of TRS. There are nearly 50,000 voters from these two communities. In 2018 assembly polls, their votes were divided between the TRS and Congress candidates. Analysts said their vote could be decisive in ensuring the win of candidates from three major players — Congress, TRS and BJP. Though the BJP has emerged as a strong political force now, Congress still holds all the aces in Nagarjuna Sagar where the party is strong. Political analysts said repeating Dubbak and GHMC poll performances would be difficult for the BJP in Nagarjuna Sagar and selection of candidates by the ruling TRS, Congress and BJP will play a crucial role. Unlike Dubbak which the Congress had won only once in the last 30 years, Nagarjuna Sagar has always been its citadel with K Jana Reddy winning the seat in 1983 as an independent, in 1985 on a TDP ticket and as a Congressman in 1989, 1999, 2004, 2009 and 2014 elections. It was Chalakurthy constituency before it became Nagarjuna Sagar in the delimitation exercise in 2009. Jana Reddy has denied speculations of joining the BJP along with his son. The Congress has left it to 74-year-old Jana Reddy to decide whether he or his son would contest the bypoll. Much is at stake for the TRS after its loss in Dubbak and not-so-good show in the GHMC polls. The party is yet to decide on fielding Nomula Bhagat, son of Narasimhaiah, or any other candidate. Even the BJP has not finalised its candidate and is on the lookout for a strong candidate who can turn the tables on TRS and Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-50k-votes-sc-sts-hold-trump-card-in-nsagar/articleshow/80065333.cms||Roushan Ali
January 2, 2021||Patna||Muzaffarpur district bank employee gets extortion threat||PATNA: A bank employee in Muzaffarpur district has lodged a complaint with police, alleging that he received a threat letter from a criminal lodged in prison at Bettiah and asked to pay Rs 20 lakh as extortion. SHO of Kanti police station Kundan Kumar said the employee of Paharpur branch of Bank of Baroda alleged that he had received the letter via speed post at the bank and an FIR in this connection was lodged on December 29. “We are investigating the matter from several angles. It is still not clear whether the letter was sent by the criminal or anti-social elements,” he said. Meanwhile, the bank employee, told TOI that his family members are worried for him. “I am receiving continuous calls from family members,” he said, adding the letter addressed to ‘branch manager’ was received on December 22 and the stamp on the letter showed that it was posted from MIT in Muzaffarpur. “The letter was sent by a criminal, Shibu Miyan. I had never been posted to Bettiah or any other location in Bihar. Muzaffarpur is my first posting,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/muz-bank-employee-gets-extortion-threat/articleshow/80063594.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Patna||Bihar govt identifies 202 of 246 UK returnees||PATNA: The state health department on Friday confirmed return of 20 more people to the state from the United Kingdom, where a new strain of Covid was found, since November 9 last year. So far, the health department has the record of 246 UK returnees. Of them, 202 people have been identified and 101 of them have tested negative for Covid. The remaining people will also have to undergo Covid test, the department said. Among the UK returnees, 103 were from Patna, 19 from Gaya, 13 from East Champaran and 11 from Muzaffarpur. A health department official said of 103 people from Patna, 78 have been identified. Meanwhile, 463 more people tested positive for Covid-19 in the state in the last 24 hours and three succumbed to the virus. The state’s Covid tally rose to 2,53,255 and toll mounted to 1,400 on Friday. However, with 2,47,089 recoveries, there were 4,764 active cases in the state on Friday. Munger, Saran and Siwan districts recorded one death each in the last 24 hours. At AIIMS-Patna, three more people have succumbed to the virus – a 55-year-old man from Mau in Uttar Pradesh, a 66-year-old man from Gaya and a 75-year-old man from Kurtha in Arwal. Hospital’s nodal incharge for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar said nine patients were admitted to the hospital and eight discharged on Friday. Among those admitted to the hospital, four were from different localities of Patna like Gola Road, Munna Chak, Vijay Nagar and Kidwaipuri. Of 463 new Covid-19 cases recorded in the state on Friday, Patna alone accounted for 237. The district’s tally has, thus, jumped to 49,149. However, with 46,766 recoveries and 380 deaths, active cases in the district stood at 2003 on Friday. Among other districts, Muzaffarpur recorded 23 fresh cases, Kaimur 22, Bhagalpur 14, Jehanabad 10 and Vaishali 10. State health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that 404 people recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery rate to 97.57%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-identifies-202-of-246-uk-returnees/articleshow/80063464.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 2, 2021||Lucknow||Underground parking at Nadan Mahal Road soon||LUCKNOW: The construction of underground parking located at Nadan Mahal Road has been completed. It is expected to open for the public later this month. Once operational, it will ease traffic woes in the area. Constructed by the Lucknow Development Authority, the 3,400 square-metre underground parking has two floors, concourse and underground. It has capacity to park 172 four-wheelers and 150 two-wheelers. According to LDA officials, electricity required to run the parking will be obtained from solar panels installed on the roof of the parking lot. A small park has also been developed above the concourse level. Total cost of the project is Rs 11 crore. LDA chief engineer Indu Shekhar Singh said, "The underground parking is expected to be a source of relief for commuters travelling to Old City areas including Rakabganj, Nakkhas, Aishbagh, Nadanmahal and Yahiyaganj among other areas. " Parking woes have become a nightmare in Old City areas. In Rakabganj cars are being parked haphazardly, causing traffic snarls and road rages. The construction work of the underground parking was started in February 2019 and was slated to get complete in June 2020. However, the project was delayed due to lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/underground-parking-at-nadan-mahal-road-soon/articleshow/80066088.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Patna||Power scheme fetches Gaya country’s best district tag||GAYA: Gaya has been selected as the ‘best district in the country’ for its achievement in ‘electric connection in each household’ (har ghar bijli) under Saubhagya scheme. Gaya district magistrate Abhishek Singh has also been selected for the ‘Prime Minister Award for Excellence in Public Administration’. The DM will get the award on April 21 this year. He will get a trophy, scroll and certificate as award. District public relations officer (DPRO) Shambhu Nath Jha in a press statement said: “It was a challenge to ensure power connection in 1,61,479 households under Saubhagya scheme in less than one year. But under the leadership of the DM, the district achieved the target in the 2018-19 financial year. It is worth mentioning that Gaya falls in Left-wing extremism (LWE) corridor as 16 out of its 24 blocks are Maoist-infested. Hilly and forest areas were a big hurdle in transportation of the materials”. The DPRO added, “Notwithstanding the hurdles, camps were organized in panchayats and the villages in addition to miking and distribution of pamphlet to make people aware about the scheme. Besides, three mobile apps were used to make the task of meeting the target easy. For survey of each household, application for power connection and power bill payment were made through the mobile app.” Apart from local public representatives, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), composite battalion for resolute action (CoBRA) and the local police also played an important role in ensuring the availability of power in LWE areas, he said. Gaya district magistrate Abhishek Singh has also been selected for the ‘Prime Minister Award for Excellence in Public Administration’. The DM will get the award on April 21 this year. He will get a trophy, scroll and certificate as award||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/power-scheme-fetches-gaya-countrys-best-district-tag/articleshow/80063552.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Patna||75 people win four-wheelers in Aditya Vision’s mega draw||PATNA: Altogether 75 people won cars and 551 received two-wheelers in the annual buy-and-win mega scheme of Aditya Vision Limited, the biggest retail store for electronics in the state. The prize distribution ceremony was held here on Thursday. Under the scheme, people who have shopped any kind of electronic equipment worth Rs10,000 or above from the store in the year, get a coupon, which at the end of the year can prove lucky for the shoppers, if they win expensive gifts during the ‘mega draw’. Prizes worth of Rs5 crore were distributed in the mega draw ceremony organized at Lady St Stephen’s Hall. Nishant Prabhakar, director, Aditya Vision Limited, launched the online sales of the firm — www.adityavision.com and Aditya Suraksha — during the mega draw ceremony. “Aditya Suraksha allows the buyers to get long-term accident warranty of the electronic appliances by paying a very small amount,” he said. He also announced Buy-and-Win Mega draw scheme 2021, under which prizes worth Rs7.50 crore will be distributed among the buyers. “The mega prize will be a house at Patna and 101 cars in the first prize and 751 two-wheelers in the second prize,” Nishant said. Aditya Vision has 61 showrooms across the state and a toll free number 18001218111.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/75-people-win-4-wheelers-in-aditya-visions-mega-draw/articleshow/80063431.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Kochi||Counting the dead, telling the truth||It was the second week of April and Kerala had just reported its third Covid-19 death. Mahroof, a 71-year-old, who resided a stone's throw away from the Kerala border in Mahe, died while being treated at a hospital in Kannur. It's a death that the state is yet to add to its tally. The adamance of the state government, which denied appeals by Mahroof’s kin to record it as a Covid-19 death, led Dr Arun N M, a general practitioner based in Palakkad, to track the undercounting of Covid-19 deaths by tracking newspaper obituaries. The count led by Dr Arun and a handful of volunteers stood at 4,288, as on December 12, much above the state's official toll of 2,990, as on Tuesday. Day after day, they would crawl district editions of newspapers, YouTube uploads of TV channels and do endless Google searches, slowly building a credible database. “In December, our work was affected due to a host of reasons, including newspapers slackening their reporting of deaths,” says Dr Arun. In June, the official toll for Kerala was 14, one up than the unofficial figure because the state bizarrely insisted on counting the death of a person who died by suicide. The unaccounted deaths began to spiral in mid-July when the state changed its policy, surreptitiously. The official government dashboard specified why certain deaths are not being counted, mentioning comorbidities but this too was done away, when comparison to international protocols were drawn. By July-end, the unofficial toll had climbed to 105 against the state tally of 62. “We did everything right from insisting on masks, break-the-chain campaign and testing and tracing but somewhere in between we stopped listening to science and recklessly allowed it to be mixed with politics,” says Dr Arun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/counting-the-dead-telling-the-truth/articleshow/80058576.cms||Binu Karunakaran
January 2, 2021||Kolkata||Churches preach message of faith to beat Covid gloom||Kolkata: Accepting it as the greatest malaise that has been unleashed upon humanity in the present times, one has to have faith in the greater presence of God and trust that he will lead us to freedom from the pandemic — this was the central theme of sermons at churches in the city under both Roman Catholic Church and Church of North India on January 1. In his new year sermon, Archbishop Thomas D’Souza, the head of the Roman Catholic Church in the city, reminded everyone that surrendering to God is the key to getting past the gloom that has been unleashed by the pandemic and looking forward with hope. “The first day of the year is also Mother Mary’s feast day. We need to ask her to take us within her fold and protect us. We are limited, it is only God’s love that is unlimited and can show us the way,” Archbishop D’Souza said, adding that this was also the time to come out of our shells and help the poor and those in despair. The importance of taking precautions against the virus and having faith in the immense power of life, which is a gift of God, was the refrain in other Catholic churches of the city, like Church of Our Lady of Vailankanni at Picnic Garden and Church of Christ the King at Park Circus. “Given the number restrictions, we treated new year’s day as Sunday church and held multiple sessions so that the maximum number of parishioners could participate, said Father Orson Wells and Father Basil Mandi, priests of the two churches. “Such times are not new in the history of mankind and they will come again. But every time God has seen us through the crisis. We need to have steadfast faith in Him,” said the clergy of St Paul’s Cathedral in the midnight mass and the two morning masses on Friday. Bishop Paritosh Canning, the head of the CNI, went around to the smaller churches of the Kolkata and Barrackpore Diocese as a “people’s bishop” to be in their midst in this difficult year. The pandemic and deliverance from it through faith in God were also the themes of the sermons at St John’s Church and Union Chapel, where priest Pradip Nanda spoke.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/churches-preach-message-of-faith-to-beat-covid-gloom/articleshow/80064109.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
January 2, 2021||Business||SsangYong stake sale by Feb 28||Chennai: Mahindra is in advanced discussions with a “serious investor” to offload majority stake in its beleaguered South Korean arm SsangYong and the deal may be inked in a few weeks. Mahindra is in “advanced discussion with a serious investor” for its Korean subsidiary and is all set to sign the term sheet shortly. “We expect to conclude the term sheet next week with this serious investor which is a commitment to conclude the deal,” said M&M MD Pawan Goenka. “M&M will do a 25% capital reduction and hold a minority stake of 30% or less in Ssangyong once the deal goes through.” Mahindra, over three manths, has been in discussions with US auto retailer HAAH Automotive, which has a technical partnership with Chinese auto giant Chery. Ssangyong, which is currently in court receivership, had applied for and has been granted autonomous restructuring support (ARS) by the South Korean courts. Under ARS, the company filing for bankruptcy is allowed to find a solution within a stipulated period. “The court has granted ARS to Ssangyong till February 28, 2021,” he said. “Once the deal concludes the management will be taken over by the new investor. If not, the court takes charge.” Either way, added M&M deputy MD Anish Shah, “M&M will cease to be the majority shareholder in Ssangyong before the end of this fiscal.” Ssangyong’s famously militant trade unions are also in support of the ARS, added Goenka. M&M will take an impairment on its P&L account for Ssangyong. The company’s total liability on account of Ssangyong is Rs 1,930 crore. This includes Rs 980 crore of equity, Rs 680 crore of debt from foreign banks guaranteed by M&M and another Rs 270 crore loan to Ssangyong from M&M. “Ssangyong has assets and should be able to support the debt and M&M has no further liabilities in Ssangyong,” said Shah. “The financial loss on account of Ssangyong on our P&L will be restricted to this fiscal,” he added. The impairment that M&M takes on this account will depend on whether the investor picks up the majority stake or Ssangyong goes into receivership. “We have to discuss that with the new owner of Ssangyong — the impairment will be higher in pre-packaged rehabilitation programme and lower if an investor comes in but we will have a clear view by February 28,” said Shah. As for the technology share between M&M and Ssangyong, particularly for the XUV300, which is derived from the Ssangyong Tivoli, the “IPs for that product are with Mahindra and that is the only major product” derived from Ssangyong technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ssangyong-stake-sale-by-feb-28/articleshow/80064612.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Commuters using unfinished bridge at Avarampalayam||Coimbatore: With the highways authorities and district administration taking no measures to complete the Avarampalayam flyover work and open it officially, impatient commuters are already using it. Two-wheelers and four-wheelers can be seen driving up and down the bridge, despite the north side entrance ramp not having a tar road.The 560m long bridge, constructed at a cost of Rs 20 crore, reduces driving time for vehicles from Ganapathy to Lakshmi Mills and Avinashi Road by at least 10 minutes. It helps vehicles bypass the Avarampalayam railway gate that is frequently closed and causes traffic jam. It allows commuters from Ganapathy, Saravanampatti and even Kovilpalayam on the way to Avinashi Road and Trichy Road without having to drive through Gandhipuram. “The bridge, which is not congested since it is not yet opened, reduces travelling time by almost 10 minutes, compared to taking the Gandhipuram route,” said V Raghuraman of Ganapathy, who works at a hospital on the Avarampalayam Road.However, there is at least one month-work pending on the flyover, say officials. Service roads are yet to be laid, the limited-use subway for two-wheelers, pedestrians and light vehicles is yet to be constructed and lamp poles are yet to be installed. A 50m stretch on the north side of the flyover is yet get a coat of bitumen.“One reason for the delay is Tangedco not shifting power lines on the road and not allowing us to lay service roads,” said an official. The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development, railway and the rural roads wing of state highways are involved in the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/commuters-using-unfinished-bridge-at-avarampalayam/articleshow/80065331.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Patna||Bihar: 13 SPs among 35 IPS officers transferred||PATNA: Apart from 28 IAS officers, the state government also transferred 35 IPS officers, including SPs of 13 districts, at midnight on Thursday. SPs of Rohtas, Bhagalpur, Saran, Nawada, Nalanda, Saharsa, Kaimur, Gaya, Naugachhia, Gopalganj, Purnia, Sheikhpura and Sheohar were transferred. IG of Purnia and DIGs of Saran, Koshi and Munger police ranges were also transferred. Many of these officers joined duty on Friday. Sobha Ohatker has been appointed as director general-cum-commandant of home guard and fire services while ADG (SCRB) Nirmal Kumar Azad has been made ADG (railway). Ravindra Shankaran, who was waiting for posting, has been appointed as ADG of anti-terrorist squad. IG (modernisation) Amit Kumar Jain has been made ADG in Bihar Human Rights Commission. IG (headquarters) Nayyar Hasnain Khan has now been made ADG of economic offences unit (EOU). Khan will also handle additional charge of ADG (provisioning). Special secretary (home) Sunil Kumar has been posted as ADG of special vigilance unit (SVU). IG (SCRB) Kamal Kishore Singh has been posted as ADG of SCRB and modernisation. IG (budget, appeal and welfare) Paras Nath has been posted as ADG of the same sections of the state police headquarters which he was handling earlier. IG (training) Anil Kishore Yadav has been made ADG (weaker section) in CID while IG (special branch) Bacchu Singh Meena, who was also handling additional charge of IG (security), has now been posted as ADG (security) in CID. DIG (ATS) Vikas Vaibhav has been posted as special secretary (home). Purnia range IG Ratan Sanjay Katiyar has been appointed as IG (modernisation) in Patna. Koshi range DIG Suresh Prasad Chaudhary replaced Katiyar after promotion. Special branch SP Pranav Kumar Praveen was posted in place of Chaudhary. Saran range DIG Vijay Kumar Verma has been given responsibility of IG (training). Munger range DIG Manu Maharaaj has replaced Verma. BMP-6 battalion commandant Mohammad Shafiul Haque has replaced Maharaaj. BMP-9 battalion commandant Ranjit Kumar Mishra has been made DIG (personnel) in police headquarters in Patna. Rohtas SP Satya Veer Singh has been transferred as BMP-9 commandant in Jamalpur. SP (EOU) Natasha Guria has been made new Bhagalpur SSP, while Ashish Bharti was transferred as Rohtas SP. Saran SP Dhurat Saayli Savlaram has been posted in same capacity in Nawada in place of Hari Prasath S who was transferred to Nalanda. Present Nalanda SP Nilesh Kumar has been posted as SP of special task force in Patna. Saharsa SP Rakesh Kumar has been posted in Kaimur on same position in place of Dilnawaz Ahmed, who has been posted as BMP-7 battalion commandant in Katihar. Assistant IG (railway) Aditya kumar has been made new Gaya SSP and Naugachhia SP Swapna G Meshram BMP-2 battalion commandant in Dehri-on-Sone. She would also handle additional charge of women’s battalion commandant. Bhagalpur City SP Sushant Kumar Saroj has replaced Meshram in Naugachhia. Anand Kumar, BMP-7 battalion commandant in Katihar, has been made new Gopalganj SP replacing Manoj Kumar Tiwari, who has been posted as BMP-8 commandant in Begusarai. Purnia SP Vishal Sharma has been made BMP-6 battalion commandant in Muzaffarpur. Sharma has been replaced by Sheikhpura SP Daya Shankar. Special branch SP Kartikeya K Sharma has been posted in place of Shankar. Sheohar SP Santosh Kumar has been posted in same capacity in Saran. He was replaced by Phulwarisharif SDPO Sanjay Bharti. Lipi Singh, who was waiting for posting after being removed from Munger, has been posted as Saharsa SP. ADC to governor Rakesh Kumar Dubey will now handle additional charge of SP (ATS) after being promoted to IPS cadre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/13-sps-among-35-ips-officers-transferred/articleshow/80063424.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata restaurants start new year with full house||KOLKATA: The New Year began on a busy note for Kolkata’s bars and restaurants with footfall surpassing that of December 31, which saw a near-full attendance throughout the day. While the crowd had been relatively sparse at some places till the afternoon on December 31, almost all central and south Kolkata restaurants remained chock-a-block on the first day of 2021. With the year beginning with a Friday, the party spirit has been stoked and the rush will continue for a week, predicted restaurant owners. A huge waiting crowd outside Park Street’s Mocambo and Peter Cat forced the restaurants to ask people to move away from the gates. “People queued up from 11.30am and there was a big congregation by the time we started serving lunch. We had to request them to disperse and informed those in the queue that they would be called when their turn came,” said Siddharth Kothari of Mocambo. He added that while the lunch on January 1 traditionally sees a big turnout, this time the crowd persisted throughout the day, swelling as the day progressed. Most central Kolkata restaurants remained fully occupied till late on Friday night. Even though few had taken a late closing permission for the day, customers were served till midnight. “The attendance was markedly better on Friday, especially during lunch. This has been the norm since many prefer to eat out with families on January 1 and avoid the New Year’s Eve rush. This time, with the weekend following January 1, the crowd was better. We expect the footfall to remain high till Sunday,” said Sanjay Khullar, owner of Amber. The rush could persist throughout the first week of the year, according to Pratap Daryanani, who owns Oasis on Park Street. “The first half of the day was better than December 31 and the second half was just as good. With the revelry crowd off the streets, families were out in droves. It has helped that the year has taken off with a weekend. So, we expect the footfall remain high till at least January 7,” said Daryanani. The first day of 2021 also saw a higher attendance than the corresponding days of the last five years, said Sudesh Poddar, owner of Songhai. “It was triggered by a pent-up desire to eat out and start the year on a high. Weekends had been dull last year due to the Covid restrictions and now that the fear has receded to an extent, none is willing to miss out on the year-end fun,” said Poddar, who is also the president of Hotel and Restaurants’ Association of Eastern India. Attendance was far higher on Friday than on New Year’s Eve at Oudh 1590 and Chapter 2. While January 1 is always a high-footfall day, this year it has been better than usual, according to owner Shiladitya Chaudhury. “Footfall exceeded all our expectations with almost all our outlets remaining packed throughout the day. While mall outlets have not been doing well post-unlock, our Chapter 2 outlet at Mani Square mall has broken the trend on Friday,” Chaudhury added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/restaurants-start-new-year-with-full-house/articleshow/80064151.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
January 2, 2021||Patna||Gohi mukhiya succumbs to bullet injury, supporters attack police station||PATNA: Gohi panchayat mukhiya and LJP leader Rajesh Kumar Sahni (48) succumbed to the bullet injury on Friday. He was shot at on a village road at Gohi under Warisnagar police station area in Samastipur district on December 24. As the news broke out, his supporters attacked Warisnagar police station in the evening, but the situation was brought under control, SHO Prasunjay Kumar said. “The situation is under control. Senior police officers are communicating with the supporters and have ensured for proper action,” he added. Warisnagar police station SHO Prasunjay Kumar said Sahni died at a private hospital in Patna. “Three criminals on a bike had shot at him from behind while Sahni was on another bike. Political rivalry seems to be the reason as he was to contest the upcoming panchayat election,” he said. He said a case was lodged against seven persons of Gohi panchayat. In another incident, Maner police registered an FIR of dowry death of a 25-year-old woman. Maner police station SHO Madhusudan Kumar said Malti Devi’s body was found lying on the bed inside her room with strangulation mark on her neck on Thursday night. “Her father Mugal Prasad alleged in the FIR that his daughter was killed for dowry. He has made Malti’s husband Manish Kumar and four other in-laws as named accused in the murder case. All are evading arrest,” he said. Malti’s parents belong to Rampur under Naubatpur police station area of Patna. She was married to Manish five year back. He said the couple had a minor daughter. The postmortem report is awaited, the SHO said. In Purnia, one Saurav Kumar (24) was stabbed to death after being thrashed near Pani Tanki area under Khajanchi Hat police station area of the district around 8pm on Thursday. SHO Sunil Kumar Mandal said Saurav was called from his home at Kali Yadav Tola located under Madhubani police outpost after which was thrashed by half a dozen youths who stabbed him multiple times. Mandal said Saurav had recently come out of jail. Police came to know that the killer was also in jail with Saurav and they had a scuffle there, too. The SHO said 11 persons were named accused in the FIR and all of them were evading arrest. He said the body was handed over to family after postmortem Thursday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mukhiya-succumbs-to-bullet-injury-2-killed/articleshow/80063580.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Patna||Drive in Bhagalpur to check crime||BHAGALPUR: In order to rein in the criminals, bootleggers and traffic rule offenders, Bhagalpur district police have launched ‘Roko Toko Abhiyaan’ (stop, enquire and take action campaign). The SHOs of all the 44 police stations, including police outposts, in the district have been directed by the SSP to stop crime and unlawful activities at any cost. “Launched on the New Year ’s eve, the drive is aimed at intensifying police patrolling in the areas. It will continue throughout the year,” outgoing SSP Ashish Bharti said on Friday. He said the campaign, especially in the night hours, is also to instill a sense of security among the residents. Several antisocial elements besides bootleggers and people violating the Bihar Prohibition and Excise Act of 2016 were nabbed in the last 24 hours. “We also checked the two-wheelers and e-rickshaws driven by juveniles without driving licence,” Bharti said. “Directive has been issued to the SHOs to keep vigil and enforce ‘paidal gashti abhiyan’ (police patrolling on foot in the narrow bylanes) as a precaution and for the safety of people. The campaign is aimed at giving a clear message to the criminals that their activities are on police radar,” Bharti said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/drive-in-bpur-to-check-crime/articleshow/80063537.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Patna||Nitish Kumar’s son wealthier than him, Mukesh Sahani richest minister||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar and his cabinet colleagues made information about their personal assets public on Thursday. Interestingly, Nitish’s son Nishant is richer than him, thanks to the inheritance of ancestral property. Nitish has Rs 35,885 cash in hand, while his son Nishant has only Rs 28,000 in cash. Nishant has ancestral property in his name at Kalyan Bigha in Nalanda district, Bakhtiyarpur and Patna. As per the property details put on the cabinet department website, Nishant has a fixed deposit of Rs 78.5 lakh and Rs 25.43 lakh in PPF account. Nitish owns a car worth Rs 11.32 lakh and jewellery worth Rs 98,000, while his son has a car worth Rs 6.40 lakh and jewellery worth Rs 20.73 lakh. In addition, Nitish owns 12 cows, six calves, air conditioner, sewing machine, a cycle for exercise and a microwave oven. Nitish has movable assets worth Rs 16.53 lakh and immovable property worth Rs 40 lakh, including a flat in Delhi’s Dwarka. On the other hand, Nishant has immovable assets worth Rs 1.48 crore. Mukesh Sahani, the founder of VIP and state animal husbandry and fisheries department minister, is the richest among the 13 ministers in the Nitish Kumar cabinet. Mukesh owns assets worth Rs 18 crore, including three properties in Mumbai. Mukesh has Rs 45,500 cash in hand and his spouse has Rs 25,000 in cash. Mukesh has a bank deposit of Rs 23.63 lakh. He has invested Rs 78.8 lakh in shares and Rs 13 lakh in other financial institutions. He owned three properties worth Rs 7.47 crore. Besides, Mukesh and his wife have one flat each in Mumbai. Mukesh also owns a house worth Rs 9.6 crore in Mumbai. While Mukesh has 112 grams of gold, his wife is the owner of 450 grams of gold. Deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad is quite fond of luxury vehicles and owns four cars. Prasad, the BJP MLA from Katihar, has Rs 54,000 in cash while his wife has Rs 44,000 in cash. Prasad has jewellery worth Rs 2.5 lakh and his wife is owner of jewellery worth Rs 20 lakh. Another deputy CM, Renu Devi, is also fond of jewellery. She has 150 grams of gold and silver worth Rs 70,000. She also owns a pistol and a rifle. State transport minister Sheela Kumari, however, doesn’t own any vehicle. However, she and her husband own 30 acres of agricultural land. They also own non-cultivable land worth over Rs 3 crore and two flats. State revenue and land reforms minister Ram Surat Kumar owns movable and immovable assets worth Rs 17 crore. State energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav and state resources minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary have assets worth Rs 1.9 crore each. State health and road construction minister Mangal Pandey declared his property worth Rs 12 crore. State PHED minister Ram Prit Paswan is the poorest among the cabinet colleagues of Nitish. He owns assets worth Rs 95 lakh only. Notably, in 2010, the state government had made it mandatory for all the ministers to declare their assets, which were subsequently uploaded on the official site of the cabinet department. “This is a routine exercise, which takes place every year,” a minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitishs-son-wealthier-than-him-sahani-richest-minister/articleshow/80063480.cms||Ramashankar
January 2, 2021||Patna||Chandrashekhar Singh is Patna DM, six division commissioners shifted||PATNA: In a major bureaucratic reshuffle, the state government shifted several senior IAS officers Thursday night. While Kosi, Tirhut, Purnia, Darbhanga, Saran and Magadh divisions got new commissioners, the DMs of Patna, Muzaffarpur, Gopalganj, Bhagalpur, Sheohar, Jamui, Rohtas, Madhubani, Saran, Arwal, Sasaram, Kaimur and Madhepura were shifted, some of them after their promotions on December 29. Muzaffarpur DM Chandrashekhar Singh has been shifted to Patna after incumbent Kumar Ravi’s promotion. Ravi will be secretary, Building Construction Department, with additional charge of managing director, Bihar State Building Construction Corporation Limited till further orders. Additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani has been relieved from additional charge of general administration department (GAD), director of Bihar Administration Mission Society (BAMS) and minority welfare department. Subhani will be additional chief secretary of excise, prohibition and registration department and vigilance department. Development commissioner Arun Kumar Singh was earlier handling the vigilance department. Chanchal Kumar, principal secretary to CM, will now handle additional charges of GAD and BAMS. Chanchal was relieved of the additional charge of building construction department. Kosi commissioner K Senthil Kumar has been made secretary, home department, while Purnia commissioner Safina AN has been transferred to minority welfare department as secretary. Tirhut commissioner Pankaj Kumar, who also held additional charge of Saran, has been transferred to backward classes and extremely backward classes welfare department as its secretary with additional charge of managing director, Bihar State Road Development Corporation till further orders. Information technology department special secretary Manish Kumar replaced Pankaj in Tirhut. Darbhanga commissioner Mayank Warwade was shifted to Magadh division in the same capacity, replacing Asangba Chuba Ao, who will be secretary, education department. Divesh Sehra has been made finance department secretary. He was managing director of Bihar State Scheduled Castes Cooperative Development Corporation Limited with additional charge of road construction department as special secretary. Balamurugan D has been made secretary, rural development department with additional charge of project director, Bihar Rural Livelihoods Project cum commissioner, self-employment, in rural development department. Agriculture department special secretary Poonam will be Saran commissioner while revenue and land reforms department special secretary Radheshyam Sah has been made Darbhanga commissioner. Gopalganj DM Arshad Aziz has been made cane commissioner in sugar cane industries department in Patna. Kaimur DM Nawal Kishor Choudhary replaced Aziz with additional charge of the district’s settlement officer. Madhepura DM Navdeep Shukla replaced Choudhary in Kaimur. Bhagalpur DM Pranav Kumar went to Muzaffarpur with additional charge of district settlement officer till further orders. Sheohar DM Avaneesh Kumar will be Jamui DM. Gopalganj DDC cum district board chief executive officer Sajjan R has replaced Kumar in Gopalganj. Rohtas DM Pankaj Dixit has been made director (technical) in industries department. Madhubani DM Nilesh Ramchandra Deore has been shifted to Saran. He would also hold additional charge of settlement officer of Saran. Bihar State Building Construction Corporation Limited managing director Amit Kumar replaced Deore with additional charge of district settlement officer. Arwal DM Ravi Shankar Choudhary will be additional secretary in health department. J Priyadharshini replaced him in Arwal. Jamui DM Dharmendra Kumar has been sent to Rohtas with additional charge of district settlement officer. Disaster management department joint secretary Shyam Bihari Meena replaced Shukla in Madhepura. Saran DM Subrat Kumar Sen will be new Bhagalpur DM. Katihar DDC cum district board chief executive officer Varsha Singh has been made joint secretary in building construction department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chandrashekhar-is-patna-dm-six-division-commissioners-shifted/articleshow/80063418.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Patna||Illicit liquor business rampant in Patna, four other districts||PATNA: Five districts, including Patna, have emerged as hotspots for illicit liquor smuggling in the state. Of them, Muzaffarpur, Vaishali, Saran and Gopalganj have recorded the highest seizure of liquor in 2020. According to the official data, officials of the state prohibition and excise department recovered a little over one crore litres of liquor between January and December last year. Altogether 615 people were arrested in 7,111 raids. In December alone, 95,534 litres of liquor — 52,621 litres of Indian-made foreign liquor and 42,913 litres of country liquor — were recovered during the operation launched by the task force set up by the excise department. Muzaffarpur topped the list with recovery of 8,39,047 litres of liquor. Vaishali stood second with recovery of 7,38,771 litres, followed by Saran (7,10,635 litres), Gopalganj (6,85,905 litres) and Patna (6,47,541 litres), respectively. Among the four rail zones, around 1.17 lakh litres were seized from area falling under Jamalpur rail zone, 83,327 litres from Patna rail zone, 40,467 litres from Muzaffarpur rail zone and 20,565 litres from Katihar rail zone, respectively. Joint commissioner of excise department Krishna Paswan said the task force comprising the officials of the police and the excise department have been assigned to carry out raids to check smuggling of alcohol. “Our focus is now on major suppliers operating in the state. Raids are now conducted on specific intelligence inputs,” he said. The department has already initiated the process to set up 15 additional check posts at the state’s borders with Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Nepal. Earlier’s there were 15 check posts on the borders to undertake checking of vehicles entering the state’s limit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/illicit-liquor-biz-rampant-in-patna-4-other-districts/articleshow/80063524.cms||Ramashankar
January 2, 2021||Business||‘Standardised policies help cover uninsured’||NEW DELHI: The government is covering the masses through various central schemes, like the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY). But the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Irdai) — under the chairmanship of Subhash Chandra Khuntia — has taken on the task of covering the missing-middle through standardised insurance covers and micro insurance. In an interview with TOI, Khuntia speaks of the road ahead ... How has the industry evolved and what is next for reforms?From six public sector companies in 2000, there are now 69 insurers engaged in life, non-life, health and reinsurance. In 20 years, the insurance penetration has risen to 3.8% from 2.3%, while density (per capita) has grown to $78. Industry premium has risen to Rs 7.5 lakh crore from Rs 45,000 crore in 2000, and the industry now manages assets worth Rs 45.8 lakh crore — up from Rs 2.2 lakh crore. There is already an effective grievance redressal system, including the ombudsman. Irdai has also introduced a regulatory sandbox to experiment with innovative products. However, there is still a considerable protection gap in the country and insurance penetration is below global average. We plan to introduce risk-based capital (RBC) and risk-based supervision (RBS) regimes in the coming years. We are also preparing the insurance industry to switch over to the Ind-AS accounting system based on IFRS-17. Irdai is promoting reforms in the areas of digitisation across product life cycles, bite-sized products, making insurance inclusive, risk prevention & risk minimisation measures, and loss prevention. There has been a wave of standardisation of products. What has been driving this?The objective is to make available basic insurance products with uniform benefits across industry with price and service being the only differentials. This will indirectly set minimum standards and benchmarks, make choice easier, and eliminate disputes. Insurers are free to offer other products, based on market requirements. Standard products will help improve insurance penetration and bridge the trust deficit with the customers. The widening of cover under health insurance has seen an increase in rates. How can affordability be addressed?The latest norms in health insurance aim to meet policyholder’s expectation on coverage, address information asymmetry and improve clarity on benefits offered. With the new norms, health insurance will be more inclusive, less complicated, and therefore more attractive to customers. We have capped the price increase due to this factor to 5% only. Broader issue of affordability can be addressed by deepening insurance penetration to cover more younger people and through active engagement of insurers with the hospitals for mutually acceptable rates and standard treatment protocols. Premium can also be brought down by adopting features like co-pay, deductibles, and sub-limits. We want all health insurers to integrate wellness activities into health insurance and incentivise policyholders to remain fit. According to an IIBI report, uninsured vehicles went up in FY19. Has there been any change in trend?Yes, the percentage of uninsured vehicles, based on the Insurance Information Bureau of India (IIBI) database, has increased from 54% to 57% from 2017-18 to 2018-19. As third-party insurance is mandatory, state enforcement authorities must take proactive steps to ensure compliance. Irdai, through the IIBI, has started a pilot project to facilitate the states to send SMSs to vehicle owners to renew policies in time. Its success depends on the cooperation of the state governments in sharing the database of vehicle owners. What has been the experience of long-term policies in motor insurance?Mandatory three-year motor third-party policies for new private cars and five years for two-wheelers were introduced with effect from September 1, 2018. There is a need to enforce the mandatory third-party insurance requirement under the Motor Vehicles Act. And vehicle owners also need to insure their vehicles against damage as a prudent protection measure. While long-term policies have been mandated, it may not be possible to extend the term beyond a point, as the cost of acquisition of vehicles will then become prohibitive. The ideal solution is to have ways to facilitate regular renewal. Is there any coordination between the RBI and Irdai on regulating this channel?The banking and insurance regulators are supervising the business under their respective domains. Bancassurance is governed by the provisions of Irdai (Registration of Corporate Agents) Regulations, 2015. This is for distributing insurance products as corporate agents. Thus, banks are regulated by the RBI on their banking operations, whereas their insurance-related operations are regulated by Irdai. Insurers also distribute products through agents, insurance brokers, web aggregators, insurance marketing firms, common public service centres. All these intermediaries are also under the regulatory jurisdiction of Irdai. Does LIC, which is planning an IPO, need to be treated differently from others for purpose of regulation?All insurers are required to abide by the provisions of the Insurance Act, 1938, and the rules and regulations made thereunder as well as the directions issued by the authority. With regard to IPO, the modifications necessary for certain statutory provisions in LIC Act and Insurance Act,1938 are under examination of the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/standardised-policies-help-cover-uninsured/articleshow/80064910.cms||Mayur Shetty
January 2, 2021||Nagpur||‘1st suspect unlikely to test positive for mutated Covid variant’||Nagpur: There is very little chance of city's first suspected patient of mutated variant of Covid-19 coming positive. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B said swab samples of his family members and other suspected patients sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV) are more likely to come positive. The 28-year-old youth from Nandanwan, who returned from UK on December 2 and tested positive for novel coronavirus on December 15, was admitted as first suspected patient of new strain. His swab samples collected on December 23 tested negative on December 24. His samples were also sent to NIV for genome sequencing on December 25. Radhakrishnan said in a press conference on Friday regarding dry run for Covid-19 Vaccination Programme, “I am not scientist. But let’s assume the same was negative. Genome sequencing will clarify whether the virus is old, new or whatever strain. If there is no virus in sample, my understanding is that it will give no results. Still, we sent sample as per SoPs of the government. Let us wait for the NIV reports. We also sent samples of his four family members who tested positive. Samples of five more suspected patients were also sent.” Results were likely to be received from NIV on Friday, but did not come. Radhakrishnan said NMC was following up daily with NIV for the results. Till now, eight UK returnees have tested positive in city and all are admitted in GMCH's special ward. Five suspected patients are from the list of 131 flyers sent by Bureau of Immigration. Of remaining three, two were residents of city and their names featured in list of Janjgir in Chhattisgarh. Third one is also city's resident and tested on his own and revealed his travel history of UK. Among 131 flyers who returned from countries in Europe, Middle East and South Africa between November 25 and December 23, tests of 97 were conducted and remaining are pending. On dry run for vaccination programme, Radhakrishnan said, “It will be conducted by NMC at its KT Nagar UPHC. Office of Civil Surgeon will conduct it at Daga Hospital and concerned authority at Kamptee Rural Hospital on January 2. Actual vaccination will be conducted jointly by all agencies, with 56 vaccination centres finalized. Some 31,014 health care workers have registered for phase-I.” The civic chief said the dry run will be conducted at KT Nagar UPHC between 9am and 11am with 25 NMC health care workers. They have been asked to come to centre in batches of five at intervals of 30 minutes. Three rooms, systems and staff have been prepared. Radhakrishnan said vaccine will not be administered in the dry run. On storage of vaccine, Radhakrishnan said there would be no problems. “Government is yet to send guidelines.” On starting of schools for Std IX to XII from January 4 in city, additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said RT-PCR negative reports are mandatory for all teaching and non-teaching staff. “We have allowed testing at NMC centres. Also, we are sending mobile testing centres to schools. Some 16,000 parents have given consent. Over 3,300 of total 8,000 teaching and non-teaching staff got tested,” he said. Additional municipal commissioner Sanjay Nipane said no more old returnees from these particular countries tested positive on Friday. “Eleven of total 24 new flyers who were in quarantine centres were discharged as they tested negative and also completed one week,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1st-suspect-unlikely-to-test-positive-for-mutated-covid-variant/articleshow/80064300.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 2, 2021||Lucknow||Test returnees from countries flagged for Covid strain: Uttar Pradesh CM||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials to prepare a list of visitors from countries where the mutant strain of Covid-19 virus has been reported. Issuing relevant instructions to this effect during the Covid-19 review with Team-11, the CM stated that surveillance and testing were the only way to stay ahead of the pandemic virus. “Contact tracing should continue as rigorously as planned. A list of those coming from countries where the new strain has been reported must be prepared for tracking and testing purposes,” CM said. As per WHO, the mutant strain of coronavirus has been found in at least 30 countries, including UK, Japan, France and UAE. “The surveillance system must ensure that every person under doubt is scanned so that the state remains ahead of the pandemic virus and the edge over it is maintained,” he said. Directing the health department to quarantine visitors from the countries where second strain has been reported, the CM also said that all the arrangements of the Covid-19 hospitals should be kept effective. All these hospitals should have adequate backup of medicines, medical equipment and oxygen. For the district level corona vaccination, intensive monitoring of arrangements should be done, he said and added that all arrangements should be in place for effective cold chain of the vaccine. An effective action plan should also be prepared for the safe transportation and storage of the corona vaccine. Later, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad stated that so far more than 2,500 persons who returned from UK or via-UK have been tested. “Of the total only 10 were found positive to Covid-19. And among them, only two have tested positive to the new strain. Their contacts have been traced and tested,” he said. Prasad reiterated that the prevention protocol for both old and new strains of covid-19 was the same. “While the virus is changing its form, the prevention is still the same. It is in fact easy and priceless,” he said, adding that 871 new cases in the past 24 hours took the state’s total to 5,86,751. Of the total cases, 5,64,541 have recovered while 8,379 have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/test-returnees-from-countries-flagged-for-covid-strain-cm/articleshow/80066094.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 2, 2021||Meerut||Constable ‘hit’ by bullet during new year eve party||Meerut: A UP police constable posted with Crime Branch in the district, Saurabh Yadav, was allegedly hit by a bullet during new year eve celebration at a city-based hotel here late on Thursday night. A case has been registered and one person has been arrested. The injured constable was rushed to hospital. Now, his condition is said to be stable. Unconfirmed reports claimed that Yadav was allegedly shot at following a brawl. However, local police department, which was initially tight-lipped about the incident, later claimed that the constable was accidentally hit by a bullet when a gun went off. According to Meerut police, two people, both present in the party at the time of the incident, are wanted in the case and one of them has been arrested. "The constable was shot at as a gun accidentally went off after it fell on the ground at the party. The gun was being carried by the main accused who we are trying to trace. We have arrested the brother of the accused,” said Ajay Sahni, senior superintendent of police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/constable-hit-by-bullet-during-new-year-eve-party/articleshow/80063572.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Varanasi||Ahead of state elections, Kashi put on fast track||VARANASI: Though Varanasi has already been gifted over 300 development projects of Rs 25,696 crore after becoming Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s parliamentary constituency in 2014, the Yogi Adityanath government is ensuring completion of around 120 projects worth over Rs 8,000 crore by 2021 end, before 2022 assembly polls in UP . However, UP minister Neelkanth Tiwari terms the completion of a huge number of projects in 2021 as ‘just a co-incidence’ while BJP’s state co-in-charge Sunil Oza claimed that completion of projects in 2021 should not be linked with 2022 UP polls as it is the work culture of PM Narendra Modi to ensure that the projects he lays foundation of be complete in the scheduled time. When TOI, on the first day of new year on Friday, took stock of the current status of development projects in progress, divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal disclosed, “Currently, a total of 129 major projects are in progress in Varanasi. Of these almost 120 major projects worth over Rs 8,000 crore will complete between February and December in 2021.” Providing details of the projects slated to complete before 2021 end, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “All construction related work of Kashi Vishwanath Dhan (corridor) project of Rs 345.27 crore will be completed by August end. Before it the National Highway of Authority of India will start completing its five major projects of Rs 3,814.14 crore including Varanasi-Lucknow, Varanasi-Ghazipur, Varanasi-Azamgarh, Ring-Road phase-IIs package-I work this year while work of Ring Road phase-IIs package-II will also be completed in 2022.” Other work of infrastructure augmentation including construction of eight bridges and railway over bridges with Rs 338.03 crore by UP Bridge Corporation, Shivpur-Lehartara-Phulwaria four-lane project, Panchkroshi Parikrama Road and other projects worth over Rs 300 crore by PWD, health services infrastructure augmentation works at existing hospitals and health centres, seven projects including international convention centre-Rudraksh, multi-level parking, buildings for different uses at BHU and Mahamahan Madan Mohan Malviya Cancer Centre by CPWD will also be completed this year. The list of other major projects completing in 2021 are ITI buildings, 16-court rooms of multi-storied buildings on district court campus, charging centre for electric buses, underground and multilevel parking sites, Sindhora police station building, renovation of Shahinala sewage line, sewage treatment plants of Ramna and Ramnagar and also work of solar plant and power sub-station construction. Projects for tourism development including cruise boats operation between Assi and Rajghat, heritage road from Dashaswamedh to Godowlia and Rameshar will also complete, said DM mentioning their deadlines for completion. According to commissioner, since 2014, the district bagged over 300 projects of Rs 25,696 crore of which 173 projects of Rs 8,662 crores have already been inaugurated while 129 projects are in progress. As per the records, before the formation of Yogi government in 2017, most of the infrastructure development projects including four-lane conversion of highways, ring-road and others for which land acquisition was required, were stalled, although projects announced for institutions under the Centre were completed after getting announced after formation of Modi government in 2014. Regarding completion of 120 projects in a year before the state goes for assembly polls in 2022, Tiwari said that none of the projects expected to complete before assembly polls in the state were started keeping the elections in view. All these on-going projects were started to ensure that Kashi becomes amodel of overall development. Denying any connection of these projects with 2022 polls, Oza said, PM has his own workstyle. He lays foundation of any project after complete assessment of the work to ensure that it will complete in the scheduled time. Due to the same reasons, Varanasi has seen completion of major developments projects in bulk every year since 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ahead-of-state-elections-kashi-put-on-fast-track/articleshow/80064753.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
January 2, 2021||Aurangabad||Night curfew puts brakes on New Year Eve drunk driving||Aurangabad: The Covid-related night curfew in force in the urban areas across the state has also had a direct impact on the number of drunk driving cases on the New Year’s eve. In Aurangabad city, the police recorded zero cases of drunk driving on the last night of 2020. Nashik city police recorded two drunk driving cases while the police in Kolhapur city caught 48 motorists driving under the influence.Usually, these cities record dozens, if not hundreds, of drunk driving cases on the New Year’s eve. However, this year, the police had deployed heavy bandobast to keep an eye on curfew-violating revellers and drunk drivers.In Aurangabad city, two deputy commissioners of police, five assistant commissioners of police, 21 police inspectors, 121 police sub-inspectors and assistant sub-inspectors and 744 police constables were part of the citywide bandobast. In addition to a number of fixed checkpoints, many police patrolling teams from each police station were also deployed.Aurangabad police commissioner Nikhil Gupta told TOI: “The imposition of the night curfew helped prevent the gathering of crowds at public places. It also helped us ensure that no one stepped out of their homes without valid reasons at night.”Assistant commissioner of police (crime) Suresh Wankhede — citing the state police headquarters’s directives against the use of breathalyzers because of the pandemic — said that none of the police teams found anyone moving or driving in an inebriated condition.The situation was the same in other parts of the Marathwada region.Members of hotel and restaurant associations confirmed that this year, a considerable number of families checked into the hotels and celebrated the New Year with their families.In Nashik, only two drunk driving cases were recorded this New Year’s eve — down from 187 last year.In Kolhapur city, the police caught 48 drunk driving suspects and sent them to the Chhatrapati Pramilaraje Hospital for checks. Around 200 police personnel were deployed in Kolhapur city.In neighbouring Ichalkaranji, police initiated action against 249 erring drivers, including drunk drivers. Fine of Rs 88,000 was recovered from the traffic rule violators.— With inputs from Nashik and Kolhapur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/night-curfew-puts-brakes-on-new-year-eve-drunk-driving/articleshow/80063557.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 2, 2021||Goa||After long delay, govt releases harvesting cost to cane farmers||Ponda: Nine months after the sugarcane crushing season ended, the state government finally released the harvesting cost to cane farmers on Friday. Of the Rs 1.6 crore, Rs 65 lakh has already been credited into the farmers’ bank accounts and the remaining amount will be deposited on the coming Monday. Around 825 farmers had supplied around 26,440 tonne of sugarcane to the Sanjivani Cooperative Sugar Factory at Dharbandora during the last crushing season that ended in March. To promote cane cultivation in the state, the government has been paying support price and harvesting cost to farmers in addition to the sugarcane cost which is revised from time-to-time. Last year, the sugar factory’s cane rate was Rs 1,200 per tonne. Agriculture department paid a support price of Rs 1,800, totalling Rs 3,000 per tonne of canes supplied by the farmers to the factory. But the payment of harvesting cost, Rs 600 per tonne, was pending and has now been released, said chairman of Sugarcane Farmers’ Facilitation Committee Narendra Sawaikar. Sawaikar added that Rs 1.58 crore has been released and will be credited directly into the bank accounts of farmers as per the quantities of canes supplied by them. Factory administrator Sanjiv Gadkar said around Rs 65 lakh has already been credited into the farmers’ bank accounts on Friday. Balance amount is with the factory and would be credited to remaining farmers’ accounts on Monday. It was pending due to some pending calculations, he said. Last season was difficult for some farmers as many had to waste their crop due to the pandemic as during the nation-wide lockdown, thousands of tonnes of crop had dried up standing in the fields unharvested. Sawaikar said the farmers whose crop had dried up unharvested will also be compensated. He said chief minister Pramod Sawant has assured him that the government will begin the process of compensating the farmers from next week. As the government has shut the factory, it has assured farmers they will be compensated for the next five years. “Farmers will be compensated according to the average quantity of canes he has been supplying to the factory. Equations of the compensation is under finalisation,” Sawaikar told TOI. During the last crushing season, a total 24,524 tonne canes was supplied to Laila Sugar Factory at Khanapur-Karnataka and remaining to the Nalavade Sugar Factory in Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-long-delay-govt-releases-harvesting-cost-to-cane-farmers/articleshow/80065363.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
January 2, 2021||Rajkot||BJP goes all out to woo for likely February RMC elections||Rajkot: Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) elections may finally take place sometime in February. With Rajkot being chief minister Vijay Rupani’s home town, the ruling BJP didn’t want to take any chances in its target of winning maximum number of seats in the civic body. According to party sources, this will be the first civic polls in Rajkot after Rupani became the CM.In a run up to the hustings, Rupani, who is in Rajkot for the past two days, went on a inauguration spree on Friday launching nearly 100 small and micro projects of RMC and Rajkot Urban Development Authority (RUDA) in a single day. If sources can be quoted, the foundation laying efforts are aimed at strengthening the ruling party’s stronghold on the ballot, while the speed is owing to close the chapters before the model code of conduct comes into force.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also inaugurated two projects virtually — the much-touted AIIMS Rajkot and an affordable housing project — in the last two days. The small works inaugurated on Friday include the electric bus depot near Amul circle, new roads in various areas, engineering projects, storm water pipeline projects among others. CM also dedicated the aquatic weed harvester machine to remove underwater weeds in Aji river, which will take care of the mosquito menace in Rajkot market yard and also soothe tempers of the trading community there. Amrapali underpass work completedAmrapali underpass is expected to be inaugurated in next two weeks, as announced by the RMC last month. The project has been completed four months before the deadline. According to sources, this is BJP’s stronghold area and a road closed down for construction work for long may have damaged BJP’s chances in the election. Newly merged area will help BJPRMC has 78 seats, of which Congress got 34 in 2015 election. This was because of the Patidar agitation in the state. This time, while the rival party is again trying to repeat its 2015 performance, sources claim that the newly merged villages like Ghanteshvar, Munjka, Mota Mauva and Madhapar will work to boost BJP. Vashram Sagathiya, who was leader of opposition in RMC said, “The BJP is busy in inaugurating development projects but we have list that they have completed only 33 percent work out of total budget announcement. We will go to voters with the lists of work which are promised more then one time and still not started.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bjp-goes-all-out-to-woo-for-likely-february-rmc-elections/articleshow/80063587.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Bhopal||Top speed of 130kmph for trains in Bhopal division||BHOPAL: Getting permission from railway safety commissioner, Habibganj-New Delhi Shatabdi Express ran at the speed of 130 km per hour on Friday. Manisha Bhangoria, a railway employee, in the presence of divisional railway manager Uday Borwanker, flagged off the train from Habibganj station. This faster run will save around 20-25 minutes for the passengers. All the 70 pairs of passenger trains running slowly with LHB coaches on the Bina-Bhopal-Itarsi rail section will be run at a maximum speed of 130 kmph, which were earlier running at a maximum speed of 110 kmph. “The railway track has been vastly improved to increase the speed of trains, LHB coaches and high capacity WAP-7 locos are also helpful in this endeavour,” said Borwanker. He added that a team of qualified loco pilots has been prepared to run the trains at faster speed. DRM said Bhopal railway division has used thick web switches at third railway line to gain speed up to 130 km per hour. Railway officials said, the objective of the division is to achieve 160 km per hour speed of the trains. Senior Divisional Electrical Engineer (TRO) Sanjay Tiwari and Senior Divisional Mechanical Engineer Ajay Srivastava were also present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/all-trains-to-run-faster-in-bhopal-division-this-year/articleshow/80064265.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Aurangabad||Constable returning from New Year duty assaulted||Aurangabad: A police constable, who was deployed on bandobast duty on the New Year’s eve, was brutally assaulted by three people and robbed of his wallet containing Rs 1,460 in cash when he was on his way home around 2am on Friday. Constable Pravin Mule (35), currently serving with the anti-chain snatching squad of Pundaliknagar police station, sustained injuries on his head, shoulder and scratches all over his body in the attack. A case has been registered at the Kranti Chowk police station. The incident took place in the vicinity of the district sessions court near Baba petrol pump in Aurangabad. According to the police, the three suspects were tailing Mule on a moped when he was going home after finishing his bandobast duty. They waylaid him near the court and assaulted him. When Mule tried to resist their bid to rob him, the suspects got more aggressive and hit him with a stone. Mule noted the registration number of the moped and alerted the police control room as well as assistant inspector of police (API) Ghanshyam Sonawne. A police team reached the spot and immediately rushed Mule to the hospital. The police have already identified three suspects, one of whom — Nitin Wakte (30) — has been arrested from his residence in Sansarnagar. The two other suspects fled after knowing that police teams had been deployed to nab them. A police team has been sent to Jalna — the last location where the suspects have been traced. Sources in the police said even after arresting one of the suspect, a team led by API Sonawne faced strong resistance from residents living in his locality. Sonawne said a mob had been being instigated by some miscreants to support the suspect and oppose his arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/constable-returning-from-new-year-duty-assaulted/articleshow/80063597.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 2, 2021||Chandigarh||New civil surgeon takes charge||Ludhiana: After serving as senior medical officer (SMO), Jagraon, where the sub-divisional hospital earned appreciation on the state and national level, Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar joined as Ludhiana civil surgeon on Friday. Dr Kakkar, 57, who belongs to Bhikhiwind area of Tarn Taran district, was instrumental in getting thousands of cataract surgeries done. He has more than three decades of experience in the health sector and has faced tough challenges like keeping the pandemic in check in a large district. Listing his priorities after assuming the office of civil surgeon, Dr Kakkar told The Times of India that he would try to ensure that the pandemic is kept in check. He said that vaccination is his next challenge and he would work to ensure that the process is conducted smoothly. Asked about reduced testing in the district and people’s reluctance to get sampling done, he said all-out efforts would be made to increase testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/new-civil-surgeon-takes-charge/articleshow/80063596.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Goa||Goa drug haul for 2020 over 80% up from 2019||PANAJI: The year 2020 saw fewer narcotic cases in the state, but the quantity of narcotic substances seized is more than 80% of the previous year’s quantity, Goa police said. As per police statistics, over 85kg narcotic substances were seized in 2019 compared to over 146kg in 2020. “The movement of drugs hasn’t increased in the state. It is police proactiveness that has resulted in the seizures,” superintendent of police (anti-narcotic cell), Mahesh Gaonkar, said. Gaonkar said that police have adopted a new strategy to book cases to control the drug menace. “It is very difficult to book narcotic cases, otherwise,” the SP said. Asked how police will tackle the growing menace of cannabis cultivation in the state, Gaonkar said, “Over enthusiastic people have done this and tried to experiment with it, but it is not on a commercial scale like in Karnataka and UP. The climate in Goa is not conducive to grow cannabis.” He said that natural drugs come to Goa from states like Karnataka, Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh and Goa police are keeping a watch on these routes. The SP said that synthetic drugs are brought to Goa from outside the country after diluting them. “The state’s coastal belt is where narcotic substances are pushed,” he said. Gaonkar said that police will create awareness in education institutions to prevent the spread of narcotic substances among the youths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-drug-haul-for-2020-over-80-up-from-19/articleshow/80065341.cms||Murari Shetye
January 2, 2021||Kochi||Year of Pandemic, Power & Profit||Needless to say, 2020 was an eventful year, and not merely because millions lost their lives and livelihoods. It was also a period when humanity lost its self-respect and was overcome by a sense of helplessness. Art, literature, philosophy, science -- all fell silent. Even religion was helpless. Mary Shelley’s words, “farewell to the giant power of man, farewell to arts, farewell to eloquence” (The Last Man), truly capture the predicament. Human Fragility Interestingly, life was defined by a few unfamiliar words: pandemic, lockdown, quarantine, social distancing, Covid protocol, etc. Not merely did they restrict our social conduct, but they defined our very being, even death and mourning. The pandemic, thus, became a metaphor for human fragility. Not knowing how to confront the virus, we retreated to safety and remained disconnected from each other. The result was loneliness and loss of a sense of time and place. It seemed that society itself had vanished, leaving everyone in their own reality, with their own truths, with no reconciliation. Hunger, Profit & Power Hunger, profit and power were other dominant themes of 2020. Millions lost jobs as economies collapsed, pushing over 200 million people into poverty. Under the combined onslaught of pandemic and poverty, social inequality became debilitating and assumed a “violent form”, to quote Thomas Piketty. And this expressed in the form of a greater concentration of wealth. Global wealth jelled around the super rich -- just 1% owning 1/3rd of total assets. This in India is 39%, up by 17.6% compared to 2019. Further, the pandemic also provided states with an opportunity to enhance their power through emergency legislation which curtailed the rights of people, especially freedom of expression. In some countries elections were sabotaged and laws inimical to interests of vulnerable sections -- farmers, minorities, labourers and migrants -- were passed hurriedly. Need For Introspection Nevertheless, 2020 also revealed the phoenix-like potential of society. The yeoman service rendered by essential workers, initiatives for mutual help, and governmental interventions to ensure public health are signs of hope. Civil society, on its part, proved that its capacity to protest against injustice remained unextinguished. If history is any guide, we will definitely emerge from this crisis and forge ahead. That said, one should not forget the fundamental law of crises -- those who confront them never come out of them the same; it would be either better or worse. The writer is a political scientist and author||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/year-of-pandemic-power-profit/articleshow/80058590.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Goa||Pratapsingh Rane, wife test positive for Covid||Panaji: Former chief minister and Congress Poriem MLA Pratapsingh Rane and his wife Vijayadevi tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. Their son, health minister Vishwajit Rane, confirmed the news and said their treatment has started under the supervision of Dr S M Bandekar, dean, Goa Medical College (GMC) and a team of doctors. Vijayadevi has been shifted to GMC, while Pratapsingh will be taken to hospital on Saturday. “Your prayers and good wishes will help them for a speedy recovery,” said Vishwajit in a social media post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pratapsingh-rane-wife-test-positive-for-covid/articleshow/80065345.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Lucknow||100 progressive farmers from each dist to be feted under Kisan Kalyan Abhiyan||LUCKNOW: As the government prepares to roll out another outreach programme for farmers from January 6, it will felicitate 100 progressive farmers from each district under Kisan Kalyan Abhiyan. In detailed directions pertaining to the implementation of the new scheme, chief secretary RK Tiwari has directed about 12 departments to work together to roll out the plan, stating that under the state’s ongoing Mission Shakti programme for women, it is essential to ensure participation of as many women farmers under Kisan Kalyan Abhiyan as possible. Coming amid the ongoing protest by hundreds of farmers at Delhi’s borders against the new farm laws, this programme by the government aims at bringing the maximum number of farmers under central and state government schemes and, as a government official stated, “to let farmers know that the government cares for their welfare”. Kisan Kalyan Abhiyan will be rolled out across all development blocks. Tasks for all departments have been defined. These include holding of exhibitions, seminars and demonstrations. In the beginning, exhibitions will be held in targeted blocks where MSME units and self-help groups will showcase major produce and give a demonstration of techniques being used by them. This will be followed by a seminar by progressive farmers, agriculture scientists and experts who will inform farmers about the various central and state government schemes they can be a part of. Other departments have been directed to issue on-the-spot benefits to farmers under agriculture-specific schemes being run by them. The nodal department for this project, agriculture, will coordinate between various departments for programmes to be held. During the course of the outreach, officials will help farmers in procuring funds through kisan credit cards, sort out logistics issues being faced in distribution of funds under kisan samman nidhi, inform farmers about crop insurance schemes and sensitise them about the ill-effects of stubble burning and what alternatives are available to them to use the crop residue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/100-progressive-farmers-from-each-dist-to-be-feted-under-kisan-kalyan-abhiyan/articleshow/80066149.cms||Neha Lalchandani
January 2, 2021||Rajkot||Rajkot: Coop society men swindle Rs 60 crore||RAJKOT: Hundreds of people in the city have been cheated of nearly Rs 60 crore by office bearers of a credit cooperative society who lured them with handsome returns and good interest rates. Police booked Sanjay Dudhagara, Gopal Raiyani and Vipul Vasoya who were running Rameshwar Sarafi Sahakari Mandali for the past six years. All three are on the run. Dudhagara was its chairman, Raiyani vice-chairman and Vasoya the manager of the institution. “They took deposits of various amounts from people by promising them handsome returns with good interest rates. The investors were offered alluring monthly, quarterly and yearly schemes. They had made 4,200 members from Rajkot city, Padadhari taluka and Kalawad and Jamjodhpur talukas of Jamnagar too,” said police. However, many members didn’t get returns on their investment on time. The fraud came to light when Sanjay Sojitra, a resident of Rajkot city, visited the co-operative society’s office a couple of months ago and found it closed. Sojitra’s father had invested Rs 11 lakh some years ago. When his father died, Sojitra went to the society office to collect the dues worth Rs 31.67 lakh. While inquiring about the co-operative society, Sojitra learnt that the trio had duped many more members who had also approached the CID (crime) for lodging a complaint. After conducting some investigations, the Bhaktinagar police station booked the trio for fraud. Of the Rs 60 crores they swindled, Rs 3.11 crores are of people from Rajkot city while the rest from other district areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/credit-coop-society-officebearers-swindle-rs60cr-of-members/articleshow/80063602.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Kanpur||4 killed, 14 injured after bus rams into truck in Unnao||KANPUR: Four persons were killed and 14 others were injured in a road accident when a Volvo bus, in which they were travelling, rammed into a stationary container truck on Agra-Lucknow Expressway in Auras area of Unnao district on Friday morning. The bus was going to Delhi from Bihar. Four passengers died on the spot. The police reached the spot and admitted 14 injured to the nearby Community Health Centre in Auras for treatment. A few among them, who sustained critical wounds, have been referred to Trauma Centre in Lucknow. According to the police officials, the incident occurred on Friday morning whent the bus was heading towards Delhi, when it dashed into a stationary truck parked on the Expressway near Jamalpur village of Unnao. “The Volvo was badly stuck in the truck and we had to bring a crane to extricate it and rescue the trapped passengers after several hours of hard exercise. Four persons succumbed to their wounds while 14 other injured persons were sent to a nearby CHC for treatment,” said additional superintendent of police Vinod Kumar Pandey. Police officials said that the bus was carrying 65 to 70 passengers. The deceased have been identified as Shaukat Raza, Naseem Khan, Israel Mastan and Mohd Abbas, all residents of Bihar. “All were heading to Delhi. Their family members have been informed about the tragedy,” said the police official. Doctors at the CHC said the survivors had received multiple injuries in the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/4-killed-14-injured-after-bus-rams-into-truck-in-unnao/articleshow/80064831.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Allahabad||Fake marksheets racket busted in Uttar Pradesh, 3 members held||LUCKNOW: Three members of a gang selling fake and blank marksheets of different universities and schools were arrested in Alambagh area by Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force on Friday. Those arrested were identified as Sunil Kumar Sharma, Lallan Kumar and Vishwajeet Kumar. They were arrested on an informer’s tip-off from near Barha area in Alambagh. Marksheets recovered from their possession were of Lucknow University, Allahabad University, Chhatrapati Shahu Ji Maharaj University, state polytechnic, Sampurnanand Sanskrit vishwa vidyalaya along with marksheets of class 10 and 12 of different schools. DySP, STF, Avnishwar Chandra Srivastava, said that from last few days an intel was developed that one Om Dada was in possession of over hundreds marksheets of different universities, colleges and used to distribute to those who require it at any given point of time for a handsome amount. Later, they used lookalike signatures of the institute to sign and attest them. A team reached there and started searching for him when the three miscreants were traced. “We are still probing the other associates of the gang and also all others to whom they gave fake certificates in lieu of money,” said Srivastava. The officer said the marksheets recovered were of undergraduate, post-graduate and diploma, while printers were also seized from where the gang members had printed such certificates. Sources privy to the probe said that a team is also working to verify if there is an involvement of any staff members of the universities whose marksheets have been recovered. On the basis of this, action will also be taken against them.  “We will seek remand from the court soon and uncover more details,” the sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/fake-marksheets-racket-busted-3-members-held/articleshow/80069940.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Lucknow||Fake marksheets racket busted in Uttar Pradesh, 3 members held||LUCKNOW: Three members of a gang selling fake and blank marksheets of different universities and schools were arrested in Alambagh area by Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force on Friday. Those arrested were identified as Sunil Kumar Sharma, Lallan Kumar and Vishwajeet Kumar. They were arrested on an informer’s tip-off from near Barha area in Alambagh. Marksheets recovered from their possession were of Lucknow University, Allahabad University, Chhatrapati Shahu Ji Maharaj University, state polytechnic, Sampurnanand Sanskrit vishwa vidyalaya along with marksheets of class 10 and 12 of different schools. DySP, STF, Avnishwar Chandra Srivastava, said that from last few days an intel was developed that one Om Dada was in possession of over hundreds marksheets of different universities, colleges and used to distribute to those who require it at any given point of time for a handsome amount. Later, they used lookalike signatures of the institute to sign and attest them. A team reached there and started searching for him when the three miscreants were traced. “We are still probing the other associates of the gang and also all others to whom they gave fake certificates in lieu of money,” said Srivastava. The officer said the marksheets recovered were of undergraduate, post-graduate and diploma, while printers were also seized from where the gang members had printed such certificates. Sources privy to the probe said that a team is also working to verify if there is an involvement of any staff members of the universities whose marksheets have been recovered. On the basis of this, action will also be taken against them.  “We will seek remand from the court soon and uncover more details,” the sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fake-marksheets-racket-busted-3-members-held/articleshow/80066103.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Lucknow||Markets to sell Gomai idols on Saraswati Puja||LUCKNOW: ‘Gomai’ (made of cowdung) idols of Goddess Saraswati and Lord Ganesh may be available in the market this Basant Panchami. The UP Gau Seva Ayog held a workshop here on Thursday in coordination with the Khadi Gramodyog Board to educate people and organisations about manufacturing and marketing of ‘panchgavya’ products. ‘Panchgavya’ products are made of five cow derivatives which are dung, urine, milk, ghee and curd. The Khadi Gramodyog Board has decided to promote products made of cow derivatives. Chairman of the Ayog Shyam Nandan Singh said that ‘Gomai’ idols be made on basant panchami which will bring additional revenue to ‘gaushalas’. At the workshop, experts from arts university gave lessons to participants on improving the finishing of ‘gomai’ products. The participants, who included ‘gaushala’ managers, cow breeders, farmers and others making ‘panchgavya’ products, were informed about improving distribution, packaging and standardization of such products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/markets-to-sell-gomai-idols-on-saraswati-puja/articleshow/80066141.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 2, 2021||Meerut||M’nagar DM launches portal to assist transgenders||Muzaffarnagar: The district magistrate on Friday launched a portal to assist transgenders in their daily activities, like education, career, finding residence, etc. Transgenders can register themselves online and avail assistance. The portal will also assist other disadvantaged people, like widows, the differently abled, drug addicts, et al.DM Selva Kumari J launched the portal on Friday to mark the New Year, in the presence of district officials, transgenders and other needy women. The administration also roped in industrialists and prominent residents of the district to contribute to the scheme. Paper mill owner Bheem Sain Kansal and other industrialists attended the event.Two weeks ago, at a meeting with transgenders held in the collectorate, the DM had announced the administration would launch a website to assist transgenders and other disadvantaged people to apply for educational assistance or seek help on any other issue. More than 50 members of the transgender community had attended the meeting. All of them expressed they wanted to lead a “normal life” and “take up work normal people do”. Some wanted to attend college, while others wanted to start their own businesses.They also said they wanted to be saved from the daily harassment they undergo from normal society that ranges from teasing to molestation, due to their looks.While launching the state’s first online helpline for the community, the DM promised to provide them all help to resolve their problems. Through the website, the administration promises to provide guidance to transgenders on education, rehabilitation, health and also the much-needed physiological support.There are at least 380 transgenders in the district. Most of them earn their livelihood by dancing and collecting ‘shagun’ from families witnessing weddings or new births.The transgenders who were invited to the DM’s office were also informed about the central government website that disburses identity certificates for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/mnagar-dm-launches-portal-to-assist-transgenders/articleshow/80063601.cms||Mohd Dilshad
January 2, 2021||Rajkot||Six booked for abetting woman’s suicide in property dispute||Rajkot: Rajkot Taluka police station on Thursday booked six persons in connection with a suicide of a 24-year-old woman who ended her life by consuming poisonous substance on December 7 in Rajkot city.According to police, Anil Sagathiya, 23, a resident of Panchsheel Nagar in Rajkot, lodged a complaint against his elder uncle Jayanti Sagathia and his five sons — Piyush, Rajesh, Kirit, Ketan and Chhagan — for abetment of suicide of his sister Anjali Sagathia. “Anil’s father Prakash and Jayanti are brothers and they had been at loggerhead over an ancestral property. After Prakash passed away, Jayanti and his sons were not willing to share the property with Anil and his sister. In the first week of December, there was major quarrel between the two families and Anil then lodged a complaint against Jayanti and his sons. Cops briefly arrested them in the case which angered them and began fresh quarrel with Anil and his sister Anjali on December 6. Tired over the endless squabbling, Anjali took her own life on December 7 by consuming some poisonous substances. She was rushed to the civil hospital where succumbed,” police said. Anil Saghathia works as a traffic warden with Rajkot city police’s traffic department. Meanwhile, police arrested one of the accused, Ketan, on Thursday and put him in the police lock-up where he attempted suicide. He was rushed to hospital where his condition is stated to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/six-booked-for-abetting-womans-suicide-in-property-dispute/articleshow/80063610.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Goa||Not just SOPs, Goa didn’t check for drunken drivers last night either||PANAJI: Every year, 300-odd persons are booked for drunken driving on New Year’s Eve. On Thursday, that number was zero. Not only did the state government fail to enforce Covid safety measures on New Year’s Eve, it also, for the first time in years, didn’t conduct a drive to crack down on drunken driving. The reason? Covid risk. The traffic cell instead directed its workforce to regulate traffic, especially on the coastal belt, as there was a heavy rush, and a lot of outstation vehicles had come to celebrate the New Year in Goa. “We were not doing enforcement per se and not many challans were issued,” said deputy superintendent of traffic, Salim Shaikh. “Traffic police staff was deployed in carrying out smooth movement and parking of vehicles.” Usually, police on these drives conduct a breath analyser test using an alcometer, and the vehicle is detained and the driver booked. “If a person caught drunken driving is tested on the alcometer, we can change the pipe for the next user to ensure it is not infected,” Shaikh said. “But the risk is that the cop holding the alcometer will get infected even if the pipe is changed. Moreover, the device also goes through other hands since it’s taken to the station for charging. We cannot take chances of multiple infections among traffic staff.” However, some vehicles were towed and challaned for wrongful parking, police said, adding that cases were also booked for accidents. Two of these were major accidents, and both involved rash and negligent driving. After a night of not testing motorists for drunken driving, Shaikh said, “Last night, not a single person was detained on suspicion of drunken driving.” However, he said the traffic cell will continue to carry out its usual surprise checks for the violation, where all major junctions are manned in a nakabandi and cases booked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/not-just-sops-state-didnt-check-for-drunken-drivers-last-night-either/articleshow/80065347.cms||Nida Sayed
January 2, 2021||Kanpur||Small Arms factory launches .32 bore revolver ‘Prahaar’||KANPUR: Small Arms Factory, Kanpur, launched a new state-of-the-art .32 bore revolver ‘Prahaar', on Friday. GM of the factory AK Maurya while elaborating over the features of `Prahaar' said, "This product is being manufactured under ‘Make in India mission’ and its trial has been successful. We expect to get a positive response from dealers as well as buyers in the civil market." "Its range is up to 50 metre and has cerakoted surface finish (black and titanium), which provides enhanced resistance against corrosion. It has a wooden grip for better ergonomics," he said. Those present during the launch were assistant general manager Tushar Tripathi, AGM Rolly M Varma and joint general manager Pawan Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/small-arms-factory-launches-32-bore-revolver-prahaar/articleshow/80064805.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow University students hail re-evaluation move||LUCKNOW: Students have welcomed the decision of Lucknow University to allow “challenge re-evaluation” of examination answer copies which will enable them to clear all doubts about allotment of marks. The system was approved in the examination committee meeting held recently under which if students are not satisfied with their marks, they can opt for rechecking. Re-evaluation will be done after a student submits an application along with the required fee. The result will be informed to the student via email. Though the fee for re-evaluation will be announced soon, sources said it could be around Rs 2,500. If the difference of marks before and after re-evaluation is 20% or more, action will be taken against the teacher who checked the copy earlier. “Earlier, the only option to see answer copies was through Right to Information which was a cumbersome process. Moreover, one could only see the copy under the arrangement and could not get it rechecked,” said Vishal Singh, a student of MA (Applied Economics). He said the system would bring more transparency in the evaluation process. Some students, however, felt that if Rs 2,500 are charged as fee, it would be an expensive option, considering the socio-economic background of a section of students. “The move is good but the biggest drawback is the high fee, which everyone will not be able to afford,” said BA student Gauri Srivastava. LU officials said the fee in other universities was Rs 5,000 or above. “We have put a provision of fee so that only student with genuine concerns apply for challenge re-evaluation, otherwise there will be a flood of applications which will derail the entire process,” a senior officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-students-hail-re-evaluation-move/articleshow/80066113.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Lucknow||Awareness drive on female foeticide to start from January 24||LUCKNOW: A week-long drive to sensitise people against female foeticide will be launched in the state from January 24. The programme will be conducted by the directorate of prosecution under the Mission Shakti campaign. During the seven days, discussions will be held on the extent of the problem and its legal aspects. “On the first day, a discussion will be held at Capital World School in Nigohan. Over the subsequent days, discussions on investigation of cases and their legal points will be held with participants. Rural women will be especially sensitised about the issue of female foeticide. On the last day of the drive on January 30, a woman staff member of the joint directorate, prosecution, will be made in charge of the office for a day when discussions on latest amendments in the legal provisions of the PCPNDT Act will be held, said a government spokesperson. On Friday, the agriculture department had organised an awareness programme on women’s empowerment at the State Institute for Management of Agriculture at Rehman Kheda in Lucknow. It was attended by 62 women farmers. Another programme was organised to sensitise women about following traffic rules like using helmets and seatbelts, traffic signals and signs. Organised by the social welfare department, the awareness programmes also gave details of new rules for driving licence. The Childline team in Ramsanehi Ghat in Barabanki met parents of dropout children and informed them about the benefits of education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/awareness-drive-on-female-foeticide-to-start-from-jan-24/articleshow/80066152.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Nagpur||Govt’s cotton purchase saving grace for farmers||Nagpur: Once again government intervention has helped farmers in Vidarbha. The procurement by Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) at minimum support price (MSP) in 2020 was three times as compared to the same period in the previous year. There are signs of cotton prices improving, said sources in market. This comes at a time when protesting farmers from Punjab are apprehensive that the regime which follows the new agriculture laws may finish the MSP system. The government has assured that the MSP will remain. CCI is the agency that buys cotton at MSP if the rates fall below the level. The CCI procurement comes as a saviour for cultivator in Vidarbha where cotton is the main crop, say farmers as well as private traders. Farmers here are left with substantial losses due to damage to the soyabean crop. This had left them cash-starved and rushing to the CCI centres to sell at MSP. The MSP is at Rs5,800 for the best grade of cotton. CCI chairman Pradeep Kumar Agrawal told TOI that this year the procurement so far has been at 75 lakh bales which is thrice that of the same period last year. The numbers are almost the same for Maharashtra too. “Nearly 45% of the cotton arrivals in the country has been purchased by the CCI so far,” he said. In Maharashtra, total cotton output is expected to be 80 lakh bales. “As against this, 35 lakh bales have reached the market and CCI has purchased 15 lakh bales,” the CCI chairman said. Agrawal said CCI is ready to stay in the market till September. However, prices have already begun improving and soon the farmers may start selling the produce to private traders. “The CCI procurement figures are so far higher than the same period last year. However, the end of the season figures need to be compared instead to get the right view,” said Sunil Kothari, director of an agriculture produce marketing committee (APMC) at Hinganghat in Wardha district. “However, there are also signs of the rates improving slightly,” he said. Veteran farm activist Vijay Jawandhia said there is little chance the rates may improve unless there is a movement in the international rates. “The price of lint in the international market needs to go beyond one dollar a pound so that raw cotton fetches a better price in India. It is 83 cents at present. Or else the price of cotton seeds should go beyond Rs3,000 a quintal in the domestic market from Rs2,300,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govts-cotton-purchase-saving-grace-for-farmers/articleshow/80064320.cms||Shishir Arya
January 2, 2021||Chandigarh||SAD demands paramilitary forces for civic body polls||Chandigarh: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday asked the Punjab state election commission to requisition paramilitary forces for the conduct of free and fair elections to municipal bodies. The party also demanded a slew of measures to ensure that ruling Congress does not hijack the entire process as it allegedly did in the case of the zila parishad and panchayat samiti elections earlier. In a letter to state election commissioner Jagpal Singh Sandhu, SAD spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema also demanded videography inside the polling booth and the office of returning officers to ward off booth capturing and other malpractices. The SAD leader demanded that online filing of nominations be allowed and candidates issued no dues certificates on the basis of self- declarations pending verification. The former cabinet minister asked the election commissioner to establish a 24X7 room to stay abreast with all developments and to be able to take appropriate action in case of violations of the model code of conduct immediately. He asked the commission to make its e-mail address as well as twitter handle public so that people could approach it easily. A request has also been made to make a special app which could be used by the general public to share violations of the model code of conduct immediately. Cheema said he had made all these suggestions considering that during the zila parishad and samiti elections there had been 164 recorded cases of booth capturing. He also urged that paramilitary forces be employed at all booths across Punjab to rule out booth capturing. The Akali leader requested the poll officer to hold a meeting with all political parties to sort out pending issues and submitted that there was confusion about the new wards which had been created recently. He said voter lists had still not been provided and candidates were finding it difficult to get their no dues certificates as executive officers not sitting in office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-demands-paramilitary-forces-for-civic-body-polls/articleshow/80064314.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Ajmer||Hit by Covid, Kota coaching centres march for reopen nod||JAIPUR: The coaching centres of Kota, the city's lifeline, have decided to go on the war path to convince the government to reopen the institutes. Hit hard by the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and closed since March 22, these major stakeholders are desperate to get their coaching centres running and have threatened to go on an indefinite strike from January 8. The coaching institutes, hostels, caterers, transporters, real estate agents and lifestyle businesses have together reportedly suffered severe losses due to the absence of 1.50 lakh students. On an average, every student spends around Rs 2 lakh annually in the city, providing livelihood to its 19-lakh population directly or indirectly. On Friday, over 1,000 stakeholders marched in the city and urged the government to restart coaching classes and save them from extreme economic crisis. This is one of a series of protests planned by them in the city over the past few days. Even politicians from the BJP and the ruling Congress have joined the chorus. Lok Sabha speaker and Kota MP Om Birla urged chief minister Ashok Gehlot to reopen the coaching centres in Kota. UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal gave an assurance that the government would issue an order for the same in a few days. Calling it a struggle for survival, Kota Vyapar Sangh (KVS), a body of 150 business associations in the city, is leading the protest from the front. KVS secretary Ashok Maheshwari said the entire city was on the brink of an economic collapse. “Our rough estimates say that local business in Kota have suffered a loss of Rs 3,000 crore till December. Around one lakh employees have lost their jobs directly, while close to three lakh persons have lost jobs in the unorganised sector,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/hit-by-covid-kota-coachingcentres-march-for-reopen-nod/articleshow/80067452.cms||Shoeb Khan
January 2, 2021||Aurangabad||Zone offices to stay open on public holidays||Aurangabad: With collection of water and property taxes at an all-time low, the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has decided to keep its zone offices open even on public holidays in order to boost the collection figures. According to deputy municipal commissioner Aparna Thete, collection of taxes has remained low and so far the total tax collection has remained at a meagre 11% of the set target. “The tax payers, who usually do not find time to go to the zone offices for manually paying the taxes will now not have an excuse about the offices remaining closed.” she said. As per the arrangements made, all the nine zone offices will function from 9 am to 2 pm on public holidays, including Sunday. For the financial year 2020-21, the AMC administrator Astik Kumar Pandey had set a target of recovering Rs 468 crore through taxes which include the residential and commercial taxes that have been defaulted for years together. However between March and December, only Rs 53 crore has been collected, making it to just roughly over 11% of the set target. During the corresponding months last year, a total of Rs 63 crore was collected in taxes, while a total of Rs 110 crore was collected during the previous financial year. The ongoing pandemic and imposition of lockdown led to job cuts and losses for the businesses. Its impact can be seen on the collection of taxes with the civic body also confirming that there are several regular tax payers, who have failed to pay the taxes so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/zone-offices-to-stay-open-on-public-holidays/articleshow/80063612.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 2, 2021||Jodhpur||Hit by Covid, Kota coaching centres march for reopen nod||JAIPUR: The coaching centres of Kota, the city's lifeline, have decided to go on the war path to convince the government to reopen the institutes. Hit hard by the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and closed since March 22, these major stakeholders are desperate to get their coaching centres running and have threatened to go on an indefinite strike from January 8. The coaching institutes, hostels, caterers, transporters, real estate agents and lifestyle businesses have together reportedly suffered severe losses due to the absence of 1.50 lakh students. On an average, every student spends around Rs 2 lakh annually in the city, providing livelihood to its 19-lakh population directly or indirectly. On Friday, over 1,000 stakeholders marched in the city and urged the government to restart coaching classes and save them from extreme economic crisis. This is one of a series of protests planned by them in the city over the past few days. Even politicians from the BJP and the ruling Congress have joined the chorus. Lok Sabha speaker and Kota MP Om Birla urged chief minister Ashok Gehlot to reopen the coaching centres in Kota. UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal gave an assurance that the government would issue an order for the same in a few days. Calling it a struggle for survival, Kota Vyapar Sangh (KVS), a body of 150 business associations in the city, is leading the protest from the front. KVS secretary Ashok Maheshwari said the entire city was on the brink of an economic collapse. “Our rough estimates say that local business in Kota have suffered a loss of Rs 3,000 crore till December. Around one lakh employees have lost their jobs directly, while close to three lakh persons have lost jobs in the unorganised sector,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/hit-by-covid-kota-coachingcentres-march-for-reopen-nod/articleshow/80067449.cms||Shoeb Khan
January 2, 2021||Jaipur||Hit by Covid, Kota coaching centres march for reopen nod||JAIPUR: The coaching centres of Kota, the city's lifeline, have decided to go on the war path to convince the government to reopen the institutes. Hit hard by the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and closed since March 22, these major stakeholders are desperate to get their coaching centres running and have threatened to go on an indefinite strike from January 8. The coaching institutes, hostels, caterers, transporters, real estate agents and lifestyle businesses have together reportedly suffered severe losses due to the absence of 1.50 lakh students. On an average, every student spends around Rs 2 lakh annually in the city, providing livelihood to its 19-lakh population directly or indirectly. On Friday, over 1,000 stakeholders marched in the city and urged the government to restart coaching classes and save them from extreme economic crisis. This is one of a series of protests planned by them in the city over the past few days. Even politicians from the BJP and the ruling Congress have joined the chorus. Lok Sabha speaker and Kota MP Om Birla urged chief minister Ashok Gehlot to reopen the coaching centres in Kota. UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal gave an assurance that the government would issue an order for the same in a few days. Calling it a struggle for survival, Kota Vyapar Sangh (KVS), a body of 150 business associations in the city, is leading the protest from the front. KVS secretary Ashok Maheshwari said the entire city was on the brink of an economic collapse. “Our rough estimates say that local business in Kota have suffered a loss of Rs 3,000 crore till December. Around one lakh employees have lost their jobs directly, while close to three lakh persons have lost jobs in the unorganised sector,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hit-by-covid-kota-coachingcentres-march-for-reopen-nod/articleshow/80065373.cms||Shoeb Khan
January 2, 2021||Udaipur||Hit by Covid, Kota coaching centres march for reopen nod||JAIPUR: The coaching centres of Kota, the city's lifeline, have decided to go on the war path to convince the government to reopen the institutes. Hit hard by the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and closed since March 22, these major stakeholders are desperate to get their coaching centres running and have threatened to go on an indefinite strike from January 8. The coaching institutes, hostels, caterers, transporters, real estate agents and lifestyle businesses have together reportedly suffered severe losses due to the absence of 1.50 lakh students. On an average, every student spends around Rs 2 lakh annually in the city, providing livelihood to its 19-lakh population directly or indirectly. On Friday, over 1,000 stakeholders marched in the city and urged the government to restart coaching classes and save them from extreme economic crisis. This is one of a series of protests planned by them in the city over the past few days. Even politicians from the BJP and the ruling Congress have joined the chorus. Lok Sabha speaker and Kota MP Om Birla urged chief minister Ashok Gehlot to reopen the coaching centres in Kota. UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal gave an assurance that the government would issue an order for the same in a few days. Calling it a struggle for survival, Kota Vyapar Sangh (KVS), a body of 150 business associations in the city, is leading the protest from the front. KVS secretary Ashok Maheshwari said the entire city was on the brink of an economic collapse. “Our rough estimates say that local business in Kota have suffered a loss of Rs 3,000 crore till December. Around one lakh employees have lost their jobs directly, while close to three lakh persons have lost jobs in the unorganised sector,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/hit-by-covid-kota-coachingcentres-march-for-reopen-nod/articleshow/80067450.cms||Shoeb Khan
January 2, 2021||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh: ‘Hooligan tourists’ damage Atal Tunnel infra, create chaos||MANALI: Groups of hooligan tourists, especially from Delhi, Haryana, UP and Punjab, seem hell-bent on destroying the infrastructure and beauty of the crucial 9.02-km-long Atal Tunnel under Rohtang Pass. They not only throw plastic waste inside the tunnel from moving cars but also damage the security instruments. Within past fortnight, some tourists damaged the fire hydrant glass box in the middle of the tunnel, stopped cars midway to take selfies and even answer the nature’s call. Many tourists were seen sitting on the roof of the vehicles and sometimes vehicles running with all doors wide open. A total of 25 tourists have been arrested and fine worth Rs 50,000 collected in past few days. All such strange and shameful acts of the tourists are being caught on the security cameras that cover every inch of the tunnel. “They drink and create ruckus inside the tunnel after stopping vehicles anywhere. Some drive on the wrong side and some park inside the tunnel. They have broken the median traffic cones. The hooligans are leaving no stone unturned in damaging the beauty of the tunnel which we should treat as a national monument. This is matter of happiness that Atal tunnel has emerged as major tourist destination in a short time period but tourists should understand the importance of the tunnel and should treat it respectfully as it is the pride of the nation,” a Border Roads Organisation (BRO) official said on the condition anoynmity. The officials concerned said each day they collected plastic wrappers and repair the damaged cones and other things after closing the tunnel for one hour from 11am to 12pm. They said some tourists, despite being explained to, stop cars anywhere in tunnel which can lead to collisions. “Stopping of large number vehicles inside tunnel means increase in carbon level. Also, the area near tunnel is prone to avalanches. Stopping vehicles can prove fatal,” he said. Such irresponsible behaviour has forced BRO to decrease the speed limit in tunnel from 80kmph to 60kmph. While some drive very rashly and fast, others drive too slow that holds back the whole lane. The tunnel has single lane in each direction. Another BRO official said tourists could be seen checking the electrical panels of the tunnel on security cameras. He adds, “Touching and damaging security equipments is matter of concern. We shall not be capable of responding to emergency if the system is damaged by visitors.” The tunnel has witnessed huge traffic movement in the last few days during Christmas and New Year holidays as thousands of people visited Manali. Both Kullu and Lahaul-Spiti police are responsible for smooth traffic management and checking law and order. While Kullu police are taking care of approach road to the tunnel from Manali along with entire tunnel, Lahaul-Spiti police are guarding the north portal of the tunnel. After recent incidents, security has been beefed up. Cops on bikes have been deployed and police have warned visitors of strict action in case of any kind of violation in the strategically important tunnel. The tourist crowd is expected to continue till mid-January. On Friday, 1,990 vehicles crossed the tunnel to reach Lahaul valley, while over 3,800 vehicles entered the tunnel from both ends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hooligan-tourists-damage-atal-tunnel-infra-create-chaos/articleshow/80064315.cms||Suresh Sharma
January 2, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Girl ends life as dad refuses to bail out her lover||RAJKOT: Failing to persuade her father to bail out her lover from jail, a lovelorn 17-year-old girl took the drastic step by hanging herself to death, at her residence in Jamkhambhalia town of Devbhoomi Dwarka district on Thursday evening. The 21-year-old lover belonged to a different faith and the father was opposed to her wishes to marry him, said cops. “Two months ago, the girl's father had lodged a complaint against the youth under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012 with the local police station for allegedly kidnapping his minor daughter. Police arrested him and he is currently lodged in jail serving a sentence,” police sources said. However, the girl was adamant on marrying her lover and kept pleading with her father to get him out on bail, which he rigidly denied and finally, the frustrated girl took the extreme step to show her anguish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/girl-ends-life-as-dad-refuses-to-bail-out-her-lover/articleshow/80063545.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||Housing inflation in urban Gujarat down by 45%||AHMEDABAD: In contrast to other inflation trends, all of which seem to be moving upwards, housing inflation in urban Gujarat has dropped from 5.3% (2018-19) to 2.9% in 2019-20. This year, it was the lowest since 2014-15. Data by the Reserve Bank of India reveals that housing inflation had been increasing since 2015-16. It was 3.4% in 2015-16 and increased to 5.3% by 2018-19. Sources said stabilization of prices of units and demand for housing has reined in the inflation. While the housing inflation in Gujarat is the same as that of Delhi, only Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Goa, Chhattisgarh and Haryana had lower housing inflation. Ashish Patel, the president of Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI) Gujarat chapter, said that the prices in the urban sector in Gujarat have remained stagnant for the last five years. “Since the demonetization the prices of land have remained unchanged and the state government increased the FSI, which led to more construction and the affordability increased in the state especially in urban areas.” Jaxay Shah, chairman CREDAI, national, said lifestyle in Gujarat has improved and the affordability has also increased for the people. Builders in Gujarat are working at minimum profitability, Moreover, the ecosystem in Gujarat is conducive. The state has taken several measures and was very active in clearing the town planning schemes. “Urbanization in the state was over 50% and this was the reason that the affordability was also increasing in the state. Apart from the government measures the various infrastructure projects in the state have also contributed in this,” said Shah. Ahmedabad city has been rated as India’s most affordable housing market in real estate consultant Knight Frank’s affordability index 2020. With an affordability ratio of 24%, Ahmedabad is the most affordable among the top eight cities in India. Ahmedabad is followed by followed by Pune and Chennai, each having affordability ratio of 26%. “Even in the pandemic year of 2020, housing affordability has further improved. Decline in house prices and multi-decade low home loan interest rates have helped improve housing affordability in 2020,” said the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/housing-inflation-down-by-45/articleshow/80065349.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 2, 2021||Surat||Housing inflation in urban Gujarat down by 45%||AHMEDABAD: In contrast to other inflation trends, all of which seem to be moving upwards, housing inflation in urban Gujarat has dropped from 5.3% (2018-19) to 2.9% in 2019-20. This year, it was the lowest since 2014-15. Data by the Reserve Bank of India reveals that housing inflation had been increasing since 2015-16. It was 3.4% in 2015-16 and increased to 5.3% by 2018-19. Sources said stabilization of prices of units and demand for housing has reined in the inflation. While the housing inflation in Gujarat is the same as that of Delhi, only Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Goa, Chhattisgarh and Haryana had lower housing inflation. Ashish Patel, the president of Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI) Gujarat chapter, said that the prices in the urban sector in Gujarat have remained stagnant for the last five years. “Since the demonetization the prices of land have remained unchanged and the state government increased the FSI, which led to more construction and the affordability increased in the state especially in urban areas.” Jaxay Shah, chairman CREDAI, national, said lifestyle in Gujarat has improved and the affordability has also increased for the people. Builders in Gujarat are working at minimum profitability, Moreover, the ecosystem in Gujarat is conducive. The state has taken several measures and was very active in clearing the town planning schemes. “Urbanization in the state was over 50% and this was the reason that the affordability was also increasing in the state. Apart from the government measures the various infrastructure projects in the state have also contributed in this,” said Shah. Ahmedabad city has been rated as India’s most affordable housing market in real estate consultant Knight Frank’s affordability index 2020. With an affordability ratio of 24%, Ahmedabad is the most affordable among the top eight cities in India. Ahmedabad is followed by followed by Pune and Chennai, each having affordability ratio of 26%. “Even in the pandemic year of 2020, housing affordability has further improved. Decline in house prices and multi-decade low home loan interest rates have helped improve housing affordability in 2020,” said the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/housing-inflation-down-by-45/articleshow/80068429.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 2, 2021||Lucknow||Covid vaccination dry run at 6 Lucknow centres today||LUCKNOW: Ahead of the actual rollout, a dry run for Covid-19 vaccination will be conducted at six places in the city on Saturday. Health minister Jai Pratap Singh said the drive will be monitored to share the experience with other districts. “The entire exercise will be monitored at the state level to ensure that the process is executed flawlessly,” he added. Dr M K Singh , district immunisation officer, said: “The dry run has been arranged to evaluate our preparedness as vaccine may be rolled out soon.” The mock drill will be held at KGMU, SGPGIMS, RMLIMS, a private hospital in Gomtinagar, community health centres in Mal and Malihabad, he added. In the dry run, vans with dummy vaccines kept in cold chain boxes will start from the Aishbagh cold chain storage and reach the vaccination sites via vaccine carrier. At immunisation sites, the staff will take out the jabs and keep them in the inoculation room. There will be three rooms at the vaccination sites. The entry will be allowed through the first room, where ID and other details of the recipients will be matched. The beneficiary will then be sent to the vaccination room.  In the last room, all beneficiaries will be spending 25 minutes post-vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-vaccination-dry-run-at-6-lucknow-centres-today/articleshow/80066099.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Vadodara||Housing inflation in urban Gujarat down by 45%||AHMEDABAD: In contrast to other inflation trends, all of which seem to be moving upwards, housing inflation in urban Gujarat has dropped from 5.3% (2018-19) to 2.9% in 2019-20. This year, it was the lowest since 2014-15. Data by the Reserve Bank of India reveals that housing inflation had been increasing since 2015-16. It was 3.4% in 2015-16 and increased to 5.3% by 2018-19. Sources said stabilization of prices of units and demand for housing has reined in the inflation. While the housing inflation in Gujarat is the same as that of Delhi, only Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Goa, Chhattisgarh and Haryana had lower housing inflation. Ashish Patel, the president of Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI) Gujarat chapter, said that the prices in the urban sector in Gujarat have remained stagnant for the last five years. “Since the demonetization the prices of land have remained unchanged and the state government increased the FSI, which led to more construction and the affordability increased in the state especially in urban areas.” Jaxay Shah, chairman CREDAI, national, said lifestyle in Gujarat has improved and the affordability has also increased for the people. Builders in Gujarat are working at minimum profitability, Moreover, the ecosystem in Gujarat is conducive. The state has taken several measures and was very active in clearing the town planning schemes. “Urbanization in the state was over 50% and this was the reason that the affordability was also increasing in the state. Apart from the government measures the various infrastructure projects in the state have also contributed in this,” said Shah. Ahmedabad city has been rated as India’s most affordable housing market in real estate consultant Knight Frank’s affordability index 2020. With an affordability ratio of 24%, Ahmedabad is the most affordable among the top eight cities in India. Ahmedabad is followed by followed by Pune and Chennai, each having affordability ratio of 26%. “Even in the pandemic year of 2020, housing affordability has further improved. Decline in house prices and multi-decade low home loan interest rates have helped improve housing affordability in 2020,” said the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/housing-inflation-down-by-45/articleshow/80068427.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 2, 2021||Rajkot||Housing inflation in urban Gujarat down by 45%||AHMEDABAD: In contrast to other inflation trends, all of which seem to be moving upwards, housing inflation in urban Gujarat has dropped from 5.3% (2018-19) to 2.9% in 2019-20. This year, it was the lowest since 2014-15. Data by the Reserve Bank of India reveals that housing inflation had been increasing since 2015-16. It was 3.4% in 2015-16 and increased to 5.3% by 2018-19. Sources said stabilization of prices of units and demand for housing has reined in the inflation. While the housing inflation in Gujarat is the same as that of Delhi, only Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Goa, Chhattisgarh and Haryana had lower housing inflation. Ashish Patel, the president of Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI) Gujarat chapter, said that the prices in the urban sector in Gujarat have remained stagnant for the last five years. “Since the demonetization the prices of land have remained unchanged and the state government increased the FSI, which led to more construction and the affordability increased in the state especially in urban areas.” Jaxay Shah, chairman CREDAI, national, said lifestyle in Gujarat has improved and the affordability has also increased for the people. Builders in Gujarat are working at minimum profitability, Moreover, the ecosystem in Gujarat is conducive. The state has taken several measures and was very active in clearing the town planning schemes. “Urbanization in the state was over 50% and this was the reason that the affordability was also increasing in the state. Apart from the government measures the various infrastructure projects in the state have also contributed in this,” said Shah. Ahmedabad city has been rated as India’s most affordable housing market in real estate consultant Knight Frank’s affordability index 2020. With an affordability ratio of 24%, Ahmedabad is the most affordable among the top eight cities in India. Ahmedabad is followed by followed by Pune and Chennai, each having affordability ratio of 26%. “Even in the pandemic year of 2020, housing affordability has further improved. Decline in house prices and multi-decade low home loan interest rates have helped improve housing affordability in 2020,” said the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/housing-inflation-down-by-45/articleshow/80068428.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 2, 2021||Ludhiana||184 fraud travel agents of city in the FIRing line||Ludhiana: The Ludhiana Police booked 184 fraud travel agents in 83 cases on Friday. This is for the first time the police undertook a crackdown of this scale. As part of a special drive started on the New Year, the police formed 45 teams to work on the complaints against those who cheated people on the pretext of sending them abroad.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “In Ludhiana, there is a big nexus of fraud travel agents. There were complaints pending with the police. Therefore, 45 special teams were formed to investigate the complaints and dispose them of. After completing the inquiries, the teams lodged FIRs.” “On Friday, 184 fraud travel agents were booked in 83 cases. Many of these agents don’t even have the licence to work as immigration officers. We request residents to first check the authenticity of travel agents and then give them money. There is a list of authorised travel agents on the website of the ministry of external affairs. People should check it and approach the genuine agents to avoid any kind of loss,” he added. Division 5 police have registered maximum cases (14) against 35 fraud travel agents. Division 8 cops have lodged 10 FIRs against 31 accused. Model Town police have filed 11 FIRs against 19 fraudsters. Dehlon police have registered eight cases against 14 fraud travel agents, Dugri police have lodged three FIRs against five, Sadar police lodged two FIRs against two accused, Sahnewal police filed a case against two, Shimlapuri police have registered three cases against six fraudsters, Division 6 cops have filed six FIRs against eight accused.Sarabha Nagar as well as Haibowal police have registered one case each against three and one accused, respectively. PAU police have booked one such travel agent. Koomkalan, Moti Nagar, Tibba Road and Meharban police each have registered two cases against four accused.Salem Tabri police registered one case against five accused, Jodhewal cops lodged one case against an accused, Division 1 police registered four cases against 13, Division 2 cops filed four FIRs against eight, Division 3 police lodged one FIR against three. All FIRs were lodged under Section 420 (cheating) and the Immigration Act. Agarwal said the drive would continue in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/184-fraud-travel-agents-of-city-in-the-firing-line/articleshow/80063627.cms||Payal Dhawan
January 2, 2021||Lucknow||Hit by Covid-19 pandemic, UP exports spring back to recovery||LUCKNOW:Despite experiencing a setback following the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic in March last year, UP’s exports made massive gains in last four months leading to a major turnaround putting the state on the path of recovery. As compared to national average drop of 12.47% in exports between April and November last year due to the pandemic, UP’s exports dipped by just 9.43%. The state made major gains in four months, from August to November, as its exports were impacted by as much as 30% in the first four months of financial year 2020-21. “Economic activity worldwide had come to a grinding halt due to Covid-19 lockdown. As a result, exports in the country as well as Uttar Pradesh declined significantly. However, due to measures taken by the government under directions of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, UP has made a sizable recovery,” additional chief secretary (MSME) Navneet Sehgal said. Data of the department of exports shows that from April-November 2019, products worth Rs 14,84,386.5 crore were exported from the country of which UP’s share was about Rs 80,058.44 crore. During the corresponding period in 2020, products worth Rs 12,99,354.87 crore were exported from the country of which UP’s share was Rs 72,508.14 crore. After lockdown restrictions were lifted, export of pharmaceuticals, spices and cereals picked up in Uttar Pradesh. Exports in pharmaceutical sector went up by 15% in the second half of the year which export of rice and iron ore also increased. “About 80% of the state’s total exports are good under One District, One Product scheme. These contributed significantly to the improvement in overall performance,” an official said. “Once restrictions were lifted, the government, MSME and export departments established contact with embassies of various countries and customs departments. The government also wrote to embassies, asking them to allow free movement of goods. These steps helped in improvement of exports,” the official added. Under the ‘Ease of Doing Business’ plan, exporters were provided various facilities and the government launched a plan to develop districts as export hubs. “Export of textiles, floor covering, meat, brass decorative products, toys, sports and wood products saw a boom during the second half of 2020.UP already ranks first in export of these goods,” the official added. Normally, maximum exports from UP include handicrafts, processed meat, leather products and carpets. The state is exporting goods to USA, UAE, Vietnam, UK, Nepal, Germany, China, France, Spain and Malaysia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hit-by-covid-19-pandemic-up-exports-spring-back-to-recovery/articleshow/80066136.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Kanpur||UP: Car stolen two years ago found in SHO’s possession||KANPUR: A probe has been ordered after station house officer (SHO) of Bithoor Kaushlendra Pratap Singh was found to be in possession of a car stolen two years ago. The incident came to light after its real owner received a call from an auto service centre seeking his feedback with regard to its recent servicing. To recall, Kaushlendra Pratap Singh, was one of the cops injured in the Bikru ambush, in which eight policemen were killed by gangster Vikas Dubey and his men on July 2-3 last. Omendra Soni, a resident of Barra and the owner of the Wagon-R car, who runs an advertisement agency, said his vehicle was stolen from Barra area from a car washing centre on December 31, 2018. He said though he had lodged an FIR with the Barra police but the vehicle could not be found. On Wednesday, he got a call from a service centre inquiring if his vehicle was running fine after the service was done a few days ago. “It was really surprising, when I was asked by a service centre employee on the basis of chassis number of the vehicle, to give a feedback regarding servicing of my Wagon-R car stolen two years ago from a service centre in Barra on December 31 2018”, said the vehicle owner and added, “I then visited the service centre where its staff told me that after its servicing, the vehicle was returned to SO Bithoor, Kaushlendra Pratap Singh on December 22.” “What puzzled me was why the police, despite having recovered my vehicle, did not inform me or the Barra police where a complaint in this regard was lodged by me in 2018,” he said According to police sources, SHO Bithoor Kaushlendra Pratap Singh told his seniors that he had found the car abandoned near the Pulses Institute near GT Road on December 14 after which it was seized and brought to the Bithoor police station. “During an emergency, the vehicle was recently used by the police station staff. As it had developed some snag, the staff sent the vehicle to a service centre. After the snag was repaired, the staff took the vehicle to Bithoor police station,” the sources further said. SSP/DIG Preetinder Singh said,”One cannot use a seized vehicle as it is a violation of law. A circle officer has been asked to conduct a probe and submit its report. Those found responsible would face serious departmental action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/car-stolen-two-years-ago-found-in-shos-possession/articleshow/80064864.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
January 2, 2021||Nagpur||Ajab Prem Ki Gajab Kahani: Girl chooses parents over boyfriend in HC||Nagpur: In an interesting case that came up for hearing in the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court which resembled a Bollywood romantic flick, a 27-year-old girl declined to stay with her 19-year-old boyfriend from Chennai and preferred to live with her parents here. While her father is unemployed and looks after household chores, her mother is a schoolteacher. The city based girl, a chemical engineering graduate, who’s also undergoing BEd, had grown friendly with the youth, who’s eight years younger than her. After some differences with parents, she fled to Pune in November, where the boyfriend also arrived from Chennai and they stayed in a hotel together. They later arrived in city and again stayed together at a hotel. Later, both lodged a police complaint against her parents, as they were insisting their daughter to return home. After she was convinced by her parents, her boyfriend filed a case through counsel Raju Kadu against Sitabuldi Police Station for their inaction on his complaint of her wrongful confinement. When the petition came up for a hearing before Justice Anil Kilor, he asked the police to produce the girl in court. The judge interacted with her in presence of two female court staffers to find out the veracity of allegations against her parents. She admitted to differences with the parents on her health issues. Justice Kilor also spoke to her mother where she revealed that the differences emerged after she tried to stop the daughter from spending a lot of time on computer, playing games or chitchatting. However, she displayed readiness to act as per daughter’s wish and showed her paramount concern about her happiness. She told HC that if her daughter is happy to live with her boyfriend, she had no objection. The judge then finally asked the daughter whether she wanted to move out with boyfriend or stay with parents. The girl sought half an hour for making a decision. She then made a statement in the HC in presence of petitioner’s counsel Kadu and additional public prosecutor Tehsin Mirza that she wanted to be with parents. Justice Kilor again asked Kadu to interact with the daughter and confirm her decision. She again reiterated her stand without hesitation that she doesn’t wish to be with the petitioner, but wants to stay with her parents only. “From the interaction with the girl, it was revealed that she wasn’t in illegal confinement or detention,” Justice Kilor held.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ajab-prem-ki-gajab-kahani-girl-chooses-parents-over-boyfriend-in-hc/articleshow/80064384.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 2, 2021||Rajkot||PM launches affordable, durable housing scheme for poor||Rajkot: Prime minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone virtually of the ‘Lighthouse project’, a scheme to build affordable housing in six cities including Rajkot in Gujarat, on Friday.Under the project, Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) will construct more than 1,100 housing units in Raiya smart city using sophisticated technology, which it intends to wrap up by the yearend. This will be the first housing project in the history of RMC that will be completed in such a short period of time. On the occasion, Modi said, “This Lighthouse Project will comprise modern technology and innovative processes aimed to reduce construction time as well as make more resilient, affordable and comfortable houses for the poor.” He also added that these ‘lighthouses’ will showcase innovations in construction technology. RMC will construct the housing units using French technology of monolithic concrete construction technology. It will have tunnels and the houses will be more capable of withstanding disasters. In this technology wall and slab are cast simultaneously. The civic body aims to complete three units in one day. The housing and urban affairs ministry had opened Global Housing Technology Challenge (GHTC)-India for speedier construction of affordable housing last year. Altogether 54 technologies from world over were identified by the ministry for adoption in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/pm-launches-affordable-durable-housing-scheme-for-poor/articleshow/80063578.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Elections to Jat edu society deferred||Hisar: The registrar of societies, Haryana, has stayed the forthcoming collegium election process of Jat Education Society till January 8 after a complaint of allegations of fake votes cast of about 15 members, including Ekta Sindhu, wife of former finance minister Captain Abhimanyu. After receiving the inquiry report of the complaint, the matter will be heard again on January 8. Bimala Devi, Sanjeet, Kamlesh, Ramkumar, Narendra Kumar, Arun Sehrawat, Anju, Shalu, Rajesh, Pankaj Sehrawat, Kavindra, Anu, Vikas and Jaipal filed a complaint to the district registrar on December 30. In the complaint, they alleged that on December 25, elections for collegium’s ward number 1 was conducted on the campus of Jat Law College in Hisar. During the election, votes of 15 members, including Sindhu, were cast before they reached the booth, it was alleged. A complaint was also made to the returning officer, Pradeep Bajia, about this, but no action was taken. They then complained to the district registrar and demanded that the election be canceled, they said. The complainants said this complaint was sent to the state registrar by the district registrar, on which the state registrar took cognizance and heard all parties concerned on Thursday and then called the inquiry report from Bajia till January 6 and issued orders to stay the election of the governing body till the next hearing on January 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/elections-to-jat-edu-society-deferred/articleshow/80064329.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: ED freezes businessman’s Rs 72 crore assets, names Sanjay Raut’s wife||MUMBAI: In a development that may result in further trouble for Shiv Sena leader and MP Sanjay Raut, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached properties of a businessman in a bank scam where the financial trail leads to Raut’s wife, Varsha. The ED on Friday attached properties worth Rs 72 crore of businessman Pravin Raut in the HDIL-PMC bank money laundering case and said Rs 55 lakh of the tainted money was transferred to Varsha Raut through Pravin Raut’s wife Madhuri. Pravin Raut is no relation of Sanjay Raut. A press release issued by the ED on Friday said, “Investigation also revealed that Pravin Raut paid Rs1.6 crore to his wife Madhuri from the proceeds of crime. Out of the said money, Madhuri Raut transferred Rs 55 lakh (Rs 50 lakh on December 23, 2010 and Rs 5 lakh on March 15, 2011) as interest-free loan to Varsha Raut.” The amount was further utilised for purchase of flat in Dadar (East). Investigation further revealed that Varsha and Madhuri are partners in Avani Construction. Varsha Raut has received Rs 12 lakh from this entity (as overdrawn capital converted to loan) on a contribution of mere Rs 5,625. The loan amount of Rs12 lakh is still outstanding.” The ED has called Varsha Raut for her statement in the case on January 5. Sanjay Raut was not available for comment, but on December 28, in response to a summons to his wife from the ED, he had said ED wanted some papers and he had submitted those. Varsha Raut was first called by the ED on December 29 but did not go. According to the ED’s release, Rs 95 crore has been siphoned off through HDIL by Pravin Raut in active conspiracy and connivance with various persons. The source of the funds were illegal availed loans/advances, etc, by HDIL from PMC Bank. The ED probe is based on an FIR by the Economic Offences Wing of the city police registered against Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan, Sarang Wadhawan of Housing Development Infrastructure Ltd (HDIL), chairman of PMC Bank Waryam Singh, and its managing director Joy Thomas and others for causing a loss of Rs 4,355 crore to the PMC bank and gaining themselves. Sources stated that Pravin Raut had diverted a part of the defrauded money to various politicians. The ED is inquiring all those, including politicians, who have received money from Pravin Raut or his wife. In his statement to the ED, Pravin Raut had said he was handling all financial transactions on behalf of his wife Madhuri and her company. He told ED officials the money Madhuri diverted to Varsha was a friendly loan. In February, the EOW had arrested Pravin Raut in a redevelopment fraud case at Goregaon. It is alleged that Pravin Raut was one of the directors in Guruashish Construction Pvt Ltd, a subsidiary of HDIL, along with Rakesh Wadhawan and his son Sarang. Pravin Raut was also working as a contact between Wadhawan and politicians, officials said. Sanjay Raut told TOI on Friday, “We have not done anything wrong. As I have already said, Varsha has borrowed a loan of Rs 55 lakh from Madhuri Raut, and we have disclosed the transaction in our affidavit submitted during nomination for the Rajya Sabha polls and shown it in the I-T statement as well. We have followed all rules.” He added he would a defamation case against those who made baseless allegations. Asked about the Rs 55 lakh amount which Madhuri Raut has “transferred from the Rs 1.6 crore,” Raut said, “This is ED’s information and we have no idea about it.” Inputs by Sujit Mahamulkar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ed-freezes-bizmans-rs-72cr-assets-names-rauts-wife/articleshow/80066336.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 2, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow municipal corporation staffers to click selfies for attendance||LUCKNOW: Expect timely disposal of grievances at Lucknow Municipal Corporation office from January 1. In a bid to ensure that daily work starts on time, the civic body will introduce a new attendance system, in which employees will have to click a selfie after reaching office and upload it on Lucknow 311 app. Additional municipal commissioner Amit Kumar said an employees will have to turn on GPS on phones to help track not only their attendance but also their location. He said a provision of pay cut has been made if any employee fails to mark attendance by 10am. Kumar said all the data of employees in various LMC zones and the location of their offices have been fed into the app. The new system will also address complaints of the staff members that the biometric machines installed in the offices often do not accept the thumb impression due to a glitch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lmc-staffers-to-click-selfies-for-attendance/articleshow/80066109.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan official’s dharna on 12th day for ‘blocking’leaves, salary||JAIPUR: An enforcement officer with the food and civil supplies department, Anamika, who is currently posted in Jhunjhunu, has been sitting on a dharna outside the district collectorate since December 21. She is protesting the delay in approving her childcare leaves and clearance of her salary against those leaves, pending since October 2018, when she was posted in Hanumangarh. Her protest entered the 12th day on Friday. “I had applied for a five-month leave for childcare in 2018 and 2019. The department hasn’t approved my leaves yet or cleared my salary for these five months despite recommendation sent by the district supplies officer (DSO), Hanumangarh, in July 2019. Due to this, my bonus and increment have also been delayed,” she said. “I had written to the chief secretary, department secretary, and even chief minister (Ashok Gehlot) several times in the past one-and-a-half years to resolve this issue. But there has been no progress in the matter,” Anamika told TOI. In her applications, she had alleged that two women officers in the department had intentionally blocked the process of clearing her files. Additional food commissioner Suresh Chand Gupta said, “We have written to both Jhunjhunu and Hanumangarh DSOs to resolve her issues (sanctioning of leaves). It will be done as per rules.” Jhunjhunu Collector U D Khan said, “Her matter is related to the period when she was posted in Hanumangarh. As far as I know, the department has directed Hanumangarh DSO to sanction (her leaves).” Meanwhile, an official said, there were some inconsistencies in the process of sanctioning and marking of leaves in the attendance sheet. She further said, she had registered a complaint with the police against the then Rawatsar (Hanumangarh) SDM (when she was posted there in January 2019) for making faking false entries against her name in the attendance register. But, she claimed, police refused to lodge an FIR in the matter. Later, she claimed, the chief judicial magistrate’s court had ruled in favour of her and had directed the police to investigate the matter. However, she claimed, no progress has been made in the matter. In her applications, she had alleged that two women officers in the department had intentionally blocked the process of clearing her files. Additional food commissioner Suresh Chand Gupta said, “We have written to both Jhunjhunu and Hanumangarh DSOs to resolve her issues (sanctioning of leaves). It will be done as per rules.” Jhunjhunu Collector U D Khan said, “Her matter is related to the period when she was posted in Hanumangarh. As far as I know, the department has directed Hanumangarh DSO to sanction (her leaves).” Meanwhile, an official said, there were some inconsistencies in the process of sanctioning and marking of leaves in the attendance sheet. She further said, she had registered a complaint with the police against the then Rawatsar (Hanumangarh) SDM (when she was posted there in January 2019) for making faking false entries against her name in the attendance register. But, she claimed, police refused to lodge an FIR in the matter. Later, she claimed, the chief judicial magistrate’s court had ruled in favour of her and had directed the police to investigate the matter. However, she claimed, no progress has been made in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-officials-dharna-on-12th-day-for-blockingleaves-salary/articleshow/80065381.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Chandigarh||3 more promoted to DGP rank in Pb||Chandigarh: The number of DGP rank officers in the top-heavy Punjab Police headed by 1987-batch IPS officer Dinkar Gupta reached 11 on Friday, after three more additional directors general of police (ADGPs) were promoted. The newly promoted officers include 1989-batch IPS Sanjeev Kalra and Parag Jain, and 1991-batch IPS Barjinder Kumar Uppal. All three have been promoted in level 16 of the pay matrix from January 1. Jain is presently on central deputation with the cabinet secretariat and would be entitled only to notional benefits. The actual benefits would be admissible as and when he joins his duty in the state government. Kalra is ADGP railways in Patiala and Uppal is the state vigilance bureau chief. Senior most IPS officer of the 1985-batch, Mohammad Mustafa will superannuate on February 28. The ADGP rank officer who completes 30 years of service as IPS officer is eligible for consideration for the rank of DGP. After that, the screening committee goes through the service records and annual confidential reports of the concerned officer before recommending his or her name for promotion. Whereas for the rank of additional director general of police (ADGP), the IG-rank officer must have completed 25 years of service as an IPS officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-more-promoted-to-dgp-rank-in-pb/articleshow/80064352.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Lucknow||CM Yogi Adityanath to open development works in Gorakhpur||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will lay the foundation of a development project and inaugurate seven others worth Rs 37.36 crore in Gorakhpur on Saturday. All the projects will come up at Campierganj in Gorakhpur. He will lay foundation stone for advocate chambers in the collectorate and tehsil sadar. The projects that the CM will dedicate to the people are Rajkiya Balika Inter College worth Rs 3.1 crore, expansion of Mohripur-Nandlal Singh-Rampurchak-Sherpur-Sinhorva road for Rs 21.7 crore and residential and non-residential buildings in newly-formed Bharohiya block (Rs 4.95 crore). Other projects include beautification of Vaisahi Devi Temple in Kalyanpur (Rs 1.7 crore), Shiv Temple in Bharohiya (Rs 1.55 crore), Samay Mata Temple in Sumbhakhor (Rs 1.06 crore) and tourism development project in Shiv Temple in Bargadahi (Rs 73 lakh).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-to-opendevpt-works-in-gorakhpur/articleshow/80066130.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow gets near-zero degree experience on New Year day||LUCKNOW: As the mercury dropped to almost freezing levels, the city witnessed the coldest start to a New Year (January 1) in 70 years. The minimum temperature dropped to 0.5 degrees Celsius, seven units below normal just before sunrise. The wind chill effect created by icy winds from the snowfed mountains made it feel like sub-zero. It was also the lowest temperature of this winter so far. Overall, it was Lucknow’s coldest day in eight years and sixth coldest in 69 years, as per the data available with the state Met office. A comparison also showed that in 69 years since 1952, minimum temperature has dropped below 1 degrees Celsius in Lucknow on 12 occasions, eight of which were in the past 10 years. Earlier, extreme weather conditions were rare, but in the past decade frequency has increased. This, said experts, could be due to the environmental factors being seen across the globe due to climate change. State Met director JP Gupta said that be it low temperatures or excessive rain, possibilities of climate change behind extreme weather conditions cannot be ruled out. If frequency of extremely low or high temperatures has increased in recent years, last year January witnessed excessive rainfall, he added. “While global warming has led to rise in average temperatures in some areas, it has also caused severe cold at several places,” said a senior LU professor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/city-gets-near-zero-degree-experience-on-new-year-day/articleshow/80066118.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan: 7 startups raise over Rs 200cr in 4 months||JAIPUR: After a dry spell due to lockdown, about seven startups in Rajasthan have raised over Rs 200 crore in the last four months, reflecting increasing investor appetite for rural and social impact themes. Investors also said that the Covid-19 pandemic lowered risks as sustainable and scalable ventures got separated from the weaker ones providing better insights. “Investors now have a better understanding of where they are putting their money in. The pandemic has not only segregated leaders from laggards, but offered them opportunities in worst-case scenarios. The valuations have also come down to realistic levels. All these have increased investor appetite,” said Mahavir Sharma, president, TiE Global and co-founder of Rajasthan Angel Investors Network (RAIN). While city-based Rajasthan Venture Capital Fund (RVCF), which raised Rs 121 crore, has been active in the market making small ticket investments of about $1 million, startups like DealShare and Fleeca India have raised funds from reputed investors outside the state. RVCF has funded MedCords that is digitising rural pharmacies, animal feed solution provider Krimanshi Feeds, artisan-driven online textile retailer Fabriclore, agri-tech startup Freshokartz, and local grocery shop aggregator Kirana King. While Fleeca India raised Rs 25 crore from tyre maker Bridgestone India, DealShare, an e-commerce platform for middle and lower-income groups, tied up $21 million in Series C round of funding from a clutch of investors led by WestBridge Capital. Chintan Bakshi, CEO of Startup Oasis, said, “Investors are finding interest in tier-II, rural and social impact themes. That’s why startups in smaller cities are now on their horizon. Based in tier-II locations, these startups understand the social nuances of the region better, unlike ventures run from big cities.” Bakshi said that Startup Oasis, which provides seed funds, has invested Rs 4 crore last year in 18 startups having rural and social impact themes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/7-raj-startups-raise-over-rs-200cr-in-4-months/articleshow/80067535.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
January 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad cop caught taking Rs 50 lakh bribe||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat anti-corruption bureau (ACB) officials on Thursday caught an assistant sub-inspector of Ahmedabad range police while he was allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 50 lakh, an official of the agency said on Friday. ASI Prakashsinh Raol, attached to the rapid response cell (RR cell), was caught red-handed accepting the bribe money at a hotel on Vallabhvidyanagar Road in Anand on Thursday night, the official said. RR cells work directly under the respective range inspectors general of police. Recently, based on a tip-off provided by Raol, the RR cell of Ahmedabad range had raided a godown in an industrial area near Khambhat town of Anand and unearthed a racket involving the siphoning off subsidised urea meant for farmers in the state, he said. During the raid, police found 1,060 bags of urea, worth Rs 2.76 lakh, some 5,000 empty bags and a sewing machine in the godown, a release from the RR cell a week back had stated. Preliminary investigations revealed that the perpetrators, who were yet to be identified, had illegally acquired government-supplied subsidised urea and were transferring the fertiliser from those bags into other bags to sell them in the market, the release said. According to the ACB, Raol demanded Rs 60 lakh from the godown owner to not name him as an accused in the FIR, and after negotiations, he had agreed to accept Rs 50 lakh. “When the accused went to an eatery on Vallabhvidyanagar Road, he was caught red- handed accepting the bribe money,” said an ACB officer. As the godown owner did not wish to bribe the policeman, a complaint was registered with the ACB, following which a trap was laid at the hotel on Thursday. In 2020, ACB had caught 307 accused in 198 cases of corruption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cop-caught-taking-rs-50-lakh-bribe/articleshow/80065408.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Kochi||Small Screens, Big Themes||Thiruvananthapuram: It’s a bitter irony that the year, which marked the 125th anniversary of the first cinema screening in the world, went by with cinema screens being shut down due to a virus. Malayalam cinema was no different with barely a handful of theatrical releases happening this year till March. The vacuum was filled by an implosion of content on the web space; films, short movies and web series. Sufiyum Sujathayum became Malayalam’s first official film to be released on OTT platform and eyebrows were raised about choice of release. Halal Love Story and C U Soon also followed. Reviews and online discussions about films happened as usual. Irrespective of the medium, the content generated interest and even debates. Halal Love Story, which told a cinema within cinema tale, wove around itself, sensitive issues of religion, freedom, marital trust and what an art form can accomplish. C U Soon was so deftly crafted and conceived by Mahesh Narayanan that its gripping narrative was perfectly in sync with the closed spaces the viewers had attuned themselves to during lockdown. Even with the dose of thrill, surprise and mystery, the film was shot indoors and events were unravelling on a computer screen. Well-shot, technically-brilliant fictional narratives set in different backgrounds and telling variant stories became trending web series. Series like Othalanga Thuruthu – which was packed with naturally humorous characters – found a huge fan following on web space. Big film production houses also joined the bandwagon. Funtastic Films joined hands with Kaarthik Shankar and brought out Onam Bumper, Palappozhum and their latest web series Kili has already garnered over 5 lakh views in just 2 days. Even as debate rages around web and cinema halls, production houses have been smart enough to straddle both spheres with ease. “The idea is to keep the entire world of content alive. Even when we backed Kaarthik to bring out new content on web, works were in full swing for our movies Hridayam and Saajan Bakery. When theatres are ready to open, we want to be sure that we have one to offer for the audience. At the same time, we are working on engaging content and releasing them on web space; Kili being our latest. Some mega productions require theatrical release because such is the investment that goes into it for technical brilliance,” said Visakh Subramaniam of Funtastic Films who is a producer, distributor and exhibitor With OTT opening up avenues for film releases, the screen space could also suit small-scale productions. “Even without Covid factor, films without stars and made on low budget can find a space on OTT in the long run. It’s all about the scale of a film which determines the screening space,” said Vivek and Vrinda of popular, film-based YouTube channel Mallu Analyst. Some of the devoted moviegoers feel there is no film without theatres and they echo the words of Cannes Director Thierry Fremaux. “Cinemas have been through other trials: they died often, and yet they’re still alive because the public yearns for collective experiences,” he wrote in an article for Variety magazine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/small-screens-big-themes/articleshow/80058637.cms||Aswin J Kumar
January 2, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: 7 startups raise over Rs 200cr in 4 months||JAIPUR: After a dry spell due to lockdown, about seven startups in Rajasthan have raised over Rs 200 crore in the last four months, reflecting increasing investor appetite for rural and social impact themes. Investors also said that the Covid-19 pandemic lowered risks as sustainable and scalable ventures got separated from the weaker ones providing better insights. “Investors now have a better understanding of where they are putting their money in. The pandemic has not only segregated leaders from laggards, but offered them opportunities in worst-case scenarios. The valuations have also come down to realistic levels. All these have increased investor appetite,” said Mahavir Sharma, president, TiE Global and co-founder of Rajasthan Angel Investors Network (RAIN). While city-based Rajasthan Venture Capital Fund (RVCF), which raised Rs 121 crore, has been active in the market making small ticket investments of about $1 million, startups like DealShare and Fleeca India have raised funds from reputed investors outside the state. RVCF has funded MedCords that is digitising rural pharmacies, animal feed solution provider Krimanshi Feeds, artisan-driven online textile retailer Fabriclore, agri-tech startup Freshokartz, and local grocery shop aggregator Kirana King. While Fleeca India raised Rs 25 crore from tyre maker Bridgestone India, DealShare, an e-commerce platform for middle and lower-income groups, tied up $21 million in Series C round of funding from a clutch of investors led by WestBridge Capital. Chintan Bakshi, CEO of Startup Oasis, said, “Investors are finding interest in tier-II, rural and social impact themes. That’s why startups in smaller cities are now on their horizon. Based in tier-II locations, these startups understand the social nuances of the region better, unlike ventures run from big cities.” Bakshi said that Startup Oasis, which provides seed funds, has invested Rs 4 crore last year in 18 startups having rural and social impact themes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/7-raj-startups-raise-over-rs-200cr-in-4-months/articleshow/80067534.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
January 2, 2021||Ludhiana||Civic body extends pet registration deadline by 3 months||Ludhiana: In view of the demand of the city residents to extend the December 31 deadline for the registration of pet dogs and cats, the civic body has decided to give another three months to the people. As per the previous decision, the pet owners were to pay 10 times the normal registration fee of Rs 400 from January 1, 2021.On the expiry of the deadline on Thursday, a total of 1,306 pets had been registered with the Ludhiana Municipal Corporation (LMC).The registration of pets was started by the LMC on June 24 last year and the residents were given time till December-end for getting their pets registered. In the initial days the pace of registration was satisfactory, but gradually the numbers came down.By October-end, only 256 dogs were registered and by mid-December, this number had gone up to 533. However, in the last week of 2020, more people came forward to register their pets to avoid the hefty penalty, leading to an over two-fold rise in the registrations. Incidentally, so far no pet cats have been registered.There is also a provision for the registration of dog breeders, dog shops and organisers of dog shows, but as of now, the civic officials are focussing only on the pet dogs and cats. They intend to focus on the other segments later.The sources revealed that the officials were not expecting these many applications for registration, as they do not have any data about the number of pets in the city. The officials said in the days ahead, they are also planning to create poop zones in residential areas and the pets owners would be asked to clear the poop of their pets from these zones, so that other residents do not face any problems.Senior veterinary officer Dr Harbans Dhalla said, “The people have options to get their pets registered online as well as at Suvidha Centres. Earlier, the owners were not even collecting the registration tokens mandatory for the registered pets to wear in their neck collar, but now they have started picking it.” He said without the token in a pet’s collar, the registration would be considered incomplete. Municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, "Although the deadline ended on December 31, we are going to extend it for three months for the residents, who could not register their pets earlier." The concept of pets’ registering was something new for the public, so more time is being given to them, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/civic-body-extends-pet-registration-deadline-by-3-months/articleshow/80063635.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Kolhapur||BJP appoints 2-member panel for KMC elections||Kolhapur: BJP state president Chandrakant Patil has appointed a two-member panel — comprising former MP Dhananjay Mahadik and chairman of Paschim Maharashtra Devasthan Samiti (PMDS) Mahesh Jadhav — to lead the party into the upcoming Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) polls. Talking to TOI, Patil said that a team to work under Mahadik and Jadhav will be announced soon. “They (the leaders) will ensure there is proper coordination among party workers and candidates. Last time, our alliance, BJP-Tararani Aghadi, fell short of just few seats required to attain power in the KMC. We will work hard this time and ensure the alliance gets majority.” The KMC election is expected to be held in March this year. In the 2015 elections, BJP-Tararani Aghadi won on 33 seats while 41 is the required magical figure. During last election, despite being MP from Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Mahadik had helped BJP-Tararani Aghadi from selecting the candidates to make them win the election. However, then he did not openly campaign for the BJP-Tararani alliance, but now since he has joined BJP he will campaign openly. Chandrakant Patil, now an MLA from Kothrud constituency from Pune and holding position of state leadership, is expected to get less time for upcoming election unlike last election during which he steered the campaign for the alliance on his own. Jadhav, who is a close confidante of Patil, said, “There are elections for five civic bodies in the state. If only KMC election would have been there, our state president would have dedidcated all his time. The panel to select candidates, steer the campaign is always been there since last several elections and it’s not new a phenomenon that the BJP is doing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/bjp-appoints-2-member-panel-for-kmc-elections/articleshow/80063638.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat Vidyapith extends VC’s term by 6 months||Ahmedabad: After an embarrassing reversal of the process to select a new vice-chancellor, Gujarat Vidyapith authorities on Friday extended the present VC Anamik Shah’s term by six months. Shah’s term was to end on December 31. Strangely, the earlier process had not included a nominee of the UGC in the selection committee. Gujarat Vidyapith is the world’s only university set up by Mahatma Gandhi. The earlier three-member selection committee had suggested that the former registrar of the vidyapith, Rajendra Khimani, be made the VC. The UGC raised questions about the overall selection process. Considering the latest development, the process will have to be repeated. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-vidyapith-extends-vcs-term-by-6-months/articleshow/80065402.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Goa||Recoveries exceed new infections||Panaji: Goa’s tally of active Covid-19 cases marginally reduced to 929 on Friday with recoveries exceeding the number of new cases. Friday saw 78 recoveries and 69 new cases and no mortalities were reported. The case positivity rate dropped to 4%, a point less than that on Thursday and the recovery rate remained at 97%. During the day, 28 patients were hospitalised and 46 opted for home isolation. Goa’s positivity rate has been dropping and on most days it has been between 5% and 7%, yet there have been concerns that it may shoot up considering New Year celebrations across the state with people defying safety measures. Since Christmas the state has witnessed a surge in footfalls. A health official said their concerns are real and are hoping the state doesn’t see a spike yet again. Since March, Goa has reported 51,135 total cases and 49,466 recoveries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/recoveries-exceed-new-infections/articleshow/80065410.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 2, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan: 7 startups raise over Rs 200cr in 4 months||JAIPUR: After a dry spell due to lockdown, about seven startups in Rajasthan have raised over Rs 200 crore in the last four months, reflecting increasing investor appetite for rural and social impact themes. Investors also said that the Covid-19 pandemic lowered risks as sustainable and scalable ventures got separated from the weaker ones providing better insights. “Investors now have a better understanding of where they are putting their money in. The pandemic has not only segregated leaders from laggards, but offered them opportunities in worst-case scenarios. The valuations have also come down to realistic levels. All these have increased investor appetite,” said Mahavir Sharma, president, TiE Global and co-founder of Rajasthan Angel Investors Network (RAIN). While city-based Rajasthan Venture Capital Fund (RVCF), which raised Rs 121 crore, has been active in the market making small ticket investments of about $1 million, startups like DealShare and Fleeca India have raised funds from reputed investors outside the state. RVCF has funded MedCords that is digitising rural pharmacies, animal feed solution provider Krimanshi Feeds, artisan-driven online textile retailer Fabriclore, agri-tech startup Freshokartz, and local grocery shop aggregator Kirana King. While Fleeca India raised Rs 25 crore from tyre maker Bridgestone India, DealShare, an e-commerce platform for middle and lower-income groups, tied up $21 million in Series C round of funding from a clutch of investors led by WestBridge Capital. Chintan Bakshi, CEO of Startup Oasis, said, “Investors are finding interest in tier-II, rural and social impact themes. That’s why startups in smaller cities are now on their horizon. Based in tier-II locations, these startups understand the social nuances of the region better, unlike ventures run from big cities.” Bakshi said that Startup Oasis, which provides seed funds, has invested Rs 4 crore last year in 18 startups having rural and social impact themes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/7-raj-startups-raise-over-rs-200cr-in-4-months/articleshow/80067533.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
January 2, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 7 startups raise over Rs 200cr in 4 months||JAIPUR: After a dry spell due to lockdown, about seven startups in Rajasthan have raised over Rs 200 crore in the last four months, reflecting increasing investor appetite for rural and social impact themes. Investors also said that the Covid-19 pandemic lowered risks as sustainable and scalable ventures got separated from the weaker ones providing better insights. “Investors now have a better understanding of where they are putting their money in. The pandemic has not only segregated leaders from laggards, but offered them opportunities in worst-case scenarios. The valuations have also come down to realistic levels. All these have increased investor appetite,” said Mahavir Sharma, president, TiE Global and co-founder of Rajasthan Angel Investors Network (RAIN). While city-based Rajasthan Venture Capital Fund (RVCF), which raised Rs 121 crore, has been active in the market making small ticket investments of about $1 million, startups like DealShare and Fleeca India have raised funds from reputed investors outside the state. RVCF has funded MedCords that is digitising rural pharmacies, animal feed solution provider Krimanshi Feeds, artisan-driven online textile retailer Fabriclore, agri-tech startup Freshokartz, and local grocery shop aggregator Kirana King. While Fleeca India raised Rs 25 crore from tyre maker Bridgestone India, DealShare, an e-commerce platform for middle and lower-income groups, tied up $21 million in Series C round of funding from a clutch of investors led by WestBridge Capital. Chintan Bakshi, CEO of Startup Oasis, said, “Investors are finding interest in tier-II, rural and social impact themes. That’s why startups in smaller cities are now on their horizon. Based in tier-II locations, these startups understand the social nuances of the region better, unlike ventures run from big cities.” Bakshi said that Startup Oasis, which provides seed funds, has invested Rs 4 crore last year in 18 startups having rural and social impact themes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/7-raj-startups-raise-over-rs-200cr-in-4-months/articleshow/80065403.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
January 2, 2021||Lucknow||Major makeover to boost spiritual tourism in Ayodhya||LUCKNOW: For the development of spiritual tourism in Ayodhya, a major renovation and beautification project covering the 84, 14 and Panchkosi parikramas is being taken up by the government. Sites like Makhauda dham will also be developed to attract tourists. “Chief minister Yogi Adityanath is keen to place Ayodhya on the world tourism map. While the construction of the Ram Temple takes place, it has been decided to give a facelift to the 84, 14 and panchkosi parikramas — which will include renovation of all religious, mythological and historical sites on the routes,” said a government spokesperson. Under the project, beautification of the routes will include construction of shelters for devotees, kutcha walking routes and other basic facilities like water. The Makhauda dham is believed to be the place where king Dashrath organised the ‘Putrakameshti yajna’ under the guidance of Vashishtha and Shringi Rishi in Harraiya tehsil of Basti. The city will further be developed as ‘nayva Ayodhya’ or new Ayodhya. Officials said the route from the ghat to the main road and then to the railway station will be revamped.  “A four lane-road will connect the city with the airport,” the spokesperson said. Along with Ram Temple and the tallest statue of Lord Ram, Ayodhya will be a model of vedic and modern city,” the spokesperson said. Some work is in progress and many projects are in the pipeline,” the spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/major-makeover-around-panchkosi-parikramas-to-boost-spiritual-tourism/articleshow/80066126.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Lucknow||Top honours for Mirzapur, Malihabad||LUCKNOW: While the Union housing and urban development ministry on Friday conferred Uttar Pradesh the first prize for implementation of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), Mirzapur Nagar Palika Parishad (NPP) was adjudged the best performing urban local body in constructing houses under the scheme. It pipped Jhumri Telaiya NPP of Jharkhand, Dongargarh NPP, Mukkom NPP and Khurai NPP of Madhya Pradesh. Harihar Nagar panchayat ranked thirdFor the top PMAY award, Uttar Pradesh edged past MP and AP to bag the first position. The Malihabad Nagar Panchayat (NP) in Lucknow bagged the first position in its category of local body. The Harihar nagar panchayat in Sant Kabir Nagar, too, ranked third among the top five selected by the Union housing ministry. Among the beneficiaries, Chandrawati from Lucknow, Sushil (Azamgarh) and Rajendra (Hapur) were also awarded for having the best completed house under the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/top-honours-for-mirzapur-malihabad/articleshow/80066206.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Ludhiana||Inebriated wrestler assaults PCR cop, tears his uniform||Ludhiana: Save for a wrestler flexing his muscles before cops, no major untoward incident was reported in the city on the New Year’s Eve. The police remained on roads to ensure compliance of the night curfew and made people go home before 10pm. While the night largely remained peaceful, in Division 1 area, the wrestler, in an inebriated condition, had a tiff with the cops at midnight. He assaulted a policeman and was later nabbed. Identified as Ranjit Singh, alias Nikka, of Leela village of Raikot, the accused was roaming around Ludhiana railway station, scouring for more liquor. Additional deputy commissioner of police-I Deepak Pareek said, “PCR cops on a motorcycle spotted the accused around 11.45pm and on questioning, found him to be drunk. He started abusing the police personnel and assaulted head constable Kuldeep Singh and also tore his uniform. The police have booked him.”Division 1 SHO Sub-inspector Harjeet Singh said the accused was not wearing a mask. An FIR under sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 188 (disobedience of the orders duly promulgated by the public servant) of the IPC and Section 3 of the Epidemic Act has been registered against him.Police teams were present in all markets, including Sarabha Nagar, Model Town and Dugri, and they made sure to vacate them by 9.30pm so that people could reach home by 10pm before the curfew started.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/inebriated-wrestler-assaults-pcr-cop-tears-his-uniform/articleshow/80063642.cms||Payal Dhawan
January 2, 2021||Nagpur||Sanskrit varsity VC warns of fast, drops it on PWD’s word||Nagpur: Probably in a first in the country, vice-chancellor of a university had threatened to go on hunger strike to get certain works, which were pending even after the deadline lapsed 2-3 years ago, completed. Vice-chancellor of Kavikulaguru Kalidas Sanskrit University (KKSU), Ramtek, Shrinivasa Varakhedi, had planned to go on hunger strike from New Year’s Day citing crucial works remaining incomplete even after the deadline lapsed. He, however, cancelled the protest after state public works department (PWD) assured to finish the works on or before January 5. In a letter sent to PWD chief engineer Sanjay Dashpute on December 28, Varakhedi had threatened to go on hunger strike from January 1 to protest against PWD’s failure to complete the works in time. As per Varakhedi’s letter, the work on academic research centre was supposed to start on May 17, 2016 and to be completed in 15 months — on August 16, 2017. Construction of multipurpose hall was to start on January 12, 2018 and due to finish within 15 months, i.e. on April 11, 2019. Similarly, civil work for expansion of first and second floor of recreation centre was to commence on August 23, 2019 and to end in nine months, i.e. by May 22, 2020. “As the PWD has failed to complete these works, I will start ‘satyagraha’ hunger strike during office hours. I pray to God for completion of the works,” the vice-chancellor had written to the PWD official. TOI is in possession of a copy of the V-C’s letter. Dashpute did not respond to TOI’s call and message. PWD officials said, “The delay is on part of the contractors. KKSU is also equally responsible as the varsity’s architect has time and again revised drawings, specifications of the works. Also, the works were delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic.” The officials added, “KKSU has planned inauguration of these new structures at the hands of governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on January 15. The varsity will also require occupancy certificate from local authorities and hence the VC had written the letter to chief engineer so as to get the works completed by January 5.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sanskrit-varsity-vc-warns-of-fast-drops-it-on-pwds-word/articleshow/80064423.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 2, 2021||Ludhiana||Covid snatches 3 lives, infects 27||Ludhiana: Three residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 27 tested positive on Friday.The district casualties included a 66-year-old man of Karnail Singh Nagar; a 61-year-old man of New Shivaji Nagar; and a 72-year-old man of Sarabha Nagar.On the day, a Moga resident, too, succumbed to the disease and nine outsiders tested positive here.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said the district toll tally was 967 and that of outsiders 448.The Ludhiana case count was 24,800 and that of outsiders 3,707.To date, 23,501 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.76% of the total cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-snatches-3-lives-infects-27/articleshow/80063645.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh scales new high on New Year, crosses 1 crore Covid tests by RT-PCR||LUCKNOW: Scaling a new high on New Year’s Day, Uttar Pradesh crossed one crore Covid-19 tests through the RT-PCR method. UP now stands next to Tamil Nadu on the benchmark. However, the state is already number one in terms of overall Covid-19 testing, having conducted over 2.44 crore tests. “RT-PCR is the gold standard in Covid-19 testing and one crore tests is a remarkable feat, the credit of which goes to the hard work put in by every single member engaged in the testing activity at our medical colleges,” said additional chief secretary, medical education department, Dr Rajneesh Dube. Mentioning that testing has been the backbone of UP’s battle against the Covid-19 pandemic undeniably, government officials said that “UP’s story of Covid-19 control in 2020 will remain incomplete without the mention of the initiatives taken by the state medical education department.” Dr Dube was of the view that the while doctors and technicians worked tirelessly in the time of crisis, political leadership displayed by chief minister Yogi Adityanath and medical education minister Suresh Khanna will pay dividends in future too. “In March, UP had just one lab to undertake Covid-19 testing, but today there is a high end lab at every divisional head quarter. The network comprises BSL-2 and BSL-3 labs which will continue to serve the people even after the pandemic ends,” he said, adding that both Union ministry of health and family welfare and NITI Aayog have lauded the efforts. Experts also lauded the department of medical education for thinking ‘out of the box’ to find a solution to classical problems, particularly shortage of specialists in tier-2 and tier-3 cities. Take the example of virtual intensive care unit system in which Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences and King George’s Medical University played the role of big brother. Expertise with the two apex institutions was used to address the acute shortage of specialist doctors in the sub-regional medical colleges -- both government and private -- and big city hospitals. “Followed regularly by developed countries, the model has given a template for the future,” said a senior faculty at SGPGIMS. A former director general rank officer said that UP took the lead in development of patient care and disease management protocols too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/state-scales-new-high-on-new-year-crosses-1-crore-covid-tests-by-rt-pcr/articleshow/80066189.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 2, 2021||Lucknow||7 IPS officers promoted to ADG rank||LUCKNOW: The government on Friday approved promotions of seven IPS officers of inspector general (IG) rank to additional director general (ADG) rank. The home department said the names of the seven officers were approved by the departmental promotion committee of the ministry of home affairs on December 23. Those promoted include A Satish Ganesh, who is IG Agra range and will be made ADG Agra zone. Other IGs promoted include Navneit Sekera as ADG in PHQ, Vijay Prakash as ADG fire department, Jyoti Narayan from IG law and order to ADG PHQ, and Amitabh Yash as ADG STF. IG PHQ N Ravinder was also made ADG in the same department. IG Varanasi range Vijay Singh Meena was made ADG. All seven officers are of 1996 batch. On Thursday, the government had promoted 23 IPS officers on the posts of IG, deputy IG and superintendent of police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/7-ips-officers-promoted-to-adg-rank/articleshow/80066166.cms||---
January 2, 2021||India||After 10 long months, schools come alive in three states||Locked up at home and tethered to digital screens for almost 10 months, schoolchildren across three states - Kerala, Karnataka and Assam - on Friday started the New Year by breaking free of the shackles of the pandemic to step into their classrooms for the first time since the shutdown. Kerala reported at least 95% attendance among students of classes X and XII as both government and aided schools opened partially. Around 2,400 school campuses with 3,000-odd high school and higher secondary sections came alive with the chatter of delighted children even as the authorities took extra care to ensure strict adherence to social distancing norms and shifts with small batches. In Karnataka, children waltzed into campuses decked up for their return. Attendance in schools and PU colleges was pegged at over 40% on the first day, which officials expect to be much higher from next Monday. "It's a Friday and the first day of the New Year. We had anticipated 50% attendance and that was more or less the turnout," primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar said. The Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka claimed attendance was around 85% in some institutions. Teachers in many places welcomed students with traditional aarti and a shower of flower petals. The only thing cloaking the happiness and sense of relief all around were masks. Assam had a more circumspect start to regular schooling, with most guardians in Guwahati adopting a wait-and-watch strategy before deciding whether it is safe to send their children back to the classrooms. In Lakhimpur, Bidyamati Hajong, a Class 4 student, said, "It's a great feeling to come to school on the first day of the year. We don't have digital gadgets at home for online classes."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-10-long-months-schools-come-alive-in-three-states/articleshow/80066517.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka schools, PU colleges see up to 40% attendance on Day 1||BENGALURU: Schools across Karnataka reopened on Friday after a gap of nearly 10 months, with children dancing their way into campuses decked up for the occasion. Of 2.4 lakh final-year students in 5,492 PU colleges, 78,794 — or 33% — were on campus. In 16,850 high schools affiliated to the state board, 3.8 lakh —or 41% — of the 9.3 lakh class 10 students attended classes on Day 1. “It’s a Friday and the first day of New Year. We expect more turnout on Monday,” said primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar, who had expected 50% attendance. The Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka said the attendance was higher than about 40% since many member-institutions have not updated the statistics. It said some schools saw 85% of the students turning up for campus learning. Students welcomed with aartiWith thousands of parents shedding Covid-19 fears, teachers at many places welcomed students with aarti and flowers. Children shone in new, crisp uniforms or festive clothes; teachers and staff were dressed in their best. And they all wore facemasks. Sir M Visvesvaraya BBMP Public School and PU College, Chamarajpet, gave a creative twist to the government’s directive to educate students about Covid-19 with Kannada teacher Natesh HS dressed as ‘Coronavirus’ and staging a skit. Principal Raju B told TOI that 13 of 83 PU II students attended school on the first day and 25 of Class X 63 students turned up. “The attendance will improve on Monday since most students from poor families who have been hometowns will return in the coming days,” Raju said, adding elaborate decorations, rangoli and activities were for children to feel welcomed and excited about returning to schools. “We invited parents and instilled confidence in them that they need not worry and continue sending their children to schools,” he explained. The Government High School, Jayanagar 9th Block, seated students in verandah too to ensure social distancing. Headmistress Yasholakshmi BR said students and teachers are equally excited to return. “The positivity is wonderful,” she said. School peon Nalini, in festive wear, was distributing tea and could not stop smiling. “I’m glad to be back,” she said. The scene was no different in private schools. “In some schools, small children who came requesting for classes had to be sent back. The response exceeded our expectations,” said D Sashi Kumar, secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka. “We had 70% students back on campus. When colleges started, we had no students on the first day at Oxford Degree College, Ullal. Hence, we were sceptical about schools’ reopening, only to be pleasantly surprised on Friday. Children tired of sitting at home wanted their normal life back,” said BR Supreeth, Oxford Universal Public School. “In class 10, the response was around 90%. In Vidyagama classes, we had 80% in higher grades and 60% in class 6. Many parents who came to see the arrangements were reassured of their children’s safety and said they will send their children from Monday. Those who sent their children on Friday thanked us,” said Natesh Kumar MN, Gurukula International School, Magadi Road. “Though we were ready to reopen on Friday, we had received consent letters from just five parents till Thursday evening. After Friday, the numbers shot up to 24. We will reopen on Monday,” said Tejasvi Ballari, Poornaprajna Education Centre, Srikrishna Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-schools-pu-colleges-see-up-to-40-attendance-on-day-1/articleshow/80066575.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Bengaluru||Three more Bengalureans infected with UK strain; Karnataka's tally 10||BENGALURU: Three more Covid-19-positive Bengalureans were on Friday found to be infected with the UK variant of the virus, taking the total of such cases in Karnataka to 10, reports Sunitha Rao R. Earlier, three persons from the city and four from Shivamogga were found to have been infected with the new strain. Health minister K Sudhakar said that authorities are yet to trace 75 UK returnees who landed in Karnataka since Nov 25. As of Friday morning, 33 UK returnees tested positive for Covid: MinisterTwo of the three new infected persons in Bengaluru have UK travel history: A 40-year-old woman from Rajajinagar and a Bommanahalli man, whose wife and daughter were earlier this week found infected with the new variant. The Rajajinagar woman’s 73-year-old mother, a primary contact, is the third infected person. “With this, we’ve six persons in Bengaluru infected with the variant,” confirmed Rajendra Cholan, special commissioner, health, BBMP. The elderly woman is the first primary contact to be infected with the new variant, which has led to concerns. A 63-year-old man, grandfather of the six-year-old Bommanahalli girl, has tested positive for Covid-19. He was hospitalised on Friday evening and his swab sample has been sent to Nimhans for genomic sequencing. 75 UK returnees to be tracedThe Karnataka government is yet to trace the whereabouts of 75 UK returnees who have landed in Karnataka since November 25. “We are tracing them along with the home department,” health minister K Sudhakar said. Of them, 70 have addresses in BBMP limits and the rest from other districts. From November 25, a total of 5,068 persons from the UK have entered Karnataka. Of them, 4,238 have landed in Bengaluru since December 9. Of them, total 810 are from other states and they had landed in Bengaluru. Their data have been shared with the respective states. “As of Friday morning, 33 UK returnees have tested positive for Covid. Besides, five of their contacts have also turned positive and their reports are also sent for genomic sequencing,” said the health minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/3-more-blureans-infected-with-uk-strain-state-tally-10/articleshow/80066580.cms||Sunitha Rao R
January 2, 2021||Lucknow||Resolve issues, govt committed to farmers’ welfare, CM Yogi Adityanath tells officials||LUCKNOW: UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday asked officials to step up efforts in establishing a dialogue with farmers and resolve their issues on a mission mode basis. Chairing a high level meeting, Yogi said that welfare of farmers was of utmost importance for the state government which was committed to provide the maximum possible facilities to the farming community. The direction came ahead of the Kisan Kalyan Mission, which the state government plans to initiate at the block level from January 6 to address various issues pertaining to farmers. Yogi directed the officials to ensure maximum possible participation of farmers in the Kisan Kalyan Mission which envisages organising agriculture fairs and exhibitions at the grass root level. He said that public representatives, including MPs and MLAs, should also participate in activities which are proposed to be organised under the programme. The CM was told that as many as 350 developmental blocks would be covered in the first phase. In agriculture fairs and exhibitions, departments like horticulture, animal husbandry, fisheries, sericulture, cooperative, minor irrigation, new energy department, energy, rural development, panchayati raj, forest, child development and nutrition should put up their stalls. During this, certificates and farming equipment are also distributed to farmers. The CM directed the officials to ensure that farmers do not face any difficulty in selling paddy at minimum support price (MSP). He also laid stress on regular monitoring of procurement centres. Meanwhile, Yogi reiterated that the state government would soon come up with a data centre policy that could fuel investments in the sector. He said that the state government has already received a lot of proposals for setting up a data centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/resolve-issues-govt-committed-to-farmers-welfare-cm-tells-officials/articleshow/80066162.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Lucknow||Govt built confidence, used tech to push housing projects: PM Modi||LUCKNOW: In a veiled attack on the Congress, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the previous government at the Centre neither gave importance to ensuring adequate number of housing projects nor to the quality of construction. Speaking at the foundation laying ceremony of light house project (LHP) virtually in six cities – Lucknow (Uttar Pradesh), Indore (Madhya Pradesh), Agartala (Tripura), Ranchi (Jharkhand), Rajkot (Gujarat) and Chennai (Tamil Nadu) – the PM said that the project would act like a ‘Prakash Stambh’ (pillar of light) for housing sector in future. Modi said the changes implemented by the present dispensation resulted in a new approach and use of innovative and latest technology in construction of housing units. RERA is there to protect homebuyers’ interests: PMThere have been many things which continued without requisite change… Chal raha hai-…chalne do (let things be as they are), he said, adding that the situation was the same for housing sector. “People had lost confidence if they would be able to own a house. Even after investing their entire savings, they would never own a house, which largely remained restricted to papers,” he remarked. The PM said earlier people would not be sure if the law would be in their favour in timely handover of houses to them by builders. “Now, there is RERA to protect the interests of homebuyers,” he said. Speaking about the proposed housing units in Lucknow, Modi said it would be constructed using technology from Canada where in use of plaster and paint would not be required and prefabricated walls would be used. “In all six locations, around 1,000 houses will be constructed in 12 months, which means that around 3 houses will be constructed every day,” he said, setting January 26, 2022 as the target for completion of housing projects at all six locations. “The country deserves better technology and the poor should get houses which last for a longer period,” he observed. Underlining the need for various ministries to have energy like that of a start-up, Modi said it was with this objective that the Centre organised Global Housing Technology challenge and invited construction companies from across the world to India. “More than 50 companies participated in the challenge which provided scope for incubation of technology. This will now be used in six cities of the country. LHP will be constructed with modern techniques which will lessen construction period and the poor will get affordable and comfortable houses,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-built-confidence-used-tech-to-give-way-to-housing-projects/articleshow/80066195.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow wakes up to coldest New Year day in 7 decades as mercury dips to 0.5°C||LUCKNOW: As icy winds continued to lash the city, Lucknow recorded the lowest minimum temperature of the season with mercury plummeting to 0.5 degrees Celsius. It was also the coldest New Year day in Lucknow in nearly seven decades. The city was colder than most of the Hills stations of the country. The situation was no better in the rest of the state as cold to severe cold wave conditions were reported from many places. Agra and Shahjahanpur shivered at a minimum temperature of 2 degrees Celsius each. Almost similar situations prevailed in Rae Bareli and Kanpur which recorded minimum temperatures of 2.6 and 2.8 degrees Celsius, respectively. State Met director JP Gupta said weather conditions would improve gradually from Saturday with the rise in minimum temperature but added that the situation was also becoming favourable for rain and thunderstorm. “West UP may witness thunderstorms and rain from Saturday till next Tuesday, while thunderstorms may occur at some places in central UP on Sunday and Monday. Dense to very dense fog is likely at a few places,” he added. Rain and thunderstorm is likely due to a western disturbance which is expected to hit northern hill states on Saturday and leave an impact on northwest plains, including UP. The western disturbance, however, will also restrict the movement of icy winds from snow-fed mountains, leading to rise in temperature. “However, the cold wave will revive as soon as the western disturbance fizzles out,” Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-wakes-up-to-coldest-new-year-day-in-7-decades-as-mercury-dips-to-0-5c/articleshow/80066200.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Lucknow||9-year-old Uttar Pradesh's Kushinagar boy rescued, 1 held||LUCKNOW: Kushinagar police on Friday rescued nine-year-old Aditya Verma who was kidnapped while he was returning from his coaching institute on December 30. The mastermind of the kidnapping was allegedly Yashwant Kushwaha, the owner of the coaching centre where Aditya studied. Superintendent of police, Kushinagar, Vinod Kumar Singh said that Kushwaha was nabbed after the captors made a ransom call using WhatsApp on December 31 which led to a breakthrough in the case. “We are yet to arrest the associates of Kushwaha,” said the SP. Singh said that Kushwaha had overheard that Aditya’s parents were planning to purchase a land worth Rs 20 lakh last week. “He along with his aides planned to kidnap Aditya and then seek ransom a day later,” the officer added. Narrating the sequence of events, the officer said that on December 30, Aditya was going home, barely 500 meters from the coaching centre. “Yashwant, who was on the pillion, allegedly abducted Aditya. On December 31, he made a WhatsApp call demanding Rs 20 lakh from his mother Sarita Devi. After the call was made, the police were informed,” the SP said. The police found it to be a virtual number from Noida. Later, after learning that it was a fake number, we wrote to WhatsApp, USA, under the emergency disclosure scheme. “WhatsApp, USA gave us the exact details of the number on which this virtual number was being operated,” he said. Later, using the customer application number details, it was ascertained that the net used was from the coaching centre and registered with Yashwant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/9-yr-old-kushinagar-boy-rescued-1-held/articleshow/80066171.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Lucknow||Mulayam Singh Yadav makes surprise visit to SP office, greets cadre on New Year||LUCKNOW: The New Year began with a surprise for many when Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav reached the party headquarters unannounced on Friday afternoon to exchange greetings with senior leaders and party workers. In his impromptu address, Mulayam asked party workers to unite and ensure SP’s victory in the 2022 assembly polls. Mulyayam reached the SP office soon after party chief Akhilesh Yadav reached the party headquarters to meet leaders and workers on the New Year. As Mulayam’s motorcade entered the party office, Akhilesh rushed out to receive the SP founder. As Mulayam got off his car, Akhilesh touched his father’s feet to seek his blessings and the veteran politician obliged. Akhilesh then escorted the veteran politician to the lawns. Soon the two leaders were joined by former UP assembly Speaker Mata Prasad Pandey, leader of the opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary, leader of opposition in the legislative council Ahmed Hasan, former cabinet minister Rajendra Chaudhary and a host of senior leaders who reached the party office once they came to know about Netaji’s (Mulayam) visit. In his address, Mulayam wished everyone happiness and good health in the New Year. He called upon the workers to unite and prepare for the 2022 elections and ensure that SP forms the government. Before Mulayam’s address, Pandit Hariprasad Mishra of International Astrology and Vastu Research Centre chanted mantras and gave his blessings to Mulayam and Akhilesh. Members from Dewa Shareef Dargah management committee presented models of Dewa Shareef to the SP patriarch and his son. In his address Akhikesh said 2022 assembly polls will be the last occasion to ensure BJP’s defeat and save democracy. “Farmers, youth and poor have joined hands against BJP and are with the SP. People will stand against the divisive politics of hate and all of us have to reach out to the common man and explain to them the damage BJP has done to the economy and development of the country,” Akhilesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/msy-makes-surprise-visit-to-sp-office-greets-cadre-on-new-year/articleshow/80066179.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
January 2, 2021||Nagpur||Traffic issue due to Sadar flyover landing to persist||Nagpur: The MahaMetro has dropped its plan to make all roads around Kasturchand Park one-way. As a result, motorists taking this route, especially those headed for Kamptee Road from RBI Square, will continue to face inconvenience. To avoid accidents due to the landing of Y-shaped Sadar flyover near RBI Square, the city traffic police had diverted traffic coming from RBI Square to LIC Square via Liberty Cinema junction. In this arrangement, vehicles coming from the Sadar flyover land on the road between LIC Square and Samvidhan Square. As per MahaMetro’s earlier plan, there would have been no need to block traffic heading towards Kamptee while Kasturchand Park was to be treated as a traffic island. Vehicular traffic headed towards Kamptee or Sadar was supposed to move from RBI Square towards LIC Square or the Sadar flyover. Both sides of the road from RBI to LIC Square were to be made one-way, with traffic coming towards RBI Square diverted from Kingsway (by taking left and then right towards RBI Square). “Now, we have dropped the plan,” said MahaMetro director (project) Mahesh Kumar. The decision was taken due to the new Y-shaped flyover MahaMetro has planned from Jaistambh Square. The Sadar flyover was built to decongest the Residency Road. But the traffic comprising heavy vehicles has increased manifold leading to frequent jams on the road beneath the flyover, especially at Coffee House Square, for entire day. Many motorists, including four-wheeler drivers, coming from RBI Square side climb the flyover and then take U-turn on it to reach Kamptee Road from LIC Square, thus creating chances of accident. Civic activists and traffic experts said the diversion plan is causing traffic chaos during peak hours and the authorities need to come up with a permanent solution. Tejinder Singh Renu, secretary Vidarbha Taxpayers Association, said, “This landing planned by NHAI is a major flaw, which requires appropriate design corrections to avoid traffic chaos.” “When any one department plans such infrastructure, there are chances of some flaws. It’s highly recommended that MahaMetro, NHAI, MSRDC, NMC and traffic police together plan their projects. Crores of taxpayers’ money spent on infrastructure should result in long-term traffic solution,” he said. MahaMetro’s earlier plan of having one-way traffic around KP would have increased travel route but could have avoided three traffic signals. “It would have saved time and fuel. Imagine a broad one-way road without dividers, it is bound to result in smooth traffic flow,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/traffic-issue-due-to-sadar-flyover-landing-to-persist/articleshow/80064450.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 2, 2021||Aurangabad||Man distributes, pastes handbills defaming woman||Aurangabad: Upset over a woman turning down his friendship proposal, a 38-year-old man allegedly defamed her by distributing and pasting handbills raising questions about her character. Inspector Surendra Malale said the police teams were sent to nab the suspect, but he could not be traced. “We are trying to unearth all the details in this case and it will be followed by initiating appropriate action,” he said. Police said the suspect was trying to befriend the woman, who runs a beauty parlour in Satara area, for the last couple of months. It all started on September 15 this year. As per the complaint lodged by the woman, the suspect started making advances like frequently calling on her cellphone and sending messages. He would ask her to meet at different hotels. After she refused to entertain him, the suspect allegedly tried defaming her. Police said the suspect’s alleged act started hampering the woman’s business, which according to her, has already suffered due to the pandemic situation. The suspect in the letters and handbills blamed the woman for targeting different men from the locality and appealed women from the area to be cautious of her and boycott her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-distributes-pastes-handbills-defaming-woman/articleshow/80063650.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 2, 2021||Kochi||Rise Of The Home Bakers||When the pandemic confined people to their homes, baking emerged as a popular means to overcome anxiety and stress, and even as a source of income and empowerment. This was confirmed when traders reported increased sales of all-purpose flour, baking powder, cocoa powder, yeast and other raw materials required for the process. “Cakes, cookies and pastries seem to have emerged as the most popular baking products. From the simple teacake to the elaborate birthday and wedding cakes, enthusiasts are experimenting with all genres. When grocery shops were allowed to open during the lockdown there was high demand for baked items and the trend continues,” says Lal Mohan, a dealer of baking equipment. Both amateur and professional bakers are active on social media. While amateurs post pictures of their experiences, professionals provide recipes and post videos of elaborate cake-making processes. Their followers also share their exploits and tips. Those offering homemade products online say that social media platforms have helped them reach out to a larger customer base. Annu George turned to baking when her small event-management business, Happiness Jar, was impacted by the pandemic. "The increasing demand for homemade cakes and pastries and their popularity on social media brought with them their share of controversies. Those who run bakeries and shops raised objections. To avoid complications we registered with the food safety commissioner to sell our products." Some admit to have taken up baking to manage stress and anxiety. Baking requires a lot of patience and focus. It requires the baker to stick to directions and follow them carefully. Those who bake get absorbed in the activity and hardly get time to think about other things that worry them. Moreover, posting pictures of finished products and sharing experiences online provide them with a sense of being engaged in community. “Cakes and pastries are always associated with joy and celebrations. Due to the pandemic people stopped visiting restaurants, bakeries and confectioners. At some point I felt it was important for me to do something that will bring balance and an element of sweetness to our lives. That's how I turned to baking,” says Siny Ramesan, an enthusiast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/rise-of-the-home-bakers/articleshow/80058662.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Ludhiana||13 returnees from UK test negative for Covid||Ludhiana: Thirteen of the 17 flyers, whose sampling was done after they returned from the UK recently, have tested negative for coronavirus, while the health officials are still waiting for the virus genome report of a Ludhiana woman, who was also among the returnees. Her virus genome sequencing will confirm whether she is infected with the new virus strain in the UK or the one prevalent here.The health department officials said of the 18 passengers from the UK, including 15 Ludhianvis, samples of 17 were collected. Twelve were high-risk travellers sitting in close proximity to the 35-year-old woman in the UK-Amritsar plane. Their sampling was done after the local health authorities managed to trace them.“The 13 UK returnees, who have tested negative, include those from Jagraon, Sidhwan Bet, Hathur and Manupur, while the report of four persons is still awaited. Of these, antigen test of a woman, who has returned to Uttar Pradesh, has come negative, but we will consider her to be non-infected only after her RT-PCR report confirms it,” said an official of the health department. “Hopefully, the reports of the remaining four returnees will also be negative. Although they had been tested at the airport, their sampling was necessary, as the incubation period of the virus can go up to 14 days,” he added.“Most of the returnees are in home quarantine whereas the positive patient is admitted to civil hospital,” the official said.District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat confirmed that 13 of the UK returnees have tested negative.About the infected woman, the health officials said the report would make it clear whether she has been infected with the new mutated strain that is 70% more infectious or with the one already prevalent. She was shifted to the Ludhiana civil hospital on December 26 after testing positive at the Amritsar airport.Health officials said that the woman will be sent on home quarantine after she tests negative and her genome report comes. They added that her genome report from a laboratory in Pune is expected next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/13-returnees-from-uk-test-negative-for-covid/articleshow/80063652.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 2, 2021||Lucknow||UP is likely to bring ordinance soon to control religious places||LUCKNOW: The UP government is likely to soon introduce an ordinance to regulate and control the religious places on private and public land. A presentation in this regard was made before Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath recently. After that top circles in the ruling party and the bureaucratic set up were conveyed about the intention of the government to bring the ordinance. A similar attempt was made by the BJP government in the state in January 2000, when Ram Prakash Gupta was the CM. Named 'UP Regulation of Public Religious Building and Places Bill Bill 2000', the bill was passed by the state assembly amid loud protests by the Opposition. However, when it went for the assent of Raj Bhawan, the then governor Suraj Bhan sent it to the President for his consent. The Presidential consent never came; the Bill failed to turn into an Act for its implementation. Highly placed sources told TOI that in a bid to avoid such a situation, the government is considering promulgating an ordinance for its immediate implementation. The new law is likely to be called 'Uttar Pradesh Regulation and Registration of Religious Places'. The new law would be moved by the religious affairs department with views and inputs from the law and parliamentary affairs departments also. “As in 2000, the proposal of the government is to control and regulate the functioning of all religious places, irrespective of communities. However, just the way certain minority communities had opposed the bill, this time too they are apprehensive of the government's intervention in the religious places,” said a political analyst. The Yogi government has already introduced an anti-conversion ordinance and 'Recovery of Damage to Public and Private Property Ordinance' which have generated much heat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-is-likely-to-bring-ordinance-soon-to-control-religious-places/articleshow/80066203.cms||Subhash Mishra
January 2, 2021||Lucknow||Estate department goes online, facility to benefit employees||LUCKNOW: The human resource department of the Rajya Sampatti (estate) department has been made online. Under this, employees will be able to apply for leaves on the department’s website or mobile application. The applications will also be cleared online and employees will be informed about the status on their email. Additional chief secretary SP Goyal, who inaugurated the portal, said that the service register, ACR and other service records will also be maintained online. This will help clear various employee related matters much faster. Goyal said that discrepancies in implementation of service rules had also been addressed, paving the way for promotions pending since the past five years. Six officials were given promotions under this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/estate-dept-goes-online-facility-to-benefit-employees/articleshow/80066160.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Goa||Revellers flout all norms, party all night, Goa turns blind eye||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant’s “request” to tourists to maintain SOPs and social distance was met with widespread rebuke by revellers, who brought in 2021 by cocking a snook at his words, apparently confident that his government lacked the will to enforce public health measures. The full extent of his inaction became evident on Friday, after shocking photos and videos of packed clubs made their way online. Along the North Goa coastal belt, the pandemic seemed to have been forgotten, as scenes reminiscent of pre-Covid times played out in nightclub after nightclub. “It is sheer foolishness to go about as if these are normal times,” said one of the state’s top doctors. “If crowds are allowed, at least SOPs ought to have been followed. When people behave in this fashion, it puts a lot of strain on the health infrastructure. In the UK, yet again the situation has turned bad. People are dying at home for want of beds. Do we want that to happen to us? People should behave responsibly, and the government must strictly follow SOPs.” At some of the state’s most popular venues, party animals posted stories and photos of revellers grinding together without masks or social distancing. The photos attracted damning criticism online of the Goa government’s tacit encouragement of potential superspreader events. “For me, the Christmas week happenings are definite super-spreaders, unless we are really lucky,” said Victor Fernandes from Pilerne. “In the past couple of days, I have seen vehicles from across the country, even as far as Tripura, so the whole of India seems to be headed here. We have kept our doors open without any tests. It’s a free-for-all. If I have to go to Maharashtra, I need a Covid-negative certificate, but if anyone wants to come to Goa, they are all welcome. It’s scary.” His sentiments were echoed across Goa. “No masks were worn and no social distancing was maintained. As a senior citizen I was really disturbed,” said a 67-year-old from Baga. “Yes, we do need tourism for our economy, but not to the extent of stressing our healthcare system, which is already strained. There was almost no vigilance, and our well-being was put at stake.” The beach belt, indeed, was hardest hit. “Tourists believe that Calangute has clear air, there’s no coronavirus out here, and hence they don’t wear masks and maintain no social distancing,” said illustrator Fabian Gonsalves from Calangute. “There were huge crowds on Holiday Street rubbing shoulders and frolicking to the beach and restaurants. The resort behind my house played blaring trance music till 2.30am for a totally-drunk Indian crowd. We had to call the reception and warn them to shut down or we would get the neighbourhood over for a discussion.” The anger about the sheer scale of the impunity and indifference transcended Goa’s borders, and prompted some across India to fear a rise in cases in their own towns, as the revellers make their way back home after throwing caution to the wind in Goa. On Thursday, TOI front-paged a report how Sawant refused to put in place measures to enforce safety precautions, and instead asked people to follow protocols. Sawant’s refusal came even as his health minister, Vishwajit Rane, called for a night curfew in the state to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Sawant even defied an advisory from the Centre, which asked states to maintain strict vigil to curb super-spreader events and places at which crowds may gather to celebrate the New Year. “Don’t let this #NewYearCelebrations in #Goa be a #Covid-19 super-spreader event for #India,” wrote gender activist Ruchi Angrish in a desperate plea to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan. Across the coastal belt, clubs began playing music from 5pm on Thursday, and the music went on till the wee hours. “Year-end parties in Goa used to give me so much joy, but this year, a lot of them are giving me anxiety attacks,” said Ambika Muttoo in a social media post. “No masks. No distancing. People from all over the place in very close quarters like there’s no pandemic.” Meanwhile, as the show went on for tourists, Goan locals, many of whom throng dances, stayed home. Open-air dance venues wore a deserted look, as most chose not to organise their year-end events. “It does not feel right to organise an event during a pandemic,” said Gawin Valadares of Quinta de Valadares, known for one of Goa’s most popular dances. “People did call and ask us if we’re having an event this year, but we were firm about our decision even though it would affect us financially.” Even those that did have the traditional dances closed early as residents remained indoors. “We got around 55-60 people by around 8pm, and closed by midnight,” said Kartik Shrivastava of Raul, Santa Cruz. Watch Covid-19: Goa CM defies Centre’s advisory, allows free-for-all on New Year's Eve||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/revellers-flout-all-norms-party-all-night-state-turns-blind-eye/articleshow/80065419.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Nagpur||Old plan dropped, Y-shaped flyover to come up around Kasturchand Park||Nagpur: MahaMetro has changed the design of Jaistambh Square traffic improvement scheme and is now building a Y-shaped flyover around Kasturchand Park. Earlier, it had planned to build a single lane flyover on Kingsway. A senior MahaMetro official said that the flyover will begin from Jaistambh Square and will be two lane up to Kingsway Hospital. “From the hospital, one arm will go towards LIC Square and another will go towards RBI Square. Both arms will be single lane. The flyover is being built for the traffic coming from Central Avenue towards west. Traffic moving in the opposite direction will have to use the existing roads,” he said. The total length of the Y-shaped flyover is about 800 metre. Also, MahaMetro is building a railway underbridge (RUB) beside the existing Loha Pul. This new RUB will be 40 metre long and will be two-lane. According to MahaMetro officials, the flyover and the RUB are expected to be completed in 8-10 months. Work has already started. The third component of the traffic improvement scheme is a six-lane road opposite the railway station. It involves razing the Station Road flyover and acquiring Ministry of Defense land. This will take some time. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) assistant commissioner Milind Meshram said that hearings for the 109 owners of shops under the flyover were conducted last week. “Now, we will pass an order as per law,” he said. The fourth component of the project is construction of a commercial complex having multi-level parking and shops. The shop owners under the flyover are to be provided shops in this complex, which will be linked to the railway station by a foot overbridge. The Metro official said that this complex was in limbo as the land on which it is to come up belongs to multiple agencies — Madhya Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (MPSRTC), Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC), Ministry of Defense and Indian Railways. “The district collector office is having problem is determining the ownership of part of this land. The officials are scrutinizing British era records. They have told us that it will take time,” he said. The case has become more complicated as MPSRTC has moved the court against acquisition of its land. Meanwhile, Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari has told MahaMetro to prepare a design for a road tunnel under RBI Square. He has promised to sanction necessary amount under Central Road Fund. According to VTA secretary Tejinder Singh Renu, splitting the proposed flyover from Ram Jhula to west Nagpur is a good move with one arm landing before RBI Square and other slightly ahead of St Joseph Convent School. He, however, felt this could cause major parking issue for the school. “Already there is major traffic congestion during school hours and with the new flyover, the parking area will reduce considerably,” he said. The school is closed due to Covid and hence space requirement for parking during school hours cannot be calculated now. “Some parking space is already created for redevelopment of Kasturchand Park new compound wall near the school, but it’s already full the entire day. So, it won’t suffice when the school reopens,” he said. Renu said while planning the flyover, MahaMetro should make appropriate arrangements for school’s parking requirement. “This more than a century old school cannot shift, so if required, some space from Kasturchand Park and some space from school’s compound can be planned by pushing their compounds inside by a few metre,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/old-plan-dropped-y-shaped-flyover-to-come-up-around-kasturchand-park/articleshow/80064501.cms||Ashish Roy
January 2, 2021||Dehradun||Pan-India dry run for Covid-19 vaccination: Mock drill to be conducted at five places in Doon||Dehradun: As part of the nationwide dry run for Covid-19 vaccination on Saturday (January 2), the Uttarakhand health department will also conduct a mock drill to prepare for administering Covid-19 vaccines at five places in Dehradun. The dry run will cover the entire gamut of steps involved in the vaccination process, including uploading of data, session-site allocation, session-site management with test beneficiaries, cold chain management, and transportation arrangements. GC Pandey, health directorate, told TOI that the dry run will take place at Gandhi Shatabdi Hospital, public healthcare facility in Bhaniawala, allopathic dispensary in Raipur and Ranipokhari, and urban healthcare centre in Khurbura. The dry run will start at 9 am. “The state is ready for the dry run. We have already completed feeding in data of around one lakh healthcare workers,” said Pandey. He added that the Union government has asked states to select districts to carry out the dry run for vaccination and the first dry run is being conducted in the state capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pan-india-dry-run-for-covid-19-vaccination-mock-drill-to-be-conducted-at-five-places-in-doon/articleshow/80063647.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 2, 2021||Surat||Dud cheque: Surat businessman’s property to be attached||SURAT: Coming down heavily on a businessman accused in a 2017 cheque bounce offense, a local court not only sentenced the 40-year-old to two years rigorous imprisonment but also directed the authorities to attach all his property and impound his passport too. The court of second additional chief judicial magistrate Shilpa Kanabar convicted Naresh Patel, a resident of Juna Gaam of Choryasi taluka of Surat district, and slapped Rs 30 lakh fine on him. The court also ordered him to pay Rs 25 lakh as compensation to the complainant Shriram Transport Finance Co. Ltd from the fine amount. This is a rare instance in cheque dishonour offence that a court has directed attachment of the convict’s property. In this case, the court was furious as neither Patel nor his lawyer had been appearing for the proceedings for the past five months. A conviction warrant should be sent to the Surat police commissioner, director general of police immediately and police must ensure that the warrant reaches the convict, the court ruled. All his property should be seized to recover the fine amount, the judge ordered. Shriram Transport had lodged a complaint against Patel after a cheque of Rs 15 lakh towards his transport vehicle loan was dishonored in November 2017. Court ordered that if he fails to pay the fine amount, he will remain in jail for additional six months. The court also directed the passport authorities to stop Patel’s passport if he holds one and ordered that the action taken report should be submitted. The copy of this judgement should be provided to the convict at Lajpore Central Jail when he is arrested, through the jailor who will also have to report this to the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dud-cheque-bizmans-property-to-be-attached/articleshow/80063658.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
January 2, 2021||Pune||Pune: Motorcyclist booked on charge of kidnapping, raping 20-year-old||PUNE: The Vishrantwadi police on Thursday launched a search for a motorcyclist after a call centre employee (20) lodged an FIR accusing him of kidnapping and raping her at an isolated place in Kharadi in the wee hours of Thursday. “The survivor and the suspect are not known to each other,” sub-inspector Shubhangi Magdum from the Vishrantwadi police said, citing the survivor’s narration in the FIR. Deputy commissioner of police (Zone IV) Pankaj Deshmukh told TOI, “We have established the identity of the suspect and a police team is after him to see that he is arrested soon.” The woman has been working with a call centre at an IT park in Kharadi for the past two months on 5.30pm to 3am shift. She used a scooter for travelling from her home at Dhanori to her office. The woman said in her FIR she started for home from her call centre on her scooter around 3am on Thursday. She soon realised a man was following her. Around 3.10am, she called one of her friends expressing fear and kept on riding the scooter till the man caught up with her near Good Luck Millennium society at Tingrenagar, she said. The woman stated that she fell off her scooter after the man caught its handle and gave a jerk. He then allegedly beat her up, forced her to sit on his bike and rode at high speed towards the Ahmednagar highway. He threatened her in Hindi against jumping off the bike, the woman said, adding that her cries for help went in vain. The man then took her to an isolated spot, threatened her and sexually assaulted her, the FIR stated. Later, he withdrew cash from an ATM kiosk at Gunjan Chowkand hired an autorickshaw for the woman, the FIR stated. While travelling in the rickshaw, she called her friend near a college. After a futile search for the man, they approached the Vishrantwadi police, the FIR stated. Magdum said, “We have referred the rape survivor to a government hospital for medical examination. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/motorcyclist-booked-on-charge-of-kidnapping-raping-20-yr-old/articleshow/80065420.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana BJP chief wants release of GHMC gazette||HYDERABAD: BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Friday wondered as to why the government had shown undue haste in conducting the GHMC elections but has not bothered to release the gazette of the newly-elected corporators. Speaking after submitting a representation to governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to ask the State Election Commission (SEC) to release the gazette, Sanjay said the GHMC council had its tenure up to February 4. He said the current corporators of TRS are attending all the government programmes, whereas the newly-elected corporators of other parties are not being invited. Meanwhile, assembly speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy surprised Soundararajan when he conveyed New Year wishes during a public interaction that the governor conducted on Friday. Due to Covid-19, Raj Bhavan cancelled the ‘open house’ programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sanjay-wants-release-of-ghmc-gazette/articleshow/80065418.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana colder than Shimla, other Himachal towns||LUDHIANA: The city beat hill stations of the neighbouring Himachal Pradesh in day temperature on Friday. Residents continued to brave spine-chilling weather during the night too as the temperature was recorded below 5 degrees Celsius. As per the meteorological department, the maximum (day) temperature in Ludhiana was recorded at 12.3 degrees Celsius, which is five degrees below normal and 4.1 degrees less than the day before. City’s day temperature was less than most of the hill stations of Himachal Pradesh. The day temperature in Shimla was recorded at 16.1 degrees Celsius, in Manali and Dharamshala at 13.5 degrees Celsius and 13.8 degrees Celsius, respectively. In Punjab, Ludhiana’s day temperature was higher than Patiala, which shivered at 10.3 degrees Celsius. The minimum (night) temperature in Ludhiana was recorded at 4.6 degrees Celsius, which was a degree less than normal. On Thursday, the night temperature here was 4.1 degrees Celsius, which was also a degree below normal. Foggy conditions were also witnessed on Friday morning, lowering visibility. As per the Met department, the visibility at 8.30am was recorded at below 50 metre and it didn’t improve till 11.30am. For the residents grappling with cold wave, the Met department doesn’t have pleasant news. “Fog is expected on Saturday too, and it will lift in the evening due to western disturbances. From January 3 to 5, there are chances of light rainfall, which may improve visibility. Cold wave is expected to subside thereafter,” said Chandigarh Met department director Surender Paul.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-colder-than-shimla-other-himachal-towns/articleshow/80063655.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 2, 2021||Pune||Focus on crime against women in 2021: Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh||PUNE: The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government would prioritize investigating cases of crime against women, maintenance of law and order as well as constructing housing societies for police personnel during the year ahead, state home minister Anil Deshmukh said during his visit to the Pune police control room late on Thursday night. Deshmukh took the first call received by the control room at the stroke of midnight as part of an exercise to spend some time with the police personnel on New Year’s Eve and acknowledge their untiring work. He said the police will fast track investigation into important cases relating to women by taking strict action against the accused, conduct proper investigations by way of collecting concrete evidence, filing charge sheets and expediting trial to secure conviction. “The MVA will make necessary amendments in the IPC and Criminal Procedure Code. A committee of 21 MLAs has been formed to propose amendments to these laws. We will also try to pass the Shakti Act in the next assembly session in March to provide speedy justice to women,” he said. The home minister added, “As head of the police force, it is my duty to ensure that more housing societies are constructed for policemen. Providing accommodation to policemen is a serious issues. Most police colonies were constructed prior to Independence. As much as 41% accommodation was provided to policemen after independence. We will focus on providing better accommodation to policemen.” Deshmukh lauded the role played by the police after the Covid-19 outbreak. He said around 300 policemen have lost their lives to the infection but the police continues to do its best. He hoped with public cooperation the state would be free from Covid in the New Year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/focus-on-crime-against-women-in-2021-minister/articleshow/80065458.cms||Asseem Shaikh
January 2, 2021||Pune||Pune: Schools’ support staff play crucial role to keep teachers, students safe||PUNE: The support staff in schools, including peons and 'maushis', have become all the more important as they are being trained and equipped well to meet essential safety and cleanliness measures in and around the campus. From knowing the safe temperature norms, sanitizing themselves, using personal protection kits and face shields to undergoing the RT-PCR tests, their routines have changed as they now have the additional work of sanitizing premises at regular intervals. School representatives said the support staff and housekeeping staff were an integral part of the school. They have always been a silent pillar and have been working with the ethos that ‘cleanliness is godliness’. The housekeeping staff in many schools have been increased as there will be more work involving cleaning and disinfecting classrooms in two shifts. After-school hours and weekends would be utilised for deep cleaning and sanitisation of the entire campus. President of Victorious Kidss Educares, Robbin Ghosh, said, “Rigorous training has been provided to teaching and non-teaching staff on how to be alert and cautious and how to help children maintain social distancing and hygiene. Housekeeping staff will ensure daily cleaning and disinfecting of surfaces and objects that are touched often, such as desks, countertops, doorknobs, computer keyboards, hands-on learning items, taps, phones and toys.” Director of City Pride school, Ashwini Kulkarni, said they have been doing sanitisation, thermal scanning already for the teachers who were coming to school with the help of trained support staff.  Also the 'tais' and driver 'kakas' are also trained for sanitisation work at school. At Vidya Pratishthan's Magarpatta City Public School, all the non-teaching staff are undergoing RT – PCR tests. Principal, Chandrika Banerjee said, “Safe entry and exit of non-teaching staff has been planned. Housekeeping staff have to come early to clean and sanitize the school as per the schedules given.” At Stepping Stone School, the management felt that the health and well-being of support staff was crucial for the school to function properly. Principal Ritu Mendiratta said, “That’s the reason we have made sure that we get their testing and health check-ups done on a regular basis. They have also been instructed clearly to intimate if they have a common cough, or rise in temperature.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/schools-support-staff-play-crucial-role-to-keep-teachers-students-safe/articleshow/80065440.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 2, 2021||Dehradun||Rawat approves over Rs 60 cr for Kumbh related works||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat sanctioned Rs 20 crore on Friday for surveillance system and State Disaster Response Force preparations ahead of Kumbh Mela, 2021. Rs 11.91 crore was approved for general tentage, for which first installment of Rs 4.77 crore has been released. CM approved Rs 2.89 crore for solid waste infrastructure under Rishikesh Nagar Nigam, of which Rs 1.16 crore has been released. He also approved Rs 27.43 crore for health care facilities in 23 sectors of Kumbh area, of which Rs 10.97 crore was released on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rawat-approves-over-rs-60-cr-for-kumbh-related-works/articleshow/80063654.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 2, 2021||Nashik||Dengue cases in Nashik city drop in December||Nashik: The number of dengue cases in the city has dropped considerably in December last year compared to the previous months. As many as 47 dengue positive cases were recorded in December compared to 81 such cases registered in November. There was a 70% drop in the number of dengue cases registered last year compared to the dengue cases recorded the year before. Total 336 dengue positive cases were recorded in the city between January 1 and December 31 2020 against 1,124 such cases recorded during the corresponding period an year ago. The dengue cases usually surge during the monsoon. It takes around 21 days for the creation of mosquito breeding spots. There had been rains in September and October, which led to a rise in breeding spots. Hence, there was a rise in the number of dengue positive cases registered in November last year. “We had started a drive to find and destroy mosquito breeding spots across the city. We also slapped a fine of Rs 200 on each citizen if we found water accumulating in their residences. All these factors helped in bringing down the dengue cases in December compared to November,” said Rajendra Trimbake, a senior official from the health department of Nashik Municipal Corporation. “In 2020, we slapped a fine on119 errant citizens for letting water accumulate in the premises of their residences, that led to the creation of breeding spots, and recovered fine to the tune of Rs 1.07 lakh. Maximum action was taken in the last three months,” said Trimbake. Of the 1,124 dengue cases registered in 2019, 1,112 cases were reported in six months between July 1 and December 31 due to the rains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dengue-cases-in-nashik-city-drop-in-december/articleshow/80063660.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 2, 2021||Pune||Cops zero in on wanted Nashik man||Pune: The police on Wednesday arrested a real estate agent from Nashik. Avinash alias Abhijit Madhukar Ugade (35) was wanted in a rape case registered with the city police in 2008. A special court on Thursday ordered the arrested suspect’s 14-day judicial custody following which he was sent to the Yerawada central jail. The police earlier arrested Ugade’s two accomplices for kidnapping a 16-year-old girl from her residence on September 14, 2008, and repeatedly raping her at Nashik. A charge sheet was filed against the duo but Ugade’s whereabouts were not known.  A police team visited Nashik on numerous occasions to arrest Ugade, but he continued to evade arrest . Senior inspector Krantisinh Patil from Wanowrie police said, “We got information about Ugade’s presence in Nashik. We took him into custody and got him to Pune. A supplementary charge sheet will be filed against him on completion of probes.” Assistant sub-inspector Pradeep Gurav said, “ We received Ugade’s mobile number, traced his location and arrested him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-zero-in-on-wanted-nashik-man/articleshow/80065474.cms||Asseem Shaikh
January 2, 2021||Pune||Fire breaks out in wada in Ganesh Peth||Pune: A major fire broke out in an old wada in Ganesh Peth on Friday afternoon. The Pune fire brigade doused off the fire within an hour. No one suffered injuries. Fire officer Pradip Khedekar said, “Prima facie, a short circuit in one the houses in the wada caused the fire.” He said the fire started around 3.30pm. “It spread because of the blast of an LPG cylinder. We removed two cylinders from the wada,” Khedekar said. The wada is around 80-years-old and around four families live there. “None of them suffered injuries,”he said, adding seven fire tenders were pressed into service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fire-breaks-out-in-wada-in-ganesh-peth/articleshow/80065472.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Dehradun||Night duty officer and social media monitoring team of Udham Singh Nagar police suspended after constable mows down pan shop owner||Dehradun: The night duty officer of Bazpur police station and the entire social media monitoring team of Udham Singh Nagar district police was suspended following Wednesday night’s incident in which a policeman allegedly refused to pay for a packet of cigarettes he took from a pan shop owner and in a fit of rage, mowed the shop owner with his car. Terming it an unfortunate incident for which strict action was required, state director general of police (DGP), Ashok Kumar, said, “I have directed inspector general (IG) of Kumaon to immediately suspend the night in-charge of Bazpur police station along with the social media monitoring team of the district police. They have been booked under section 302 (murder) of IPC. Such incidents will not be tolerated.” The DGP added that it was a poor reflection on the district social media monitoring team, constituted to check spread of rumours and inflammatory material on social media, that it remained totally oblivious to posts that were put up regarding the incident. "People were making live videos from the police station alongside the body of the deceased, and uploading them on social media sites while the social media monitoring team of the district police was in deep slumber," Kumar said. As reported by TOI earlier, constable Pravin Kumar—posted at Bazpur police station — had come to a pan shop around 11 pm on Wednesday. He took cigarettes from the shop but refused to pay for them. A heated argument ensued between Kumar and the pan shop owner Gaurav Ruhela following which Kumar, along with his brother-in-law and a friend ran over Ruhela and three others with their car. All of them sustained grievous injuries and were rushed to a nearby hospital, where Ruhela was pronounced dead. Locals of the area had thereafter sat on a dharna in front of Bazpur police station with the deceased’s body, demanding immediate arrest of the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/night-duty-officer-and-social-media-monitoring-team-of-udham-singh-nagar-police-suspended-after-constable-mows-down-pan-shop-owner/articleshow/80063661.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Goa||Tourism department not to participate in trade fairs till March 31||PANAJI: The tourism department has decided not to participate in any international or domestic trade shows and exhibitions till March 31, due to the unpredictability involved arising from the pandemic. A decision was taken at a meeting of the tourism marketing and promotion committee last week. “Due to uncertainty prevailing over Covid-19 scenario it has been decided not to participate in any event till March. It doesn’t make any sense to participate now,” said J Ashok Kumar, tourism secretary. Any decision regarding tourism events that are scheduled post March will be taken at a later stage. There are at least five to six international events scheduled in the next few months with limited participation. Kumar also said that with the uncertainty involved due to the pandemic there is a possibility that these events may also be called off. “In the absence of non-operation of commercial flights it doesn’t make sense to participate. Tourists are not getting the opportunity to travel so what’s the point of participation,” he said. Nilesh Shah, president of Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) who was also part of the decision making, said participating in any international trade fair at this stage will be a waste of money. Even with regards to conducting Shigmo and Carnival festivals in 2021, Shah said that no decision has been taken yet, adding that if the prevailing ambiguity is factored in there is no point in deciding how and where to promote and market ‘destination Goa’. He said that the tourism ministry has handled the situation well and given much needed support to the industry in this crisis. A tourism stakeholder who did not want to be named said the tourism department will have to carefully draw out its marketing strategy and it will have to be different from pre-Covid period. “It will not be easy as the crisis has compelled us to change in many ways. Europe is still reeling under the pandemic. Choosing European markets for promoting Goa will have to be done carefully and after market studies. Or else Goa tourism will not yield results,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tourism-dept-not-to-participate-in-trade-fairs-till-mar-31/articleshow/80065540.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Pune||Koregaon Bhima battle’s 203rd anniversary held on a low-key note at victory tower||PUNE: The 203rd anniversary of the battle of Koregaon Bhima was observed on a low-key note on Friday at the “Jai Stambh” (victory tower) at Perne Phata on Ahmednagar highway, about 27km from here, in the wake of the Covid-induced situation. “Till 1.30pm, barely 3,000 pass-holders visited the victory tower to pay their tributes,” said Abhinav Deshmukh, superintendent of police (Pune rural). District collector Rajesh Deshmukh told TOI, “The event took place in a peaceful manner as people responded positively to our appeals for a low-key celebration.” Usually, thousands of Dalit community members visit the “Jai Stambh” every year on January 1. Deshmukh said, “The police had issued about 3,000 passes to members and workers of various Dailt organisations. In the morning session, the police did not allow anyone without a passes. As the situation was under control in the afternoon, they allowed people to visit the victory tower with social distancing norms in place.” Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, state home minister Anil Deshmukh, power minister Nitin Raut, Union minister of state for social justice and empowerment Ramdas Athawale and Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi leader Prakash Ambedkar visited the site to pay their tributes. Ajit Pawar told reporters, “The state government would acquire the land of private parties around the victory tower for constructing a Koregaon Bhima memorial. We have discussed this in a meeting with the district collector recently. The memorial would have all facilities, considering the huge turnout every year at the place.” Athawale said, “We shall soon write to the state education minister seeking inclusion of a chapter on the history of Koregaon Bhima in the textbooks.” Many visitors had to walk 5-7km to reach the victory tower in the absence of any transport arrangement from the spot where private vehicles were stopped. “January 1 is the only day in a year when we celebrate the valour of our men. The administration should have arranged buses for us,” said Santosh Khade from Hingoli in Marathwada. Maximum visitors were youngsters. They came in a group with blue flags. Most eateries, and trade and business establishments in and around Perne were closed. The district collector imposed Section 144 of the CrPC to prevent crowding. Vehicular traffic along a 10km stretch of the highway was diverted. About 2,500 police personnel were deployed to maintain law and order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/koregaon-bhima-battles-203rd-anniversary-held-on-a-low-key-note-at-victory-tower/articleshow/80065497.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 2, 2021||Pune||Only 95k applications for 1.3 lakh engg seats||Pune: The common entrance cell (CET) will display the first provisional merit list online for bachelor of engineering and technology course on Saturday. Around 95k students have registered for over 1.30 lakh seats. The registration dates were extended till December 31 when the government gave permission to SEBC students to apply under EWS category, if eligible. “Till 5pm on Friday, a total of 94,979 students who had registered and submitted their documents, were eligible for the Centralised Admission Process (CAP) round. Another 400 students may get added to this count as their documents are getting verified,” an official from the state CET cell said. In the last academic year, over 1.33 lakh seats were available. But for the academic year 2020-21, as many as 10 engineering colleges shut down, reducing the total number of available seats to 1.30 lakh for this CAP round. After going through the provisional merit list, students can submit their grievances if any on January 3 and 4. The final merit list for all candidates will be announced online on January 6. A total of 3.86 lakh students had appeared for MH CET in physics, chemistry, mathematics and physics, chemistry, biology groups. The results were announced on November 28. A total of 19 students received 100 percentile in the PCB group while 22 students got 100 percentile in the PCM group. After the display of provisional categorywise seat matrix and the online submission of option forms for CAP round I through the candidate’s login ID, the provisional allotment for round I will be declared online on January 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/only-95k-applications-for-1-3-lakh-engg-seats/articleshow/80065496.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Mallu Ravi slams MLA Rajagopal Reddy||HYDERABAD: Telangana Congress vice-president Mallu Ravi on Friday condemned the statement of party MLA Komatireddy Rajagopal Reddy that he would join BJP in future as announced earlier. Congress MLA Rajagopal Reddy, from Munugode constituency in Telangana, had told reporters that the BJP has a bright future in Telangana and that he would join the saffron party ranks soon. He said this in Tirupati after offering prayers at Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams. Mallu Ravi said: “He is presently Congress party MLA and it is his duty to work towards strengthening the party.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mallu-ravi-slams-mla-rajagopal/articleshow/80065498.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Kochi||None remains unchanged||The entire humanity would like to bury 2020 deep, a year of death, suffering and desolation. The devastation exceeded Hiroshima and Nagasaki and multiples of 9/11 in sheer destructive force. A virtual Third World War is still raging on all continents. None has escaped its wrath, none has remained unchanged. Survival is the only sign of success today and all those who survive the pandemic can consider themselves blessed, chosen by God to inherit the earth. But no one knows the extent of the ravages the pandemic has wrought on the globe and when even the new norm imposed by the cataclysmic changes will stabilize… Whether China created the pandemic or not, it is going to be the greatest beneficiary of it. China’s race to the top has been accentuated by its management of the pandemic and its flexing of the muscles from the Himalayas to the South China Sea…India shone on the global scene by promoting multilateralism and by being the pharmacy of the world. But the severe economic decline and the stalemate on the Line of Actual Control with China have added fuel to the fire. The Year 2021, however, engenders the hope of a new dawn, but it is based on sheer optimism, not on hard calculations. Hope springs eternal in man.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/none-remains-unchanged/articleshow/80058714.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Dehradun||Mobile app to solve issues of parking during Kumbh, says urban development dept||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand urban development department is preparing an app which will help pilgrims coming to the Kumbh Mela in locating designated parking spots. The app will also connect people with an emergency helpline and trace family and friends who have been separated from them. According to officials, the dedicated mobile application for Kumbh Mela 2021 will have a host of practically-designed features as the pilgrims generally face issues related to lack of information about ghats and designated parking areas, and pedestrian movement patterns within Haridwar. The application will facilitate the dissemination of information providing people a hassle-free experience. The application will also have a feature which will enable the users to track their friends and family and also create a group for better communication during the Mela. Besides, the application will also help the officers on Mela duty in managing routes and circulation of pilgrims and vehicles. The application will enable real-time planning, implementation of circulation plans, and vehicle mobilisation in case of an emergency The mobile application is envisaged to provide assistance and safety to all pilgrims, including women and children, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mobile-app-to-solve-issues-of-parking-during-kumbh-says-urban-development-dept/articleshow/80063669.cms||Abhijeet Singh
January 2, 2021||Pune||Fadnavis’ criticism dismissed||Home minister Anil Deshmukh dismissed former CM Devendra Fadnavis’ claim that the MVA government was interfering with police transfers at the micro-level and this was why DGP Subodh Kumar Jaiswal sought an appointment at the centre on deputation. Fadnavis had said this after Jaiswal’s appointment as the new director general of the Central Industrial Security Force was announced on Thursday. “His (Fadnavis’) statement should not be taken seriously. He was criticizing the government in his capacity as the leader of opposition,” Deshmukh said. Asked who will be the next state DGP, Deshmukh said the appointment will be made at the earliest. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fadnavis-criticism-dismissed/articleshow/80065527.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Hyderabad||BJP unable to get Central funds: Revanth Reddy||HYDERABAD: Telangana Congress working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy on Friday said BJP MLA Ragjhunandan Rao has not been able to bring Central funds for development of Dubbak. Revanth was speaking after unveiling of the statue of Ch Mutyam Reddy by TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy in Dubbak. While Uttam said that Congress will come to power in Telangana in 2023, Revanth appealed to the people to realise that TRS and BJP were two sides of a coin. “We will give proof of irregularities in Kaleshwaram irrigation project to BJP. Will BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay take the proof from us and ensure that Modi government takes action against KCR government,” Revanth asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/revanth-bjp-unable-to-get-central-funds/articleshow/80065526.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Surat||Three collegians who fled police checking get pre-arrest bail||Surat: Three college students, one of them studying in Dubai, were granted anticipatory bail in connection with an offence of attempting to commit culpable homicide and others registered against them by Kamrej police. A case was lodged against the trio after they allegedly escaped police checking, and, in doing so, allegedly injured a cop who tried to stop their car on December 20. They were booked under Indian Penal Code sections 279 (rash driving), 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) and sections of Motor Vehicle Act and Epidemic Disease Act. The 22-year-old student who was driving the car studies engineering in Vallabh Vidhyanagar. “As they were not wearing face masks, police signaled them to stop, but they drove away and the police officer who was trying to stop the car suffered injuries. However, the students had tried to flee merely to avoid criminal proceedings and payment of fine and their intention was not to cause the death of a police officer,” their advocate MD Jhaveri argued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-collegians-who-fled-police-checking-get-pre-arrest-bail/articleshow/80063708.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Dehradun||Kumaon gets first cyber police station in Rudrapur||Rudrapur: The first cyber police station of Uttarakhand’s Kumaon region became operational in the city on Friday. It was inaugurated by the district’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Daleep Singh Kunwar. Located at the police outpost in the old Pantnagar industrial area at Nainital highway, this station is currently a temporary facility. A permanent facility will be set up once the authorities get land for it, said officials. SSP Kunwar said that the cyber police station was launched in view of the surge in cyber crimes in the region. The facility would help in the probe of online frauds, crimes committed via social media, and so on. Besides, it would also provide technical assistance in the probe of cases registered in other police stations in the region. “The cyber police station is set up to investigate cyber crimes like data fraud, hacking of bank accounts, and serious social media crimes. People can continue to file complaints regarding cyber crimes in respective police stations and the first information report will be filed there. If there is a need for an in-depth probe, the local police will file a report to the district police chief. Subsequently, the district police chief will hand over the complaint to the cyber police station if needed,” said an official. Meanwhile, additional superintendent of the Special Task Force (STF) Swatantra Kumar Singh said, “We have one cyber police station catering to the Garhwal region in Dehradun and this is the second such facility in the state. This cyber police station will have twelve technical experts to work on the complaints,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kumaon-gets-first-cyber-police-station-in-rudrapur/articleshow/80063676.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 2, 2021||Surat||Tipplers brave Covid, 1,607 caught in Valsad||Surat: Fear of corona had little impact on tippling on New Year’s eve with the number of arrests seeing significant rise in Valsad district borders on December 31 night. Even police were taken aback looking at figures given the fact that they weren’t expecting revellers due to Covid-19 and curfew in major cities including Surat. As many as 1,607 people were caught drunk in Valsad district mainly those coming from ‘watering holes’ in union territory of Daman and Dadra & Nagar Haveli and bordering Maharashtra on December 31 night to early on New Year morning on Friday. Interestingly, last year only 1,209 people were arrested in a similar drive on New Year’s Eve in the district. Rajdeepsinh Zala, superintendent of police, Valsad, told TOI “We deployed our teams across the district, especially in those areas near UT and Maharashtra to nab drunken people. We had hired nine halls to accommodate detained people. Each of the 12 police stations were provided a medical team to conduct blood tests and we have also conducted rapid antigen tests of around 450 people,” Zala said.“There is relaxation in Maharashtra and the UTs and people go there to drink and return to the state. So, we organised a special drive to nab these people across the state. We increased patrolling and barricading to arrest such people,” he added.According to police statement, of the 13 police station Valsad district, the highest number of 269 tipplers were caught in Pardi police station area followed by 259 in Vapi town, 201 in Dungra, 159 in Vapi GIDC police station, 143 in Valsad city police station, 108 in Bhilad, 101 in Dungari and 100 people were arrested in Umargam police station area in Valsad district Those arrested included drunkards, smugglers and for drunken driving.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/tipplers-brave-covid-1607-caught-in-valsad/articleshow/80063722.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Dehradun||Key construction works for Kumbh pending, even as first snan is in 2 weeks||Haridwar: Even as Kumbh is barely a fortnight away – the Makar Sankranti snan is scheduled on January 14 – key construction works in Haridwar are pending. Construction of an “Aastha Path” (Devotional Pathway) for pilgrims is yet to be completed. Beautification of Har-ki-Pauri, the main bathing ghat in Haridwar where only seers are allowed, is also pending, as are the laying of underground electricity cables and natural gas pipelines. Work on the Haridwar-Delhi is also not done. The government had assured most of Mela works would be done before January and chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had said 99% Kumbh works would be done by December 31. The government had announced a 1000-bed Covid Care Centre dedicated to pilgrims who test positive for the coronavirus during Kumbh in October last year. It was supposed to be ready by January. But as it is far from complete, authorities informed patients will be admitted at hospitals across the city, wherever beds are available. As for the 150-bed fabricated base hospital planned in Pantdeep area, authorities said work on it hasn’t started. With the construction works being delayed, the government is yet to issue a notification on the commencement date of Kumbh. The Mela Police has, however, announced the first bathing festival on January 14, the occasion of Makar Sankranti, and started preparations for it. Additional mela officer Harbir Singh said that the notification for Kumbh will be issued in late February. “The work was delayed due to Covid-19 lockdown. Most of it will be completed by January 31,” said Singh. “We have, however, prepared to organise bathing festivals in January and February. We have discussed the plans with the Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP), they consented.” However, ABAP, the apex body of saints, is not happy with the pace of work. ABAP president Narendra Giri told TOI, “We don’t have a problem with the government planning to issue the Kumbh notification in February due to the threat of Covid-19 as long as the ‘shahi snans’ (royal baths in which only saints participate) go smoothly in March and April. However, the construction works should be completed in time. We are concerned with the slow pace of work.” Mela administration said all permanent construction was on track to be completed in time and the temporary work was also progressing as planned. IG Kumbh Sanjay Gunjyal told TOI, “We are ready for the first bathing festival on Makar Sakranti. It is not a shahi snan but it will help us test the waters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/key-construction-works-for-kumbh-pending-even-as-first-snan-is-in-2-weeks/articleshow/80063709.cms||MS Nawaz
January 2, 2021||Mumbai||India Int’l Centre is eligible for tax exemption, rules ITAT||Mumbai: The Income-tax Appellate Tribunal (Delhi bench) has set aside an appeal filed by the Income-tax department contesting the ‘charitable purpose’ of the well-known India International Centre (IIC). Consequently, the Centre is eligible for tax exemption. IIC had obtained favourable ITAT orders on the same issue earlier, and the Delhi high court had also dismissed an appeal filed by the Income-tax (I-T) department. The ITAT, in its order dated December 30, also frowned upon the rounds of appeal, terming them to be ‘devoid of merit and thus liable to be dismissed’. IIC, situated at Lodhi Road in New Delhi, was set up as a trust back in 1961. It has around 7,000 members, including prominent personalities from various walks of life. National and international conferences, cultural events, etc, held at IIC are open to the general public. For the financial years 2012-13 and 2013-14, IIC reported ‘nil’ taxable income. However, in the course of scrutiny of the returns, the I-T officer (technically referred to as the assessing officer) observed that it also provided paid services such as accommodation, food and beverages. Accommodation and related activities are restricted only to its members and non-members who are specially invited to participate in its activities, he noted. In this backdrop, the officer concluded that the activities of the trust were hit by the proviso to section 2(15) of the I-T Act. The I-T officer added that IIC’s claims that its activities are not on commercial lines was not tenable. He then proceeded to deny the tax exemption available to the trust under the provisions of section 10(23C)(iv). According to section 2(15), the term ‘charitable purpose’ includes ‘advancement of any other object of general public utility’. A proviso to this section provides that this definition no longer holds good if the trust carries on any activity or provides any service in the nature of trade commerce or business for a consideration. However, certain exceptions are carved out --- If such activities are undertaken in the course of carrying out the trust objective or if the receipts from such activities do not exceed a stipulated amount in a fiscal year. When the litigation reached the ITAT, the bench noted that the tax tribunal had in earlier years ruled in favour of IIC. Further, the Delhi high court had also dismissed an appeal filed by the tax department. These orders had held that the trust was not hit by any proviso to section 2(15), as the activities of the IIC in providing accommodation and food and beverages etc do not constitute commercial activities. In its order dated December 30, the ITAT upheld the earlier orders and set aside the appeal filed by the tax department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/india-intl-centre-is-eligible-for-tax-exemption-rules-itat/articleshow/80062297.cms||Lubna Kably
January 2, 2021||Dehradun||361 Covid-19 cases surface on New Year's Day, officials tracing UK returnees||DEHRADUN: On the New Year's Day, Uttarakhand recorded 361 fresh Covid-19 infections and six virus-related deaths. With this, the total number of cases shot up to 91,281 and the toll of the virus touched 1,515 in the state. According to health officials, the district surveillance team of Tehri, on Saturday, will collect the samples of the primary contacts of the eight-year-old who had tested positive for the virus on Thursday after returning from the United Kingdom. “We got to know through ASHA workers that three people of a family arrived in the district from the UK. We collected their samples. While the couple tested Covid-19 negative, their eight-year-old son was found infected. We have kept all the five members of the family in isolation from each other and contact sampling will be done on Saturday. We will also test the boy’s maternal grandmother, who is around 75 of age, along with his maternal uncle, aunt, and their daughter,” said Dr Jagdish Joshi, district surveillance team, Tehri Garhwal. He added that the couple recorded their home address in Dehradun’s Dharampur. However, they arrived at their parent’s home in the 14-Beegha area in Rishikesh that falls under Tehri Garhwal. Thus, this case will be counted from Dehradun as the patients have registered their Dharampur address. Also, the district surveillance and police in Dehradun are trying to trace around 15 people who returned from the UK between November 28 and December 18 in the district. Talking to TOI, Shweta Chaubey, SP City, confirmed that a few people who returned from the UK mentioned wrong/untraceable phone numbers and addresses when their data was collected in New Delhi. “We are helping the district surveillance team in tracing those who returned from the UK. Most of them are already traced and the search for others is on,” she added. Meanwhile, among the 361 cases found on Friday, 124 were recorded in Dehradun, followed by 87 in Nainital, 32 in Haridwar, 26 in Udham Singh Nagar, 18 in Pauri, 17 each in Uttarkashi and Champawat, 16 in Pithoragarh, 10 in Almora, eight in Rudraprayag, three in Bageshwar, two in Tehri, and one in Chamoli district. “With 492 people recovering from Covid-19 infection, the number of cured cases reached 83,998 in the state,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid 19 control room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/361-covid-19-cases-surface-on-new-years-day-officials-tracing-uk-returnees/articleshow/80063723.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 2, 2021||Goa||At Rs 342 crore, Goa’s GST revenues remain in negative territory||PANAJI: The government’s efforts to encourage economic activity appear to have paid off a bit, with the state earning Rs 342 crore in GST collections in December 2020 as against Rs 300 crore in November. However, the deficit in GST earnings continues as the state witnessed a 6% shortfall when compared with December 2019 collections even as India’s GST revenue for December hit an all-time high. Sources expect GST earnings to move into positive territory in January as businesses, particularly hotels, file their taxes during December-end, which is Goa’s peak tourism season. “The GST figures are for business done in November. Hotels and industries have till January 11 to file their monthly returns for December,” said a state GST official. Taxpayers with turnover less than Rs 5 crore have till January 22 to file their returns, said the official, suggesting that the state could wipe out the 6% shortfall in collections. Goa’s GST collections have steadily inched higher, moving from a 55% drop in May to 12% shortfall in November. As against Rs 363 crore in December 2019, GST collections from Goa, which include SGST, CGST and IGST, stood at Rs 342 crore. Nationally, GST revenue is Rs 1,15,174 crore in December of which CGST is Rs 21,365 crore, SGST is Rs 27,804 crore, IGST is Rs 57,426 crore and cess is Rs 8,579 crore. At the national level, GST revenues for the month of December are 12% higher than those of the same month in 2019. The highest GST collection till now was Rs 1,13,866 crore in April 2019. Chief minister Pramod Sawant defied directives from the Centre and from within the cabinet calling for a curfew to be imposed on New Year’s eve to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Under pressure to find additional revenue sources and to sustain the government’s coffers, Sawant appears to have favoured economic activity, particularly since December is the peak season for tourism, which has emerged as the mainstay of Goa’s economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/at-rs-342cr-goas-gst-revenues-remain-in-negative-territory/articleshow/80065701.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Delhi||New charge on flyers from February 1 as Delhi's IGI Airport stares at crisis||NEW DELHI: Flying out of Delhi will cost marginally more from next month. The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority (AERA) has allowed Delhi International Airport Ltd to levy Rs 65.98 plus taxes per departing passenger from February 1 to March 31 in lieu of the “fuel throughput charge” levied on airlines till January 15, 2020. The new charge per passenger departing from Indira Gandhi International Airport will drop to Rs 53, Rs 52.56 and 51.97 (taxes extra), respectively, in financial years 2022 (April 1, 2021-March 31, 2022), 2023 and 2024.  Sources said that AERA hadn’t yet approved DIAL’s request for an additional levy of Rs 200 and Rs 300 from each domestic and international outbound passenger to offset the revenue losses caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. The airport operator had sought to levy this charge till March 2024. “AERA has asked DIAL to approach it after March 2022 regarding this levy if its financial problems persist. The operator is examining what step it can take, such as an appeal to a tribunal given its financial deficit,” said a source. DIAL, anticipating a revenue shortfall of Rs 3,538 crore from April 2020 to March 2024, had petitioned the civil aviation ministry in early December to direct AERA to factor in the Covid impact on its revenue. “Viability gap support of Rs 3,538 crore would be required for third control period (till FY 2024) to maintain operations, service levels, safety and security of the airport… the (declining) traffic scenario has taken a toll on DIAL’s financial position and put forth a challenge for sustainable operations,” DIAL CEO V K Jaipuriar had written to aviation secretary P S Kharola. “In case, AERA does not consider our request of viability gap, DIAL will end up with a serious cash flow deficit and find itself difficult to continue the airport operations.” Meanwhile, AERA has accepted the IGIA operator’s traffic projection which puts it returning to the level of traffic actually seen in financial year 2019-20 three years from now in financial year 2022-23. And if the Covid pandemic is brought under control, financial year 2023-24 could see a marginal increase from the figures in the pre-pandemic days. Cargo traffic is not impacted as severely as passenger flights due to the significant movement of freighters during the pandemic restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-charge-on-flyers-from-feb-1-as-igi-stares-at-crisis/articleshow/80064628.cms||Saurabh Sinha
January 2, 2021||Dehradun||Contracts of 81 docs terminated due to their prolonged absence from duty||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand government on Thursday terminated the contracts of 81 doctors, most of them posted in hills, due to their prolonged absence from work. Health officials said that the doctors were sent five notices in the last one year. According to officials, services of those doctors who either did not turn up or failed to give satisfactory answers were terminated with immediate effect. In the last one year, Uttarakhand health department has terminated over 500 doctors, who were absent from duty for many years. Talking to TOI, Dr Pankaj Pandey, (secretary) in-charge, said that the government has sent multiple notices to all these doctors in the last several months but no one even bothered to respond. “After the termination of service of these absente doctors, the health department will get an opportunity to hire new staff,” said Pandey. Among the 81 doctors terminated by the state government, 13 were posted in Pauri Garhwal, 10 in Nainital, nine each in Almora and Chamoli districts, eight in Dehradun, six each in Rudraprayag and Udham Singh Nagar, five in Uttarkashi, four in Pithoragarh, three in Champawat, two in Haridwar and one in Bageshwar. To recall, the decision of terminating the absent doctors was taken in the cabinet meeting held in 2020. During the meeting, the state government decided to end the services of all such doctors who had not joined work after their selection. In May last year, the services of 426 doctors, who had been selected between 2010 and 2015 and did not either join posting or complete their probation period, were ended with immediate effect. Later in July, services of 20 doctors were terminated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/contracts-of-81-docs-terminated-due-to-their-prolonged-absence-from-duty/articleshow/80063728.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 2, 2021||Pune||Pune: Daily fatalities in PMR decline to eight-month-low, 740 people recover||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) recorded just four deaths due to Covid-19 on Friday, its least single-day toll in eight months. While one death each was recorded in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits, two patients died in the rural areas. PMR had last recorded four deaths on May 4, 2020. The fatalities peaked in August and September last year before dropping gradually due to better medical care. So far, as many as 8,822 people have succumbed to Covid-related complications in PMR. The region recorded 740 recoveries and 572 new cases on Friday, taking the total discharges and caseload to 3.48 lakh and 3.63 lakh, respectively. The data released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that 324 patients were discharged in PMC limits on Friday as against additions of 302 cases, while the rural areas reported more than double recoveries as against new infections of 150 cases. The active caseload dropped further to 6,043 in the region on Friday. As many as 4,284 patients were in home isolation, while 1,759 in hospitals till Friday evening. The sample testing in the region reached 18.79 lakh, with 8,152 samples being tested at various laboratories in the last 24 hours. Of these, as many as 4,140 samples were tested in the PMC limits and 2,086 in the PCMC limits. The number of patients on oxygen support dropped to 637 in the PMC limits on Friday. As many as 250 patients were at critical stage, of whom 160 were on ventilator support, a PMC health department official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-fatalities-in-pmr-decline-to-8-month-low-740-people-recover/articleshow/80065641.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 2, 2021||Hyderabad||At 9,000, Telangana has one of lowest firearm licences in country||HYDERABAD: The incidents of a fatal gunfire incident in Adilabad town involving a political party worker and the seizure of firearms from a hunting enthusiast may have raised concerns over public safety. But, in reality, Telangana has one of the lowest firearms licences issued in the country and licences for more than half of the firearms in the state are issued from the three commissionerates of Hyderabad . Among 6,151 firearms in the city, a majority are issued in west zone, including Banjara Hills, Jubilee Hills, Panjagutta and SR Nagar areas. Old City areas have 500 arms licences. Among three city commissionerates, Hyderabad has close to 4,200 firearms, followed by Rachakonda and Cyberabad with 782 and 587. “Political leaders, businessmen, filmstars and sports persons form a major component among arms licence holders,” said a Special Branch police official. As per data with ministry of home affairs and local police, between January 2018 and September 2020, 56 arms licences were issued in Telangana, 70 in AP, 80 in Tamil Nadu and 36 in Karnataka. The highest arms licences (17,905) were issued in Jammu and Kashmir, UP (952), MP (666) and Himachal Pradesh (623). In this time, 115 licences were renewed in Telangana and 261 in AP. There are 9,070 gun licences from Telangana. During December 2019 polls, 8,482 firearms were deposited with police and authorised dealers. There are 6,015 firearms licences in AP. Karnataka has over 1.1 lakh licences, TN has 23,615 and Kerala has 10,600 arms licences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/at-9k-t-has-one-of-lowest-firearm-licences-in-country/articleshow/80064624.cms||Mahesh Buddi
January 2, 2021||Kolkata||First day first show: 2021 opens with crowds and crackers in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The city greeted 2021 with a burst of fireworks at midnight and revelry at hotspots on Friday afternoon, when people descended on the roads in hordes, throwing caution to the winds. Track the pollution level in your cityThe restraint that Kolkatans had displayed during the Kali Puja-Diwali night by abstaining from bursting crackers was blown to smithereens on New Year’s Eve as revellers seemed to vent their bottled-up urge to celebrate. They took to bursting crackers with all earnest from 11.30pm on December 30, 2020 to usher in 2021. For the next one hour, fireworks were continuously burst, leaving environmentalists and health experts shocked. Jadavpur, Golpark, Kasba, Behala, Thakurpukur, Ranikuthi, Kidderpore, Park Circus, Entally, Muchibazar, Maniktala and Amherst Street were some of the worst neighbourhoods in Kolkata in terms of bursting of crackers on Thursday night. The ambient air was heavy with ultra-fine particulate matter, with the air quality recorded at B T Road (RBU), Jadavpur, Ballygunge and Victoria Memorial Hall being particularly bad. The PM2.5 counts there were thrice the national standard and over six times that of WHO. WBPCB control room received only three complaints, but that hardly reflected the extent of violations. Officials of WBPCB mobile units said crackers were burst in every direction. “It is scary the way people lowered their guard. It seemed they were bidding adieu to the year with an idea of giving farewell to the pandemic. But the virus is very much here,” said pulmonologist Arup Haldar. TimesViewThe late-night and early-morning cracker burst as 2020 gave over to 2021 marred the otherwise responsible celebrations. Experts have repeatedly warned about the dangers of poor air, especially when we are in the middle of a virus, but the warnings — and the administrative and judicial alacrity — seem to have had no impact on a section of citizens. This is unfortunate. Cops must take the strictest action possible on law violators. Sometimes, irresponsibility verges on criminality.“We are disappointed with the way we blew away the record we set for the nation during Diwali. We found regulatory authorities deficient in carrying out campaigns the way they did before Diwali. If lighting of fireworks was limited to an hour and a half, the torment of ear-splitting music on loudspeakers continued the whole night,” said Naba Dutta, general secretary Sabuj Mancha, which carried out a campaign against fireworks. Raids led to the recovery of 5kg crackers in the city. Police said among the 1,270 prosecuted on New Year’s Eve, a sizeable number was of people bursting fireworks. Kolkata Police received multiple complaints of music being played on loudspeakers and bursting of crackers from areas, including Jadavpur, Tollygunge, Netaji Nagar, Sarsuna, Dum Dum and Ultadanga. But officers said the violation was less than last year. Complaints against blaring music were reported from Maniktala, Muchibazar, Amherst Street and Bowbazar along with Jadavpur and Oxytown. Most revellers did not even wear masks, said a Muchibazar resident. At Sree Colony in Jadavpur, local leaders allegedly asked cops to allow loud music to play past midnight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/1st-day-1st-show-2021-opens-with-crowds-and-crackers/articleshow/80064629.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
January 2, 2021||Dehradun||Cops yet to register FIR against IIT director, petitioner moves HC||ROORKEE: In a case of financial fraud, Manpal Sharma, a former employee of IIT-Roorkee who brought the alleged irregularities to the fore, approached the high court over non-compliance of the local court's order by police so far. The local court had directed Roorkee police to register an FIR against five persons, including IIT-Roorkee director, in the case of embezzlement of government funds to the tune of over Rs 1 crore on December 23. A Single Bench of Justice Narayan Singh Dhanik heard the petition of Sharma on Thursday. "HC asked the state why the police are yet to register an FIR, instead of issuance of an order of this effect from a local court in Roorkee. In response, the state counsellor has sought two days time from the court to file their reply," Akshay Pradhan, counsellor of Sharma at HC, told TOI on Thursday. "The next hearing has been listed on January 5," Pradhan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cops-yet-to-register-fir-against-iit-director-petitioner-moves-hc/articleshow/80063715.cms||Tapan Susheel
January 2, 2021||Surat||Surat: Stock broker inhales carbon monoxide to kill self in car||SURAT: In an unusual case, a 37-year-old stock broker killed himself by inhaling the toxic carbon monoxide and other hydrogen gases using an oxygen mask inside his car near Soham Circle in Althan area on Thursday night. On the rear seat, police found two folded paper printouts with ‘Poison. Carbon monoxide inside. Don’t open the door. Call the police’ written in bold. A one-line suicide note purportedly left behind by the victim Sandeep Dalmia that was also found in the car stated that no one should be held responsible for his suicide. Along with Dalmia’s body on the rear seat, police also found two gas cylinders. Both cylinders had H and CO writen on them which led police to suspect that Dalmia inhaled a mixture of hydrogen and carbon monoxide. “The gas bottles will be sent for forensice examination to confirm its contents. He had attached two tubes from the cylinders to an oxygen mask and inhaled gases,” said a police officer at Khatodara police station. Though it looks like suicide, police have launched a detailed investigation into the case. Police are also probing if Dalmia had the knowledge about toxic gases or he learned it to kill himself. “It seems that he had planned to put these papers near the car’s glass to warn people if anyone came to his rescue. But he reportedly fainted before displaying them,” said police. Carbon monoxide is used by metal fabricators, especially in the Surat-Vapi belt, to treat rusted recycled steel and other material. Cops were alerted by locals who saw a man lying unconscious inside a locked car and. Arriving on spot, police searched Dalmia’s address and called his father Bajrang, who ame there with the car’s duplicate key. Dalmia was sent to hospital where he was declared dead on admission. His body had turned red and his face was swollen. Dalmia went out for work on December 30 and did not return home since then. He used to go out for work for two to three days often, so his family members were not worried and did not try to search for him. “After it turned dark, Dalmia must have parked his car at the spot and ended life. It is yet not clear where he was during the last two days,” police added. Dalmia lived with his father, wife and two children. Family members told police that there were no disputes within them and they were unaware if Dalmia was facing any financial crisis. Dalmia never complained about any tension in the recent past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/stock-broker-inhales-toxic-co-gas-to-kill-himself-in-car/articleshow/80063741.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Pune||Civic body ties up with pvt hospitals||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has joined hands with private hospitals as a precautionary measure for providing immediate medical attention to citizens for any side-effects of Covid-19 vaccine. Besides the Sassoon General Hospital, Naidu hospital and Kamla Nehru hospital, each ward office will have dedicated centres to provide medical attention to such people. Tie-ups with private hospitals have already been done for 15 ward offices and the number will be increased as per the requirement. “Details about the availability of vaccine and its distribution are yet to be finalized. Once we get a clear picture, the PMC will start the process of vaccination. Other preparations like steps to deal with any likely side-effects are being planned accordingly,” Ashish Bharati head of PMC’s health department, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-ties-up-with-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/80065672.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Dehradun||Cong targets BJP govt over unemployment; claims qualifications mandated for govt jobs not in favour of locals||Dehradun: After raising the issue of unemployment in the recent assembly session, the Uttarakhand unit of Congress party again highlighted the matter of joblessness in the state on Friday. The leaders of the Opposition party claimed that the qualifications asked for state government jobs are not in favour of the locals but more suited for applicants of other states. Congress state chief Pritam Singh said, “Youths across the state have been protesting on the issue of unemployment. The matter was strongly raised in the House by us. In his reply, the parliamentary affairs minister claimed that jobs have been provided to around seven-to-eight lakh people. If it is so, then why is the unemployment rate of Uttarakhand is 22.3%, which is the highest in the nation.” Singh asserted that the government is presenting wrong facts, whereas the reality on the ground is different”. Citing an example, Congress MLA from Kedarnath Manoj Rawat said, “The state government had announced to recruit over 1,200 nurses. The recruitment process for the same also started. And now, they are asking the applicants to show a one-year experience in a hospital of 30-bed (or above) capacity. They have also been asked to produce form-16 to be eligible for the job. Interestingly, none of the nine hill districts of Uttarakhand have a single private hospital which has a 30-bed capacity.” He further added that most of the women working in private hospitals do not have form-16. “This clearly reflects that the qualification asked for these jobs is not suited for the applicants from Uttarakhand,” said Rawat. He added that the norms for government jobs should be made while keeping in mind the present situation in the state. “The situation regarding unemployment in the state is an alarming one and serious steps are required to sort the issue,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cong-targets-bjp-govt-over-unemployment-claims-qualifications-mandated-for-govt-jobs-not-in-favour-of-locals/articleshow/80063731.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 2, 2021||Delhi||Northeast Delhi riots: Crime Branch files chargesheet against Umar Khalid||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police’s Crime Branch has filed a chargesheet against former JNU student Umar Khalid in a case related to northeast Delhi riots. Khalid has already been charged with the offence of conspiring to fuel the riots by the Special Cell. The current chargesheet was filed on Thursday. The 100-page chargesheet is learnt to have cited electronic evidence and witness statement to claim that Khalid, along with co-accused Khalid Saifi and Tahir Hussain, organised a meeting in Shaheen Bagh on January 8, to plan the violence. Around this time, Khalid allegedly attended anti-CAA demonstrations in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Bihar, and Maharashtra and gave inflammatory speeches, instigating protesters, said the chargesheet. According to police’s report, the organisers of the protests in these states allegedly took care of all of Khalid’s expenses while he went to such venues. Khalid was arrested by the Crime Branch in October in this case, which pertains to a case of violence in Khajuri Khas of northeast Delhi. The case was lodged under sections of rioting, Arms Act etc in February. The Crime Branch had questioned Khalid on September 3 in connection with this case. Apart from Khalid, suspended AAP politician Tahir Hussain, Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan and Khalid’s close associate Khalid Saifi have also been arrested in this case. Khalid is already on trial under sedition charges for his provocative and anti-national sloganeering on JNU campus in 2016, during a ceremony to commemorate Parliament attack convict Afzal Guru. He had come under the scanner of intelligence agencies and Delhi Police after giving a speech provocative speech on February 17, in Maharashtra’s Amravati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ne-riots-crime-branch-files-chargesheet-against-khalid/articleshow/80064637.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Pune||Rs 400/unit plasma at health facility||Pimpri Chinchwad: The Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) Hospital provided plasma units to critical Covid-19 patients from private hospitals and even those outside the PCMC limits for just Rs400 per unit. Shankar Mosalgi, the blood transfusion officer at YCM said ample stock and regular donors during the Covid-19 peak, enabled them to offer plasma at such a low price. “Those who were in the civic hospitals were not charged for it,” Mosalgi said, adding that out of 1,800 patients, 900 were from outside PCMC limits.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rs-400/unit-plasma-at-health-facility/articleshow/80065696.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Pune||Pune: District’s positivity rate in December slides to 8%||PUNE: The Covid-19 test positivity rate in the month of December in the Pune Metropolitan Region was an average 8% — the lowest in four months. It was a steep drop from the 26% the region had recorded in September. And health officials said the fall continued. Data provided by the district health office showed that the monthly dips also brought down the overall Covid-19 positivity rate, which in December was at 19%, compared to 24% by the end of September. The test positivity rate is a key measure of infection prevalence in a community. It’s the portion of tests that return positive within a specific period. Data also showed that positivity rate dropped in December despite an increase in the number of samples tested. The number of tests was increased to 2.3 lakh in December compared to just over two lakh in November and October. Officials from the Pune health department said the drop in positivity rate meant they were spotting a lower number of infections in the population. Both the PMC and PCMC reported fewer new Covid-19 cases in December and a high number of patient recoveries. The month had 19,152 positive cases and 24,130 discharges in the whole of PMR, which includes the two municipalities, the cantonments and parts of Pune rural. Officials said steps are being taken to bring down the overall positivity rate further. Sanjeev Wavre, the assistant health chief of the PMC, said, “Around 4,000 tests are being carried out every day in Pune city. We are urging citizens to get themselves tested if they feel they have symptoms. People should not ignore early signs,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/districts-positivity-rate-in-december-slides-to-8/articleshow/80065700.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||IIM-Ahmedabad withdraws EoI to raze down Kahn’s iconic dorms||AHMEDABAD: Happy news arrived on the first day of the New Year as Indian Institute of Management – Ahmedabad (IIM-A) decided on Friday to give the ‘cultural legacy’ of celebrated American architect Louis Kahn a chance. The board of governors (BoG) for the premier management institute stated they are withdrawing the expression of interest (EoI) for demolishing 14 of the 18 dormitories part of the heritage campus built by the legend and replacing them with new structures. The decision followed massive outcry from local and international organizations, architects, historians and academicians, among others, urging the IIM-A to abandon plans for demolishing the rare structures. A letter dated January 1 by BoG chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla and other members of the board of IIM-A, stated they “are sensitive to the feedback from some stakeholders who are not in agreement with this approach”. “We are therefore withdrawing the expression of interest that was put out. We will deliberate on the feedback received, re-evaluate the options, consult the best global conservation and structural experts, and chart out a course of action, which the institute will communicate in due course,” said the letter addressed to stakeholders of IIM-A. As per restoration plans earlier proposed by the institute, the core of the Louis Kahn buildings - the library, the faculty wings, and the class-room complex – and the dorms on the periphery of the complex (Dorms 16-18) would be restored, while the other dorms would be reconstructed. Out of a total 18 dormitories, 14 were proposed to be razed down. A blended approach was considered appropriate, it said. This was done after taking into account expert opinions, consultations with a range of other stakeholders and balancing all considerations. P2 But the BoG seems to have reconsidered their decision after various stakeholders wrote to the management and board, starting even online petitions to press for their demands. “Many of you have been writing ever since the Expression of Interest was put up for the design of the student housing at the main campus of the institute. You have sought to remind us that the dormitories designed by Louis Kahn are a cultural legacy and that these buildings are to be seen as an integral part of the ensemble of buildings that constitute the campus,” the letter states. The BoG letter said that they are acutely cognizant of the place that the institute and its architecture occupy in the larger community, and of the responsibility that comes with being custodians of the legacy that Louis Kahn bestowed on us. The buildings designed by Kahn and built in the 1960s and 1970s have undergone dilapidation and structural deterioration with periodic detachments of parts of it in fragments. “We learned that the bricks used were what is termed “second class bricks”, which have grown brittle and weak. Load bearing areas have become particularly vulnerable. The masonry has also been damaged by collection of water. The reinforcement bars are not protected by concrete casing. The earthquake in 2001 caused extensive damage,” the letter states. The institute, in 2014, had announced a competition for the restoration and updating of all of Kahn’s buildings on the campus. A Mumbai-based firm, Somaya and Kalappa (S&K) Consultants, with a record of restoration, won the challenge to preserve Kahn’s architecture while updating the functionality of the interiors. The renovation of the Vikram Sarabhai Library at IIM-A carried out by the firm received the award of distinction at Unesco Asia Pacific Award for Cultural Heritage and became the model for conservation projects. “On completion of the restoration experiment, an independent structural consultant opined that the restored dorm is unsafe. The structural consultant of the conservation architect on the other hand opined that the dorm will resist moderate earthquakes with limited damage but there will be significant damage with severe earthquakes. The opinion with regard to the library was different whereit was stated that it would withstand a severe earthquake with minor damage,” according to the IIM-A BoG letter. Overall, the expert opinions received by the IIM-A management have not satisfactorily allayed their concerns about the long-term structural stability of the restored dorm, it said. “Meanwhile, the condition of the other dorms continues to deteriorate – there are slabs falling from the roof of the dorms with potentially damaging consequences for the safety of the residents,” it stated. About its latest decision to withdraw the EOI, the BoG said that they sought support of stakeholders as they “tried to find the best answer to the issues of how to cater to our responsibility to a significant legacy, the safety of those who utilize the buildings as well as being in tune with the needs of the future”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/iim-a-withdraws-eoi-to-raze-down-kahns-iconic-dorms/articleshow/80064663.cms||Maulik Pathak
January 2, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: 60-year-old duped over 50 in name of cryptocurrency||NEW DELHI: The Economic Offences Wing of Delhi Police has arrested a 60-year-old man who had allegedly duped around 50 people of crores on the pretext of selling them a new cryptocurrency. The accused, Umesh Verma, was arrested from Indira Gandhi International Airport upon his arrival from Dubai. Police had a look-out circular issued against him. Verma had hosted his own website and a connected app called ‘Pluto Exchange’ for sale purchase of their new cryptocurrency launched in the name of ‘Coin Zarus’. “They induced people to invest on the pretext of giving higher returns and assured that their value would increase manifold. At least 45 businessmen from Delhi were duped of Rs 2.5 crore,” joint commissioner (EOW) OP Mishra said. Police have taken Verma on three-day remand for questioning. According to Mishra, Verma was earlier arrested in a gold smuggling case by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) in December 2017. Police had received several complaints from people about Verma, a greeting cards maker by profession. The complainants alleged that the accused, along with his son Bharat Verma and others, had induced them to invest in the scheme of cryptocurrency being operated by them under ‘Pluto Exchange’. The accused allegedly assured the complainants of fixed return between 20% to 30% per month on their investment. Verma had opened his office in Connaught Place in November 2017 and operated like a chit fund scheme. However, the promised returns dried-up and post-dated cheques issued to them were dishonoured and Verma changed his residential addresses frequently to avoid the victims and finally shifted to Dubai. The FIR, in which Verma has been arrested, was registered on receipt of complaint from Joginder Kumar and others. During investigation it was found that Verma was the sole proprietor of Pluto Exchange. He was arrested after detailed questioning as he failed to justify his cryptocurrency business plan, police claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/60-year-old-duped-over-50-in-name-of-cryptocurrency/articleshow/80064649.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Dehradun||277 held for cow slaughter by Uttarakhand cow protection squads in last 3 yrs, 171 cases registered||DEHRADUN: As many as 277 people have been arrested and 171 cases have been registered for cow slaughter and smuggling by the Uttarakhand cow protection squads since the special units came into existence in October 2017, according to data provided by police. According to police sources, 176 people were arrested by the Kumaon unit of the cow protection squad, while the Garhwal unit of the force nabbed 101 people on charges of cow slaughter and smuggling. The state government had on October 21, 2017, constituted a special squad, commonly known as ‘cow protection squad’, to keep a check on smuggling. The squads were formed as slaughter of cows and their smuggling is completely banned in the state under the Uttarakhand Protection of Cow Progeny Act of 2007.  On Friday, DGP Ashok Kumar, reviewed the performance of the cow protection squads that operate under the supervision of Garhwal and Kumaon range heads. He instructed officials that a monthly review of the work done by the squads must be conducted. DGP Kumar directed the officials to prepare a list of valid and illegal slaughter houses running in each district and ensure strict legal action against the illegal ones and people indulging in smuggling of cows. He further said that a monthly review of the work done by the squads must be conducted by the DIG/IG of both Garhwal and Kumaon police ranges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/277-held-for-cow-slaughter-by-uttarakhand-cow-protection-squads-in-last-3-yrs-171-cases-registered/articleshow/80063766.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 2, 2021||Surat||Bridge over Mindhola creek spurs talk of airport at Navsari||Surat: Dream of the Surtis to get a new greenfield airport in Navsari’s Jalalpore taluka is set to take wings. With Gujarat government approving the construction of the Rs 217 crore bridge on Mindhola creek connecting Abhava village in Surat and Ubhrat in Navsari district, the alternate airport proposed by the Airports Authority of India (AAI) could be a reality.The AAI and the Gujarat government have jointly shifted their focus on the Vansi Borsi village in Jalalpore taluka of Navsari, where about 1,100 hectares of government-owned land was identified for developing a greenfield airport in 2018.The proposed bridge over Mindhola creek will reduce the distance from Surat to Navsari from 42 km to less than 15 km. A senior AAI officer on condition of anonymity said, “Bridge over Mindhola creek will pave the way for a new greenfield airport at Navsari. AAI was the first to propose alternate airport within 40km radius of Surat. Once the bridge will be constructed in the next few years, the distance from Surat airport to Umbhrat will reduce to just 10 km.”In 2018, Surat district administration had submitted a report to the chief secretary regarding the 2,000 hectare of government land available at the Vansi-Borsi and Mangrol villages of Jalalpore taluka in Navsari district for the development of greenfield airport.Dinesh Navadiya, president of Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) said, “The world’s largest Surat Diamond Bourse (SDA) at Dream City will be operational by 2021. Buyers from across the world will visit the SDB. The existing airport has lone Sharjah-Surat flight and other wide-bodies aircrafts can’t be operated due to building height obstructions. However, the alternate airport is the need of the hour.”Box: Why airport at Navsari? The existing airport at Surat is severely land constrained with just 300 hectares of land. Despite being the second busiest airport after Ahmedabad, Surat airport’s expansion is constrained due to the obstructions by the residential as well as commercial buildings in its air funnel zone.Further, expansion of Surat airport is not possible as government-owned land is not fully available near the existing airport as the majority of the land is privately owned and hence the acquisition may take a long time.Cost calculation for compensation of private land for airport expansion, existing runway extension, parallel runway and the integrated terminal building is Rs 9,000 crore. Against this cost of land acquisition at the existing site, greenfield airport at Navsari’s Jalalpore cost Rs 1,400 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bridge-over-mindhola-creek-spurs-talk-of-airport-at-navsari/articleshow/80063775.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Goa||After night-long revelry, Goa wakes up to trashed beaches||COLVA/CALANGUTE: Hundreds, if not thousands, kept the coastal stretches of North and South Goa throbbing through the night up to early hours of January 1, as tourists from across the country took benefit of Goa government’s liberal stand of not imposing night curfew on New Year’s Eve. The morning after, the proof of the party lay in the garbage strewn all over. On Friday morning, the beach stretch from Benaulim to Colva, in South Goa was covered with waste. Empty beverage and alcohol bottles were strewn all over, even in the Colva creek. Besides plastic glasses, bags and used cases and cylinders of fireworks were also carelessly discarded. Government protocols and SOPs were thrown to the wind as tourists jostled to get to the beach to find a place in a shack and a parking spot. In South Goa, tourists partied in the rising sea waters. Colva police and traffic cell personnel had drawn elaborate traffic plans and were seen present in large number at the Benaulim and Colva beach stretches. Traffic snarls, as is common on New Year’s Eve, were not experienced, but vehicular movement was nowhere close to being smooth either. Visitors were allowed entry in shacks and restaurants along the coastal belt only if they were wearing masks. Some restaurant thermal guns were used for temperature checks. “It is a wasteful exercise as after carrying out the drill, tourists and guests then go and interact with other associates or friends on the beach,” said one shackowner. In North Goa, Calangute was packed with tourists. However, tourism stakeholders said the crowd this time was comparatively less. Vehicles also jammed the roads with traffic moving at a slow pace, but the movement was largely smooth, with many praising the traffic police for a commendable job. Most popular restaurants, nightspots and beach shacks made special security arrangements, to prevent unwanted elements from entering. No large tourist buses arrived in Calangute for the New Year. The crowd was considerably lesser in Candolim, yet restaurants and pubs did roaring business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-night-long-revelry-goa-wakes-up-to-trashed-beaches/articleshow/80065877.cms||Nisser Dias
January 2, 2021||Hyderabad||PMO seeks boards’ views on abolition of Cantonments||SECUNDERABAD: In a major development, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) has sought views and comments on the abolition of Cantonments in the country from all the Cantonment boards. The Ministry of Defence (MoD) has been entrusted with the task of collecting the opinions. A senior defence official, Rajesh Kumar Shah, has invited all Cantonment boards to send in their views and comments on abolition of Cantonments. Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) authorities have completed the exercise, but did not disclose the contents of the report. A couple of months ago, the PMO had received a representation from Manmohan Sharma, general secretary, Himachal Pradesh Cantonment Association (HPCA), regarding abolition of Cantonments. The demand had come up three years ago, and the MoD is working on it. “I had represented this issue for the first time in 2017 when the then-Union defence minister Nirmala Sitharaman had visited Himachal Pradesh. The MoD also constituted the Sumit Bose committee to study the working of the Cantonment boards,” Sharma told TOI. “The administration in the Cantonments is being run by the defence authorities and nominated defence officials as board members, but the civic issues are not resolved properly under MoD’s supervision. Lakhs of residents are in dire situation. I am expecting a positive decision from the MoD,” he added. The residential welfare associations (RWA) in Secunderabad Cantonment are also supporting the MoD’s call on abolition of Cantonments. “We welcome it as we want to get rid of major civic issues,” a few RWA members opined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pmo-seeks-boards-views-on-abolition-of-cantonments/articleshow/80064653.cms||Sunil Mungara
January 2, 2021||Delhi||Over 2,000 students with 90% or above at Delhi University Open School||NEW DELHI: It is not the top colleges of Delhi University that have attracted students who have scored 90% and above in the Class XII exams. The School of Open Learning (SOL) too has admitted many students of the sort, mainly in the commerce courses. This year around 2,393 students who scored 90% and above have been admitted in Delhi University’s distance-education institution. Of them, 680 opted for BCom (H), followed by 621 students each taking admission for BA Programme and BCom Programme. In this bracket, 156 enrolled for English (H) and 315 for political science (H). SOL received over 95,000 applications this year. A teacher at SOL said most of those who had taken admission were students preparing for the chartered accountant exams or other competitive exams. “Since teaching is in the distance mode, it is a good option for them,” he said. “Since SOL also follows the same curriculum and system as regular colleges, there are no drawbacks in taking the course.” Since 2019, SOL students are studying under the Choice Based Credit System (CBCS). The regular colleges had opted for the CBCS system four years earlier in 2015. This means that SOL students now have a chance to migrate to regular colleges if they score more than 60% in the semester exams. The largest chunk of students enrolled in SOL comprises those who scored between 60% and 90%. For them, BA Programme is the most popular choice, with 34,886 opting for it for their undergrad course. Of the rest, 13,159 enrolled in BCom Programme, followed by political science at 9,056. English (H) attracted 3,164 students. Even for those who have scored less than 60%, BA Programme was quite the lure, with 54,629 students seeking admission to the course, while 19,463 students scoring less than 60% enrolled for BCom Programme. “SOL caters to a lot of students from the economically weaker sections. Most of them work to support themselves and their families. For them, it is a good choice to take the distance learning options of BA and BCom Programme to be able to manage both work and studies,” added another teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/over-2k-students-with-90-or-above-at-du-open-school/articleshow/80064666.cms||Shradha Chettri
January 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad man gets life for raping daughters||HYDERABAD: A 45-year-old real estate businessman was sentenced to life imprisonment by a local court for sexually abusing his two daughters. In 2014, Jeedimetla police had registered a rape case against the businessman for sexually abusing his two daughters who were minors. The accused used to sexually assault the girls after consuming alcohol. He assaulted the girls multiple times and used to threaten them by stating that he would cause harm to them as well as their mother. On Thursday, I additional district judge court, LB Nagar, convicted the accused and sentenced him to life imprisonment and imposed Rs 26,000 fine on him. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-gets-life-for-raping-daughters/articleshow/80064656.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: 4,545 New Year-Eve violations, drink-driving cuffs on 310||KOLKATA: The year-end celebrations on Thursday night that started as a low-key affair were marred by drink driving and rogue biking as the night passed. Prosecution figures are also higher compared to last year, when there was no pandemic. The total number of prosecutions till the wee hours of Friday — at 3 am — was 4,545. The city police set up 50 nakas and carried out extensive checks that lasted for more than five hours between 10 pm on December 31 and 3 am on January 1. As many as 310 persons were arrested for drink driving and 1,128 were prosecuted for rash or dangerous driving. The fact that the cops did not use any breathalyzer and depended on their intuition made the task even more daunting. Last year, in non-pandemic times, the total number of people arrested for drink driving was merely 188. The comparisons do not end here. Total number of bikes and cars seized is 105. Last year, this figure stood at zero. Total number of people arrested for disorderly conduct stood at 1,270 this year compared to 863 a year ago. Similarly, rash driving saw 89 prosecutions and arrests this year. Last year, it stood at 36. While 832 were found to be triple riding on New Year’s Eve, another 1,287 were without helmets and masks. Almost 108 crime-related arrests were also made by special units of the detective department. “This is the first time we tried to carry out a block chain raid across the city on such a significant day. We wanted to send out a message this New Year’s Eve as we get set for the crucial election year,” said an IPS officer. A total of 550 pedestrians were issued challans for not wearing masks. On January 1, till 12 noon, 796 people were challaned for not wearing masks at some traditional hotspots like Alipore Zoo-Victoria Memorial and Science City.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/4545-ny-eve-violations-drink-driving-cuffs-on-310/articleshow/80064631.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Activists vow to step up their ‘Save KBR’ campaign||HYDERABAD: Unwilling to give up their fight to ‘Save KBR’, a large group of activists and citizens gathered at the Kasu Brahmananda Reddy National Park, on the first day of 2021, vowing to continue their campaign till the government assures to let no infrastructure project harm the park. In October last year a gazette notification was issued declaring the KBR’s eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) fixed at 3 metres to 29.8 metres. While state government said it had conducted a public hearing before finalising the ESZ, activists claimed otherwise. They alleged authorities reduced the ESZ only to make way for the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP) that threatens to eat into the park area — especially the walkway. “Our demonstration on Friday was to assert that we have not given up on our fight that started five years ago. Though some claim the SRDP has been deferred, the revision of the ESZ only proves that it isn’t true and that the government is sure to roll out the flyover project,” said Kaajal Maheshwari, who has been spearheading the #SaveKBR campaign. She added: “We will continue to educate people, submit formal representations, conduct peaceful drives and even take the legal route, if necessary, to protect the city’s only lung space.” Sriparna Das, an animal rescuer, said, “With six flyovers inches away from the boundary, all the noise and pollution will settle right into the the park and destroy it. Wildlife will either perish or move into urban spaces, leading to human-wildlife conflict.” Architect and urban planner, Jasmine Singh, also feared if all open spaces and heritage sites fall prey to such projects city’s landscape of will change forever.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/activists-vow-to-step-up-their-save-kbr-campaign/articleshow/80064650.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Hyderabad||GST cheer for cash-strapped govt, collection in Telangana up in December ’20||HYDERABAD: With the December GST collections showing 4% more growth compared to December 2019, the state is back on track in terms of GST collections. The state collected Rs 3,543 crore in GST in December. The GST collection in December 2019 was Rs 3,420 crore. Details released by the Union finance ministry show that very few states have shown improvement in GST collection in December 2020 compared to December 2019. Andhra Pradesh also performed well in 2020 than in 2019, with 14% higher growth rate. In November 2020, the state had shown negative growth rate and 5% less growth in GST collection compared to November 2019. GST collection figures stand at Rs 3,175 crore and Rs 3,349 crore for the months of October in the years 2020 and 2019, respectively. In fact, the state for the first time showed 5% growth in GST collection since the Covid-19 pandemic broke out in March last year. The GST collection figures released by the Centre also show that the state has begun to recover from the Covid-19-induced economic slowdown by collecting Rs 3,383 crore in October 2020. That was a 5% growth compared to October 2019 which stood at Rs 3,230 crore. While Telangana has shown some progress ever since the GST was introduced, negative growth was displayed first in March at 9% compared to the collection in the same period in 2019. In March 2020, Telangana collected Rs 3,556 crore and during the lockdown months of April and May, the state had almost no income. The collections began improving from June, showing a growth rate of 3% but later decreased as Covid-19 cases jumped. The situation improved slightly in September 2020. Finance expert K Narismha Murty opined that the GST collections will improve further as the policies were good and the market will pick up further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gst-cheer-for-cash-strapped-govt-collection-up-in-dec-20/articleshow/80064651.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 2, 2021||Dehradun||Telangana HC Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan to take charge in Uttarakhand HC||DEHRADUN: The central government on Thursday notified that Telangana high court (HC) Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan has been transferred to the Uttarakhand HC in Nainital. Justice Chauhan had been serving in Telangana since June 23, 2019. Now, he will serve as the Chief Justice in Uttarakhand HC. Born in December 1959, Justice RS Chauhan completed his graduation from the United States of America in 1980. His field of specialization is in criminal and service matters. He started practicing law as an advocate in 1983 in the Rajasthan HC where he also became a judge later in 2008. He was also appointed as a judge in the Karnataka HC in 2015. Before becoming the chief justice of Telangana HC, Chauhan was the Acting Chief Justice of the same court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/telangana-hc-chief-justice-raghvendra-singh-chauhan-to-take-charge-in-ukhand-hc/articleshow/80063753.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 2, 2021||Hyderabad||2020 made virtual courts a reality in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The year 2020, with all difficulties that it brought in, has successfully heralded a technological era in courts, right from high court to the district ones, in Telangana. The idea of a virtual court, where advocates can argue from their homes, judges hear cases from their spaces and clients watch hearings on screen, has now become a reality. Though there was a talk of virtual courts for a long time, it never translated into reality in the last several decades. The advent of Covid-19 has in fact hastened the process, where authorities were forced to look for immediate alternatives and make virtual courts a reality. Thanks to the technological options available now, 2020 did make virtual courts a reality. A large number of senior advocates and lawyers with good practice have quickly adapted to the new normal. In fact, they need not endanger their lives now by travelling to other courts when parties hire them, they can argue from their home offices. A lot of them want the virtual mode to continue. In case, if the authorities want to reopen the courts and run them in the physical format again, these seniors are now thinking of asking the courts to keep open the option of appearing in a virtual mode for those who wish to exercise this virtual option. Scores of poor advocates and juniors and their poor clients had suffered a lot during the pandemic and hence the courts too are showing some inclination to return to the physical format, but the pandemic is still holding them back. In fact, in the 1990s and in 2000s, when judges like Justice B K Somasekhara, who headed an inquiry commission to look into the Yeleru scam, and Justice B Subhashan Reddy, the former chairman of State Human Rights Commission when they allowed their court hearings to go live and permitted the media to record and telecast them, scores of legal professionals were nurturing their own doubts and inhibitions to make the court hearing live. There was a huge resistance also to such decisions. But thanks to 2020, it erased all such inhibitions and made the courts open and live at one go. And, Telangana judiciary did exceedingly well in heralding this digital change that started in the first half of 2020 and entering successfully the new year 2021 with rich digital experience behind it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2020-made-virtual-courts-a-reality-in-t/articleshow/80064668.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
January 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||Dorm-ant conservation ideas come alive||AHMEDABAD: The announcement on Friday by the Board of Governors (BoG) of the withdrawal of the Expression of Interest for the redevelopment of dorm buildings at IIM-A was given a rousing welcome across the world. Notables in fields such as architecture and heritage preservation from around the globe had started online campaigns and had written letters to the institute since December 23. The way forward is important, said Anand Tatu, the chairperson of the Gujarat chapter of Indian Institute of Architects (IIA). “We are thankful to the BoG for listening to the global community, and even identifying them as stakeholders,” he said. “Now is the time to go back to the drawing board, identify the issues through an inclusive process, and employ scientific methods to find an appropriate solution.” Vatsal Joshi, the Ahmedabad chapter chairperson of IIA, said a brainstorming session will be held, and if invited by the IIM-A, recommendations will be given. “The entire fraternity of architects and enthusiasts rallied around the cause, as it would set an example for similar structures across the country,” he said. The unity of voice needs to be maintained, said Sanjeev Joshi, co-convenor of INTACH-Gujarat and member of the FAAA governing council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dorm-ant-conservation-ideas-come-alive/articleshow/80064671.cms||Parth Shastri
January 2, 2021||Kolkata||New Year revelry may lead to Covid spike: Kolkata doctors||KOLKATA: The late-night bursting of fire crackers and a sudden burst in revelry at some stretches of the city on December 31 could have serious health repercussions, cautioned doctors. With the pandemic still raging and the threat of a new strain of the novel coronavirus looming large, the injudicious celebrations might lead to a spurt in the number of positive cases that had remained stable in Bengal over the past few weeks, they pointed out. Ignoring social distancing norms could not only spread the virus but also lead to community-acquired pneumonia and other viral infections that could prove fatal for the elderly, they feared. While the New Year celebrations were largely toned down during the day with thinner crowds at most city hotspots than that on Christmas, the scene changed late in the evening. Park Street saw a huge turnout of revellers who jostled on the narrow pavements as the road was not closed to traffic. On the year’s first day, however, city hotspots witnessed large crowds. At some places, some places witnessed almost similar turnout than that of previous years. “It was dangerous to allow so many people to rub shoulders with each other on a narrow path. Even with masks, the risk of transmission can’t be ruled out if so many mingle like that. It was almost a repeat of Christmas when we saw huge crowds on Park Street,” said Belle Vue Clinic internal medicine consultant Rahul Jain. Doctors also expressed surprise at the fact that the norms were broken a day after the state issued a health advisory on December 30. It mentioned a series of norms, the most significant being the advice to residents to avoid partying in closed space and overcrowded areas. Physical distancing was mandatory. The advisory also included the use of masks, covering the nose and mouth, while stepping outside. Use of sanitizer was recommended “after touching everything frequently touched by others”. The crowding on Park Street on New Year’s Eve and January 1 and at some clubs and hotels also sent out a wrong message and could encourage more to break the restriction norms now, said physician Arindam Biswas. “There could be many asymptomatic carriers of viruses and even pneumonia in such large gatherings. While the relatively young could get away with it, they could end up infecting the elderly and those with co-morbidities for whom it could turn fatal. This is exactly how Covid started spreading at the initial stages,” said Biswas. While crowd management had been efficient in the festive period so far, revellers were suddenly taking liberties, which could be dangerous, feared pulmonologist Raja Dhar. “It could lead to a spike in cases that could be avoided during the post-Puja period, thanks to Covid-rule compliance. During winter, many suffer from lung-related disorders and any viral infection could worsen it. Those with co-morbidities run the risk of contracting Covid from asymptomatic revellers. So, we still can’t afford to be part of a crowd,” said Dhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-year-revelry-may-lead-to-cov-spike-docs/articleshow/80064670.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
January 2, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Not paid since August, corpn teachers observe ‘black day’||NEW DELHI: Unpaid since August, municipal primary teachers observed the New Year’s Day as ‘black day’. Letters highlighting the plight of the 9,000 teachers were sent to councillors on Friday. Teachers say that they are now unable to repay loan instalments, EMIs, rents and, in many cases, even school fees for their kids. Both Rakesh Bansal (52) — a teacher at a primary school at Sukhdev Kunj in Keshavpuram—and his wife are orthopaedically handicapped. “I had made my house around two years back and I need to pay Rs 25,000 every month for loan instalments. I have been forced to default on multiple instalments,” Bansal said. “How can a government institution not pay salaries to employees for almost half a year? Who will take care of my family?” he asked. Kiran Sardana — a senior teacher at a Krishan Vihar school — said that calling the teachers corona warriors was pointless. “Will grocery shops and milkman keep lending us supplies for five months? I wanted to buy laptops for my children but finance companies refused to even give me a loan,” she added. Mahesh Kumar (35) who has been teaching since 2006 at a school in Mangolpuri, said, “I have been repaying loans since 2011 and EMIs worth Rs 15,000 every month. I have been sustaining on credit card.” Ramniwas Solanki who heads Nagar Nigam Shikshak Sangh said that the corporation had backtracked on all the promises made to the teachers. “They are being harassed mentally and financially,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/not-paid-since-august-corpn-teachers-observe-black-day/articleshow/80064673.cms||Paras Singh
January 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Exam dates out, parents want reopening of educational institutions in Telangana||HYDERABAD: A day after the Union education minister released CBSE examination dates, parents in the city said that the state too should follow in the Centre’s footsteps and conduct exams in June. They added that the state should start physical classes for students after Sankranti, and complete the syllabus by May. “We are welcoming the Centre’s move to conduct class 10 and class 12 exams in the month of May. Taking a cue from the Centre, the state too should try to bring education—which has been derailed because of Covid-19—back on track by starting physical classes from second week of January,” said Nagati Narayana, president, Telangana Parents Association (TPA). They said that the state should immediately announce academic calendar for the academic year 2020-21 and take measures to complete syllabus by time. “Many students started studying only after the National Testing Agency (NTA) announced JEE exam dates. Now, after the Centre announced the CBSE examination dates, they have once again kept their books aside. Best thing would be to start schools and colleges for three months and conduct board examinations—both CBSE and state—immediately,” said Sharath C, a parent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/exam-dates-out-parents-want-reopening-of-edu-institutions/articleshow/80064672.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Surat||Surat industries want power tariff at par with other states||Surat: The Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) has demanded that the industrial units in Surat and South Gujarat should be provided with electricity tariff on the lines of Telengana, Maharashtra and Karnataka.SGCCI office-bearers stated that the states like Maharashtra, Telangana and Karnataka have been providing power subsidy to its industrial units. The industrial areas in Maharashtra including Bhiwandi and Navapur are the powerloom weaving hubs and that they are giving tough competition to Surat’s weavers due to cheap power. The industry body stated that at a time when the industrial units are paying Rs 4 per unit in other states, the factories in Surat have to cough up Rs 7.50 per unit. Ashish Gujarati, vice-president of SGCCI said “We have represented number of times to the state government for providing relief in the power tariff to the industrial units. In the recently announced textile policy, the government promised relief to the new industrial units in power cost, but the discoms are not giving any relief in the absence of a notification in this regard.” Dinesh Navadiya, president, SGCCI said, “Due to the higher power cost, Surat entrepreneurs are unable to perform. We have represented number of times to the government for providing power subsidy like Maharashtra, Telangana and Karnataka.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-industries-want-power-tariff-at-par-with-other-states/articleshow/80063787.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Found no violations at pubs across Hyderabad: Cops||HYDERABAD: While they steered clear of conducting raids at pubs and bars in city, excise and police officials ensured that all New Year eve party venues shut on time. Officials also confirmed that there were no complaints of irregularities from any of these places. Bars and pubs across Hyderabad were allowed to host events on December 31, by the government, on condition that they follow all Covid-19 unlock guidelines issued by the authorities. “It was perhaps the news about the new mutated Covid-19 strain that resulted in limited turnout at these establishments on Thursday. Even the crowd on the roads was thinner than usual. We did not come across any complaints or irregularities from pubs and bars,’’ said deputy commissioner of police (Task Force), Radha Kishan Rao. Meanwhile, keeping in view the restrictions enforced by the police within the city, many revellers took their parties to the outskirts.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-found-no-violations-at-pubs-across-city/articleshow/80064675.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||MoMA exhibition to feature Kahn’s IIM-Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The Museum of Modern Art (MoMA), New York, hailed as of one of the largest and most influential museums in the world is working on a major survey exhibition of South Asian modern architecture in the post-independence period where Louis Kahn’s IIM-A campus holds a special place. Also, a related new publication is in the works where the campus will be among the key highlights, MoMA said in a letter addressed to IIM-A management. The letter, dated December 31, severely criticized the institute’s decision earlier this month regarding demolishing of most of the student dormitories built by Kahn in the sixties and seventies. The IIM-A project proved highly seminal for an entire generation of Indian architects, and so the legacy of Kahn’s design endures in many subsequent projects, it said. “Scheduled to go on view in early 2022, the exhibition will bring to the attention of a wide global audience the unique architectural legacy of this period in India, and in the subcontinent more broadly. It will highlight the IIM-A as an unparalleled monument to the integration of campus life and learning, which depends on Kahn’s delicate balance of architecture and space,” according to the letter. TOI has reviewed a copy of the letter. To alter the IIM-A’s extraordinary synthesis of learning, living, and socializing by razing any of the dormitories would permanently compromise the ideals and values that the IIM-A so powerfully represents, according to MoMA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/moma-exhibition-to-feature-kahns-iim-a/articleshow/80064680.cms||Maulik Pathak
January 2, 2021||Dehradun||Buddhist monks from UP ashram join farmers' stir at Ghazipur border||DEHRADUN: After closely following the massive farmer protest at the Delhi-UP border for weeks, a group of self-motivated Buddhist monks of an ashram in Uttar Pradesh’s Etawah have decided to join the movement against the three new farm laws at Ghazipur border on Friday. The group of around 50 monks - a few of them students studying in Lucknow University - claim to be "apolitical" and are directly associated with farming. Some of them are sons of farmers while others are farmers themselves. Calling the laws "ánti-farmer", Sumit Ratan, one of the protesting monks and representative of the Shravan Baudh Ashram in Etawah, told TOI, "I am a son of a farmer and like rest of the members I still work in our ashram's farmland. We have read the new farm bills in detail and then decided to extend our support to the farmers." On Friday, in freezing temperatures, the ashram monks took the Yamuna Expressway to reach the protest site. They were greeted by Jagtar Bajwa, a farmer leader from Bazpur tehsil in Udham Singh Nagar. Ratan, the ashram representative who hails from Etah and currently living in Lucknow, also said, “I have a double MA and M.Phil in education and I am not protesting just for the sake of it. These farm laws will do nothing good for farmers. It is only for industrialists.” Mangal Vardhan, another monk who is in his final year of graduation, said that they were "peace-loving, apolitical and associated with farming in one way or the other". "After seeing others at the protest site in the freezing weather for weeks, we decided to join for the national cause," Vardhan added. Some of these monks claimed that they did not join the stir now. They were already agitating against the contentious laws since the start of December in Lucknow's Gomti Nagar. "We joined the protest at the Delhi border since no one in Lucknow was listening to our voice," another monk said. While Sheelvansha, a young monk, said, “Yes, I am a Buddhist monk. But, I am a farmer’s son too.” The 18-year-old has recently enrolled himself for graduation (first year) in Sampurnanand Sanskrit University in Varanasi. Meanwhile, Vijendra Singh Yadav, a leader from Bharatiya Kisan Union told TOI that the farmer protest has gone from strength to strength as people from all faiths and walks of life have joined the movement. “We are expecting 3,000 more Buddhist monks to join us in the next few days in Ghazipur. Most of them are sons of farmers as well,” Yadav, who hails from Sambhal, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/buddhist-monks-from-up-ashram-join-farmer-stir-at-ghazipur-border/articleshow/80063772.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 2, 2021||Goa||Goa's Netravali locals in a spot of bother over cabling work||POINGUINIM: With the ongoing underground cabling work in Netravali for 11kv power lines passing through the village, Public Works department (PWD) assistant engineer Vinayak Mashelkar has requested villagers to bear with the inconvenience and that it would be completed soon. He also assured that he has directed the contractor to fill up the trench which was causing villagers hardships while using narrow roads in the village. After the trench along this road was dug which runs through most of the village wards, villagers were left with only a narrow strip of road and only one vehicle could pass at a time. The digging work to lay the underground cables for the power line started 15 days ago and since then locals have been inconvenienced. Villagers had complained to the assistant engineer who then visited the spot. Mashelkar found that the contractor failed to fill up the trench even at places where the work was completed. The contractor said that the trench was lying open since there was no supply of quality sand for laying concrete and that the supply of sand was expected soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/netravali-locals-in-a-spot-of-bother-over-cabling-work/articleshow/80064676.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Kochi||Politics & Post-Pandemic Portents||Politically, what 2021 has in store for Kerala eludes definitive answers. But what's certain is that we will be witnessing the mother of all elections. The tenure of the Pinarayi Vijayan government is about to end in a few months. The ensuing assembly election, in all probability, would redefine the theories and myths that politicians and political observers have painstakingly constructed over the years to explain the peculiar dynamics of the state politics. What is new is the emergence of BJP as an alternative political force and its possible impact on the poll prospects of LDF and UDF. ``CPM is the only party that takes a principled stand against communal forces. The public resentment against the Modi government would reflect in favour of the LDF government’’, claims CPM politburo member M A Baby. He finds no reasons as to why people should vote against the Pinarayi government. ``Kerala is the only state where free treatment is given to Covid-19 patients. The fact that over 90 percent of Covid-19 patients were treated in government hospitals in the state signifies how pro-people the government is'', he added. But political observers do not agree with the theory of LDF maintaining a winning streak just because it managed to outperform others in the LSG election. ``The approach and voting pattern in local body, Assembly and Parliament elections are different in Kerala. Whether the UDF would be able to garner anti-government votes by idling is uncertain. But that doesn’t mean that there is no resentment against the government. The gold smuggling and other cases would definitely have its impact on the election’’, surmised political commentator Joseph Mathew. The emergence of BJP as a force to reckon with and Pinarayi Vijayan’s experiment with `freebies’ politics are some new factors, the impact of which only time could prove, he said. The setback to UDF in the LSG election, believes Congress leader V D Satheesan MLA, is a temporary phenomenon. The UDF, he said, would resort to a newer mode of campaign in view of the Covid-19 restrictions and harness the anti-government votes to its favour. ``All allegations against the government are serious and it would reflect in the voting to Assembly election’’, he said. According to him, CPM was playing opportunist politics and trying to divide people along communal lines. BJP state president K Surendran claims that the 2020 local body election has given BJP a much needed impetus and the NDA would emerge as a third political alternative with enough seats to decide who should form the next government. ``People can only vote for BJP-NDA candidates, if they really mean to cast their vote against Pinarayi Vijayan government. How can they vote for Congress which is an ally of CPM everywhere else’’, he asks. He too accuses Vijayan for inciting communal sentiments with an eye on Xi'an votes. For former CPM leader and political analyst Appukkuttan Vallikkunnu, the 2021 election would be fought on grounds that were hitherto unknown to state polity. ``The Enforcement Directorate is unlikely to submit a final charge sheet in the gold smuggling and other cases before June. If it’s so, Pinayavi Vijayan would be in a relatively advantageous position. This could be part of understanding between CPM-BJP top brass. BJP’s prime objective is to decimate Congress and of course they would benefit from the Congress’ loss’’, he said, adding that the 2021 election would be hard to predict for all wrong reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/politics-post-pandemic-portents/articleshow/80058185.cms||B S Anilkumar
January 2, 2021||Surat||AAI to carry out fresh survey of building height obstacles||Surat: After the government made changes in the aerodrome elevation from 6 metres to 8.9 metres, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) will soon carry out a fresh survey of the building height obstacle in the funnel of the airport runway. In its gazette notification, the aviation ministry also made changes in runway length from 2,905 meters to 3,810 meters. Earlier, about 198 buildings in 48 projects had been identified for the height violation starting from 3 meters to 12 metres. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had displaced about 615 metres of runway on Vesu side of the airport following obstruction of these high-rise buildings in the runway funnel. Recently, ministry of civil aviation published GSR (general statutory rules) on December 18 making drastic change in the aerodrome elevation. Runway 04 (Dumas side) was extended by 650 meters in 2016-17 and therefore, the total length work out is about 2,905 meters. Also parallel runway on the left and right side of Vesu and Dumas has been declared in the gazette notification. In December-2019, the Gujarat High Court had ordered the Centre, the AAI and the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on the unauthorised construction obstructing the flight path at the Surat airport, while hearing to the Public Interest Litigation (PIL). Various builders and residents of nearly 48 projects consisting of 198 buildings had also approached the HC in this regard. A senior AAI officer said, “We will be carrying out a fresh survey of the building height obstacles. More buildings will fall under the funnel due to the increase in elevation.” The clearance of obstacles in the approach surface of runway-22 at Vesu side will pave the way for clearing the displacement of 615 metres imposed by DGCA. This means that the aircraft landing from Vesu side will be able to use the full-length runway of 2,905 metres, instead of the current 2,290 metres. Sources said that the survey of the buildings obstructing the flight path within 6.6km in the approach funnel of runway at Vesu ended in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/aai-to-carry-out-fresh-survey-of-building-height-obstacles/articleshow/80063825.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Goa||Goa: Pending coastal plan puts brakes on govt’s grandiose tourism projects||PANAJI: Over five years after the state government decided that some of the tourism department’s prime properties would be developed under the private-public participation (PPP) model, most of them continue to be delayed till the state’s coastal zone management plan (CZMP) is finalised. The government’s properties at Miramar and Anjuna, among others, were selected to be converted into starred hotels and related facilities, but the government’s plans haven’t gone as per schedule. Initially, the projects were delayed as some were with the tourism department and required to be transferred to the Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC). Also, a lot of time was taken locating original property documents. However, over the past two years, the plans have remained unexecuted due to the pending CZMP. “Some of the properties fall within the coastal zone, so without finalisation of the CZMP, we can’t go ahead. As soon as the CZMP is finalised, the projects will take off,” an official said. The delays, he said, were discussed at the last meeting of the steering committee to address the issue and give them the necessary push. The key issue with the projects has been getting a clearance from the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA). With regards to the Anjuna property, another issue was that the portion of the property falls within forest area. The proposed project at Anjuna — a five-star resort — that will come up on land measuring over 36,000 sqm, had earlier run into trouble after it was approved in 2014. The five-star hotel project at Miramar will be over 19,000 sq m, and have 250 rooms, including facilities to hold events. The project, after delays pertaining to title documents, was slated to commence at the end of 2019. Some other GTDC projects such as the development of property at Kesarval spring, where it was proposed to have a hotel, ran into trouble after locals opposed it as they feared the natural spring would be used for commercial activities after it is handed over to a private party. The government, however, has claimed that the spring water will not be used for commercial use. But the project proposal hasn’t seen much progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pending-coastal-plan-puts-brakes-on-govts-grandiose-tourism-projects/articleshow/80064683.cms||Bindiya Chari
January 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Liquor sales hit a new high in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: On December 31 as people bid goodbye to 2020, liquor flew off the shelves and in large quantities in various parts of Hyderabad. In a matter of hours, liquor worth Rs 193 crore was sold on Thursday evening despite tough police curbs. While the city ushered in the New Year, tipplers had a roaring time in the last four days of 2020 with sales zooming to Rs 759 crore. Sales were high in Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Medchal and Medak districts with a single-day collection of Rs 300 crore on last day of 2020. But, trade observers said the New Year revelry was not the only reason for the sales jumping up but other factors had also played a part. Normally, sales see a rise in the month-end and not just in December as liquor companies offer special discounts and dealers lift the stocks in large numbers. “On New Year’s-eve, traders lift much higher stocks expecting huge sales. They also know that the next day (Jan 1), their sales dip since revellers do not come out to buy liquor,” a trade analyst said. There are some 2,400 wine dealers across Telangana, including 500 in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/liquor-sales-hit-a-new-high/articleshow/80064681.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Rs 1.8 crore gold heist amid 4,000-cop strong New Year bandobust||AHMEDABAD: The New Year for the city began with one of the biggest robberies in recent times — 27 packages of gold jewellery worth Rs 1.78 crore disappeared in a violent heist amid a 4,000-cops bandobust. But senior police officials said late on Friday that they rounded up five persons and recovered a major part of the consignment within hours of the robbery. Three men had robbed two couriers of the gold packages on Friday at 3.25am near the Air Force’s headquarters in Meghaninagar. Police had put in place heavy deployment across the city to nab New Year celebrants breaking curfew and prohibition laws. But the robbers managed to slip through the nakabandi networks. Police sources said that the victims, Vidhyadhar Sharma, 35, of Sardarnagar and Jagdish Chaudhary were injured when they tried to confront the robbers. Sharma is the complainant. “Sharma was hit with a stick on his hand while Jagdish was struck on his head,” said an official of Meghaninagar police. “Both were taken to Civil Hospital.” According to the FIR lodged by Sharma, he owns two courier companies, Jay Mataji Logistics and Jay Mataji Air in partnership with one Suresh Chaudhary. Offices of both the courier companies are located in Rajkot but they collect parcels from Ahmedabad. Inspector J L Chauhan of Meghaninagar police said that the companies send packages containing gold to different parts of the country by air. According to the complaint, on December 30, 2020, Sharma’s partner Suresh Chaudhary called Sharma to say he is sending some gold parcels from Rajkot with Shyamsunder Sharma, a cousin of the complainant, and Jagdish. “On the night of December 31, Shyamsunder called Sharma and told him that he and Jagdish were waiting for him near the Sardar Patel statue close to the airport. Sharma brought Shyamsunder and Jagdish to his house on his bike,” the Meghaninagar police official said. “Later, Sharma and Jagdish set off for the air cargo complex with the consignment.” Police officials said that as Sharma turned towards the air cargo complex road, three men intercepted and attacked him and Jagdish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-1-8-crore-gold-heist-amid-4k-cop-strong-ny-bandobust/articleshow/80064686.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 8 taken into custody over drunken brawl||HYDERABAD: Two groups clashed on the issue of puffing cigarette smoke at a person’s face, in Jubilee Hills on Thursday night. Jubilee Hills inspector Rajasekhar Reddy said that a clash between the two drunk persons led to their friends joining the fight. Police registered a petty case against the two groups. The fight started when one a person puffed cigarette smoke on another’s friend. Both the men involved are vehicle mechanics. When the person on whom the smoke was puffed took objection, the fight broke out. Both the men called their friends, who joined the fight. Police reached the spot and took all eight members into custody. Cops verified the details of the fight through CCTV footage. The eight men were released with a warning on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/8-taken-into-custody-over-drunken-brawl/articleshow/80064684.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Kolkata||Final leg of East-West Metro tunnelling likely to start on Monday||KOLKATA: The final stretch of East-West Metro tunnelling is likely to start on Monday. The tunnel boring machine (TBM) has been refurbished and some of its parts replaced to ensure a glitch-free digging to bridge the last 800m gap of the west-bound tunnel. The TBM, nicknamed Urvi, is set to burrow and build the rest of the west-bound tunnel that was left unfinished by Chundi, when it had hit an aquifer at Bowbazar on August 31, 2019. Once this is done, the main construction for the beleaguered East-West Metro project that has been saddled with multiple setbacks will be over. After digging the east-bound tunnel on October 9, Urvi was disassembled 17m below the ground and lifted from the underground Sealdah Metro station for extensive overhauling. Urvi is perhaps the only tunnel borer that is being re-commissioned to finish the incomplete job of its twin TBM. “Therefore, it has undergone thorough refurbishment for more than a month, with some of its parts being replaced,” said a senior official of Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC), implementing agency of the project. Among the parts that have been changed are the tailskin brushes that prevent water from entering the tunnel while the giant machine digs. The other TBM, Chundi, now lying defunct at Durga Pithuri Lane off Bowbazar, where more than 20 houses had collapsed due to largescale subsidence because of the August 31 accident. “So, Urvi, even after building the east-bound tunnel, will now dig another 800m back to Durga Pithuri Lane to complete the west-bound tunnel,” the KMRC official added. Both the TBMs, by German manufacturers Herrenknecht, were commissioned by ITD ITD-Cementation that is building the twin underground tunnels between Esplanade and Sealdah. At the underground Metro station on Friday, ITD’s chief tunnel engineer Suvajit Besai and mechanical head Jyotirmoy Pramanik inspected the TBM’s cutter-head and other parts before they are assembled back for digging. When Urvi begins digging on Monday, it will only be the initial drive. The main drive will start a month later. The initial drive is necessary because the entire TBM is actually 75m long. The main operative part, with the cutterhead, front body, middle body and the tailskin, is only 9m. The rest, backup gantry, will be joined later with the main TBM when a 75m space is created by digging and the entire machine is accommodated inside. Assembling of the main 9m part of the TBM will start from Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/final-leg-of-e-w-tunnelling-likely-to-start-on-monday/articleshow/80064687.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
January 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||Vaccination dry run in 4 districts today||Ahmedabad: Four districts of Gujarat will carry out a dry run for the Covid-19 vaccination programme on Saturday. The exercise — by Zydus Medical College in Dahod, Sir T General Hospital in Bhavnagar, GMERS Medical College in Valsad, and District Hospital in Anand — will entail one Urban Health Centre (UHC) and one outreach centre outside the urban area in each district. Gandhinagar and Rajkot had recently been part of a two-day national dry run. Gujarat in the 24 hours ending 5pm on Friday added 734 new cases, taking the total number of cases so far to 2.45 lakh. This was the lowest one-day tally for the state in 179 days. The state also recorded three Covid deaths, taking the death toll to 4,309. This was the lowest one-day death toll for 260 days or eight months. The share of active, discharged and deceased Covid-19 patients was 3.9%, 94.3% and 1.8%, respectively. At 9,663, this is the lowest number of active patients in the state since July 9, or nearly six months. Daily testing remained low, in the past seven days the state has carried out an average of 53,687 tests a day, with a test positivity rate of 1.5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vaccination-dry-run-in-4-districts-today/articleshow/80064691.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Goa||Process for Mapusa admin block begins||Saligao: The Mapusa municipal council has set into motion the process for constructing an administrative block by floating a tender worth Rs 3.2 crore. The civic body has identified land adjacent to the present municipal office building to construction the complex. Frequent traffic congestion is witnessed outside the current administrative complex which houses many offices, thus inconveniencing visitors. “We floated the tender on Thursday, inviting bids to take up work of the administrative block, and after scrutiny we will take up the work,” said chief officer of Mapusa municipal council Kabir Shirgaonkar. The project is also aimed at adding more revenue to the municipality coffers. It may be recalled that in September 2017, the civic body had unanimously resolved to construct a new administrative block. Accordingly, a plan was proposed for a three-storey building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/process-for-mapusa-admin-block-begins/articleshow/80064690.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Subdued revelry on New Year-eve, 1,800 booked for drunk driving||HYDERABAD: In the backdrop of a Telangana HC order and police also deciding to crack the whip, the turnout of New Year revellers on the roads and at the pubs and bars was much less when compared to the last year. Except for one fatality in a road accident, police officials said there were no road mishaps relating to New Year revelry. In press notes issued by Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda police, the total number of motorists who were caught riding under the influence of alcohol were1,814, including a few minors. Under Chikkadpally police station limits, a vegetable vendor P Nagireddy (60) died when he was walking on the road after a car hit him. P Srivatsava (21), who was at the wheel, hit Nagireddy allegedly in a drunken condition. Both the accused and the victim were heading towards Musheerabad from Chikkadpally. The accident took place at 5.30 am when the enforcement drive was already wound up by police. During the enforcement drive taken up by Cyberabad police, seven motorists were found with a blood alcohol count (BAC) of more than 500 mg/100 ml against the permitted 30 mg per 100 ml. As expected, the maximum number of drunken drivers were caught during the inspection by cops at Gachibowli, Madhapur, Kukatpally, Jubilee Hills, Banjara Hills, Begumpet, Neredmet, Uppal and LB Nagar police station limits. All the three commissioners personally supervised some check points. Senior officials of three police commissionerates said that there was not a single road accident in the city — no fatal cases between 10 am on Thursday and 4 am on Friday — during when they took up the enforcement drive. Necklace Road was out of bounds for the commuters. “The New Year-eve was like any other ordinary day for us as we did only 50% business. Cops were very strict in terms of conducting parties and also carried out extensive drink and drive checks. We were informed that if anyone is caught drinking and driving, bar owners will be held liable,” said Narsing Rao, owner of a private club. Techies in the IT corridor were conspicuous by their silent celebrations. “Due to the pandemic, we restricted ourselves to a house party with families and friends,” said Vinay Kumar, an IT employee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-cheers-to-cops-as-city-ny-revelry-is-incident-free/articleshow/80064689.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Dehradun||Terai residents wake up to a foggy new year morning||Rudrapur : Residents of Terai region woke up to a foggy morning on New Year's Day with the hint of a chil in the breeze and no sun in sight. As a thick layer of fog engulfed the area, visibility was reduced to nearly zero on many roads, especially highways. Traffic slowed down across the district. With days rapidly getting colder in the northern region, the Terai region has been wrapped under a heavy blanket of fog since Thursday night. Friday has been foggy and breezy, with reduced visibility since noon. The fog blanket led to a sudden drop in temperature, with the maximum marked at 19°C and the minimum said to go down to 6°C at night. Meteorologist at Prant university, RK Singh, said that the density of fog in the city is expected to lighten up on Saturday. However, the fog will be back the next day. The low-visibility has increased the chances of accidents. Daily wage workers are coping by huddling around small bonfires. The cold has added to misery of the homeless, who sleep in biting cold out in the open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/terai-residents-wake-up-to-a-foggy-new-year-morning/articleshow/80063791.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 2, 2021||Goa||Power dept extends deadline for defaulters till January 31||PANAJI: The deadline to avail of the one-time settlement scheme (OTS) for defaulting power consumers in Goa has been further extended till January 31, power minister Nilesh Cabral said on Friday. Cabral said that dues of around 1.5 to 1.6 lakh consumers are pending. “Once the new deadline ends, a list of the defaulters will be displayed on the power department website to caution others from dealing with these non-payers. When the scheme was launched in December 2020, dues of around Rs 413 crore were to be recovered from 2 lakh defaulters, Cabral said. As of December 31, 2020, the department recovered Rs 113 crore. Another Rs 300 crore remains to be recovered from around 1.5 to 1.6 lakh defaulters, he said. “Days of the scheme were lost due to zilla polls. Many officers who were part of the scheme’s implementation process went on election duty. Many consumers did not come forward to pay the backlog due to Covid-19. It was also the festive season. Therefore, a decision was taken in consultation with the CM to extend the scheme deadline,” Cabral said. He said the power department will crack the whip if the remaining defaulters do not come forward to avail of the scheme by January 31. “The prime objective is to recover revenue. We have given targets to our assistant engineers, executive engineers, junior engineers that recovery has to be there in the defaulting cases. The Corporation for the City of Panaji has taken advantage of the scheme and cleared Rs 2.3 crore, while the remaining amount has been waived off. In another case, out of the Rs 42,000 outstanding, the consumer paid Rs 20,000 and got Rs 22,000 waiver,” Cabral said. He said the disconnection drive has been launched by his department from December 26 in case of defaulters. “We will go for a strong disconnection drive. We will give them an opportunity to pay, but if they are not paying we will have to disconnect. Almost 5 lakh consumers are paying their bills on time. But around 1.6 lakh are not. Why should these consumers be allowed to take benefit of free electricity at the cost of others? Ultimately, the power we get is not for free, it has to be paid for. It is not a tax. The government has paid someone to be able to receive the power,” Cabral said. He said in the case of defaulting companies, the names of the proprietor as well as directors will be displayed on the power department website post January 31. The minister said that if old defaulters are getting power supply through new connections, this too will be tracked. “When we brought the scheme, we realised that in some cases their power has been disconnected and they have taken connection in someone else’s name now. If money was due to be paid by the father and if the sons have taken the new connection, we will ensure that the sons take responsibility for the pending bills of the father,” said Cabral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/power-dept-extends-deadline-for-defaulters-till-january-31/articleshow/80064692.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Kochi||Preparations in full swing to rollout Covid vaccine||Thiruvananthapuram: Distribution of Covid vaccines in the state is expected to begin within a month. The health department has set up 1,240 cold chain points across the state and regional vaccine stores in Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam and Kozhikode to ensure proper storage and distribution. In addition to 12,000 ice packs, 1,550 deep freezers, walk-in coolers and 2,000 vaccine carriers, officials have also stocked 1,589 small and 69 big ice lined refrigerators at the units to store the vaccines. In the first phase, 2,000 hospitals in the government sector would be linked to these storage units. A consignment comprising 17 lakh syringes would also be reaching the state soon. The government has also formed a steering committee at state-level and task forces at district and block levels to monitor vaccine storage and distribution. “It’s a big relief that the vaccine has been developed during the pandemic itself. There have been instances when vaccines have come decades after the outbreak of life-threatening diseases,” said Dr B Ekbal, chairman of the government-appointed expert committee. The state has a well-equipped cold chain management since it has already been doing it for the universal immunisation programme, he added. In the first phase, healthcare workers, medical students, Asha and anganwadi workers would be given priority. In phase II, the vaccine would be administered to police, armed forces and municipal workers. The third phase will include people with comorbidities and also those who are above 50 years of age. “A key factor is that we should cover at least 60% of the adult population at the earliest. Going by the pace at which vaccines are being manufactured, it would take a year to achieve this target,” said Dr A Althaf, associate professor at Manjeri MCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/preparations-in-full-swing-to-rollout-covid-vaccine/articleshow/80058211.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Goa||BJP ready to contest civic polls with or without party symbol, says Tanavade||Margao: BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavde said the party was ready to contest the forthcoming municipality elections “irrespective of whether they are conducted along party lines or not along party lines.” “The municipality elections will be conducted in the next 2-3 months. The state government and the Election Commission will decided whether the elections will be conducted along party lines or not. But we are totally prepared to fight the polls with party symbol, and also without party symbol as was being done all these years,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-ready-to-contest-civic-polls-with-or-without-party-symbol-says-tanavade/articleshow/80064726.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Chandigarh||CLU permissions in Haryana: Avail all services online now||Chandigarh: In a New Year’s day gift for those intending to get change of land use (CLU) permissions for individual or institutional purpose, the Haryana Town and Country Planning department on Friday launched a total online service for CLUs. With this, the applicants will get the CLU permission within 30 days and would be required to visit the headquarters of the town and country department for signing of a bilateral agreement after a letter of intent is issued. This comes three years after CM Manohr Lal Khattar had delegated his power related to CLU and Licenses to the department head. Till now, the applicants had been applying for CLU online while they were supposed to submit documents for physical verification and other purposes. As a result, this led to political interference. From Friday onwards, the application as well as documents will be submitted online in the format in the software. The file will get submitted once all the required documents are found to be submitted for further verification. “Idea of launching the service is to bring total transparency with zero human interference. Now, each and everything is digitized, including the issuance of LOI. The department has a target of issuing CLU within a 30-day period,’’ said K M Panduranga, the director general of town and country planning department. According to information as many as 40 CLU applications are received every month, and include seeking permission to get the land use converted for petrol pumps, hotels, schools or other commercial purposes. Currently 70 applications are pending in the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/clu-permissions-in-haryana-avail-all-services-online-now/articleshow/80064727.cms||Manvir Saini
January 2, 2021||Goa||Committee of experts to revise Goa’s water policy||PANAJI: The state government has appointed a committee to revise the Goa State Water Policy 2020, based on the draft water policy 2015. The committee has to finalise the revised draft State Water Policy within a period of four months, the notification issued on Friday states. Chetan Pandit, former member of the central water commission, will chair the panel, while members will include Ashwini Pai Panandiker, fellow of the Energy & Resources Institute (TERI) and four other local experts from Goa. “The committee shall revise the Goa State Water Policy 2020 by taking note of the draft State Water Policy 2015 and suggestions/comments received from the public and other stakeholders, in the possession of the water resources department (WRD). WRD shall provide to the committee such data, statistics, etc, that it has in its possession necessary for the finalisation of the revised policy,” said notification states. The panel has been told that its proceeding can either take place as physical meetings in the office of the chief engineer, WRD, Porvorim, or virtually through video conferencing as per their convenience or choice. “The government reserves the right to accept fully or partially, modify/amend or reject altogether the draft state water policy prepared by the committee,” the notification states. Each member of the committee will be paid daily fee of Rs 8,000 for every day spent on work, including the day spent in travel for this task. The 2015 policy, drafted at the Centre’s insistence, was primarily aimed at keeping a watch on the health of reservoirs and ground water situation. But the policy only remained on paper. The document recommended formation of a water board for Goa, which would approve all major state and private projects after studying its impact on water resources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/committee-of-experts-to-revise-goas-water-policy/articleshow/80064718.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Now, update your Aadhaar card at your doorstep||SECUNDERABAD: Now, you can update your Aadhaar card at your doorstep. This facility is provided to apartments, maintained by Residents Welfare Associations (RWAs), in the twin cities. The postal department has taken this initiative for the convenience of hundreds of families living in apartments, unable to update their Aadhaar cards, due to various reasons. “Aadhaar card holders can update demographic features such as name, email ID, mobile number, address, date of birth, biometric updations, facial image, fingerprints and IRIS, through postal department’s kiosk,” senior superintendent of post offices (SSP), Secunderabad postal division, Santosh Netha Kairamkonda told TOI. Explaining the procedure, which RWAs have to follow to set up kiosk in apartments, the SSP said, “RWAs concerned have to approach us and provide information such as address, number of families residing either in the apartments, gated community to avail this facility.” The postal staff who are trained in Aadhaar card updation programme sponsored by the Unique Identification Authority of India visit the apartment on the date, informed by the RWA concerned, along with equipment to do the updation, said a postal official. "Rs 50 to Rs 100 will be collected for every Aadhaar update from each applicant. A receipt will be provided to pay the charges. The applicant will get an updated Aadhaar card within 10 days or maximum a fortnight,” said Santosh. The postal department has already launched this facility to several residents in the Secunderabad division. RWAs can approach a nearby post office to avail this facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-update-your-aadhaar-card-at-your-doorstep/articleshow/80064710.cms||Sunil Mungara
January 2, 2021||Surat||Surat police station to help visitors with Sahayta Kendras||Surat: From now on, a booth outside all Surat police stations will assist visitors as per their work requirement inside the police stations. City police has become first in the state to launch a new ‘Sahayta Kendra’ service on Wednesday. Cops at the booth will also explain to visitors how to write an application to file a police complaint. City police is developing the project on a public private partnership model with financial support of a corporate company based in Hazira. In the trial project a transparent glass booth, a desk and chairs for visitors has been set up in the compound of Adajan police station. Cops will maintain a register of each visitor. “Not only for registering complaints but people come to police stations for various other purposes. Police personnel will guide the visitor at these Sahayta Kendra for further procedure,” city police commissioner Ajay Tomar told TOI. After a successful trial run at Adajan police station police will install these booths at one police station in each four zones and based on the results each police station will have this facility. Tomar asked senior city police officials during his visit on Wednesday to examine the newly developed facility and give feedback to use it effectively. “The police station staff sitting on the front desk in the existing set up are already pre-occupied with different work. They sometimes cannot give satisfactory replies to people,” said Tomar, adding that the people-centric facility will be used exclusively to help visitors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-police-station-to-help-visitors-with-sahayta-kendras/articleshow/80063849.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Van driver dies, four suffer injuries in pile-up at Hyderabad's Uppal||HYDERABAD: A 39-year-old van driver died and four others suffered injuries when a truck carrying granite, rammed into two vans and a bike at Uppal on Friday. The DCM van crashed into the boundary wall of a temple, completely damaging part of the wall and the temple office. The deceased, K Ramachandar, was a driver working in Tollywood. The accident occurred at Abhayanjaneyla Swamy Temple. “Ramachandar’s body was dragged under the van. He died on the spot,” Uppal inspector Ch N Ranga Swamy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/van-driver-dies-four-suffer-injuries-in-pile-up-at-uppal/articleshow/80064725.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Hyderabad||WFH techies will stream into office in phases in ’21: Survey||HYDERABAD: Many techies who were asked by their companies to work from home (WFH) for a better part of 2020 to stay safe during the pandemic, may not return to office in 2021 either. As per the latest survey by Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association (Hysea), IT & ITeS companies do not foresee a pre-pandemic situation of 100% staff returning to office. As per the survey, 60% of the companies plan to have less than 20% of their workforce operating from office by the end of March 2021 and this might increase to 40% by the end of June 2021. By December 2021, WFO (Work from Office) percentage for large and very large companies is likely to be around 50-70%. “The return to office (RTO) will be very gradual and will peak towards the end of 2021 with almost no perceptible change by end of March 2021. In any case, RTO will never be 100%,” Hysea said. Currently, 55% of the companies that participated in the survey said that less than 5% of their staff is working from office, 3% confirmed nearly 6-9% staff is on Work from Office, 11% of companies said that nearly 10-19% of their employees are on Work from Office and 31% said over 20% are on Work from Office. Many companies stated that a sizable chunk of their employees have relocated to their native places and are carrying out WFH. As a result, the return to office will be a complex process considering the reverse migration that might take place, it added. More than 50% of the companies have reported that over 25% of their Hyderabad-based workforce is operating from outside Hyderabad. While 25% of the companies have more than 50% of their workforce working from outside Hyderabad. However, some large Indian IT/ITeS companies expect that demand from clients will push them to work towards an return to office strategy, whereas the GICs will not press for mandatory return to office for their staff and much will hinge on how the vaccine roll-out takes place in the coming days. Despite these challenges, a majority of the companies reported high productivity levels of over 90% within WFH scenario and in some cases it was even over 100%. Due to continued WFH in the past nine months, 20% of large and very large companies have given up some office space and most of the companies do not anticipate increased office space requirement post return to office, the survey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/wfh-techies-will-stream-into-office-in-phases-in-21-survey/articleshow/80064766.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board bill arrear rebate extended till March 31||NEW DELHI: More than 4.5 lakh households have so far benefited from the bill arrears rebate scheme of Delhi Jal Board (DJB), in which bills pending till March 2019 were waived to varying extents depending on the category of colony in which they are situated. The jal board earned Rs 632 crore in revenue under this scheme and DJB chairman Satyendar Jain announced on Friday that the scheme will be extended for another three months with a new deadline of March 31. “Delhi and its residents are going through an extremely trying and challenging time. However, everyone has put up a brave fight, and continues to do so. As the chairman of DJB and a resident of Delhi myself, I fully understand and empathise with everybody’s situation. Therefore, we have decided to extend the last date of the scheme to enable more consumers to pay their water bills at reduced rates, without facing any form of financial burden or difficulty,” Jain said. Out of the total Rs 632 crore DJB has earned so far, over Rs 400 crore was deposited by 4.45 lakh domestic consumers and more than Rs 232 crore by 7,836 commercial consumers. Under the scheme, 100% late payment surcharge (LPSC) waiver will be given to all domestic as well as commercial consumers, whereas rebate in principal amount will be on the basis of category of colonies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/djb-bill-arrear-rebate-extended-till-march-31/articleshow/80064785.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Goa||Digambar Kamat vows to work for Margao’s all-round devpt||MARGAO: Opposition leader and Margao MLA Digambar Kamat on Friday vowed not to spare any effort in bringing about all-round development of Margao. “Margao is my birth place and I am committed for overall development of this commercial capital of Goa. I will not keep a single stone unturned for overall development of Margao,” Kamat said after inaugurating the culvert linking Margao town to Davorlim village on the Eastern Bypass intersection. The culvert has been constructed at a cost of almost Rs 40 lakh. Speaking further, Kamat said that several development projects in Margao were in the works, which includes beautification of the road along northern side of Konkan Railway station which is currently in progress. The illumination work of most of the areas across the city has been completed with installation of 4 and 6 arms poles, the Margao MLA said. He further informed that the construction work of parallel road over bridge connecting Davorlim to the Quepem road at Rawanfond will also commence shortly. While the existing road over bridge has two lanes, the proposed parallel road is planned to be a four-laned one. The proposal moved by Kamat in late 2019 had found favour with the state government with Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC) undertaking the execution of the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kamat-vows-to-work-for-margaos-all-round-devpt/articleshow/80064746.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Goa||Bihar man dies at Dharbandora||PONDA: Nikhil Prakash, 34, a native of Nalanda, Bihar, died on Friday after the vehicle he was driving met with an accident. Two of his companions have been seriously injured and are undergoing treatment. The trio — including Sonu Kumar, 30, and Pankaj Gaur, 33 — were proceeding from Dudhsagar falls to Ponda in a four-wheeler when the vehicle rammed into a tree at Dayanandnagar, Dharbandora, police said. Prakash was rushed to Dharbandora primary health centre, but was declared dead on arrival, police said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bihar-man-dies-at-dharbandora/articleshow/80064764.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Kochi||From the studio: Kochi’s urban future||Is Kochi a ‘liveable’ city anymore? If not, how should we make it a sustainable and liveable city for its ever-increasing population? These are a few of the questions that are currently being answered by Welsh School of Architecture at Cardiff University in the United Kingdom. Shibu Raman, lecturer in architecture and urban design at the university, has set up a ‘liveable urbanism’ studio and has been leading a group of researchers and masters’ students from the Welsh School of Architecture to develop and understand cities as a complex system and respond to urban challenges found especially in the rapidly transforming cities. The research is done in association with School of Planning and Architecture, New Delhi, and Indian Institute of Architects, Cochin Centre. According to Kozhikode-born Raman, the study will facilitate a discussion towards creating a dynamic urban strategy for Kochi. “We aim to achieve a comprehensive approach to make Kochi more liveable by improving the quality of life for its citizens. For this, we need to address the root cause of the issue, rather than reacting to the problems that are visible from the surface.” “Globally, cities are becoming increasingly inhuman -- with the rising cost of living, increasing demands of services, polarization of rich and poor and imbalances in social, economic, environmental quality. With half of the world’s population living in cities, liveability has never been more important,” he said. The team developed a comprehensive urban strategy towards achieving their goal of making Kochi liveable and this was followed up with specific interventions that would trigger the changes in achieving the goals of the project. The specific projects included a decentralized waste recycling plant, improving the health and well-being of citizens, preserving ecological biodiversity, and developing strategies for preserving wetlands and floodplains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/from-the-studio-kochis-urban-future/articleshow/80058237.cms||Shenoy Karun
January 2, 2021||Agra||4 cops suspended, 7 others transferredafter mob sets police post ablaze in Agra||Agra: A day after a police post in Agra was set ablaze by angry residents when a youth died while being chased by cops, four policemen, including the SHO of Tajganj and the Tora post in-charge, were suspended on Friday. Seven other cops of the police post were also transferred to the police lines. SSP Babloo Kumar said that Tajganj SHO Narendra Singh, chowki in-charge Manoj Kumar and two constables, Ajaypal and Salauddin, were suspended due to dereliction of duty. They failed to control the situation in time and it worsened due to their laxity, he said. Two separate FIRs have been registered in the matter and, so far, 11 people have been arrested for the violent clash, he added. On Thursday afternoon, a mob from Karbhana village set on fire the Tora police post and torched several vehicles following the death of 22-year-old Pawan Kumar after his sand-laden tractor-trolley fell into a ditch while being allegedly chased by cops. According to police, the man lost control over his vehicle while trying to make a 'U-turn' in a bid to flee from the cops who were on a checking drive. The man's kin, however, alleged that he was being chased by police as he had refused to pay them Rs 100 as "bribe".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/4-cops-suspended-7-others-transferredafter-mob-sets-police-post-ablaze-in-agra/articleshow/80063216.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Kolkata||New Town to get Netaji park on January 23||KOLKATA: New Town will get a Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose theme park that is scheduled to be inaugurated on January 23 to commemorate Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary. The park, being set up by the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA), is located opposite New Town Business Club. It will have a panorama of Netaji’s life, with different statues and cut-outs, rare photographs, an exhibition of dresses that Netaji used to wear and writings about his life on the walls surrounding the park. NKDA authorities flagged off the project last month. “It will be a thematic park with Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose as the central theme. There will be prototype sculpture that is being developed from a rare photograph. It will be about 10-feet tall and will be installed inside the park on a four-feet tall pedestal,” said an official. The site has been selected with the help of a sculptor, who is making the statue. Officials said that different concepts are being used in a creative manner to set up the park. There will be no entry fee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-to-get-netaji-park-on-jan-23/articleshow/80064723.cms||Suman Chakraborti
January 2, 2021||Agra||15 dead, many hurt in accidents due to poor visibility in Uttar Pradesh||AGRA: At least 15 people lost their lives and scores were injured in accidents as dense fog descended on western Uttar Pradesh turning stretches of expressways and highways passing through the region into death traps. All the accidents took place in a span of ten hours beginning Thursday night. Five persons, including two from Delhi, were killed on Yamuna Expressway in Mathura in two separate accidents. Kapil Deo (25), a supervisor in a private company in the national capital and Mohammad Afzal (28), a tailor, were killed when their car rammed into another vehicle due to low visibility in Mathura’s Surir area. The car driver and another passenger were injured and taken to hospital by police. They were going to Agra from Noida and the accident took place on Thursday night. In the other accident on the expressway, three youths on a motorcycle were run over by an unidentified vehicle on Friday morning. Vishal Gupta and Kuldeep were from Mainpuri district while Karanveer was from Agra. “Their bodies have been sent for post-mortem examination,” said Mathura’s superintendent of police (rural) Shireesh Chandra. According to Yamuna Expressway authorities, 121 people were killed in 509 accidents last year. In 2019, 560 accidents took 195 lives. Another three persons were killed on Agra-Lucknow Expressway in a pile-up of eight vehicles in Etawah district. And at least five others were injured. Among the dead, Rohit (24) was from Haryana’s Mahendragarh and Hiralal and Doluram were from Rajasthan’s Dausa district. In Moradabad district, at least five persons were killed and 15 others were injured in two accidents due to dense fog on Friday morning. A stationary truck parked on the road led to the pile-up on Moradabad-Bijnor road. Initially a mini-van crashed into it, and a few moments later a mini–truck rammed into the van leading to the death of four persons including a toddler. Six others were injured. In the other pile-up of four vehicles, an elderly woman died on the spot and 10 people sustained injuries in Moradabad’s Kundarki area. While another 2 persons were killed in Pilibhit when a bus collided with a truck. Six others were hurt and taken to hospital. The bus carrying over 24 passengers was on its way from Amritsar to Lakhimpur Kheri when it hit the truck laden with cattle. (With inputs from Kanwardeep Singh & Keshav Agarwal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/15-dead-scores-hurt-as-low-visibility-caused-by-fog-leads-to-several-accidents-on-expressways-highways/articleshow/80063221.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Chennai||‘Pazhayathu’ is gold, Tamil Nadu health department commissions research to prove it||CHENNAI: It’s a hoary tale most people in Tamil Nadu would relate to. One that’s told and retold across generations that it’s actually quite old, just like the subject itself: The goodness of the fermented rice or what is called ‘pazhayathu’ in Tamil. But it’s not just a lore anymore as the state health department has commissioned a research project at a cost of Rs 2.7 crore involving 600 patients to study the effect of probiotics in fermented rice (pazhaya soru) in treating inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) like Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis (UC). Twelve years ago, Crohn’s was a fairly new disease in Chennai with hospitals reporting just one or two cases a month. But now it has become so common that every second or third day a patient arrives at government hospitals in the city with IBD. Most of them turn out to be Crohn’s patients who may need surgical intervention. In India, the prevalence of the disease is 45 per 1,00,000 people. IBD treatment normally involves taking steroid drugs, immunosuppressants and anti-cancer drugs, and in some cases surgical intervention. The Surgical Gastroenterology Department of the Stanley Medical College Hospital, Chennai, however, hardly takes the surgery route and prescribes patients fermented rice and some basic medicines for quicker recovery, doctors at the hospital said. “To prove it (curative properties) scientifically, we have now taken up a three-year research study funded by the State Development Policy Council, ” said R Narayana Babu, Director of Medical Education. Though the exact reasons for these diseases are not known, researchers believe it could be due to genetic factors or auto-immune diseases. Human intestine contains millions of good bacteria that help in digestion and improve immunity. Unhealthy diet or stress can affect the bacterial balance in the gut triggering an inappropriate immune response thereby causing inflammation, experts said. S Jeswanth, professor and head of the hospital’s surgical gastroenterology department, said that fermented rice, which contains adequate healthy bacteria, can set right bacterial imbalance preventing unregulated immune responses. It also has fibre, vitamins and other digestible minerals. “The research study will involve three steps choosing the right variety of rice such as unpolished samba rice or ‘ponni’ or organic rice; determining the right condition for fermentation by trying it in residential areas, sea shores (to see the impact of sodium chloride) and hospital environment ; and lastly to involve at least 600 patients in clinical trial,” the doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pazhayathu-is-gold-health-dept-commissions-research-to-prove-it/articleshow/80064734.cms||Ram Sundaram
January 2, 2021||Agra||At 2 degrees Celsius, Agra colder than Mussoorie||AGRA: Residents of the city of Taj woke up in the new year to freezing weather as intense cold winds gripped the region. Weatherman said the city recorded colder than Mussoorie on Friday. In the Agra region, both the minimum and maximum temperatures were recorded below normal level. The minimum temperature in Agra dropped to 2 degrees Celsius as compared to 7 degrees Celsius in Mussoorie. On Friday, the region was covered in a dense fog till late afternoon. According to the Met department, there is a possibility of rainfall in the region in the next four days. Besides Agra, cold waves swept across Firozabad, Mathura, Etah, Aligarh, Kasganj and Mainpuri on Friday. Most people remained indoors or around bonfires. A large number of tourists who had come to see the Taj Mahal on the New Year day had to brave chilly winds. “Every after putting on three layers of woollen clothes, I am feeling cold. It feels like a hill station,” said a Mumbai tourist at the Taj Mahal. On Friday, the maximum temperature in Agra was recorded at 17.8 degrees Celsius, which was four degrees less than normal. The minimum temperature was five notches less than the normal limit. Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) arranged gas heaters at over a dozen places in the evening. People also set up bonfires. According to the weatherman, the region is likely to witness dense fog in morning and evening for the next four days. Mild sunshine can be seen in the afternoon. With a partly cloudy sky, there is possibility of “one or two spells of rain or thundershowers”. Meanwhile, the air quality index (AQI) in Agra was recorded at 384 (‘very poor’ category), by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Particulate matter 2.5 (with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) remained a prominent pollutant in the city. The maximum level of PM 2.5 was recorded at 456 milligrams per cubic metre. According to CPCB, AQI in the ‘very poor’ category results in respiratory illness on prolonged exposure. Sharad Gupta, a city-based doctor, said, “People in general need to follow some basic precautions to keep healthy in the current weather and atmospheric conditions. Direct exposure to cold winds should be avoided. All the body parts, especially feet and head, should be properly covered.” “It is advisable to consume a calorie-rich diet, but too much oily and spicy food should be avoided. Lukewarm water should be taken at frequent intervals. Early morning walks and exercise in open spaces should be avoided for a few days. Wearing a face mask when going out is highly recommended. Children, senior citizens need special care. Patients of diabetes, blood pressure and cardiovascular diseases are advised to at once see a doctor in case of health issues,” Dr. Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/at-2-degrees-celsius-agra-colder-than-mussoorie/articleshow/80063224.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 2, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Gang of burglars busted; seven held, Rs 1 crore valuables recovered||NEW DELHI: With the arrest of seven men, Delhi Police on Friday claimed to have busted a gang of burglars and recovered from them stolen valuables worth more than Rs 1 crore. The accused have been identified as the 35-year-old mastermind, Mobin, and his associates Jeeshan Ali (32), Ikram (48), Azad Ali (34) and Riyajul Hassan (32). Two of the arrested men who used to receive the stolen properties are Irfan, 35 and Mohammad Akram, 48. On November 22, the complainant, Ankit Gupta, reported that some men had burgled their house and made away with Rs 5 lakh cash and some gold jewellery worth about Rs 1.5 crore. Based on this, police had registered a case. Deputy commissioner of police (North) Anto Alphonse said during the investigation, technical surveillance was used on suspects and their call details were analysed but no breakthrough was achieved. “During local questioning, we managed to zero down on five accused—Azad, Mobin, Riyajul, Ikram and Jeeshan—who were suspected to be involved in this burglary. On December 26, three of the identified burglars—Jeeshan, Ikram and Azad—were arrested while they were going to dispose of the stolen jewellery. A gold necklace and 13 gold bangles were recovered from the trio,” Alphonse said. On December 28, Riyajul and Irfan were also arrested. More stolen jewellery was recovered from them along with the tools used for breaking in the house, the DCP said. “The arrested men revealed that the mastermind of the burglary was Mobin, who is presently lodged in Dasna Jail. He was formally arrested on Wednesday,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gang-of-burglars-busted-seven-held-rs-1cr-valuables-recovered/articleshow/80064811.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Agra||Stray cattle menace: Agra administration to help bereaved farmer family||AGRA: A day after a marginal farmer died of a cardiac arrest on seeing his wheat crop destroyed by stray cattle at Badhora village in Fatehabad sub-division of Agra, district magistrate Prabhu N Singh has sought a report from SDM concerned. The DM has assured the bereaved family that they will be provided with suitable help under government schemes. On Thursday, TOI had reported that Narayan Singh (51) had run up a debt of around Rs 90,000. He like other farmers, used to guard his crops all the time. On Monday evening, he took a brief dinner break. On returning to his field, he found his crops trampled upon and damaged by around 50 stray cows. Unable to bear the shock, he suffered a cardiac arrest. He passed away on way home. He was taken to hospital, where doctors pronounced him brought dead, said his cousin, Bhuri Singh. “Narayan was in debt of around Rs 90,000. The family of five, including wife and three children, were all dependent on the farmland,” he said. “His two daughters - 16 and 18 - are unmarried, and the son is just 10 years old.” Local resident, Shyam Sundar Sharma, said Narayan Singh was planning to get his older daughter married. Prabhu N Singh, DM, said, “SDM of Fatehabad has been asked to send a report on the death of the marginal farmer. We will ensure that the distressed family is suitably helped under government schemes. Required action will be taken to curb cattle menace in the area.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/stray-cattle-menace-agra-administration-to-help-bereaved-farmer-family/articleshow/80063226.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 2, 2021||Delhi||Three Delhi hospitals to do vaccination dry run today||NEW DELHI: Three hospitals— Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) in Shahdara, Venkateshwar in Dwarka and an urban primary health centre in Daryaganj – will conduct a dry run for Covid-19 vaccination in Delhi on Saturday. In a meeting chaired by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday, the hospitals said they had completed all preparations for the same. Delhi’s health secretary Amit Singla, district magistrates and district immunisation officers of Shahdara, central and south-west districts of Delhi where the three session sites are located were also present in the meeting. “We have readied the session site at GTB Hospital. It will have a vaccination room, observation room and separate waiting area. Total 25 selected healthcare workers have been identified to be the intended beneficiaries and ambulances have been arranged for transportation requirements, if any,” Sanjeev Kumar, district magistrate (DM) of Shahdara, said. He added that “44 session sites have been identified for the vaccination drive in Shahdara, of which 31 are ready.” The DMs of central and south-west districts also said session sites for the dry run and final vaccination programme were ready. Training has been provided to officials who will be involved in the vaccination programme, the authorities said. Gunjan Sinha, the chief operating officer of Venkateshwar Hospital, said, “25 healthcare workers have been selected from the hospital to participate in the dry run as intended beneficiaries.” “We have readied the vaccination room, observation room and waiting area,” she added. On Saturday, everything will be done on a mock basis but once the vaccine is approved for use, the same system will be followed across more than 1,000 health centres for vaccinating people, officials said. Vaccination of healthcare workers may begin as early as next week, subject to approval from the Subject Expert Committee of Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), sources said. Vardhan asked officials concerned to ensure that the vaccination sites and officials in charge abide by the detailed checklist and SOP for vaccination during the dry run. He also pressed the need for perfect calibration between administrative and medical officers to make the event a primer that would later enable mass implementation of the vaccination drive, the health ministry said in its statement. Drawing from the pulse polio drive of 1994 in Delhi, Vardhan said as the exercise of vaccination was so integrally based on interaction and involvement of people, the relevant stakeholders, NGOs, civil society organisations and others need to be mobilised. He also stressed the need for adequate security arrangements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-city-hosps-to-do-vaccination-dry-run-today/articleshow/80064863.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
January 2, 2021||Kolkata||JU gets state green light to extend admission season||Kolkata: The government has granted a period of seven more days to Jadavpur University to fill up vacant seats in undergraduate courses in various subjects after the university wrote to the higher education department earlier this week seeking more time. The nod to extend deadline for admission arrived within forty-eight hours indicating the keenness of the government on filling up vacant seats across colleges and universities in the city. Last week, TOI had written about an internal report of the higher education department mentioning that more than one third seats at the under graduate level could not be filled up this year despite numerous extensions of deadline. Presidency University, too, published a provisional merit list for over 105 seats in various subjects at the undergraduate level. “The permission was given only after the approval of the minister in charge. The proposal from the university stated that many students on the waiting list will be taking admission in different subjects,” said an official of the higher education department. Jadavpur University has already issued a notice inviting willing candidates to register for admission in various BSc courses where several seats are vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ju-gets-state-green-light-to-extend-admission-season/articleshow/80064767.cms||Zeeshan Javed
January 2, 2021||Bareilly||‘Missing’ Muslim man who wasparaded on a donkey recovered||Bareilly: A Muslim man, 56, who disappeared after he was paraded on a donkey and his face smeared with black paint at his village in UP's Budaun on Tuesday night, was finally recovered by police on Friday.The man was reportedly staying at a relative’s place in Shahbad area of Rampur district and was upset due to the public humiliation and feared that the miscreants may return to harm him again. Two accused in the case are yet to be arrested.In a statement given to police, the man said, “I was abused, thrashed and publicly humiliated for no crime of mine. I am afraid that the accused may attack us again.”The man's return came as a huge relief for his family.After a phone conversation between the man and his son facilitated by the police, the son told TOI, "I took a sigh of relief after hearing my father's voice. He is safe, but upset and still under constant fear. He had sleepless nights. I told him that FIR has been registered against those who humiliated him, but he said that he will return later. I will go to Rampur and bring him personally now.”SP Sankalp Sharma told TOI, “We have found the man and he is safe. We informed him that we have taken action against the accused and two of them have been sent to jail."The man's statement has been recorded. He refused to return, though, and decided to stay at his kin's place, Sharma said."Since he is not an accused, we cannot force him to return,” the SP further said.The son added, “Police are yet to arrest the remaining two accused in the case. So, we are worried about our safety."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/missing-muslim-man-who-wasparaded-on-a-donkey-recovered/articleshow/80063243.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 2, 2021||Nagpur||65% of Nagpur to get alternate day water supply for a month||NAGPUR: About 65% area of the city will get alternate day water supply for about a month from January 6, as Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is taking up repair works of a leakage in 2300mm pipeline supplying 480 MLD water from Pench reservoir. “To allow the repairs, water supply to 65% of the city will remain affected. The NMC will supply alternate day water to Laxmi Nagar, Dharampeth, Hanuman Nagar, Gandhibagh, Mangalwari and parts of Satranjipura and Ashi Nagar zones for 30 days,” said water works committee chairman Vijay Zalke here on Friday. Zalke on Thursday visited the spot of leakage in 27km-long pipeline between Itgaon and Karambhad villages. “Earlier, the leakage was small. After water works department informed me, I along with former deputy mayor Deepraj Pardikar and water works department officials visited the site and were shocked to see the huge quantum of water going waste,” he said. “At least four spots of huge leakages in the 2300mm diameter pipeline were detected. At least 5 MLD water is going waste every day,” he pointed out. “If we don’t take up the repairs now, the city may face water shortage during summer,” he told TOI. The NMC supplies water to the city through two sources — Pench reservoir (480MLD) and Kanhan (200MLD) river. The NMC supplies Pench reservoir water to Laxmi Nagar, Dharampeth, Hanuman Nagar, Nehru Nagar, Gandhibagh, Mangalwari and parts of Satranjipura and Ashi Nagar zones, while Lakadganj, Nehru Nagar and parts of Satranjipura and Ashi Nagar zones get Kanhan river water. “The leakage was detected during summer 2020. It was small initially, but we could not carry out the repairs as the city would have faced water crisis during the summer season and the plugging work could not be carried out during monsoon too,” said NMC’s superintending engineer (water works department) Shweta Banerjee. Zalke, however, ruled out sabotage which led to damage in the pipeline at several places. During the shutdown period, the NMC will also carry out inspection of the entire 27-km pipeline to detect if there are more leakages, he said. Banerjee said we had intimated farmers along the leakage portion to ensure harvest of their crops so that their crops do not get damaged during the repair work. During the month-long period, the NMC will not pump water from Pench reservoir and instead will supply water to the city through a 48km canal from Navegaon Khairi to Mahadula. Zalke admitted that condition of the canal is not satisfactory due to damage at several places. After lifting 200 cumecs of water, we will able to supply 150 cumecs water through the canal, he said. Zalke said the civic body has also requested Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited to ensure uninterrupted power supply to its water treatment plant at Godhani. “If any load-shedding occurs, water supply will further be affected,” he said. He appealed to citizens for using water judiciously during the period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/65-of-city-to-get-alternate-day-water-supply-for-a-month/articleshow/80065173.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 2, 2021||Nagpur||Stamp duty cut led to 48% jump in property deals for Sept-Dec||Nagpur: The Maha Vikas Aghadi government’s decision to reduce stamp duty to 3% to revive the economy increased property registrations by over 48% during four months from September to December in 2020 as compared to the corresponding period in 2019. Revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat stated in a communiqué that during this four months, the revenue too increased by Rs367 crore (3.97%) as compared to the corresponding period in 2019.“The decision to slash stamp duty rates was taken keeping in mind the interest of both home buyers as well as the need to infuse new energy in the real estate sector. The concession benefited the home buyers and breathed a new life into the sluggish real estate sector by boosting sales. This increased revenue for the state, thus providing momentum to its economy and industry crippled by the pandemic.”According to him, the MVA’s decision was appreciated by the central government which also encouraged other states to follow it.However, the problem of inordinately delay in the registration process continues as only one server is handling transactions from entire Maharashtra, as per the stakeholders like builders, valuers and lawyers. TOI had reported on December 13 about how the stakeholders, including buyers and sellers, are facing a harrowing time during the transactions.Sandip Shastri, a leading lawyer in property registrations, said equal focus should be given on improving the server connectivity as it led to numerous problems during sudden rush for registrations. “In December, the connectivity improved slightly after initial hiccups. Even the sub-registrars took efforts by purchasing scanners and scanned registry documents on their own. The government needs to seriously think over this issue and install a new server or improve the existing one’s capacity so that the process becomes smooth,” he told TOI.From September to December last year, the documents registry jumped to 12,56,224, fetching a revenue of Rs9,622 crore. During the same four months in 2019, 8,44,636 documents were registered and a revenue of Rs9,254 crore was collected.Thorat said apart from big cities like Mumbai and Pune, the dream of home buyers from smaller cities too has come true. “The rate cut helped home buyers, especially in the big cities where the price of flats were higher and the stamp duty was to be paid in lakhs,” he said.# Registration & revenue from Sept to Dec Year ------------ Registrations ---------------- Revenue2019 ---------- 8,44,636 ----------------------- 9,254 2020 ---------- 12,56,224 ----------------------- 9,622 (Revenue in Rs crores)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/stamp-duty-cut-led-to-48-jump-in-property-deals-for-sept-dec/articleshow/80065107.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 2, 2021||Nagpur||Covid-19 relief continues in New Year in Vidarbha||Nagpur: The first day of the New Year reported 784 new cases of Covid-19 while 732 patients recovered on Friday. Total 13 deaths, including 10 in Nagpur district alone, were recorded. Overall, the relief factor in December continued in the New Year too. The 13 Covid-19 deaths include Nagpur (10), Chandrapur (1), Akola (1) and Buldhana (1). Out of Nagpur’s 10 — four deceased are from Nagpur city, 3 from Nagpur rural and 3 from outstation/states. Vidarbha’s case fatality rate for the first time came under 2.6% mark and reached 2.59% which was also another relief for the region. With 2.39 lakh patients recovering out of the total 2.52 lakh cases, the recovery rate of Vidarbha reached 94.67% which is equal to the state’s average. Day’s 784 Covid-19 cases came from Nagpur (399), Amravati (100), Buldhana (62), Wardha (51), Gadchiroli (42), Bhandara (41), Akola (28), Chandrapur (26), Yavatmal (26) and Washim (9) while 732 recoveries in a day came from Nagpur (363), Amravati (126), Wardha (46), Chandrapur (44), Buldhana (37), Bhandara (34), Yavatmal (30), Gadchiroli (22), Washim (18) and Akola (12). Buldhana: The district reported the death of a 60-year-old woman from Masrul village in Buldhana tehsil on Friday. This took the total toll of Buldhana to 152. Out of total 636 reports received in a day, 62 tested positive taking the total number of cases to 12,580. On the other hand, 37 patients recovered in a day from Buldhana which took total the recoveries to 12,177. Buldhana’s recovery rate is about 97%. The district has 521 patients under treatment. Akola: Out of 529 Rapid antigen tests and 269 RT-PCR tests, total 28 tested positive for Covid-19 in Akola district on Friday. A 77-year-old man from Akot died while undergoing during treatment on Friday taking the toll of the district to 323. Now, the district has total 10,506 cases, 9,759 recoveries and 424 patients under treatment. Washim: The district reported 9 patients while 18 recovered on Friday. This took the total number of cases in Washim to 6,672 and recoveries to 6,388. Recovery rate of Washim is more than 96%. The district has 135 patients under treatment. No death was reported. Bhandara: The district reported 41 new cases while 34 patients recovered from the district on Friday. Total cases reached 12,396 while the recoveries reached 11,742. Recovery rate in Bhandara is about 95%. No death was reported in Bhandara on January 1. With toll was constant at 291, nearly 363 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: New cases were more than the number of patients recovered in a day from Gadchiroli district on Friday. Total 42 new cases were reported while 22 recovered. This took the total number of cases to 9,062 out of which 8,755 recovered. Recovery rate of Gadchiroli is 96.6%. No death was reported on January 1. Total 102 deaths have been reported till date in the district. Now, 205 patients are under treatment. Data from Gondia district was not received on Friday. Yavatmal: The year started on a good note as no deaths were reported. Out of 298 reports, 26 tested positive. Currently, 343 are undergoing treatment. The death toll remains at 404. Chandrapur: One death took the toll to 367. There were 26 new cases and 44 recoveries. The Covid caseload is now 22, 334, while recoveries are 21,549. There are presently 418 active cases in the district. Wardha: The tally touched 9,113 after 51 tested positive. In all, 46 were discharged with recoveries touching 8,531. Active positive patients are 309. Amravati: A spike of 100 cases and 126 recoveries took the district’s caseload to 19,768 and recoveries to 19,021 on Friday. There were no deaths. This left 351 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-relief-continues-in-new-year-in-vidarbha/articleshow/80065007.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 2, 2021||Chennai||Phase-II flood mitigation work gets Rs 111 crore||CHENNAI: Chennai may not suffer floods as it did in 2015 if the government’s flood mitigation works are completed. The state government has sanctioned Rs 111 crore for phase-II of the long-term flood mitigation project that has been taken up in Chennai and neighbouring districts. The project was designed to create an effective water management system to augment water storage capacity, restore missing links of water bodies, and mitigate flood in highly vulnerable areas in Chennai, Kancheepuram, Chengalpet, Tiruvallur and Cuddalore districts. The state public works department’s water resource wing, after mapping highly vulnerable areas during the 2015 floods, has taken a series of works. The state government had sanctioned Rs 238 crore in September 2019 for phase-II of the project. However, the unspent money of Rs 187 crore was surrendered to the state. Now, the government has issued an order, sanctioning Rs 111.46 crore from the surrendered fund for the ongoing works. The authorities have given utmost importance to creation of riverine reservoirs to augment water storage and mitigate flooding of Adyar river banks. Construction of reservoir across Orathur tributary of Adyar river with intra-basin transfer canal for water supply augmentation and flood mitigation, construction of flood regulator and reload bridge across Somangalam tributary and formation of riverine reservoir across Adyar river near Chennai were part of the project to create the riverine reservoirs. “These structures will have a water storage capacity of 1.5tmcft and they will be effective flood buffers for areas along Adyar river. By creating riverine reservoirs, we have addressed the critical issues,” said assistant executive engineer of water resource department, G R Radhakrishnan. He said nearly 70% of the phase II works have been completed. Construction of macro drain from Tambaram big tank to the macro drain near Tambaram-Mudichur road junction and from Urappakkam to the starting point of Mannivakkam supply channel also form part of the project. In phase I, works to the tune of Rs 100 crore were taken up. “We have completed construction of flood regulators at Mannivakkam, Nandhivaram, Athannur, Manimangalam and Selaiyur,” a senior PWD official said. “The flood regulators were effective in preventing flooding during the recent rain,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/phase-ii-flood-mitigation-work-gets-rs-111cr/articleshow/80064869.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
January 2, 2021||Vadodara||Women entrepreneurs to give seven Anand villages a modern facelift||Vadodara/ Anand: Seven villages of Anand district will be turned into modern villages with the support of women professionals and entrepreneurs. FLO, the women’s wing of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI), has adopted seven villages namely Bamroli, Ambav, Anklavdi, Rajnagar, Jitodia, Jol and Gabapura. The village adoption programme is based on the Saansad Adarsh Gram Yojana (SAGY) guidelines.“Many efforts of village adoptions are being carried out at many levels in our country. But it is almost impossible to develop more than six lakh villages of the country by just adopting them. Hence, we need to strengthen village adoption programs towards a model village approach,” said Taruna Patel, chairperson of FICCI FLO Ahmedabad chapter. FLO has selected areas of work in every village which will be supported by NGOs, organisations and individuals. The plan includes setting up garden and playground for children, village entrance gates, offering bakery and confectionery course, spoken English classes, sewing, beauty salon related training, organising multi-cropping and kitchen garden workshops, making products from agricultural produce waste, incense making and sanitary napkins stitching and selling to empower women in these villages. “The key elements include special focus on health of women and young children, inculcating self-reliance and financial independence among women, village tree plantation drives, promoting agriculture innovation on soil suitability and climate for farming, planning for village development, mobilizing resources,” said an office-bearer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/women-entrepreneurs-to-give-seven-anand-villages-a-modern-facelift/articleshow/80063865.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Vijayawada||Guntur: Piduguralla’s wait for drinking water to end soon||GUNTUR: Piduguralla town in Gurazala constituency is located 20 kilometres away from the Krishna river bank at Govindapuram village. The town is 80 kilometres away from the biggest water reservoir in the state Nagarjunasagar. Yet, it took nearly six decades for the town to get potable drinking water. The dreams of the residents of Piduguralla town, known as ‘Lime City’, in getting the Krishna waters are coming true with Govindapuram scheme coming into operational. The locals have been struggling to get safe drinking water as the ground water in the region is not safe for drinking due to the high presence of limestone mineral. Determined to bring relief to the residents, the local legislator Kasu Mahesh Reddy first set his focus on making a drinking water scheme, which was left defunct, working before going for the permanent solution. He started working on to make the old scheme soon operational immediately after getting elected as Gurazala legislator and made it almost operational within 18 months. He roped in irrigation experts and made the original contractor of the Govindapuram scheme to set the things right. The contractor firm completed the required repairs to Govindapuram scheme without the seeking any additional funds from the government. “It is a big achievement as we start feeding Piduguralla town with Krishna water from January, 7,” said Mahesh Reddy. In addition to getting water from Govindapuram scheme operational, Mahesh Reddy had also got green signal from the chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy to complete a dedicated drinking water scheme from Buggavagu. The government had also sanctioned Rs 220 crore to launch dedicated drinking water scheme from Buggavagu to cover entire Gurazala constituency. While Rs 140 crore would be spent for Piduguralla scheme, Rs 58 crore would be spare to extend the scheme to 57 villages in the constituency. Another Rs 22 crore was granted to provide water to Gurazala town. “We are going to give drinking water connections to all the 15,000 households in Piduguralla town alone within a year,” said Mahesh Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pidugurallas-wait-for-drinking-water-to-end-soon/articleshow/80064669.cms||Samdani MN
January 2, 2021||Vijayawada||New APCO chief vows turnover of Rs 1,000 crore soon||GUNTUR: Promising to revive the brand image of Andhra Pradesh Handloom Weavers Cooperative Society (APCO), newly appointed chairman Chillapalli Venkata Naga Mohan Rao who took charge on Friday said that they would take the firms turnover to Rs 1,000 crore very shortly. Mohan Rao said that they would devise new marketing strategies to further popularise stocks produced by weavers of. Mohan Rao assumed charge as chairman here on Friday. Speaking to the media, the APCO chairman said that chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy was very particular about changing the fortunes of APCO to help the handloom weavers in the state. Mohan Rao said different departments have cleared nearly Rs 103 crore in old dues to APCO after CM’s intervention. “There is great demand for handloom products across the globe. We will set our focus on capturing big share in the market through innovative marketing strategies,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/new-apco-chief-vows-turnover-of-rs-1000-cr-soon/articleshow/80064655.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Idols vandalised in temples across Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Unidentified persons removed the hands of a stone idol of Lord Subramanyeswara Swami on the campus of Lord Vigneswara Swami temple at Sriram Nagar in Rajahmundry of East Godavari district on Friday. In another incident, unknown persons vandalised local deity Komalamma’s sacred feet on Paderu ghat road close to Vantlamamidi. Komalamma temple is adjacent to the famous Modakondamma Padalu temple in Vizag Agency. Earlier, the idol of Lord Rama was vandalised in the ancient Sri Kodanda Ramaswamy temple located atop Bodikonda near Ramatheertham temple of Nellimerla mandal in Vizianagaram district. Police suspect that the incident might have taken place between 2 am and 5 am on Friday as there was police deployment till 2 am at many places. Rajahmundry III Town police inspector K Durga Prasad said some unidentified person entered the temple and broke the hands of the idol with an iron rod. The broken hands were found inside the temple. It is not the handiwork of burglars as nothing valuable was missing from the temple. The temple was built in 2002 and draws a large number of devotees. The priest of the temple, Murali, noticed that the Lord Subramanyeswara Swami idol was without hands on Friday morning when he went to the temple to offer daily pujas. “We have examined CCTV footage near the temple to identify the accused. We have also formed special teams to nab them.” With regard to the incident at Paderu, locals said new year revellers noticed the damage to the idol. As per tradition, devotees first offer prayers to the Padalu on the ghat road and then seek blessings from Komalamma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/idols-vandalised-in-temples-across-state/articleshow/80064620.cms||Nalla.Babu
January 2, 2021||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: woman alleges rape by father-in-law||PILIBHIT: A 31-year-old woman, originally from Pilibhit city, who had been married last year, became pregnant some time ago and underwent abortion for it, has alleged that not only had she been raped by her father-in-law, her abortion had also been forced after she was administered some tranquilizer. She has also alleged her husband and in-laws had brutally beaten her up for dowry and also attempted to kill her. Police have booked three people in the case, following orders of the superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav. The victim said she had been married on November 21, 2019 to a man in Kanpur district. Her father had spent over Rs 15 lakh on dowry. But this did not satisfy her husband and in-laws. She alleged her mother-in-law compelled her to sweep and mop the entire household premises to torture her. Three months into her pregnancy, when she had gone to serve dinner in the room of her father-in-law, a drunkard, the latter had brutally beaten her up and then raped her. Her husband was away on night shift duty at the time. She was subsequently threatened of murder if she spoke of the incident to anyone. Then, on a day in March when she was suffering from high fever and rendered physically incapable of doing household work, she was repeatedly kicked on her abdomen by her mother-in-law for not preparing breakfast. This resulted in severe abdominal pain. Her mother-in-law took her to a private doctor where she was given a tranquilizer. When she returned to her senses, she realised her pregnancy had been aborted without her consent, she further alleged. Eventually, she returned to her parental home on December 28 to save herself, the victim said. Pilibhit Kotwali SHO Shrikant Dwivedi said the victim’s husband and his parents were booked under sections 498A (subjecting a woman to cruelty), 307 (attempt to kill), 376 (rape), 313 (causing miscarriage without woman’s consent), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC, and sections 3 and 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/year-after-marriage-woman-alleges-rape-by-father-in-law-forced-abortion-threat-to-life/articleshow/80063247.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 2, 2021||Kochi||Kochi: In 10 years, major roads to see 40% surge in peak hour traffic||KOCHI: All major roads in Kochi would witness nearly 40% rise in vehicles (equivalent to passenger car units) during peak hours by 2030 and 63% by 2040, a report submitted by National Transportation Planning and Research Centre (Natpac) to the town and country planning department has revealed. According to the study, the highest surge would be on the stretch between Edappally Junction and Kunnumpuram with 80% rise in vehicles (in PCU) by 2030 during peak hours and 48% by 2040. However, the capacity of roads remains the existing one. Under PCU, one car is considered as a single unit, cycle or motor bike is considered as half car unit. Large vehicles like trucks and buses are considered as equivalent to three cars. When it comes to PCU in a junction at a peak hour, these vehicles are converted into car units. As per the study, which analysed 130 major and minor roads in the city, capacity of Edappally Junction to Kunnumpuram is 1,500 PCU. The peak hour volume in 2020 was 5,632 PCU and it would rise to 9,174 PCU by 2030 and 13,580 PCU by 2040. However, stretches like Ravipuram Junction to Valanjambalam may witness 40% rise in traffic volume during peak hour by 2030 and 28% by 2040. Junctions like Kacheripady, Thevara and Thammanam too have experienced growth in traffic volume. The study warns the authorities that all major road corridors in the region would be severely congested in the projected period with the anticipated traffic volume being more than the actual capacity of the roads under ‘do nothing option’. As the existing road networks would not be able to accommodate the rising number of vehicles in future, the study puts forward short term, medium and long term measures. However, the study hasn’t looked at pollution problems arising out of the increasing number of vehicles and how it would impact ecology and health. “While some stretches may witness a surge in traffic volume due to upcoming projects, a few may remain balanced due to construction of parallel roads. Growth in traffic volume in junctions like Kacheripady is mainly because the intersection functions as entry points to the city. Regarding pollution, we have started a study in Thiruvananthapuram. We would be doing the same in Kochi as well,” said S Shaheem, head of transportation planning and engineering division. To address the issues arising out of rising traffic volume at junctions during peak hours, the study called for immediate attention at Palarivattom, High Court, Town Hall, Pachalam and Thoppumpady junctions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/in-10-yrs-major-roads-to-see-40-surge-in-peak-hr-traffic/articleshow/80063859.cms||T C Sreemol
January 2, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Response lukewarm to RTC Sankranti services||VIJAYAWADA: While the Andhra Pradesh Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) is planning to operate over 3,600 special service for Sankranti, the initiative has received a lukewarm response so far. Data from the advanced reservation system reveals that only 25% of the total seats have been occupied so far. Demand for buses usually peaks around Sankranti every year, especially from Hyderabad to various destination in AP. However, this year even on the Hyderabad route, only a little over 30% of the seats have been booked so far. The main reasons for this poor demand has been attributed to a lot of people working from home and several educational institutes remaining closed. Software engineers working in Hyderabad used to travel to their native places for Sankranti and they usually book tickets in advance. However, with many companies still operating in work-from-home (WFH) mode, most employees have stayed back at their native places. Officials said that this is the main reason for poor demand on Hyderabad route. When it comes to Vijayawada, the demand for buses usually comes from students of Rayalaseema. Intermediate students from Anantapur, Kurnool, Kadapa, Chittoor and Nellore districts are studying in colleges in and around Vijayawada. Demand for buses to Rayalaseema districts goes up whenever colleges declare holidays. However, this year most intermediate colleges are conducting online classes. While almost all colleges are holding online classes for junior inter students, some are conducting physical classes for senior students. While the demand for special services is poor, the occupancy ratio in regular services is still around 70%. Officials are anticipating that the momentum will pick up from next week. They said that occupancy ratios had improved significantly in the month of December and are witnessing steady increase every day. As the holiday mood has not started yet, the demand will pick up from the weekend they claim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/response-lukewarm-to-rtc-sankranti-services/articleshow/80064645.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Vijayawada||26-year-old medical student ends life in Bhavanipuram||VIJAYAWADA: A medical student ended her life by hanging herself at her residence located at Meera Saheb Street in Bhavanipuram on Friday. The deceased was identified as N Devi Priyanka (26), pursuing her post-graduation in pulmonology at Katuri Medical College in Guntur. According to police, the incident happened at around 3 am on Friday when her family members found her hanging using her scarf. Cops said that they are yet to ascertain the reason behind the extreme step, however, they suspect that her recent love failure could be a factor.  Police said that Priyanka was in a relationship with a classmate identified as Naveen and after her parents found out about the relationship, they began to look for alliances to get her married. Cops sent her body to a local government hospital for post-mortem. A case under Section 174 of CrPC (suspicious death) was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/26-yr-old-medical-student-ends-life-in-bhavanipuram/articleshow/80064630.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Pune||Covid-19: Hope, anxiety and fear surround fastest vaccines ever made||Pune: Prevention is better than cure could well be the motto for 2021 — all eyes are on vaccines being developed to protect against the novel coronavirus. As the “spikey” virus spread through the world, a race began not just to find a cure but also a vaccine to protect against the highly infectious Covid-19. A vaccine for a coronavirus has never been made for humans before. A shot typically takes six to 10 years to pass trials and hit the market, but concerted efforts (and some new technologies) contracted timelines — never before in history has a vaccine been developed against an infectious disease within a year of its emergence. “Researchers had already worked on the Ebola, SARS, MERS viruses and had some background, which helped develop a vaccine for this virus at such speed. The new technology, which uses mRNA for the vaccines also hastened the process,” said Nanasaheb Thorat, Marie Curie Fellow scientist at the Medical Science Division, University of Oxford. Thorat said new vaccines are being developed to identify and respond to the spike protein of the novel coronavirus. “Unless this spike protein undergoes 100% change, it should not impact the vaccine. Moreover, along with specific antibodies against a virus, a shot also spurs T-cells to produce an immune system response,” he said. The vaccines developed by Pfizer, Moderna and AstraZeneca-Oxford have received emergency use approvals in US and the UK. And some of these companies conducted extensive trials in India, including in Pune, where hospitals and medical colleges invited scores of volunteers to test the AstraZeneca-Oxford and the Russian Gamaleya vaccine candidates. “Trials of Covishield and Sputnik were conducted in limited people in India so that when these vaccines complete their trials outside the country, their manufacturers here can apply for emergency authorization,” said paediatrician Sharad Agarkhedkar. Nearly one-fourth of the participants in the trial of the Oxford vaccine were Pune residents. “Puneites’ response to the human trials of the Covid vaccine was very encouraging. Many educated and well-informed citizens took part in the trials,” said Sanjay Lalwani, medical director of Bharati hospital. But many still doubt the efficacy and safety of the new Covid-19 vaccines. “There is still not much clarity on how long the vaccine-induced immunity lasts. Also, it is unclear if those immunized will continue to be carriers when infected by the virus. They could then spread the virus to those not immunized, or the immunocompromised,” said Ahmedabad-based critical care expert Rajesh Mishra, president (elect) of the Indian Society of Critical Care Medicine. A nurse at a government facility in Pune, who has been administering vaccines to children, said the idea of getting a shot herself seemed uncomfortable. “My name has been added to the government database for priority vaccination. I am, however, concerned about the vaccine’s safety. There have been so many reports about side effects — they have gotten me worried,” she said. State president of the Indian Medical Association, Avinash Bhondwe, said in a statement that safety of a vaccine has to be tested widely on a large number of volunteers, across different categories such age, sex, race, country and climate. Any vaccine which is not tested fully with such third-stage clinical trials is not safe, the statement said. (With inputs from Nisha Nambiar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-19-hope-anxiety-and-fear-surround-fastest-vaccines-ever-made/articleshow/80066020.cms||Swatee Kher
January 2, 2021||Vadodara||Congress dubs Amit Katara’s arrest political||Vadodara: The Jhalod unit of the Congress brought out a rally and gave a bandh call on Friday to protest the arrest of Amit Katara in connection with the murder of a municipality councillor Hiren Patel. Amit was presented before a court in Jhalod in Dahod district on Friday evening and remanded to three days police custody.Patel’s murder is believed to be a fallout of a political rivalry. Amit’s family includes his brother Bhavesh Katara, the Congress MLA from Jhalod and his father, Babu Katara, a former Dahod MP. His wife was elected as the president of the Jhalod municipality only to be ousted by defection engineered by Patel.The Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) had nabbed Imran Gudala, a close aide of Amit, earlier this week. It was Gudala who allegedly named Amit as a prime accused in the case. The state government had asked the ATS and Ahmedabad crime branch to join the probe. A memorandum submitted by Jhalod Congress alleged that its members were being harassed as the party had become strong in the Jhalod taluka after Babu and Bhavesh joined the Congress in 2017. The memorandum alleged that representations regarding some angles that needed to be looked into in connection with his murder had been made, but were ignored.They alleged that the police was acting under political pressure. Babu too met reporters and claimed that his son was innocent. A bandh call given in Jhalod to protest against the arrest of Amit was also successful.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/congress-dubs-amit-kataras-arrest-political/articleshow/80063879.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Pune||Bajaj Auto’s m-cap crosses Rs 1 lakh crore||Pune: Bajaj Auto on Friday claimed it became the world’s most valuable two-wheeler manufacturer, after its stock on the NSE closed at Rs3,481.25 per share, pushing its market capitalization to Rs1.07 lakh crore. On BSE, Bajaj Auto’s m-cap was Rs1.08 lakh crore, with shares closing at Rs3,482.80. “The company’s sharp focus on motorcycles and its unwavering commitment to strategies of differentiation as well as the practice of total productive maintenance ... have today made Bajaj the most valuable two-wheeler company across the globe,” MD Rajiv Bajaj said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bajaj-autos-m-cap-crosses-rs-1-lakh-crore/articleshow/80064885.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Kozhikode||Kerala: Wild elephant rescued from well after 12-hour operation||KOZHIKODE: A wild elephant that had fallen into an 11-metre-deep open well in a private land at Muthappanpuzha near Anakkampoyil was rescued by the forest department on Friday night after a 12-hour-long operation. According to forest officials, the 20-year-old male elephant was found inside the well by people who were installing fences along the forest boundary under Thamarassery range on Thursday evening. Forest department personnel had started the rescue operation around 8am on Friday. The inaccessibility of the location which was 1.5km away from the main road had made the rescue difficult. The officials, however, succeeded in bringing an earth mover to the spot and dug up trench-like slope into the well. Forest department had also made temporary power and lighting arrangements as the rescue operation extended till night. “After the slope was dug up, the elephant walked up from the well around 8pm and made its way to Thonooru forest which was just 500m away. The elephant seemed to be healthy as it tried to charge at the forest staff after it came out of the well,” Thamarassery range forest officer Sudheer Neroth said. Forest staff, however, drove the elephant into the forest by bursting fireworks. The officer said the elephant could have fallen into the well on Thursday. The land belonged to Koottuli native Shaji Abraham. A large team of forest personnel, including Kozhikode DFO, M Rajeevan, flying squad DFO, Dhanesh Kumar P, rapid response teams from Wayanad and Kozhikode, were part of the operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/wild-elephant-rescued-from-well-after-12-hr-op/articleshow/80063874.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Kolkata||Babul for withdrawal of Maidan club curbs||Kolkata: Union minister of state for environment and forests, Babul Supriyo, has demanded a recall of the order to keep clubs on the Maidan closed between October 1 and 15. He has become the second politician from Bengal to demand the recall. A few days ago, Trinamool Congress MP and former footballer Prasun Banerjee had brought up the issue and written to defence minister Rajnath Singh, seeking an end to such closure. Supriyo has also handed over a similar letter to Singh and hoped that the 15-day closure will be done away with. “Hopefully, this interruption in the operation of clubs in October will be done away with from this year. This break affects practice at most sporting clubs that are located on the Maidan. As a sports lover, I would be very happy if this 15-day ban is lifted,” Supriyo said while appreciating the role of journalists to highlight the issue. Several popular football and cricket clubs are located on the Maidan and operate from premises known as tents. The Maidan belongs to the ministry of defence (MoD) and the custodian is the Army. According to a senior official, the 15-day closure is a legal necessity as all clubs are deemed lessees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/babul-for-withdrawal-of-maidan-club-curbs/articleshow/80064860.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Delhi||As Delhi readies for Covid shot in the arm, here’s how the chain of events will unfold||NEW DELHI: After arriving at Indira Gandhi International Airport in special cargo planes, Covid-19 vaccine vials will be taken to the city’s two cold storage facilities in special refrigerated vans. From there, the vaccine will be transported to 609 cold chain points in special vans, some of which could be hired from private operators. From the cold chain points, the vaccine will be taken to the 1,000 vaccination booths across Delhi, many of on the same premises as the cold chain points. These logistical arrangements for the smooth rollout of the vaccination programme were detailed on Friday by Dr Suneela Garg, directorprofessor of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College and member of Delhi Covid-19 task force for vaccination. In the capital, 51 lakh citizens will get the jab in the first phase of inoculation. Four Covid regional stores have been earmarked in Karnal in Haryana, Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata for onward distribution of the vaccine among states and Union territories, mostly by road. Delhi’s vaccine storage points being in the vicinity of the airport is expected to save time in the delivery process. Follow TOI's live blog for latest updates on CoronavirusEach of Delhi’s 11 districts will have 55-60 cold chain points and 90-100 vaccination booths. The 1,000 or so vaccination booths will be created at 48 government and 100-odd private hospitals. “Not more than 100 shots will be given at one vaccination booth,” said a government official, adding that post-vaccination monitoring of a person for 30 minutes was mandatory. Read AlsoDry run of Covid-19 vaccine in all states today: All you need to knowA dry run of Covid-19 vaccination programme is being conducted across all states and union territories today. The activity is proposed to be conducted in all state capitals in at least 3 session sites. Here's all you need to know about Covid vaccine dry run:Delhi government has created a vaccine storage point at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital while another one is being readied at Civil Lines. For the third storage facility, a site has been identified at the office of the Director General of Health Services, but government officials believe that the two main sites will prove adequate. Garg said, “From Delhi’s storage facilities, the vaccine will be sent to the districts in special vans, while vaccine carriers will transport it from the cold chain points to the vaccination booths. Maintaining the temperature while transporting the vaccine is very important. In all the cold chain points, where freezers and refrigerators are available, temperature monitors will be employed to ensure that the required 2-8 degree Celsius temperature is maintained.” In some places like Lok Nayak Hospital where vaccination booths will be located close to the cold chain point, the vials will be brought out by vaccine carriers. In the first phase, the priority group of people getting the Covid-19 jab will include three lakh healthcare workers, six lakh frontline workers and 42 lakh people either aged above 50 years or below 50 but with co-morbidities. The state government has used three sources to gather data of people who will be given vaccines in the first phase: details of healthcare workers from hospitals, voter ID cards and data generated at the district level during screening for non-communicable diseases in the past to identify people below 50 with comorbidities. This list of beneficiaries is still being compiled. Self-registration for vaccination is going to start on the Co-WIN app in a few days. “All beneficiaries who are supposed to get vaccines will be sent SMS texts two days before they are scheduled to get vaccines. They have to report at the given time and vaccination booth (address will be available in the SMS) and show the SMS for verification,” explained an official. As part of the preparations 3,500 persons have been trained to administer the shots that will protect them from infection. These include 600 healthcare professionals from dozens of private hospitals. Each vaccination booth will be managed by five vaccination officers entrusted with verification, vaccination, updating of information on the government website and post-vaccination monitoring. Emergency treatment measures will also be in place in the booths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-delhi-readies-for-covid-shot-in-the-arm-heres-how-the-chain-of-events-will-unfold/articleshow/80064891.cms||AlokKNMishra
January 2, 2021||Kochi||After 10 months, students return to ‘real’ classroomsorFrom virtual space, students return to ‘real’ classrooms||Kochi: Sanitizers and infra-red thermal guns welcomed students of classes X and XII, who returned to their classrooms after a 10-month hiatus. Schools across the state partially reopened on Friday adhering to Covid-19 protocols issued by the government. Though students were excited to meet their friends after a long time, protocols restricted them from mingling with each other like they used to during the pre-Covid times. The number of students in each class was divided into smaller groups and only one or two groups were allowed to be present in the school, that too with masks and consent of their parents. The division was made to maintain social distancing in classroom and most schools followed a seating arrangement of one student per bench. Hand sanitation and thermal scanning was mandatory and feverish students were isolated. “As it was the first day, we conducted classes only till 1pm. Our main focus is to prepare students for model exams. The sessions in the school will be supplemented with online classes. Students were asked to come prepared to clarify their doubts in each subject and teachers were given duty accordingly,” said V Nalinakumari, principal, GGHSS, Ernakulam. Meanwhile, classrooms that were opened for students on Friday were disinfected immediately. However, they would be opened only on alternate days. Also, students who attended classes on Friday will not be allowed to attend classes on the next working day. Students were also given directions to not to share food or water with friends. After schools hours, classes were dispersed separately to avoid crowding. “We have arranged hand-washing facilities and awareness posters about Covid protocols are on display at prominent places. Classrooms and corridors are disinfected before and after each session. The school well was chlorinated a few days ago. Toilets are also being cleaned and disinfected frequently,” said Asha Jasmine R, principal north Edappally GVHSS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/after-10-months-students-return-to-real-classroomsorfrom-virtual-space-students-return-to-real-classrooms/articleshow/80063870.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Goa||Truck rams into electric pole in Vasco, all 4 occupants injured||VASCO: A truck bearing a Uttar Pradesh registration, which was loaded with machines, lost control and rammed into an electricity pole at the New Vaddem slope in Vasco on Thursday. The accident left two of the four occupants badly injured. Vasco police said that the accident took place when the vehicle was coming down the slope after delivering a machine at New Vaddem. When the locals rushed to help the occupants of the truck, they got an electric shock. They then called the electricity department to shut the power supply. All four occupants of the truck were taken to the Chicalim sub district hospital and the driver, who sustained injuries to his head and leg, and another occupant, also seriously injured, were shifted to Goa Medical College and Hospital, Bambolim for further treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/truck-rams-into-electric-pole-in-vasco-all-4-occupants-injured/articleshow/80066040.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||255 prohibition cases in Ahmedabad on New Year||AHMEDABAD: While 4,000-odd police personnel were on bandobust to prevent people breaching Covid-19 safety rules during New Year celebrations, 255 prohibition offences were registered in the city between 9pm on December 31 and 6am on January 1. Even while people were aware that the city would be a veritable fortress, 39 cases of drunk driving were registered in various police stations. According to police, 135 persons were caught inebriated and 81 were caught in possession of liquor through the night. City police officials said 62 persons were booked for breaching curfew rules. “Of these, 12 were booked in the Sector 1 jurisdiction, which covers most of the western parts of the city and 50 in Sector 2,” a police official said. According to senior police officials, raids and searches were also conducted at several parts of the city but nothing was found. “There were 173 such ‘nil raids’ conducted, with 118 in Sector 2 and 55 in Sector 1,” added a police official. Most drunk driving cases in western partsAccording to police sources, 22 cases of drunk driving were registered in Sector 1, the western part of the city, and 17 in Sector 2. “Of the 255 cases of prohibition, 130 were registered in Sector 1 and 125 in Sector 2. Most prohibition cases in Sola, none in DariapurThe highest number of prohibition cases, 25, was registered at Sola police station. Twenty-three such cases were registered in the Gujarat University jurisdiction, 18 in Vejalpur, and the least, zero cases, were registered at Dariapur police station in Sector 2. 147 booked for breaching notification, Rs 11.42L collected in finesSome 136 cases for breach of the police commissioner’s notification were registered in the city on the night of December 31, in which 147 people were booked. “Fines totalling Rs 11. 42 lakh were collected from people who breached the notification, including for not wearing masks or spitting on the road,” added a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/255-prohibition-cases-in-city-on-new-year/articleshow/80064892.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Jaipur||Students await resumption of physical classes||Jaipur: Kota has a few hundred students landed from different parts of the country since June-July waiting for the coaching institutes to reopen. Abhishek Burman, a resident of Bokaro in Jharkhand, came here in October hoping to attend physical classes is studying online classes from his rented room in Kunhari coaching area. He expected the physical classes to reopen from November, but disappointed to see nothing is happening. “I will wait for this month and if classes didn’t resume, I will make my way to my home town. It is stupid to incur Rs 6,000-8,000 every month on room and food which I will not incur in my home,” said Burman, over the phone. He may have not waited for reopening of classes, but thousands of students across the country await to hear the news of resuming classes. They have been raising their voice a bit on the social media tagging chief minister Ashok Gehlot, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and others requesting to open the coaching institutes. Pooja Singh, whose bio on Twitter reads him from Bihar, has urged the chief minister to not play with their future by not allowing the coaching institutes to start. He tweets, “The JEE examinations are round the corner and if we don’t study in Kota it will be difficult for many students like us to succeed.” Sources in the higher education department say that they are interested in reopening of the coaching institute in Kota elsewhere, but the ball is in the court of Chief Minister’s Office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/students-await-resumption-of-physical-classes/articleshow/80064886.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Erode||National Covid-19 vaccine dry run to take place in Tamil Nadu five districts||CHENNAI: The nationwide dry run for the first stage of Covid-19 vaccination campaign will take place in five districts in the state on Saturday. Replicating every step of the real vaccination drive to check preparedness, it would be conducted at 17 locations in Chennai, Tirunelveli, Coimbatore, the Nilgiris and Tiruvallur. The locations include Rajiv Gandhi Government GH in Chennai, ESI Hospital in Coimbatore and Ooty Medical College Hospital besides primary health centres in corporation and rural areas. The first phase of vaccination drive aims to vaccinate more than five lakh health workers. The aim of the dry run is to check the multiple steps of the vaccination drive like assembling beneficiaries, checking identity, administering vaccine shots, recording data and observing them for 30 minutes. It would also check the time taken to vaccinate a person as well as the ease of using the CoWIN app, which will issue a certificate to the vaccinated person. “Each of the 17 centres will have a vaccination team consisting of five people – a doctor, a staff nurse, a village health or urban health nurse, a computer operator who will also handle CoWin app and one more member,” said health secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan. Health officials will check if the vaccination booths have proper entrance and exit, waiting area, cold storage facilities and separate enclosure for people to wait after vaccination for observation. “We have trained more than 21,000 workers to give the vaccine safely without violating cold chain or administration protocol,” said health minister Dr C Vijayabaskar. The directorate of public health will also test if it can send messages to the health worker’s phone on the time they should be at the site and the follow-up date and time for booster dose. Until now, the directorate has a list of 3.5 lakh doctors, nurses and paramedical staff from private and government hospitals from across the state. However, the public health department is yet to prepare the final list as several private hospitals are yet to furnish details of their staff for vaccination. In Trichy, the public health department set the final deadline of January 4 for them to furnish the details. “If the private hospitals do not provide the details, their frontline workers will be excluded from the vaccination drive,” deputy director of health services (DDHS), Trichy Dr A Subramani told TOI. Of 1,389 private hospitals in Trichy, only 372 submitted the details to health department. In Madurai and Coimbatore too there has been a delay on the part of private hospitals in submitting details of the frontline workers for vaccination, though government hospitals have furnished the required details. A health official said only about 30% of private hospitals have submitted the details so far in Madurai. State health officials expect at least another 1.5 lakh health workers to register for the vaccine. “Vaccination schedules will be announced once we get the go ahead and stock from the centre. Since the first phase is for doctors, nurses and paramedics there is reasonable awareness,” said director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam. After health workers, the state will vaccinate other frontline workers such as police, armed forces, home guard and disaster management staff. “We are also asking districts to be ready with the names and details of citizens above 50 years and people with comorbidities, so that they can be prioritised in second phase,” he said. Health department has vaccine storage points at 2,665 places, including PHCs, private medical colleges and cantonment hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/natl-covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-to-take-place-in-5-dists/articleshow/80066785.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Trichy||National Covid-19 vaccine dry run to take place in Tamil Nadu five districts||CHENNAI: The nationwide dry run for the first stage of Covid-19 vaccination campaign will take place in five districts in the state on Saturday. Replicating every step of the real vaccination drive to check preparedness, it would be conducted at 17 locations in Chennai, Tirunelveli, Coimbatore, the Nilgiris and Tiruvallur. The locations include Rajiv Gandhi Government GH in Chennai, ESI Hospital in Coimbatore and Ooty Medical College Hospital besides primary health centres in corporation and rural areas. The first phase of vaccination drive aims to vaccinate more than five lakh health workers. The aim of the dry run is to check the multiple steps of the vaccination drive like assembling beneficiaries, checking identity, administering vaccine shots, recording data and observing them for 30 minutes. It would also check the time taken to vaccinate a person as well as the ease of using the CoWIN app, which will issue a certificate to the vaccinated person. “Each of the 17 centres will have a vaccination team consisting of five people – a doctor, a staff nurse, a village health or urban health nurse, a computer operator who will also handle CoWin app and one more member,” said health secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan. Health officials will check if the vaccination booths have proper entrance and exit, waiting area, cold storage facilities and separate enclosure for people to wait after vaccination for observation. “We have trained more than 21,000 workers to give the vaccine safely without violating cold chain or administration protocol,” said health minister Dr C Vijayabaskar. The directorate of public health will also test if it can send messages to the health worker’s phone on the time they should be at the site and the follow-up date and time for booster dose. Until now, the directorate has a list of 3.5 lakh doctors, nurses and paramedical staff from private and government hospitals from across the state. However, the public health department is yet to prepare the final list as several private hospitals are yet to furnish details of their staff for vaccination. In Trichy, the public health department set the final deadline of January 4 for them to furnish the details. “If the private hospitals do not provide the details, their frontline workers will be excluded from the vaccination drive,” deputy director of health services (DDHS), Trichy Dr A Subramani told TOI. Of 1,389 private hospitals in Trichy, only 372 submitted the details to health department. In Madurai and Coimbatore too there has been a delay on the part of private hospitals in submitting details of the frontline workers for vaccination, though government hospitals have furnished the required details. A health official said only about 30% of private hospitals have submitted the details so far in Madurai. State health officials expect at least another 1.5 lakh health workers to register for the vaccine. “Vaccination schedules will be announced once we get the go ahead and stock from the centre. Since the first phase is for doctors, nurses and paramedics there is reasonable awareness,” said director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam. After health workers, the state will vaccinate other frontline workers such as police, armed forces, home guard and disaster management staff. “We are also asking districts to be ready with the names and details of citizens above 50 years and people with comorbidities, so that they can be prioritised in second phase,” he said. Health department has vaccine storage points at 2,665 places, including PHCs, private medical colleges and cantonment hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/natl-covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-to-take-place-in-5-dists/articleshow/80066786.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Jodhpur||Covid-19 vaccine dry run in Rajasthan from today||JAIPUR: While intensifying the battle against Covid-19, vaccines are emerging as a ‘shot of hope’ with the beginning of the New Year. Having worked tirelessly last year for containing the spread of the virus, the health department officials were seen busy on the first day of the year preparing for the dry run of Covid-19 vaccine. In the dry run, the entire process of Covid-19 vaccination will be followed and completed, but without any real vaccination. The whole process will be carried out with an objective of assessing planning and preparedness for the vaccination as per guidelines and end-to-end testing of Co-Win, a software launched by the Centre for Covid-19 vaccination. The vaccination sites will have separate entry and exit points and will have to ensure physical distance in seating arrangements of beneficiaries. The health department has made arrangements for anaphylaxis kit in case of adverse events following immunization. In the dry run, the staff will learn all aspects of Covid-19 vaccination as per the guidelines issued by the Centre. The health department has identified 19 places in seven districts, adding Ajmer to the existing list of six districts, for vaccination. "These 19 places are situated in seven districts including Bhilwara, Jaipur, Karauli, Ajmer, Banswara, Jodhpur and Bikaner," said a senior health department official. In Jaipur, four places have been identified for the dry run including Manipal Hospital, J K Lon Hospital, rural PHC Achrol and Urban Mother and Child Welfare Centre in Bani Park. "The dry run will be carried out on 25 people at each site. It is aimed at checking the system including online software, coordination of officials, infrastructure and other processes working smoothly. The names of 25 people have already been fed in the online software. They will come to the vaccination site and show the message they received about the time and date for vaccination. There will be three separate rooms, a waiting room, a vaccination room and third is an observation room. The person will come first to the waiting room, when his turn for vaccination comes, he will be called to the vaccination room where he will not be vaccinated for real but the vaccinator will complete the process. Then the person will go to the observation room, where he will be made to sit for 30 minutes for observation," said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer, Jaipur. In the dry run, the health department will assess the operational feasibility in the use of Co-Win application in the field environment, test linkages between planning, implementation and reporting mechanism, identifying challenges and guiding the way forward prior to actual implementation and providing confidence to programme managers at various levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-in-raj-from-today/articleshow/80067598.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
January 2, 2021||Jaipur||Jodhpur to conduct dry run for vaccination today||JODHPUR: Jodhpur will conduct a dry run for corona vaccine at two hospitals on Saturday, ahead of the actual administration of vaccine in the city. The exercise is being undertaken to check preparedness to the exercise of reception and administration of the vaccines, once they are received. An official from the medical and health department said that the exercise would be carried out at the Urban Community Health Centres at Residency Road and Banar, which have been developed as the Modal Vaccination Centres. “The dry run was being conducted to review the preparations undertaken by the administration for administration of vaccines to the people and address the glitches well in time so that no trouble surfaces during actual process of vaccination,” said the official. Two teams of six medics have been roped in for each centre for the dry run, which will begin on Saturday morning. “In this process, a message of intimation would be sent to the first recipient of vaccine. After his or her arrival to the centre, a doctor would examine the recipient and prepare him for the vaccination. Recipient would afterwards be sent to the waiting room and then to the vaccination room, where 2 staff members would remain present. After vaccination, the person would be accommodated in observation where a doctor would keep an eye on his condition for half an hour before finally discharging him,” the official said. Before this, the administration and medical and health officials have carried out orientation sessions for medical and health workers and public representatives to ensure that there is no confusion and rumours about the vaccination programme. They have also examined the preparations at the cold chain points of the district and have also ensured that the details of all medical and health staff of government and private hospitals of the district are uploaded on the designated portal as frontline workers, who are first in the list for vaccination to begin with.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jodhpur-to-conduct-dry-run-for-vaccination-today/articleshow/80064895.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan GST mop-up in Dec 2nd highest in country||JAIPUR: Despite rising corona cases and night curfews, Rajasthan’s GST collections in December grew by 16%, the second highest rate in the country among large states. While Odisha topped the table with 20% growth, the GST revenues rose by 12% in the country in December. The state collected Rs 3,135 crore against Rs 2,713 crore in December 2019. Abhishek Bhagotia, commissioner of commercial taxes, said that the drive against GST evaders and fake bills along with many systemic changes introduced recently led to improved compliance resulting in the high growth. “In fact, 84% of tax payers in Rajasthan have paid taxes compared to 78% nationally. At the end of December, we are only 5% short of the collections that we had achieved in the same period last financial year,” added Bhagotia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/raj-gst-mop-up-in-dec-2nd-highest-in-country/articleshow/80069862.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan GST mop-up in Dec 2nd highest in country||JAIPUR: Despite rising corona cases and night curfews, Rajasthan’s GST collections in December grew by 16%, the second highest rate in the country among large states. While Odisha topped the table with 20% growth, the GST revenues rose by 12% in the country in December. The state collected Rs 3,135 crore against Rs 2,713 crore in December 2019. Abhishek Bhagotia, commissioner of commercial taxes, said that the drive against GST evaders and fake bills along with many systemic changes introduced recently led to improved compliance resulting in the high growth. “In fact, 84% of tax payers in Rajasthan have paid taxes compared to 78% nationally. At the end of December, we are only 5% short of the collections that we had achieved in the same period last financial year,” added Bhagotia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/raj-gst-mop-up-in-dec-2nd-highest-in-country/articleshow/80069864.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Kochi||Innovation mantra for economy||To mitigate the impact of the pandemic, Kerala’s service sectors should leverage innovative approaches to harness technology in ensuring service delivery. Services are more amenable to new technologies and if you can harness technology to a greater extent, much of the losses could be compensated. Kerala experienced a 32% cut in GST revenues during the first half of the fiscal. When GST was implemented, Kerala was expecting a 14% growth in tax revenues next year and the year after, and if that does not come in, the government will be in further trouble. So far, the compensation from the Centre was not adequate enough to cover the GST revenue losses. The state’s fiscal situation depends to a great extent on the 15th Finance Commission’s decisions, and on the Union government’s commitment to a 14% growth in GST revenue. Because, tax and GDP move in tandem– you can’t expect any further growth in GST revenues more than what you expect in GDP. So, it is more exogenous as far as the state is concerned. It depends on how much compensation and devolution you will get and the approach of the Centre towards the state. (The writer is director of Gulati Institute of Finance and Taxation. As told to Shenoy Karun)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/innovation-mantra-for-economy/articleshow/80058286.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Coimbatore||National Covid-19 vaccine dry run to take place in Tamil Nadu five districts||CHENNAI: The nationwide dry run for the first stage of Covid-19 vaccination campaign will take place in five districts in the state on Saturday. Replicating every step of the real vaccination drive to check preparedness, it would be conducted at 17 locations in Chennai, Tirunelveli, Coimbatore, the Nilgiris and Tiruvallur. The locations include Rajiv Gandhi Government GH in Chennai, ESI Hospital in Coimbatore and Ooty Medical College Hospital besides primary health centres in corporation and rural areas. The first phase of vaccination drive aims to vaccinate more than five lakh health workers. The aim of the dry run is to check the multiple steps of the vaccination drive like assembling beneficiaries, checking identity, administering vaccine shots, recording data and observing them for 30 minutes. It would also check the time taken to vaccinate a person as well as the ease of using the CoWIN app, which will issue a certificate to the vaccinated person. “Each of the 17 centres will have a vaccination team consisting of five people – a doctor, a staff nurse, a village health or urban health nurse, a computer operator who will also handle CoWin app and one more member,” said health secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan. Health officials will check if the vaccination booths have proper entrance and exit, waiting area, cold storage facilities and separate enclosure for people to wait after vaccination for observation. “We have trained more than 21,000 workers to give the vaccine safely without violating cold chain or administration protocol,” said health minister Dr C Vijayabaskar. The directorate of public health will also test if it can send messages to the health worker’s phone on the time they should be at the site and the follow-up date and time for booster dose. Until now, the directorate has a list of 3.5 lakh doctors, nurses and paramedical staff from private and government hospitals from across the state. However, the public health department is yet to prepare the final list as several private hospitals are yet to furnish details of their staff for vaccination. In Trichy, the public health department set the final deadline of January 4 for them to furnish the details. “If the private hospitals do not provide the details, their frontline workers will be excluded from the vaccination drive,” deputy director of health services (DDHS), Trichy Dr A Subramani told TOI. Of 1,389 private hospitals in Trichy, only 372 submitted the details to health department. In Madurai and Coimbatore too there has been a delay on the part of private hospitals in submitting details of the frontline workers for vaccination, though government hospitals have furnished the required details. A health official said only about 30% of private hospitals have submitted the details so far in Madurai. State health officials expect at least another 1.5 lakh health workers to register for the vaccine. “Vaccination schedules will be announced once we get the go ahead and stock from the centre. Since the first phase is for doctors, nurses and paramedics there is reasonable awareness,” said director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam. After health workers, the state will vaccinate other frontline workers such as police, armed forces, home guard and disaster management staff. “We are also asking districts to be ready with the names and details of citizens above 50 years and people with comorbidities, so that they can be prioritised in second phase,” he said. Health department has vaccine storage points at 2,665 places, including PHCs, private medical colleges and cantonment hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/natl-covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-to-take-place-in-5-dists/articleshow/80066783.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan GST mop-up in Dec 2nd highest in country||JAIPUR: Despite rising corona cases and night curfews, Rajasthan’s GST collections in December grew by 16%, the second highest rate in the country among large states. While Odisha topped the table with 20% growth, the GST revenues rose by 12% in the country in December. The state collected Rs 3,135 crore against Rs 2,713 crore in December 2019. Abhishek Bhagotia, commissioner of commercial taxes, said that the drive against GST evaders and fake bills along with many systemic changes introduced recently led to improved compliance resulting in the high growth. “In fact, 84% of tax payers in Rajasthan have paid taxes compared to 78% nationally. At the end of December, we are only 5% short of the collections that we had achieved in the same period last financial year,” added Bhagotia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/raj-gst-mop-up-in-dec-2nd-highest-in-country/articleshow/80069865.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Bareilly||Don’t be afraid of new coronavirus strain: UP minister Suresh Khanna||BAREILLY: “People should not be afraid of the new coronavirus strain as experts have said that it is not very effective,” said Suresh Kumar Khanna, state finance and medical education minister, in Moradabad on Friday. Khanna, who was on an inspection tour of health facilities in Moradabad, told reporters, “The central and state governments are making sincere efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19 virus in the country. The trial of the vaccine is going on and it will be available sometime in January for sure.” At the same time, the minister warned against letting down one’s guard against the virus and appealed to the public to follow the Covid protocols and maintain social distancing to stay safe. Asked about the ongoing farmers’ protest, Khanna said, “I appeal to farmers that they should withdraw their protest movement as the farm laws are for their benefit. There are people who are misleading the farmers just to fulfil their own political agenda. Farmers should be careful as such people have never benefited them even in the past. Government has made it clear that we are open to talks. Th previous meetings were quite successful and the next meeting, on January 4, will give more clarity to our farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dont-be-afraid-of-new-coronavirus-strain-up-min-suresh-khanna/articleshow/80063255.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 2, 2021||Delhi||Delhi’s first model Covid vaccination centre inaugurated at Sriniwaspuri||NEW DELHI: Following directions from the district administration, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has converted its maternity and child welfare centre at Sriniwaspuri into a Covid-19 vaccination centre. Training of staff has been conducted and facilities for visitors’ gallery, etc, have been made at this model centre, said an SDMC official, adding the facility would start after the Covid-19 vaccine is supplied. “An official from the DM office recently visited the site, which was later inaugurated. This would be among the first few model vaccination centres in the city,” said the official further. Area councillor Rajpal Singh, who inaugurated the centre on Monday, said: “When a person will visit it, his/her entire information will be verified, temperature will be checked through a thermal scanner and after sanitisation, he/she will be taken to the vaccination room.” “After vaccination, he/she will be kept under observation for half an hour and asked to wait in visitors’ gallery. If he/she develops any symptoms or issues, then will be taken for check-up in the room and depending on requirements, the person will be taken to hospital for further help. An ambulance will be parked at the centre 24X7. In case the person doesn’t develop any issues, he/she will still be asked to wait for another half an hour,” Singh added. “There is a board installed at the entrance of the centre for the convenience of staff. The backside of the building complex will possibly continue to be used as the maternity and child welfare centre,” said another official. “All norms issued by the Centre for Covid-19 facilities will be strictly followed here while the operation of the centre will be overseen by the district administration. We expect the vaccines will be given to doctors and paramedical staff first, followed by senior citizens and others,” said Singh. TOI tried contacting DM (south) Ankita Chakravarty, but she was not available for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/citys-first-model-covid-vaccination-centre-inaugurated-at-sriniwaspuri/articleshow/80064900.cms||Vibha Sharma
January 2, 2021||Madurai||National Covid-19 vaccine dry run to take place in Tamil Nadu five districts||CHENNAI: The nationwide dry run for the first stage of Covid-19 vaccination campaign will take place in five districts in the state on Saturday. Replicating every step of the real vaccination drive to check preparedness, it would be conducted at 17 locations in Chennai, Tirunelveli, Coimbatore, the Nilgiris and Tiruvallur. The locations include Rajiv Gandhi Government GH in Chennai, ESI Hospital in Coimbatore and Ooty Medical College Hospital besides primary health centres in corporation and rural areas. The first phase of vaccination drive aims to vaccinate more than five lakh health workers. The aim of the dry run is to check the multiple steps of the vaccination drive like assembling beneficiaries, checking identity, administering vaccine shots, recording data and observing them for 30 minutes. It would also check the time taken to vaccinate a person as well as the ease of using the CoWIN app, which will issue a certificate to the vaccinated person. “Each of the 17 centres will have a vaccination team consisting of five people – a doctor, a staff nurse, a village health or urban health nurse, a computer operator who will also handle CoWin app and one more member,” said health secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan. Health officials will check if the vaccination booths have proper entrance and exit, waiting area, cold storage facilities and separate enclosure for people to wait after vaccination for observation. “We have trained more than 21,000 workers to give the vaccine safely without violating cold chain or administration protocol,” said health minister Dr C Vijayabaskar. The directorate of public health will also test if it can send messages to the health worker’s phone on the time they should be at the site and the follow-up date and time for booster dose. Until now, the directorate has a list of 3.5 lakh doctors, nurses and paramedical staff from private and government hospitals from across the state. However, the public health department is yet to prepare the final list as several private hospitals are yet to furnish details of their staff for vaccination. In Trichy, the public health department set the final deadline of January 4 for them to furnish the details. “If the private hospitals do not provide the details, their frontline workers will be excluded from the vaccination drive,” deputy director of health services (DDHS), Trichy Dr A Subramani told TOI. Of 1,389 private hospitals in Trichy, only 372 submitted the details to health department. In Madurai and Coimbatore too there has been a delay on the part of private hospitals in submitting details of the frontline workers for vaccination, though government hospitals have furnished the required details. A health official said only about 30% of private hospitals have submitted the details so far in Madurai. State health officials expect at least another 1.5 lakh health workers to register for the vaccine. “Vaccination schedules will be announced once we get the go ahead and stock from the centre. Since the first phase is for doctors, nurses and paramedics there is reasonable awareness,” said director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam. After health workers, the state will vaccinate other frontline workers such as police, armed forces, home guard and disaster management staff. “We are also asking districts to be ready with the names and details of citizens above 50 years and people with comorbidities, so that they can be prioritised in second phase,” he said. Health department has vaccine storage points at 2,665 places, including PHCs, private medical colleges and cantonment hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/natl-covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-to-take-place-in-5-dists/articleshow/80066784.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Chennai||National Covid-19 vaccine dry run to take place in Tamil Nadu five districts||CHENNAI: The nationwide dry run for the first stage of Covid-19 vaccination campaign will take place in five districts in the state on Saturday. Replicating every step of the real vaccination drive to check preparedness, it would be conducted at 17 locations in Chennai, Tirunelveli, Coimbatore, the Nilgiris and Tiruvallur. The locations include Rajiv Gandhi Government GH in Chennai, ESI Hospital in Coimbatore and Ooty Medical College Hospital besides primary health centres in corporation and rural areas. The first phase of vaccination drive aims to vaccinate more than five lakh health workers. The aim of the dry run is to check the multiple steps of the vaccination drive like assembling beneficiaries, checking identity, administering vaccine shots, recording data and observing them for 30 minutes. It would also check the time taken to vaccinate a person as well as the ease of using the CoWIN app, which will issue a certificate to the vaccinated person. “Each of the 17 centres will have a vaccination team consisting of five people – a doctor, a staff nurse, a village health or urban health nurse, a computer operator who will also handle CoWin app and one more member,” said health secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan. Health officials will check if the vaccination booths have proper entrance and exit, waiting area, cold storage facilities and separate enclosure for people to wait after vaccination for observation. “We have trained more than 21,000 workers to give the vaccine safely without violating cold chain or administration protocol,” said health minister Dr C Vijayabaskar. The directorate of public health will also test if it can send messages to the health worker’s phone on the time they should be at the site and the follow-up date and time for booster dose. Until now, the directorate has a list of 3.5 lakh doctors, nurses and paramedical staff from private and government hospitals from across the state. However, the public health department is yet to prepare the final list as several private hospitals are yet to furnish details of their staff for vaccination. In Trichy, the public health department set the final deadline of January 4 for them to furnish the details. “If the private hospitals do not provide the details, their frontline workers will be excluded from the vaccination drive,” deputy director of health services (DDHS), Trichy Dr A Subramani told TOI. Of 1,389 private hospitals in Trichy, only 372 submitted the details to health department. In Madurai and Coimbatore too there has been a delay on the part of private hospitals in submitting details of the frontline workers for vaccination, though government hospitals have furnished the required details. A health official said only about 30% of private hospitals have submitted the details so far in Madurai. State health officials expect at least another 1.5 lakh health workers to register for the vaccine. “Vaccination schedules will be announced once we get the go ahead and stock from the centre. Since the first phase is for doctors, nurses and paramedics there is reasonable awareness,” said director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam. After health workers, the state will vaccinate other frontline workers such as police, armed forces, home guard and disaster management staff. “We are also asking districts to be ready with the names and details of citizens above 50 years and people with comorbidities, so that they can be prioritised in second phase,” he said. Health department has vaccine storage points at 2,665 places, including PHCs, private medical colleges and cantonment hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/natl-covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-to-take-place-in-5-dists/articleshow/80064989.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Salem||National Covid-19 vaccine dry run to take place in Tamil Nadu five districts||CHENNAI: The nationwide dry run for the first stage of Covid-19 vaccination campaign will take place in five districts in the state on Saturday. Replicating every step of the real vaccination drive to check preparedness, it would be conducted at 17 locations in Chennai, Tirunelveli, Coimbatore, the Nilgiris and Tiruvallur. The locations include Rajiv Gandhi Government GH in Chennai, ESI Hospital in Coimbatore and Ooty Medical College Hospital besides primary health centres in corporation and rural areas. The first phase of vaccination drive aims to vaccinate more than five lakh health workers. The aim of the dry run is to check the multiple steps of the vaccination drive like assembling beneficiaries, checking identity, administering vaccine shots, recording data and observing them for 30 minutes. It would also check the time taken to vaccinate a person as well as the ease of using the CoWIN app, which will issue a certificate to the vaccinated person. “Each of the 17 centres will have a vaccination team consisting of five people – a doctor, a staff nurse, a village health or urban health nurse, a computer operator who will also handle CoWin app and one more member,” said health secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan. Health officials will check if the vaccination booths have proper entrance and exit, waiting area, cold storage facilities and separate enclosure for people to wait after vaccination for observation. “We have trained more than 21,000 workers to give the vaccine safely without violating cold chain or administration protocol,” said health minister Dr C Vijayabaskar. The directorate of public health will also test if it can send messages to the health worker’s phone on the time they should be at the site and the follow-up date and time for booster dose. Until now, the directorate has a list of 3.5 lakh doctors, nurses and paramedical staff from private and government hospitals from across the state. However, the public health department is yet to prepare the final list as several private hospitals are yet to furnish details of their staff for vaccination. In Trichy, the public health department set the final deadline of January 4 for them to furnish the details. “If the private hospitals do not provide the details, their frontline workers will be excluded from the vaccination drive,” deputy director of health services (DDHS), Trichy Dr A Subramani told TOI. Of 1,389 private hospitals in Trichy, only 372 submitted the details to health department. In Madurai and Coimbatore too there has been a delay on the part of private hospitals in submitting details of the frontline workers for vaccination, though government hospitals have furnished the required details. A health official said only about 30% of private hospitals have submitted the details so far in Madurai. State health officials expect at least another 1.5 lakh health workers to register for the vaccine. “Vaccination schedules will be announced once we get the go ahead and stock from the centre. Since the first phase is for doctors, nurses and paramedics there is reasonable awareness,” said director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam. After health workers, the state will vaccinate other frontline workers such as police, armed forces, home guard and disaster management staff. “We are also asking districts to be ready with the names and details of citizens above 50 years and people with comorbidities, so that they can be prioritised in second phase,” he said. Health department has vaccine storage points at 2,665 places, including PHCs, private medical colleges and cantonment hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/natl-covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-to-take-place-in-5-dists/articleshow/80066787.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Udaipur||Covid-19 vaccine dry run in Rajasthan from today||JAIPUR: While intensifying the battle against Covid-19, vaccines are emerging as a ‘shot of hope’ with the beginning of the New Year. Having worked tirelessly last year for containing the spread of the virus, the health department officials were seen busy on the first day of the year preparing for the dry run of Covid-19 vaccine. In the dry run, the entire process of Covid-19 vaccination will be followed and completed, but without any real vaccination. The whole process will be carried out with an objective of assessing planning and preparedness for the vaccination as per guidelines and end-to-end testing of Co-Win, a software launched by the Centre for Covid-19 vaccination. The vaccination sites will have separate entry and exit points and will have to ensure physical distance in seating arrangements of beneficiaries. The health department has made arrangements for anaphylaxis kit in case of adverse events following immunization. In the dry run, the staff will learn all aspects of Covid-19 vaccination as per the guidelines issued by the Centre. The health department has identified 19 places in seven districts, adding Ajmer to the existing list of six districts, for vaccination. "These 19 places are situated in seven districts including Bhilwara, Jaipur, Karauli, Ajmer, Banswara, Jodhpur and Bikaner," said a senior health department official. In Jaipur, four places have been identified for the dry run including Manipal Hospital, J K Lon Hospital, rural PHC Achrol and Urban Mother and Child Welfare Centre in Bani Park. "The dry run will be carried out on 25 people at each site. It is aimed at checking the system including online software, coordination of officials, infrastructure and other processes working smoothly. The names of 25 people have already been fed in the online software. They will come to the vaccination site and show the message they received about the time and date for vaccination. There will be three separate rooms, a waiting room, a vaccination room and third is an observation room. The person will come first to the waiting room, when his turn for vaccination comes, he will be called to the vaccination room where he will not be vaccinated for real but the vaccinator will complete the process. Then the person will go to the observation room, where he will be made to sit for 30 minutes for observation," said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer, Jaipur. In the dry run, the health department will assess the operational feasibility in the use of Co-Win application in the field environment, test linkages between planning, implementation and reporting mechanism, identifying challenges and guiding the way forward prior to actual implementation and providing confidence to programme managers at various levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-in-raj-from-today/articleshow/80067597.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
January 2, 2021||Ajmer||Covid-19 vaccine dry run in Rajasthan from today||JAIPUR: While intensifying the battle against Covid-19, vaccines are emerging as a ‘shot of hope’ with the beginning of the New Year. Having worked tirelessly last year for containing the spread of the virus, the health department officials were seen busy on the first day of the year preparing for the dry run of Covid-19 vaccine. In the dry run, the entire process of Covid-19 vaccination will be followed and completed, but without any real vaccination. The whole process will be carried out with an objective of assessing planning and preparedness for the vaccination as per guidelines and end-to-end testing of Co-Win, a software launched by the Centre for Covid-19 vaccination. The vaccination sites will have separate entry and exit points and will have to ensure physical distance in seating arrangements of beneficiaries. The health department has made arrangements for anaphylaxis kit in case of adverse events following immunization. In the dry run, the staff will learn all aspects of Covid-19 vaccination as per the guidelines issued by the Centre. The health department has identified 19 places in seven districts, adding Ajmer to the existing list of six districts, for vaccination. "These 19 places are situated in seven districts including Bhilwara, Jaipur, Karauli, Ajmer, Banswara, Jodhpur and Bikaner," said a senior health department official. In Jaipur, four places have been identified for the dry run including Manipal Hospital, J K Lon Hospital, rural PHC Achrol and Urban Mother and Child Welfare Centre in Bani Park. "The dry run will be carried out on 25 people at each site. It is aimed at checking the system including online software, coordination of officials, infrastructure and other processes working smoothly. The names of 25 people have already been fed in the online software. They will come to the vaccination site and show the message they received about the time and date for vaccination. There will be three separate rooms, a waiting room, a vaccination room and third is an observation room. The person will come first to the waiting room, when his turn for vaccination comes, he will be called to the vaccination room where he will not be vaccinated for real but the vaccinator will complete the process. Then the person will go to the observation room, where he will be made to sit for 30 minutes for observation," said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer, Jaipur. In the dry run, the health department will assess the operational feasibility in the use of Co-Win application in the field environment, test linkages between planning, implementation and reporting mechanism, identifying challenges and guiding the way forward prior to actual implementation and providing confidence to programme managers at various levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-in-raj-from-today/articleshow/80067599.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
January 2, 2021||Jaipur||Covid-19 vaccine dry run in Rajasthan from today||JAIPUR: While intensifying the battle against Covid-19, vaccines are emerging as a ‘shot of hope’ with the beginning of the New Year. Having worked tirelessly last year for containing the spread of the virus, the health department officials were seen busy on the first day of the year preparing for the dry run of Covid-19 vaccine. In the dry run, the entire process of Covid-19 vaccination will be followed and completed, but without any real vaccination. The whole process will be carried out with an objective of assessing planning and preparedness for the vaccination as per guidelines and end-to-end testing of Co-Win, a software launched by the Centre for Covid-19 vaccination. The vaccination sites will have separate entry and exit points and will have to ensure physical distance in seating arrangements of beneficiaries. The health department has made arrangements for anaphylaxis kit in case of adverse events following immunization. In the dry run, the staff will learn all aspects of Covid-19 vaccination as per the guidelines issued by the Centre. The health department has identified 19 places in seven districts, adding Ajmer to the existing list of six districts, for vaccination. "These 19 places are situated in seven districts including Bhilwara, Jaipur, Karauli, Ajmer, Banswara, Jodhpur and Bikaner," said a senior health department official. In Jaipur, four places have been identified for the dry run including Manipal Hospital, J K Lon Hospital, rural PHC Achrol and Urban Mother and Child Welfare Centre in Bani Park. "The dry run will be carried out on 25 people at each site. It is aimed at checking the system including online software, coordination of officials, infrastructure and other processes working smoothly. The names of 25 people have already been fed in the online software. They will come to the vaccination site and show the message they received about the time and date for vaccination. There will be three separate rooms, a waiting room, a vaccination room and third is an observation room. The person will come first to the waiting room, when his turn for vaccination comes, he will be called to the vaccination room where he will not be vaccinated for real but the vaccinator will complete the process. Then the person will go to the observation room, where he will be made to sit for 30 minutes for observation," said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer, Jaipur. In the dry run, the health department will assess the operational feasibility in the use of Co-Win application in the field environment, test linkages between planning, implementation and reporting mechanism, identifying challenges and guiding the way forward prior to actual implementation and providing confidence to programme managers at various levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-in-raj-from-today/articleshow/80064889.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
January 2, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan GST mop-up in Dec 2nd highest in country||JAIPUR: Despite rising corona cases and night curfews, Rajasthan’s GST collections in December grew by 16%, the second highest rate in the country among large states. While Odisha topped the table with 20% growth, the GST revenues rose by 12% in the country in December. The state collected Rs 3,135 crore against Rs 2,713 crore in December 2019. Abhishek Bhagotia, commissioner of commercial taxes, said that the drive against GST evaders and fake bills along with many systemic changes introduced recently led to improved compliance resulting in the high growth. “In fact, 84% of tax payers in Rajasthan have paid taxes compared to 78% nationally. At the end of December, we are only 5% short of the collections that we had achieved in the same period last financial year,” added Bhagotia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-gst-mop-up-in-dec-2nd-highest-in-country/articleshow/80064894.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Jodhpur||Covid-19: Rajasthan sees 4 deaths, 609 infections on first day of New Year||JAIPUR: On the first day of New Year on Friday, the state reported four Covid-19 deaths which used to be reported during June and July last year. New infections have also come down as the state logged 609 cases which took the count to 52,85,777. Health department officials attributed it to the increased public awareness, measures like night curfew and timely detection and treatment of Covid-19 cases. As per the figures released by the health department four deaths were reported which included one each from Jaipur, Jodhpur, Sikar and Tonk. In Jaipur, one more Covid-19 death took place, taking the total count to 502. It is followed by Jodhpur where 290 people have lost their lives, Ajmer 219, Bikaner and Kota 166 deaths. “The focus has always been on bringing down the mortality. Measures like Remdesivir therapy, plasma therapy, changed medicine protocols, increased awareness of public and strict implementation of night curfew especially New Year’s eve are fetching good results,” said Dr Ravi Prakash Sharma, additional director, rural health. Out of 609 cases, 91 were reported from Jaipur, Jodhpur (85), Kota (78), Bhilwara (44), Dungarpur(42) and 37 cases came from Nagaur. “The districts including Bikaner, Dausa and Hanumangarh reported no cases which many districts reported less than 10 cases. It is a good sign still people should be careful,” said a senior officer. Also, there has been continuous dip in the number of active cases and the burden on the government and private sector hospital which are dedicated Covid care centres is also going down. “In Jaipur, we have 1,854 active cases. RUHS is presently 20-25% occupied,” said Dr Ajit Singh, medical superintendent, RUHS. 2 more test -ve for UK strainOut of 11 UK returnees to Rajasthan, two more tested negative for the mutated strain. Their samples were sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune. “The two whose samples were tested negative included one from Ajmer and one from Jalore. On Thursday, we had nine out of 11 samples negative. Thus all the 11 samples sent to the NIV, Pune are negative,” said Dr Ravi Prakash Sharma, additional director, rural health. Now, the health department is awaiting the report of three more samples of UK returnees which were collected from Sriganganagar. “Their samples were sent to Delhi and reports are awaited,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/raj-sees-4-deaths-609-infections-on-first-day-of-ny/articleshow/80067692.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Jaipur||Covid-19: Rajasthan sees 4 deaths, 609 infections on first day of New Year||JAIPUR: On the first day of New Year on Friday, the state reported four Covid-19 deaths which used to be reported during June and July last year. New infections have also come down as the state logged 609 cases which took the count to 52,85,777. Health department officials attributed it to the increased public awareness, measures like night curfew and timely detection and treatment of Covid-19 cases. As per the figures released by the health department four deaths were reported which included one each from Jaipur, Jodhpur, Sikar and Tonk. In Jaipur, one more Covid-19 death took place, taking the total count to 502. It is followed by Jodhpur where 290 people have lost their lives, Ajmer 219, Bikaner and Kota 166 deaths. “The focus has always been on bringing down the mortality. Measures like Remdesivir therapy, plasma therapy, changed medicine protocols, increased awareness of public and strict implementation of night curfew especially New Year’s eve are fetching good results,” said Dr Ravi Prakash Sharma, additional director, rural health. Out of 609 cases, 91 were reported from Jaipur, Jodhpur (85), Kota (78), Bhilwara (44), Dungarpur(42) and 37 cases came from Nagaur. “The districts including Bikaner, Dausa and Hanumangarh reported no cases which many districts reported less than 10 cases. It is a good sign still people should be careful,” said a senior officer. Also, there has been continuous dip in the number of active cases and the burden on the government and private sector hospital which are dedicated Covid care centres is also going down. “In Jaipur, we have 1,854 active cases. RUHS is presently 20-25% occupied,” said Dr Ajit Singh, medical superintendent, RUHS. 2 more test -ve for UK strainOut of 11 UK returnees to Rajasthan, two more tested negative for the mutated strain. Their samples were sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune. “The two whose samples were tested negative included one from Ajmer and one from Jalore. On Thursday, we had nine out of 11 samples negative. Thus all the 11 samples sent to the NIV, Pune are negative,” said Dr Ravi Prakash Sharma, additional director, rural health. Now, the health department is awaiting the report of three more samples of UK returnees which were collected from Sriganganagar. “Their samples were sent to Delhi and reports are awaited,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-sees-4-deaths-609-infections-on-first-day-of-ny/articleshow/80064899.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Ajmer||Covid-19: Rajasthan sees 4 deaths, 609 infections on first day of New Year||JAIPUR: On the first day of New Year on Friday, the state reported four Covid-19 deaths which used to be reported during June and July last year. New infections have also come down as the state logged 609 cases which took the count to 52,85,777. Health department officials attributed it to the increased public awareness, measures like night curfew and timely detection and treatment of Covid-19 cases. As per the figures released by the health department four deaths were reported which included one each from Jaipur, Jodhpur, Sikar and Tonk. In Jaipur, one more Covid-19 death took place, taking the total count to 502. It is followed by Jodhpur where 290 people have lost their lives, Ajmer 219, Bikaner and Kota 166 deaths. “The focus has always been on bringing down the mortality. Measures like Remdesivir therapy, plasma therapy, changed medicine protocols, increased awareness of public and strict implementation of night curfew especially New Year’s eve are fetching good results,” said Dr Ravi Prakash Sharma, additional director, rural health. Out of 609 cases, 91 were reported from Jaipur, Jodhpur (85), Kota (78), Bhilwara (44), Dungarpur(42) and 37 cases came from Nagaur. “The districts including Bikaner, Dausa and Hanumangarh reported no cases which many districts reported less than 10 cases. It is a good sign still people should be careful,” said a senior officer. Also, there has been continuous dip in the number of active cases and the burden on the government and private sector hospital which are dedicated Covid care centres is also going down. “In Jaipur, we have 1,854 active cases. RUHS is presently 20-25% occupied,” said Dr Ajit Singh, medical superintendent, RUHS. 2 more test -ve for UK strainOut of 11 UK returnees to Rajasthan, two more tested negative for the mutated strain. Their samples were sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune. “The two whose samples were tested negative included one from Ajmer and one from Jalore. On Thursday, we had nine out of 11 samples negative. Thus all the 11 samples sent to the NIV, Pune are negative,” said Dr Ravi Prakash Sharma, additional director, rural health. Now, the health department is awaiting the report of three more samples of UK returnees which were collected from Sriganganagar. “Their samples were sent to Delhi and reports are awaited,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/raj-sees-4-deaths-609-infections-on-first-day-of-ny/articleshow/80067694.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Jaipur||Norms awaited, night curfew on||JAIPUR: The night curfew from 8 pm to 6 am within urban limits of 13 district headquarter towns continues to be in force even as fresh Covid guidelines for the month of January is awaited, informed home secretary N L Meena. Earlier, there was confusion over night curfew since the last Covid guidelines, issued by the home department, was for the period December 1 to December 31. The 13 district headquarter towns where night curfew is in force are Kota, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Udaipur, Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Nagore, Pali, Tonk, Sikar and Ganganagar. “Night curfew is still in force as no order has been issued to withdraw it. Therefore, it is understood that night curfew continues to be in force. Fresh guidelines will be issued by tomorrow (Saturday) afteroon ,” said Meena. “Police and administration are aware of this and all shops and markets were shut by 7 pm today (Friday),” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/norms-awaited-night-curfew-on/articleshow/80064897.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: To rein in chaotic traffic, 155 more junctions to get IoT-linked signals||HYDERABAD: The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) is installing traffic signals at 155 junctions. As part of this, 98 pelican signals will also dot the city. At present, the city has 221 traffic signals. The new signals will be in addition to the existing ones. “The new signals will be installed in three-way, four-way and five-way junctions. The project will be completed within three to four months,” a GHMC official told TOI. Inputs pertaining to locations have been taken from Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda police commisionerate. The cost of the project is pegged to be at Rs 59 crore. Most of the new pelican signals will be installed in Hyderabad police commisionerate limits. “The newly installed signals will be connected to the traffic command control centre (TCCC). All traffic signals are Internet of Things (IoT)-based. They work with vehicle actuated control (VAC) system through virtual loop cameras,” said a GHMC official. Unified Adaptive Traffic Signal Control (ATSC) System will come in place one the signals are installed. “The new traffic signals and pelican signals are inbuilt timers, Through ATSC, the network of signals will be controlled and monitor to ensure less is less congestion,” said a GHMC official. As per the proposal, the ATSC will be synchronised with the command control centre coming up in Banjara Hills. The contract with the Bharath Electronics Limited (BEL) for operation and maintenance of the existing signals has expired. A new agency was roped in as GHMC was not happy with the BEL’s job.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/to-rein-in-chaotic-traffic-155-more-junctions-to-get-iot-linked-signals/articleshow/80064907.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Udaipur||Covid-19: Rajasthan sees 4 deaths, 609 infections on first day of New Year||JAIPUR: On the first day of New Year on Friday, the state reported four Covid-19 deaths which used to be reported during June and July last year. New infections have also come down as the state logged 609 cases which took the count to 52,85,777. Health department officials attributed it to the increased public awareness, measures like night curfew and timely detection and treatment of Covid-19 cases. As per the figures released by the health department four deaths were reported which included one each from Jaipur, Jodhpur, Sikar and Tonk. In Jaipur, one more Covid-19 death took place, taking the total count to 502. It is followed by Jodhpur where 290 people have lost their lives, Ajmer 219, Bikaner and Kota 166 deaths. “The focus has always been on bringing down the mortality. Measures like Remdesivir therapy, plasma therapy, changed medicine protocols, increased awareness of public and strict implementation of night curfew especially New Year’s eve are fetching good results,” said Dr Ravi Prakash Sharma, additional director, rural health. Out of 609 cases, 91 were reported from Jaipur, Jodhpur (85), Kota (78), Bhilwara (44), Dungarpur(42) and 37 cases came from Nagaur. “The districts including Bikaner, Dausa and Hanumangarh reported no cases which many districts reported less than 10 cases. It is a good sign still people should be careful,” said a senior officer. Also, there has been continuous dip in the number of active cases and the burden on the government and private sector hospital which are dedicated Covid care centres is also going down. “In Jaipur, we have 1,854 active cases. RUHS is presently 20-25% occupied,” said Dr Ajit Singh, medical superintendent, RUHS. 2 more test -ve for UK strainOut of 11 UK returnees to Rajasthan, two more tested negative for the mutated strain. Their samples were sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune. “The two whose samples were tested negative included one from Ajmer and one from Jalore. On Thursday, we had nine out of 11 samples negative. Thus all the 11 samples sent to the NIV, Pune are negative,” said Dr Ravi Prakash Sharma, additional director, rural health. Now, the health department is awaiting the report of three more samples of UK returnees which were collected from Sriganganagar. “Their samples were sent to Delhi and reports are awaited,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/raj-sees-4-deaths-609-infections-on-first-day-of-ny/articleshow/80067691.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Vadodara||Gujarat: Drunken revelry leads to friend’s murder, four held||VADODARA: A drunken scuffle between two groups of friends and the latent desire to become a don or ‘bhai’, led to the murder of a youngster in Padra taluka on Thursday evening. Cops have booked four persons for killing Hitesh Parmar, a resident of Navapura on the night of December 31. According to the police, the group of friends, including the accused and the deceased, gathered at a field in Ghayaj village at Padra to celebrate New Year’s Eve, along with liquor. Cops said that one of them, identified as Abhijeet, started showing a video clip of a news channel to everyone present at the spot boasting that he had attacked three persons with a knife and the clip would appear soon. At this, the deceased intervened and said that he was their own area’s strongman. Soon the duo got into a scuffle and when a third friend, Kaushal Patel, tried to intervene, the other present at the spot began assaulting him. Hitesh suffered severe head injuries in the assault and fell unconscious on the spot and succumbed to the injuries during treatment. Patel got scared and fled from the spot with his friends. However, cops later approached Patel and inquired about the entire incident and arrested Bhavin Parmar, Bhavesh Parmar, Akshay Valand and Manoj Parmar for killing Hitesh. Police said that all the accused were drunk and a minor argument led to the sudden assault between two groups of friends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/drunken-revelry-leads-to-friends-murder-4-held/articleshow/80063895.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Kolhapur||Kolhapur district reports 7 fresh cases, Satara adds 70 cases on first day of the year||Kolhapur: On the first day of the new year, Kolhapur district reported three deaths and seven fresh Covid-19 cases. Of the new cases registered on Friday, two are from Kolhapur city. The number of active cases in the district has come down to 39 after 15 patients were discharged. The total number of patients has reached to 49,534, of them, 47,787 have recovered and 1,708 patients have succumbed to infection. Sangli adds 19 cases Sangli district reported 19 fresh cases of Covid and no deaths on Friday. The number of active patients in the district has increased to 193. The district has reported 47,612 cases, of them, 1,733 have died while 45,686 have been cured. Satara has 7 CCCs A sharp decline in the number of fresh cases reported in Satara district let to the shutting down of Covid care centres (CCC). At present, of the 26 centres, only seven CCCs are operating, including a jumbo hospital. The district had reported 70 new cases and one death on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 54,901. The death toll has now risen to 1,792. As many as 52,005 patients have recovered while there are 1,104 active cases. 43 cases in Solapur rural  Solapur rural had added 43 new Covid cases while 47 patients were discharged after recovering on Friday. Two deaths were recorded in the rural areas Solapur rural has reported 38,145 patients, of them, 1,129 have died due to Covid, 36,533 patients have recovered and 483 are currently undergoing treatment. Solapur city has registered 23 fresh cases and one Covid death on Friday. Solapur city has reported 11,066 cases so far, including 365 active cases, 598 deaths and 10,103 recovered patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-district-reports-7-fresh-cases-satara-adds-70-cases-on-first-day-of-the-year/articleshow/80063270.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Kozhikode||Kerala: Customs seize 2.5 kg gold in major haul at Karipur airport||KOZHIKODE: In a major gold haul, customs officials belonging to Air Intelligence Unit at Calicut International Airport seized 2.5kg of the yellow metal from two passengers who arrived from Jeddah on Thursday night. Customs have estimated the value of the seized gold at Rs 1.3 crore. Acting on a tip-off, customs officials nabbed Cheeranthodikka Nishad and Sakkeer Punnappala who carried the gold shaped in the form of rods which was concealed inside automatic door closer carried in their checked-in baggage. They had arrived in the Indigo airlines flight from Saudi Arabia. Each of the accused had carried two rods each weighing a total of 1,298 grams. “They had carried two gold pieces each to keep the value of the confiscated gold below Rs 1 crore to avoid arrest under non-bailable sections. If the value of the gold is below Rs 1 crore, the accused gets bail after their arrest is recorded,” a customs official said. Customs officials said the two accused are suspected to be part of a same smuggling racket. The two were employed in the Gulf and were acting as carriers, the officials said. Investigations are on to find out other people who were involved in the smuggling attempt. The seizure was carried out by a team of customs officials led by deputy commissioner T A Kiran and superintendents K P Manoj, Ranji William, Thomas Varughese and Uma Devi. There has been a spurt in cases of gold seizure at the airport and customs had seized gold valued at Rs 1.1 crore in two instances from passengers who arrived at the airport on December 29-30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/customs-seize-2-5-kg-gold-in-major-haul-at-karipur-airport/articleshow/80063919.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Dysfunctional signals in Hyderabad cause traffic snarls||HYDERABAD: More than half of the existing 221 traffic signals are being operated manually, with several being completely dysfunctional. The traffic signal adjacent to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) head office, Allwyn Colony (Miyapur), and Ameerpet (near Dharam Karam Road) are a few examples. “To ensure there are no traffic snarls, we press staffers into service. If there is problem with the timer, the staffer operates the signal manually. If the signal is completely dysfunctional then they manually instruct the commuters,” said Rama Linga, ACP traffic, central zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dysfunctional-signals-cause-traffic-snarls/articleshow/80064911.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Pedestrianisation gains lost at markets||NEW DELHI: Before reviving the pedestrianisation project at Kamla Nagar and Karol Bagh markets, North Delhi Municipal Corporation has planned to hold a meeting with the traders’ associations next week to resolve their apprehensions. The vehicle-free roads were reopened for cars around seven months ago after requests from traders, who wanted to cover up some losses borne by them during the lockdown. They had sought withdrawal of all restrictions, such as allowing entry of vehicles, opening parking lots on roadsides, etc. A part of the main Karol Bagh market, a 1.7km stretch on Ajmal Khan Road, was the first to be pedestrianised in May 2019. Bollards were placed at the entry points on Pusa Road and Arya Samaj Road to restrict entry of vehicles. While Padam Singh Road, Tank Road, Hardhyan Singh Marg and Pyarelal Road were made one-way, only horizontal parking was allowed on certain stretches. When TOI visited both markets on Friday, it found that the decision had resulted in deterioration of facilities provided by the municipality to make the market attractive, organised and convenient for pedestrians. At Ajmal Khan Road, it was noticed that the lane marked for emergency services had been taken over by vehicles, many flowerpots were missing and stains of gutka or paan were visible near the planters. Cars and two-vehicles were parked in front of showrooms and one-way traffic norms had been taken for a toss. The machines installed by the corporation to offer coupons for plastic bottles were lying defunct, while tiles and manholes were damaged, probably due to digging work. The intersection facing Arya Samaj Mandir was jammed as vehicles were parked in 2-3 lanes. Murli Mani, president of Beopar Mandal Karol Bagh, said, “Though we want the market to be pedestrian-friendly, the traders have some apprehensions, which have been shared with the mayor. We recently came to know that the road would be overhauled by PWD on the lines of Chandni Chowk redevelopment project. We can’t afford to wait for so long, so have asked the agencies to do work in portions.” North corporation mayor Jai Prakash said, “While there may be plans to overhaul the road in the future, traders should learn to live with temporary arrangements first. Since a lot of time and resources have already been invested in the beautification and pedestrianisation project at Karol Bagh and Kamla Nagar, we cannot let these efforts go waste.” At Kamla Nagar, the market looked the same as it was before the pedestrianisation project was implemented early last year. Cars, tempos, rickshaws, two-wheelers, and everything else on wheels still moved freely on the congested stretch. While vehicles were parked illegally, bollards installed to widen space for movement of pedestrians were either damaged or used by hawkers for displaying items. Hundreds of hawkers had encroached upon the corridors and roadsides forcing people to walk on the road. Nitin Gupta of Kamla Nagar Traders’ Association said, “The site was visited by the north corporation deputy commissioner two months ago, but no action was taken. Due to the large number of hawkers, encroachment has increased manifold.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pedestrianisation-gains-lost-at-markets/articleshow/80064915.cms||Vibha Sharma
January 2, 2021||Bareilly||'Missing' Muslim man who was paraded on a donkey recovered||BAREILLY: A Muslim man, 56, who disappeared after he was paraded on a donkey and his face smeared with black paint at his village in UP's Budaun on Tuesday night, was finally recovered by police on Friday. The man was reportedly staying at a relative’s place in Shahbad area of Rampur district and was upset due to the public humiliation and feared that the miscreants may return to harm him again. Two accused in the case are yet to be arrested. In a statement given to police, the man said, “I was abused, thrashed and publicly humiliated for no crime of mine. I am afraid that the accused may attack us again.” The man's return came as a huge relief for his family. After a phone conversation between the man and his son facilitated by the police, the son told TOI, "I took a sigh of relief after hearing my father's voice. He is safe, but upset and still under constant fear. He had sleepless nights. I told him that FIR has been registered against those who humiliated him, but he said that he will return later. I will go to Rampur and bring him personally now.” SP Sankalp Sharma told TOI, “We have found the man and he is safe. We informed him that we have taken action against the accused and two of them have been sent to jail." The man's statement has been recorded. He refused to return, though, and decided to stay at his kin's place, Sharma said. "Since he is not an accused, we cannot force him to return,” the SP further said. The son added, “Police are yet to arrest the remaining two accused in the case. So, we are worried about our safety."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/missing-muslim-man-who-was-paraded-on-a-donkey-recovered/articleshow/80063275.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Drug peddler from Mumbai arrested in Secunderabad||HYDERABAD: Task force sleuths arrested an inter-state drug peddler, Ashish Kumar Umesh Trivedi (26), at SD Road in Secunderabad and seized 12 grams of mephedrone from his possession, on Friday. The accused is a resident of Andheri in Mumbai. According to police, Trivedi used to work as a food delivery executive in Mumbai and has been addicted to drugs. As his income was not sufficient to meet the expenses, Trivedi met a drug supplier, Zama Sabri—also from Mumbai—and agreed to sell drugs for him in Hyderabad, Task force DCP P Radha Kishan Rao said. Trivedi used to purchase mephedrone for Rs 1,700 per gram from Sabri and sell it in Hyderabad for Rs 5,000 a gram, police said. Trivedi was arrested at SD Road when he was waiting for a customer. He was handed over to Gopalapuram police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drug-peddler-from-mumbai-arrested/articleshow/80064919.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Vadodara||Class XII student hangs self||Vadodara: A 15-year-old Class XII student committed suicide by hanging himself at his house Manjalpur on Thursday evening. Paras Jha, a resident of Keshav Green Society, was studying in science stream. Jha’s family members said that he was paranoid about Covid-19 infection, but police said that they are yet to ascertain the exact reason behind his suicide. Jha was attending online classes in his room on Thursday evening while sister was in another room. “Their parents were out for shopping. After they returned, his sister knocked on the door of Jha’s room. When he didn’t open it for some time, his parents broke into the room and found him hanging from the ceiling fan,” said B G Chetariya, Manjalpur police inspector.“The boy’s maternal uncle said that they don’t know the reason behind the suicide. They just knew that Jha was scared of Covid-19 and hardly went out of house. His parents said that he was very good at studies,” Chetariya told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/class-xii-student-hangs-self/articleshow/80063942.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Kolhapur||Uphill task to take vax to remote hamlets||Kolhapur: The challenges in reaching some of the remotest places in the state — such as the hamlets in the Radhanagari taluka of Kolhapur — have, in the past, had an impact on access to healthcare. Therefore, the government’s plan of a mass adult Covid-19 immunisation drive has left the residents of these remote villages anxious. Banda Bodke, who lives in a hamlet under Mhasurli in Radhanagari, said health workers don’t even come to their doorsteps for the regular vaccination of children. “We spend an entire day walking our children to the primary healthcare centre and back. In many hamlets, children just don’t get vaccinated on time. Therefore, we want the Covid-19 vaccination drive to be held on priority in our hamlets,” he told TOI.Locals said that last month, a pregnant woman from a hamlet in Radhanagari taluka passed away before she could reach the nearest hospital, which is just 4 km away. The area has no accessible or motorable road nearby. Every month, incidents of snakebite or injury by wild animals occur in these hamlets. The activists are now demanding that the residents of more than 108 such hamlets in Kolhapur district — who usually remain deprived of all government services — are given priority in the Covid vaccination drive.Social activist Sanjay Waghmode, who recently sought training for semi-literate youths from these hamlets under ‘Arogya Dhoot’, said that after the healthcare workers have been vaccinated, the vaccine should be made availbale for people in these hamlets. “If, by chance, anyone in these hamlets contracts the Covid-19 infection, then it will be difficult to control its spread. Lives may be lost as there are no health services in these remote areas. Many people from these hamlets go to work in the cities and they can pose a risk at both places,” said Waghmode.The district officials said they are collating details of the people from the 108 hamlets. Currently, there is no definite plan about how and when to vaccinate them. A clearer picture is expected to emerge after the vaccination plan is rolled out. Amal Mittal, the chief executive officer of the Kolhapur zilla parishad, said: “The plan to vaccinate people from these hamlets will depend on the type of vaccine that we get. If the vaccine can be stored and transported easily, say in ice boxes and freezers, we can deploy health staff to these hamlets. If the vaccine requires deep freezing, then we have make arrangements to get the residents of these hamlets to the nearest health centre.”Mittal added that if the government approves more than one vaccine, the vaccination vans that the administration has can be utilised to reach Dhangarwad or some nearby location.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/uphill-task-to-take-vax-to-remote-hamlets/articleshow/80063274.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Kochi||Closer to safe harbour||The Vizhinjam International Deep Water Sea Port project, though hit by delays due to disruptions caused by the pandemic, is back on track and two major milestone works will be completed and commissioned in the first two months of the new year. A 220KV gas insulated substation is expected to be commissioned by mid-January while a gate complex will go onstream in February, according to officials from Adani Group, which is constructing the port. The new substation will meet all the power needs of the port. Gas insulated substation uses a relatively a new technology that has a reputation for high reliability, compact dimensions and low maintenance costs. The gate complex is the part that handles cargo movement, with components such as connectivity roads and cranes. In September 2020, the most important component of the port, the port operations building, was commissioned. It is the control-room from where all major operations of the port can be remotely controlled. Meanwhile, the breakwater construction is going at a slow place owing to the shortage of sufficient boulders. The officials said while they used to get 10,000 metric tonnes of boulders per day before, several factors, including natural calamities and the Covid-induced lockdown have brought down the availability of boulders to just 3,000 to 5,000 metric tonnes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/closer-to-safe-harbour/articleshow/80058326.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
January 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Covid induces change in eating pattern: Study||HYDERABAD: The food consumption pattern among people has changed after the outbreak of Covid-19. In a study done on food eating habits, Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) said that there has been a significant increase in the expenditure incurred on milk by the rural households, while expenditure incurred on non-vegetarian food has shown a considerable decrease. In the case of urban households, there is a significant rise in the amounts spent on groceries, fruits, milk and beverages after the lockdown was imposed in comparison to expenditure incurred before the lockdown. Milk consumption had gone up in rural households from Rs 900 per month to Rs 1,037 after the pandemic. “We undertook this study to observe the changing food eating patterns and to understand the preferences of consumers in terms of health consciousness and varied tastes. We will update this study along with our previous study reports,” university vice chancellor Dr V Praveen Rao told TOI. Among the rural households, consumption of rice increased in the range of 3%-15% among various income groups. Whereas the increase among urban households with regard to rice ranged between 4% and 10%. Among the urban households, consumption of pulses (chana dal) went up between 7% and 17% during the lockdown. On the whole, the consumption of pulses showed a decrease among the rural households and an increase in the urban households. Consumption of tea showed an increase of 10%-33% among all urban income groups. There was, however, a decrease in consumption of tea between 10% and 17% in the rural income groups of less than Rs 10,000 and those who earn between Rs 20,000 and Rs 30,000. Surprisingly, the consumption of sugar increased in the range of 3% to 21% in the rural households. Among the urban households, it went up by 8%-24% among various income categories. Expenditure on vegetables has also gone up between 2% and 12% in rural households and hovered between 4% and 8% among urban households.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-induces-change-in-eating-pattern-study/articleshow/80064914.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 2, 2021||Kolkata||Bidhannagar gets app for cop help||KOLKATA: In a major boost to community policing, Bidhannagar Police introduced a new app for emergency police intervention and several new police vehicles for patrolling the lanes and bylanes of the commissionerate area. On Friday, Bidhannagar city police commissioner, Mukesh Kumar, introduced the new app — BIPOL (acronym for Bidhannagar Police) — that has a list of helplines for senior citizens, children and women. A special addition to the app is a panic button and tapping it, anyone in distress can seek police help without making a call. “The panic button will be helpful for anyone in distress within our jurisdiction. It will be particularly helpful for IT workers and women who return home late. In case of any emergency or any untoward situation, they can press the panic button and the location will be sent to our control room. Accordingly, our PCR van will act and reach the spot by tracking their location,” said Kumar, adding the app also contains information about latest Covid 19 protocols and the flight arrival. Kumar also inaugurated three heavy radio flying squad vehicles, a quick response team vehicle and 50 scooters to be used by cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bidhannagar-gets-app-for-cop-help/articleshow/80064905.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
January 2, 2021||Pune||Covid vaccination drives will follow the election model||Pune: For the first time since India began its national immunization programme in 1970s, it’s faced with the daunting task of vaccinating a substantial portion of its adult population — maybe even twice.It will be a massive endeavour. The only adult immunisation the country currently does is via the private sector or for pregnant women. But the world’s largest democracy will fall back on a playbook it knows well — the way it conducts its general elections. From registering vaccine beneficiaries, verifying their identity to setting up local vaccination sites, Covid-19 inoculation has all the makings of voting day. Instead of that blue ink on the finger after the franchise, it will be a shot in the arm.Maharashtra has already enrolled over seven lakh health workers, who will get the vaccine. The state’s immunisation officer D N Patil admitted that they face a “humongous task”. “But the election process outline will work,” he said.The Union government has developed a digital platform (CO-WIN) to track registered beneficiaries and delivery of vaccines in real-time. A statement from the health ministry said that the registered beneficiaries will be sent messages on their mobile phones detailing the day, date, time, and location where the vaccination will be done. After the first dose is administered, they will receive messages again to return for a second dose.The government had earlier planned to hold mass immunization in schools and community halls, but that plan was dropped due to the need for a healthcare facility, to handle any adverse reaction to the vaccine in the beneficiaries. A team of five vaccinators – including doctors, paramedics and ASHAs – will be stationed at each vaccination centre. Netradipa Patil, Kolhapur district head of ASHA workers’ association, said they are already undergoing training on how to carry out the vaccination. “People might be reluctant to take the vaccines, so we have the tough task ahead of convincing them to come forward,” she said.Along with the technical training, the government also has to address apprehensions on possible side-effects of the vaccines and efficacy despite reports of confirmed mutations from around the world.Former head of the epidemiology division at the Indian Council of Medical Research, Dr Lalitkant, said that the government will face a lot of “trust deficit” over the safety of the Covid-19 vaccines and will have to quickly win the confidence of millions of citizens. (With inputs from Rahul Gayakwad in Kolhapur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-vaccination-drives-will-follow-the-election-model/articleshow/80066080.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 2, 2021||Kolkata||Green award for plant that powers Kol||Kolkata: A power generation plant that supplies bulk of the power to Kolkata has emerged as the most water-efficient thermal power station in India. The 750 MW CESC Budge Budge Thermal Power Station that had earlier achieved a zero effluent discharge facility after it managed to reuse all effluent water has now reduced its water consumption to 2 litres for every unit of electricity generated, against the national benchmark of 3.5 litres. Coal and water are primary requirements for a thermal plant. Water is boiled to form steam that rotates the turbines that is in turn coupled with a generator that produces electricity. The steam formed is then condensed to form water. Some of it is lost to leakage while some gets evaporated during condensation. The plant set up in 1997 with one unit of 250 MW, to which two more units of same capacity were added in 1999 and 2010, has managed to considerably minimise water loss over past two decades. Energy and Environment Foundation has given Energy and Environment Foundation Global Award to the plant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/green-award-for-plant-that-powers-kol/articleshow/80064912.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Vadodara||Gujarat donkey breed that delivers Rs 7,000 a litre milk faces extinction||VADODARA: Gujarat’s indigenous donkey breed which is famed for delivering world’s costliest milk is on verge of extinction. The population of Halari donkeys, which earned independent breed status just two years back, is steadily declining in its native tract of Jamnagar and Devbhumi Dwarka districts (earlier known as the Halar region of Gujarat). A survey of the breed’s population revealed that there are just 662 animals of this breed left in the region as compared to 1,112 animals counted in teh first-ever survey done in 2015. These donkeys are spread over an area of 18,176 sq km. “Just within five years, their population has almost halved. In fact, entire Saurashtra region put together, its population is just 1,573. If no urgent steps are taken now, the breed will become extinct in the next five years,” said Ramesh Bhatti, programme director of Sahjeevan Trust. The Bhuj-based trust had collaborated with Anand Agricultural University (AAU) and Directorate of Animal Husbandry of Gujarat government for the national recognition of the breed. Some of the main reasons for their shrinking numbers is depleting grazing land due to constructions, restrictions of grazing in the forest area and dwindling number of male donkeys. Of the 662 donkeys surveyed in their native tract, just 60-odd were male. “Female donkeys are easy to manage by pastoral ladies. Also, as the herd size of donkey shrank, it became difficult for breeders to maintain large herd and they lost interest in donkey breeding,” the survey report states. In 2018 the National Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources (NBAGR), the nodal agency of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) for registration of new breeds, had granted Halari independent breed status – the first one from Gujarat and second such donkey breed to be recognised in the country. The National Research Centre on Equines (NRCE) has embarked on the project to start donkey milk dairy in Haryana’s Hisar. NRCE has procured 11 Halari donkeys from Chanasma in Patan district where the donkeys are maintained as nucleus stock at the government horse breeding farm since the last five years. “We have submitted an action plan for conservation of the breed,” said Bhatti. The organization has recommended that male donkeys which are maintained at the Chanasma farm should be shifited to Jamnagar, Upleta or any other place in Saurashtra where they can mate with females. Also, Gujarat government should provide incentive to Halari donkey breeders – similar to what Rajasthan government did for camels. Alarmed at swiftly dwindling numbers of camels, Rajasthan government has launched a scheme whereby Rs 10,000 cash incentive is provided to camel farmers on the birth of each calf.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gujarat-donkey-breed-that-delivers-rs-7000-a-litre-milk-faces-extinction/articleshow/80063956.cms||Prashant Rupera
January 2, 2021||Nashik||Active cases in rural Nashik drop below 500||Nashik: The number of active Covid-19 patients in rural areas of the Nashik district has dropped below 500 for the first time since July 4. According to Kapil Aher, district health officer of Nashik Zilla Parishad, the situation has vastly improved due to the efforts made by the health departments and people following the protocols in most places. “The numbers have dropped significantly post-Diwali quelling all fears about the rise in cases during winter,” Aher said. The talukas that have better urban population and had significant number of active patients have also seen the figures dropping below 100, with Sinnar being an exception. “Though this is a good sign, we are not lowering our guards against the virus and nobody should underestimate the potential of the virus in any condition. There is no reason for us to take up the care-free attitude against the virus,” the officer said. The total number of active patients in Nashik rural was 886 on December 27, but it has now dropped to 488. The numbers of active patients in Nashik taluka was 196, followed by Sinnar (160) and Baglan (154). The figures have now dropped to 86 in Nashik and 37 in Baglan. Only in Sinnar, the number is still above 100. The officer also pointed out that the testing of Covid-19 has also increased to the regular testing numbers, but there is fall in the number of people testing positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/active-cases-in-rural-nashik-drop-below-500/articleshow/80063299.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 2, 2021||Trichy||IUML slams attack on temple in Pakistan||Trichy: Condemning the attack on a Hindu temple in Pakistan, Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) on Friday said that the destruction of the temple of Hindu minorities justified the accusation of the Indian government that religious minorities were subjected to suppression in Pakistan. In a statement issued by the national president of IUML, KM Kader Mohideen, he said that the enactment of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in India by the BJP led Union government was vindicated by the attack. “This dastardly attack on the holy place of the Hindu community in Pakistan obviously justifies the Indian government’s accusation that religious minorities are suppressed and forced to migrate seeking asylum in India and passing of CAA (sic),” the statement read. IUML strongly condemned the atrocious act of vandalizing an old Hindu temple along with the samadhi of the renowned Hindu sage Shri Paramhans in a village in Karak district near Peshawar in Pakistan on Wednesday. “Muslim brothers in Pakistan ought to understand that the pride of the majority lies in protection of the minorities’ honourable existence. The Holy Quran and Holy Prophet Mohammed have clearly stated that the religion of Islam does not confront but confirms all the religions of the world. This is to be conveyed to the Muslims in Pakistan.” Kader Mohideen said. IUML also appreciated the Pakistan government for condemning the atrocities by arresting the culprits. The party also appealed to the Pakistan government to quickly rebuild the destroyed temple and hand it over to the Hindu devotees at the earliest. It also suggested the Pakistan government to enact a law in line with the Places of Worship Act 1991 in India which was promulgated during the Babri Masjid – Ram Janmabhoomi controversy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/iuml-slams-attack-on-temple-in-pakistan/articleshow/80064923.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: RFID chips may help bring ricks at Walled City in line||NEW DELHI: After the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project is completed, restrictions would be imposed on unregistered rickshaws, while the existing ones would be redesigned. The North Delhi Municipal Corporation commissioner has assured the Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Board that a plan would be prepared to regulate rickshaws in the area with the use of technology-based interventions like RFID. Showcasing pedestrian-friendly infrastructure and cycling as part of a sustainable smart city, Delhi government had proposed this project to be featured as a tableau in the Republic Day parade. A senior official said that a boom barrier that opens on the detection of RFID chips on registered rickshaws could be set up at the entry point of the non-motorised vehicle lane. “All other forms of vehicles would be banned in this lane. We are exploring all technology based interventions for this model stretch,” added the official. It has also been decided to improve the design of rickshaws for the convenience of rickshawpullers and riders. A committee would be constituted with both subject experts and stakeholders for more space and judicious design in new rickshaws. With the project being in its final phase, the civic bodies have started beautification of the area. Greening is being carried out with 118 ornamental trees and 140 flowerpots on the 1.3km stretch. Parking shortage still remains a key concern as the Gandhi Maidan parking lot is in the initial stage of construction. The deadline for completion of the project is August 2022. The deputy commissioner of City-Sadar Paharganj zone has been asked to inspect the site every fortnight. The four new toilet blocks planned on the stretch are also likely to get delayed. While the toilet block near Town Hall would be completed by March, the facility near Fountain Chowk would be set up by May 2021. Recently, the authorities had blamed the protest by farmers and restrictions imposed by NGT on construction owing to dust pollution for further delay in execution of some parts of the project that had a deadline of December 31, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rfid-chips-may-help-bring-ricks-at-walled-city-in-line/articleshow/80064924.cms||Paras Singh
January 2, 2021||Trichy||Move for bigger convention hall at Trichy trade centre||Trichy: Trichy trade centre private limited, the consortium of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME), has submitted a plan to increase the floor space of the convention hall coming up at the trade centre in Panjappur. The proposal seeking an additional grant of Rs 5 crore from the state government was put forward to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami during his recent visit to the city. Of the total project cost of Rs 11 crore, entrepreneurs and MSMEs which constituted a special purpose vehicle (SPV) for the purpose has mobilised Rs 6 crore with the rest coming from the government. The 9.42 acres of land at Panjappur close to the Trichy-Madurai NH was handed over to Sidco, the nodal agency for executing the proposal. The convention centre was initially planned to have 25,000 square feet space, but anticipating future demand, especially for hosting non-industrial events, the stakeholders have planned to increase the size of the hall to 45,000 square feet space to accommodate at least 4,000 people at a time. According to the plan layout finalised recently, the trade centre will have a green belt for at least an acre with facility to park around 450 cars on the eastern side. Around 700 people can dine at a time.“There is scope for future expansion, we have reserved space for phase II of the conventional hall. We had thought about going big while constructing the convention hall, so a proposal to increase the floor space was made,” N Kanagasabapathy, chairman, Trichy trade centre, said. Having obtained the required clearance for the project, foundation stone for the centre is expected to be laid this month. A decision on increasing the floor space will be taken before the launch of construction work. There is adequate space for the revised proposal, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/move-for-bigger-convention-hall-at-trichy-trade-centre/articleshow/80064925.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 2, 2021||Trichy||Dry run of Covic vaccine in five districts today||The nationwide dry run for the first stage of Covid-19 vaccination campaign will take place in five districts in the state on Saturday. Replicating every step of the real vaccination drive to check preparedness, it would be conducted at 17 locations in Chennai, Tirunelveli, Coimbatore, Ooty and Tiruvallur. The locations include Rajiv Gandhi Government GH in Chennai, ESI Hospital in Coimbatore and Ooty Medical College Hospital besides primary health centres in corporation and rural areas. The first phase of vaccination drive aims to vaccinate more than 5 lakh health workers. The aim of the dry run is to check the multiple steps of the vaccination drive like assembling beneficiaries, checking their identity, administering vaccine shots, recording data and observing them for 30 minutes. It would also check the time taken to vaccinate a person as well as the ease of using the CoWIN app, which will issue a certificate to the vaccinated person. ``Each of the 17 centres will have a vaccination team consisting of five people – a doctor, a staff nurse, a village health or urban health nurse, a computer operator who will also handle CoWin app and one more member,” said health secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan. Health officials will check if the vaccination booths have proper entrance and exit, waiting area, cold storage facilities and separate enclosure for people to wait after vaccination for observation. “We have trained more than 21,000 workers to give the vaccine safely without violating cold chain or administration protocols,” said health minister Dr C Vijayabaskar. The directorate of public health will also test if it can send messages to the health worker’s phone on the time they should be at the site and the follow-up date and time for booster dose. Until now, the directorate has a list of 3.5 lakh doctors, nurses and paramedical staff from private and government hospitals from across the state. However, the public health department is yet to prepare the final list as several private hospitals are yet to furnish details of their staff for vaccination. In Trichy, the public health department set the final deadline of January 4 for them to furnish the details. “If the private hospitals do not provide the details, their frontline workers will be excluded from the vaccination drive,” deputy director of health services (DDHS), Trichy Dr A Subramani told TOI. Out of 1,389 private hospitals in Trichy, only 372 submitted the details to health department. In Madurai and Coimbatore too there has been a delay on the part of private hospitals in submitting details of the frontline workers for vaccination, though government hospitals have furnished the required details. A health official said only about 30% of private hospitals have submitted the details so far in Madurai. State health officials expect at least another 1.5 lakh health workers to register for the vaccine. “Vaccination schedules will be announced once we get the go ahead and stock from the centre. Since the first phase is for doctors, nurses and paramedics there is reasonable awareness,’’ said director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam. After health workers, the state will vaccinate other frontline workers like police, armed forces, home guard and disaster management staff. “We are also asking districts to be ready with the names and details of citizens above 50 years of age and people with comorbidities, so that they can be prioritised in the second phase,” he said. The public health department has vaccine storage points at 2665 places, including primary health centres, private medical colleges and cantonment hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dry-run-of-covic-vaccine-in-five-districts-today/articleshow/80064920.cms||Gokul Rajendran
January 2, 2021||Nashik||Nashik city’s Covid-19 recovery rate touches 97%||Nashik: The recovery rate of Covid patients in Nashik city has reached 97% for the first time as the number of patients recovering exceeded the number of cases being reported over the last few weeks. Of the total 72,506 Covid patients in the city, around 70,426 have recovered while 978 have succumbed to the infection The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in the city was 43% by June end, but the recovery rate increased thereafter due to the various measures taken by the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC). The number of new cases has reduced in the past few days, while the patients admitted are now recovering, said Bapusaheb Nagargoje, medical superintendent of NMC. “We have focused on increasing tracing and testing of the suspected Covid patients. We have also used antigen tests for early detection of patients, which helped to provide immediate treatment to them. Hence, it further helped to increase the recovery rate and reduced the Covid death rate,” he said, Now, the Covid death rate has also reduced to 1.34%, he added. With the drop in the number of new cases, the number of active patients has also reduced by 50% to 1,102 in the last 15 days. The city had 2,252 active patients on December 14. Of the total 1,102 active patients, 718 patients are undergoing treatment in Covid hospitals, while the remaining are in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-citys-covid-19-recovery-rate-touches-97/articleshow/80063322.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 2, 2021||Kolkata||Glitch-free shift of airlines’ ground ops||Kolkata: The transfer of ground handling operations for Vistara and AirAsia India was without hiccups on Friday as the security passes of GHA workers, which allow them entry into the airport, were extended by a fortnight till January 14. The move ensured that 50-odd workers of outgoing GHA Bhadra International could join work at Air India Airport Services Ltd (AIASL) that began servicing the two airlines from Friday. GHA agencies provide crucial logistics support to airlines at airports. In Kolkata, GHA services include guiding aircraft into and out of parking positions, aircraft towing with pushback, aircraft lavatory drainage, water cartage and transport of luggage between the terminal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/glitch-free-shift-of-airlines-ground-ops/articleshow/80064917.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Nashik||Nandurbar prepares for dry run||Nashik: Nandurbar district administration and health department are all set to conduct the dry run of the vaccination programme on Saturday to ensure that things are in place and check if the system needs any improvement. “The dry run will be conducted from 11 am to 1 pm on Saturday at three locations to figure out if the things are being carried out properly. The health teams are ready,” district collector Rajendra Bharud said. The dry run will be conducted at three locations — district civil hospital, sub-district hospital and primary health centres — where the vaccines will be administered. “Apart from civil hospital, the dry run will be held at the sub-district hospital in Nawapur and at Ashte village in Nandubar taluka,” the collector said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nandurbar-prepares-for-dry-run/articleshow/80063327.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Trichy||FASTag usage up by 10% at NH toll plazas in Trichy||TRICHY: Even as the Union road transport ministry has extended the deadline for 100% collection of toll on National Highways through FASTag, toll plazas on Trichy-Chennai and Trichy-Thanjavur NHs in Trichy have witnessed a 10% surge in users for the digital mode of payment. Out of the 8,500 vehicles passing through the toll plaza at Valavanthankottai on the Trichy-Thanjavur NH, around 93% of vehicles are using FASTag, which was only about 80% earlier. Similarly, at the Samayapuram toll plaza on Trichy-Chennai NH where around 25,000 vehicles pass, FASTag usage has gone up from 62% to 70%. The scare over conversion of all lanes exclusively for FASTag from January 1 was cited as the reason for more people to adopt the electronic mode. “While paying cash, a vehicle may even take 2-3 minutes to cross the toll. With FASTag it hardly takes 30 seconds. TNSTC buses are yet to completely switch to the digital mode of toll payment,” an official source in Valavanthankottai toll plaza said. After the Covid-19 outbreak, Samayapuram toll plaza has witnessed increase in vehicular movement by 10% as people prefer personal vehicles over public transport. While all the 12 lanes at both the toll plazas have been fitted with tag scanners, the toll plaza management also has hand readers to scan vehicles in case of any malfunction. “Still, many of the cars passing through the toll lack FASTag RFID (radio frequency ID) stickers. We hope the patronage in the coming days to surge before February 15, the new deadline,” a source at the Samayapuram toll plaza said. The toll operators have set up stalls to sell FASTag stickers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fastag-usage-up-by-10-at-nh-toll-plazas-in-trichy/articleshow/80064927.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 2, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Rescheduled IFFK at 4 venues from February 10||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK), which is usually organized in December, will now be held over February and March this year, law and cultural affairs minister A K Balan said on Friday. He said the decision was taken after it was felt that a cultural festival of such international repute should not be cancelled. Taking into consideration the Covid-19 situation, Thiruvananthapuram will share the festival, which brings together nearly 14,000 delegates every year, with three other locations across the state — Ernakulam, Palakkad and Thalassery. The capital city will stage the 25th edition of the festival from February 10-14, followed by Ernakulam, from February 17-21, Thalassery (February 23-27) and Palakkad (March 1-5). It will be conducted in five theatres in each of the four places. In the wake of the Covid-19 crisis, admission will be limited to 200 delegates in each theatre for each show. However, Thiruvananthapuram will remain the permanent venue for the festival. The inaugural event will be held in Thiruvananthapuram, with the concluding function in Palakkad. There would be no cultural or other events involving crowds. For the inaugural and concluding ceremonies only a maximum of 200 persons will be allowed at the venue. All allied events, including meet the director, press meets, etc, would be moved online this time. It will feature popular segments, including competition section, world cinema, Malayalam cinema today, retrospective, Indian cinema now and kaleidoscope, and all the films will be screened in all the zones. Last year, the delegate fee was Rs 1,000 for general category and Rs 500 for students. However, this year delegate fee has been reduced to Rs 750 in general category and Rs 400 for students. Delegates should participate in the festival only in their respective zones of residence. Delegate passes will be issued only after producing Covid-19 negative certificates and the test will have to be taken within 48 hours prior to the festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/rescheduled-iffk-at-4-venues-across-state-from-february-10/articleshow/80063967.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Trichy||Plantation drive marks New Year celebration in Trichy||Trichy: To welcome the New Year, revenue department of Trichy district through Mahatma Gandhi national rural employment guarantee Act (MGNREGA) workers, planted 1.50 lakh native tree saplings in Irungalur panchayat on Friday. The drive is touted as biggest in terms of saplings planted in panchayat jurisdictions in the state. Official sources said that around 13 acres space was identified in the Irungalur panchayat to develop Miyawaki forest. MGNREGA workforce was utilized to plant the saplings throughout the day. The drip irrigation system was also facilitated to water the saplings that included fruit-bearing trees and medicinal trees. After Poonampalayam near Manachanallur, Irungalur is the second panchayat in the district to get Miyawaki forest. Around 3-4 saplings were planted for every 10 square feet space. Officials said that walking track and stone benches will be facilitated as amenities in near future . The plantation drive was launched by the district collector S Sivarasu. “Other panchayats where the situations are conducive will also get Miyawaki forest,” said Lalgudi division revenue department official S Vaithyanathan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/plantation-drive-marks-new-year-celebration-in-trichy/articleshow/80064928.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Kolkata||Salt Lake murder: Victim’s sister held from Ranchi||KOLKATA: The 20-year-old daughter of the homemaker at AJ Block in Salt Lake, who, along with her younger son, has been in jail for the last three weeks for allegedly killing his elder son and then attempting to burn his body more than two months ago, was arrested from a hideout in Ranchi. The woman, Vaidehi Mahensaria, was brought to Kolkata on Friday as she has been mentioned in the complaint as a co-accused in the murder by her father . Mahensaria, sister of the victim, Arjun, had been hiding at a relative’s house in Ranchi ever since she came to know that her mother Geeta and brother Vidur had been arrested. A team from Bidhannagar Police’s detective department raided one of her aunt’s places in Ranchi on Wednesday night and arrested her. She was produced in a local court there on Thursday and then was brought to the city on transit remand. On Friday, she was produced before a Salt Lake court that remanded her in six-day police custody. “ Mahensaria was with her brother and mother when the crime was committed at their Salt Lake home in October. While the mother and brother could be arrested and brought to the locked Salt Lake home on December 10, when the skeleton of Arjun Mahensaria was discovered on their terrace, the 20-year-old fled from her maternal uncle’s home in Ranchi and took shelter at a relative’s place. Finally, we could trace her out. Now, we are on the verge of closing the case,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/salt-lake-murder-victims-sister-held-from-ranchi/articleshow/80064922.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
January 2, 2021||Delhi||Fear factor: On New Year eve, just 26 booked for drunk driving in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The traffic police booked only 26 people for drunk driving on New Year’s Eve, down from the normal three figures in previous years. According to police, people appeared to have curbed their overenthusiasm due to three reasons: the Covid-19 pandemic, the prevailing night curfew and the numerous public awareness drives against such road behaviour over the months. Last year, 352 people were fined for driving in an inebriated state on December 31, and 509 the year earlier. In 2017, 765 people had been fined for the misdemeanour. Manish Kumar Agarwal, joint commissioner (Traffic), said the police campaign against breaking laws on New Year’s Eve appeared to have had an impact and there was restrained behaviour on the roads. “There were fewer violations this year than in previous years,” said Agarwal. “There also were no traffic congestions in Connaught Place, India Gate and other places where Delhi’s people usually gather to welcome the new year.” Of course, one major reason for the decline of violations was because Delhi Traffic Police stopped using alcometers after the lockdown in March to prevent the spread of Covid. On Thursday, therefore, the cops relied on their instincts to stop vehicles being driven by suspect drivers. Any probability of intoxication was confirmed through an immediate blood test. Since the police personnel couldn’t stop all vehicles to carry out checks, the number of people booked was lower than previous, an officer explained. “Of course, the umpteen awareness drives we conducted and the night curfew also played an important role in the decline in drunk driving,” he said, adding that the cops couldn’t send all suspected motorists to the hospital for blood tests for their own safety. “Only drivers who were heavily drunk were tested and fined,” the officer said. Another officer noted that the night curfew and closure of most party venues forced people to remain home and not be out on the roads till the curfew was lifted at 6am. Additional police personnel were deployed across the city, especially in the vicinity of malls, hotels, restaurants, pubs and bars, to ensure orderly celebrations. Nearly 1,100 traffic police personnel were on the roads since Thursday evening. Apart from the bookings for drunk driving on Thursday, 174 people were fined for dangerous driving and 706 for illegal parking, and 221 vehicles were towed away. Two accidents were also reported between 8pm on Thursday and Friday. One of the persons injured in an accident is an assistant police sub-inspector. Restrictions were imposed in Delhi from 11pm on Thursday till 6am on Friday to prevent crowding in public places, mainly to check Covid spread. Similar restrictions will be in place from 11pm on Friday to 6am on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fear-factor-on-ny-eve-just-26-booked-for-drunk-driving/articleshow/80064936.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
January 2, 2021||Trichy||Trichy schools busy preparing students for practical exams||Trichy: While the school education department is expected to release the schedule for practical examination for higher secondary classes, schools are preparing students to complete the theory part of practical sessions by writing record books of the experiments.All the science subjects including computer science, agriculture and vocational subjects have practical work that constitutes 25% of the subject for which students have to appear for the test separately.While private schools could take the practical sessions online, government school teachers have asked the students to write the practical records from home with the help of textbooks.“Ideally, the students perform practical experiments in the laboratories and then write the record book. We decided to complete at least one part of the work. This may not be the right procedure but there was no possibility for the students to perform the experiments by coming to schools,” said headmistress of a government school.Another head master said that they made students of Classes XI and XII write practical records by August itself, but they are yet to focus on Class X students. Now that the practical schedule is expected, we will start preparing students.“There are strict instructions that students should not be asked to come to school. Therefore, it has been challenging to coordinate with them,” said the head master.It is very important to make students do the experiment in the laboratory before the board practical. This will give them an idea about the practical work as most of the students will not understand the concepts by just writing the experiments in the record books, said a teacher from Syed Murtaza government school Trichy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-schools-busy-preparing-students-for-practical-exams/articleshow/80064932.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Trichy||Bhel day observed||Trichy: Bhel day was observed in Bhel Trichy complex on Friday. T S Murali, general manager and head of the complex, during his speech said that the day was being observed not only to celebrate past achievements but to focus on current targets and future goals. In the context of the Covid-19 pandemic that had added another layer of complexity to the challenging business environment, he said that quality and timely delivery of products and services are crucial for sustaining credibility and customer confidence.  Murali called for spirited contribution from all employees during the last quarter of the current financial year to ensure that the performance of the unit set a new benchmark for all other units and for every employee. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bhel-day-observed/articleshow/80064930.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Trichy||State-run univs have to consider dept as one unit for fixing quota||Trichy: By setting aside the recruitment notification for 54 teaching posts in Bharathidasan university (BDU) last week, Madras high court has made it clear that state-run universities must follow the policy of reservation stipulated by the state government for recruitment. With Madurai Kamaraj University and Alagappa set for recruiting teaching staff, this has cleared the air regarding the reservation policy to be adopted. BDU had issued recruitment notification in July 2019 for the post of 54 teaching posts. While the state reservation policy is to consider all teaching positions in each department as a single unit, BDU chose to adopt the Centre’s policy of taking the whole university / college / institution as one unit. BDU cited a UGC letter dated March 2019 for its decision.A writ petition was filed by Association of University Teachers (AUT) general secretary M Bala Murugan challenging the recruitment notification and the subsequent approval by the state higher education department for it. The court termed the conduct of higher education secretary S Apoorva in allowing BDU to proceed with the appointment in accordance with UGC guidelines as unjustifiable. By doing so, she has completely ignored the reservation policy of the state, observed the court. Further she also disregarded a detailed letter by her predecessor Mangat Ram Sharma in August 2019 which clarified that all universities that come under the higher education department will not come under the definition of Central Universities under the Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Teachers Cadre) Act, 2019. The judgment copy has been marked by the court to the chief secretary to take it into consideration for any further action on the suitability of the present education secretary. The court quashed the recruitment notification and directed the university to issue fresh notification for direct recruitment. “This is a landmark judgement in the context that it has cleared two points legally. By allowing the writ petition, the court has validated the representative character of AUT which was often questioned by BDU. Secondly, as far as state universities are concerned, all teaching positions shall be considered only by treating each department as a single unit,” former AUT president K Pandiyan told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/state-run-univs-have-to-consider-dept-as-one-unit-for-fixing-quota/articleshow/80064937.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Kochi||An abnormal interregnum||‘Perhaps,’ Cottard said, ‘Perhaps so. But what do you call return to normal life?” ‘New films in the cinema,’ said Tarrou with a smile. (Plague, Albert Camus, Part V) The malls have opened. Restaurants have started serving food to the public and the takeaway culture may sustain for a while. The government was shrewd enough not to let go of the revenues from alcohol, and so was determined to open the bars by Christmas and New Year. The schools will partially start functioning from New Year onwards though it will be ‘phydigital’ (physical plus digital) in operation. Ditto for software companies. However, no decision has yet been taken on the opening of cinemas. We hold the new normal with the old normal while helping ourselves by being amnesiac about the in-between period as an abnormal interregnum. Anyways, from no-hope, a year ago, to more hope coming year, haven’t we actually reversed from the apocalyptic to regeneration? The fear that gripped our collective psyche in the initial days of the lockdown now seems to be a little distant. It seemed like a nightmare, from which we thought we could barely escape. Perhaps at that time, the distant spectacles of mass funerals and flight of migrant laborers over-stressed the people who were holed up inside their private zones. One possible reason for this fear is the collapse of the social in the wake of the pandemic. Until then, did anyone realize how unbearable was the dissolution of the social? What would be a better norm for the return of the social than the opening of theatres? It provides the humans with an appeal for the erotics of spatial, a sensual realm of coming together. Cinema theatres are one such space that can easily help habituate everyone to be part of the public. Theatres are a 20th-century phenomenon. They came up at a time when the idea of mass had such a serious gravitational pull-whether it is in politics or art. It is true that towards the end of the last century, where user–centred, interactive technologies had swayed into prominence; ideas like de-massification became a trend. Individualized experience was gaining prominence. The OTT release replaced public viewing with an individualized screen experience. It was well-received by those who had the necessary facilities. Consumer capitalism has stealthily advanced this theory about the customized and personalized experience as something precious and premium. Such experiences come with different price tags and it is bound to be inequitable. Accentuation of this novelty in experience can turn out to be absolutely abnormal and not to say equally absurd if it persists in the same fashion even after we return to full-fledged social life. Meanwhile, all this invariably depends on how much the SMS for safety (sanitizer-mask-social distance) will be de-stressed. When will we really start unmasking? During one of his briefings in the early phase of lockdown, the chief minister had intimated the public about wearing masks as a lifestyle and he was impressing upon the point that in some places it was a practice. When wearing masks becomes an imposition, it may not be accepted by all. In the West itself, there seems to be a serious discontent against such state-imposed practices. However, masks are being marketed as a fashion-wear commodity, and how best the fashion industry can bring in an attitudinal shift and reinforce this idea is to be seen. With the electioneering beginning for the coming assembly elections, the hope is that street politics will return with gusto. It is my belief that public have more penchant for affective politics than for the bio-politics of care. It is because in street politics, there is a real manifestation of get-togetherness and the sensuality inherent to it demonstrate the species virtue of being humans. (The author is an independent media researcher and social observer)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/an-abnormal-interregnum/articleshow/80058367.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: For farmers, New Year will have to wait||NEW DELHI: For Sukhdev Singh, a farmer from Moga, New Year’s Day was no different from all other days since November 26, when he started his protest at Singhu border. Sitting in his tractor-trolley, Sukhdev said, “It feels like any normal day to me. The new year will begin for us when our demands are met and we can return home. My five-year-old grandson, Armaan, is at home and we both miss each other a lot. But I told him that we will celebrate only after the victory of the farmers.” Most farmers at the protest site said New Year’s Day did not hold any significance in their lives as their aim was withdrawal of the three farm laws. The only special thing to happen on Friday was nagar kirtan (religious procession). Harinder Singh, a farmer from Khairpur Jalta village in Patiala, said, “We did not celebrate New Year’s Day as we are fighting for our rights. We took out a nagar kirtan to pray for our victory. However, 2021 will remain memorable for us and our future generations as we began the year with a unique protest by camping on the highway.” Jagat Singh, a farmer from Nawanshahr, said, “New Year’s Day doesn’t matter to us. We are here with one goal and no celebration can take place till it is achieved.” Amandeep Singh, a volunteer at a langar, said, “We change the menu of our langar daily. We didn’t cook anything special for New Year’s as all days are the same for us.” However, 2021 brought new hope for some farmers. “We hope our fate changes this year. We are eagerly waiting for the next round of talks with the government on January 4,” said Mahipal Singh, a native of Patti town in Tarn Taran district. The women in his family are also en route to join the protest. Preetpal Singh (34) said he and his family members go to Golden Temple on New Year’s Day every year to seek blessings. “This year, we are giving seva at Singhu border,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/for-farmers-new-year-will-have-to-wait/articleshow/80064949.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
January 2, 2021||Jaipur||Statutory panels remain headless, non-functional||Jaipur: Most of the statutory commissions and tribunals now remain headless in the state for a long time. The apathy of the successive governments towards such bodies has made them ineffective as there is neither chairman nor members appointed to discharge their constitutional responsibility. During the previous government also, appointments to such bodies were made only after the high court taking cognizance of the issue. The Ashok Gehlot government, which had completed its two years in the state, vouches for transparency, accountability and sensitivity in administration. But the government has so far ignored one of the main pillars of ‘good governance’, the statutory bodies. The Rajasthan State Human Rights Commission, Women’s Commission, Commission for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribe, have remained headless for a long time. Only the child rights committee had its chairperson appointed. In the Human Rights commission, after its chairman Justice Prakash Tatia resigned from the post in November 2019, member, Justice Mahesh Chandra Sharma, is officiating as the chairman. Both Justice Tatia and Justice Sharma were appointed to the commission by the previous government. But in the case of women’s commission and SC/ST commission, there is no chairperson or member appointed. The high court in its previous order said, “The statutes do not provide for, the discretion of the State Government, to keep the Commissions headless, for a long period of time, as these Commissions are provided with important public issues of examination, inspections, enquiries, collecting data, hearing and preparing reports, to be laid before the State Government. The State Government has no discretion to frustrate the mandate of the Statutes, in keeping these Commissions non-functional.” Court-appointed amicus curie in the previous suo motu petition, Prateek Kasliwal said, “The purpose of the statutory commissions and tribunals is to provide quick relief to the victims which will in turn advance the cause of governments in power. It should not be at the instance of courts such appointments be made.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/statutory-panels-remain-headless-non-functional/articleshow/80064961.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Many scrap their party plans to back farmers||NEW DELHI: Arvinder Kaur, a vendor manager in the retail sector in Canada, visits Delhi to celebrate the New Year with her family every alternate year. However, instead of partying this year, she and her family went to Singhu border on Friday to express solidarity with the farmers. Kaur, who had joined the farmers’ protest at Toronto on December 8, said she was fulfilling her wish to join the farmers at the border. Accompanied by 10 family members from Canada and Delhi, Kaur said, “We decided to celebrate New Year’s Day with the farmers at Singhu border.” Her brother Kulmeet Singh Bhalla, who lives in Rajouri Garden, said, “Every year, our entire family goes out for lunch on New Year’s, but this year we planned to have food with farmers.” Similarly, Sumeet Singh, a native of Amritsar working as a software engineer in the US, preponed his visit to India to be with the farmers at Singhu border. “I had initially planned to visit my hometown by January-end, but I reached Amritsar on Wednesday and came to Singhu border the next day. The farmers’ protest is turning into a people’s movement. Everyone knows that if the agri laws are not withdrawn, the price of essential commodities will go up,” he said. Even scores of Delhiites were at the border on Friday. Manmeet Singh, a resident of Tilak Nagar, said, “We go to the gurdwara on January 1 every year, but this time my wife, children and I came to Singhu border. How can we celebrate at home when the farmers are struggling in the chilling cold?” he asked. A group of Class X students had also come there with their teacher. “New Year’s has always been a grand affair for us as we organise a party. But this year, we took permission from our parents and came to Singhu border to make the farmers’ movement strong. Farmers are food providers and it is necessary for people from all backgrounds to stand with them,” said Shivani Dabas, a student. Their teacher, Satyaprakash Pandey, said, “I told my students to visit the protest site to understand the ground reality rather than believe in false news on social media. Students’ participation is needed to pressure the government into withdrawing the farm laws.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/many-scrap-their-party-plans-to-back-farmers/articleshow/80064969.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
January 2, 2021||Jaipur||Gold worth Rs 18 lakh seized at Jaipur airport||JAIPUR: The customs department seized gold at the Jaipur International Airport valued at Rs 18 lakh on Thursday night from a passenger who landed on a flight from Dubai. While no one was arrested, officials seized the precious metal. “Customs officers seized three pieces of wire made of gold with 99.5% purity weighing 343 gram and valued at Rs 17,62,677 from a passenger who arrived from Dubai. The passenger hails from Rampur in Uttar Pradesh and the gold wires were found concealed in the iron frame of his trolley bad. The gold has been seized, though no arrest is warranted in the case as the metal was valued below the threshold limit of Rs 20 lakh,” said an official of the customs department. Last week, three persons were detained at the Jaipur International Airport with over 700gm of gold valued at approximately Rs 36 lakh. A passenger arriving by Air India flight from Dubai was intercepted by the Customs on suspicious behaviour. Gold worth Rs 15.5 lakh was recovered from him while two more persons were detained as well and gold valued at Rs 20.5 lakh was seized from individuals Last year the customs department apprehended at least 30 people and seized around 40kg of gold. In the past few months, the customs department at the city airport has apprehended many people, especially those travelling from Thailand and Dubai, for smuggling gold. In 2019, around 9kg of gold brought illegally from outside the country was seized, while according to data available with the customs department, after a brief hiatus in 2017, at least 18-19kg of gold was seized by sleuths of customs in 2018. This was worth nearly Rs 7crore in the Indian market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gold-worth-rs-18l-seized-at-airport/articleshow/80064953.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Ajmer||RERA launches online facility for filing quarterly progress reports||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan real estate regulatory authority (RERA) has launched online facility for submission of quarterly progress reports (QPR) of registered projects from January 1. No offline reports will be accepted now onwards. The order issued by RERA said no fee is charged on the promoters for submitting online reports. But if the QPR has been submitted and the promoter wants to modify it, it will attract Rs 2,000 fee if editing is done before the end of next quarter and Rs 5,000 after the end of next quarter. As per Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Rules 2017, quarterly progress report for a quarter must be submitted within 15 days at the end of the quarter. QPR for October-December quarter is due on January 1 and needs to be submitted by January 15. All those promoters who had submitted offline QPR for earlier quarters had to submit it online the previous quarters as well, said the order issued by RERA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/rera-launches-online-facility-for-filing-quarterly-progress-reports/articleshow/80068192.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: A special langar that puts pride on everyone’s head||NEW DELHI: For the past 10 days, volunteers from Punjab have been holding a unique event called “pagdi langar” where they have been tying turbans for free from 9am to 5pm. This langar at Singhu border has been drawing a huge crowd. The volunteers say they have been tying turbans on nearly 250 people belonging to all religions daily. Bhupinder Singh Thind, a “coach” who runs a 15-day course at academies in Jalandhar and Ludhiana on tying turbans in various styles, is one of the volunteers. “The pagdi has a religious significance. It was a crown given to us by our Guru. For us, the turban is the most important thing and we take care of it in a proper manner. We don’t let anyone touch it,” he said. Thind said that tying a pagdi was an art as there were different styles. “The size and quality of cloth play an important role. From children to the elderly, people of all age groups get themselves enrolled for the course. However, I’m tying pagdi for free at Singhu border,” he added. Jagtar Singh, a resident of Ferozpur and another volunteer, said, “We have been maintaining a record of all people coming here to get turbans tied. We even tied pagdi on a few women who turned up. People from states like Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi have been visiting the langar.” Mahesh Kumar, an accountant in Haryana’s Bahadurgarh who visited Singhu border on Friday to express solidarity with the farmers, said, “Wearing a turban is a symbolic way of telling people that we are with the farmers.” Malkeet Singh, a farmer protesting at Singhu border for the past 10 days, said, “A turban is a gift to us from our Guru and a recognition of our religion. When I saw other people wearing a turban, even I came here to get one for myself.” Wearing a saffron-coloured turban, farmer Jugvinder Singh said, “For Sikhs, wearing a turban is a matter of pride. It is good that these volunteers are running the pagdi langar to help protesters in tying their turbans.” While the volunteers on Friday tied saffron-coloured turbans on people, the cloth’s colour keeps changing daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-special-langar-that-puts-pride-on-everyones-head/articleshow/80064977.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
January 2, 2021||Delhi||New Year Cheer: Delhi restaurants may get to serve liquor till 3am||NEW DELHI: Restaurants in Delhi might be able to serve liquor till 3am and alcohol service in open spaces like terraces could also become easier if the recommendations of an expert committee set up by Delhi government to suggest excise reforms are implemented. Restaurants and clubs are permitted to serve liquor till 1am at present and only bars within star hotels are allowed to function 24x7. The government panel has suggested that timings of bars in restaurants and clubs may be increased by two hours as in other metro cities and areas in NCR on payment of additional fees. The report noted that there being no explicit provision for grant of licence in open areas, liquor service could be permitted in open spaces such as terraces, balconies or lower areas of restaurants, clubs and hotels. These two suggestions are part of reforms suggested in the segment to usher in changes in liquor trade in keeping with the changing stature of the national capital. In September, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had constituted the committee under the chairmanship of the excise commissioner to suggest measures on augmenting state excise duty revenue and to recommend steps to ‘transform the nature of liquor trade commensurate to the changing stature of the capital’. TOI had first reported the expert committee’s recommendation on lowering the legal drinking age in Delhi from 25 years to 21, ensuring equitable availability of liquor in the city by ensuring at least three liquor vends in each of the 272 municipal wards and limiting the number of dry days to three in a year. The committee’s report has now been put in the public domain for comments from both stakeholders and the public till January 21. The report will then be submitted to Delhi government after 24 days and a final decision taken by the cabinet. The approved recommendations will form a part of the excise policy for 2021-22. The report also says that at present, the licence fee for restaurants holding a liquor permit was based on seat covers. The licence fee in premium areas like Khan Market or Connaught Place was the same as that in comparatively lower rental areas like northeast and outer Delhi. The committee advised a review of this system and the rationalisation of licence fee on the basis of area instead of seat covers. The panel also suggested measures for migration of the drinking population from hard liquor to soft liquor by rationalising the duty structure and reducing the different fees paid for beer, wine, etc. It also supported allowing departmental stores to sell beer, wine, etc. The report mentions that while per capita income or spending capacity of Delhiites is higher than in other metros, consumers in the capital have a limited choice. “The aim should be to incentivise the customer to move to a higher value product from the existing products, ensuring better quality product to the consumer as well as higher revenue to the government,” the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-year-cheer-city-restaurants-may-get-to-serve-liquor-till-3am/articleshow/80064973.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 2, 2021||Jaipur||RERA launches online facility for filing quarterly progress reports||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan real estate regulatory authority (RERA) has launched online facility for submission of quarterly progress reports (QPR) of registered projects from January 1. No offline reports will be accepted now onwards. The order issued by RERA said no fee is charged on the promoters for submitting online reports. But if the QPR has been submitted and the promoter wants to modify it, it will attract Rs 2,000 fee if editing is done before the end of next quarter and Rs 5,000 after the end of next quarter. As per Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Rules 2017, quarterly progress report for a quarter must be submitted within 15 days at the end of the quarter. QPR for October-December quarter is due on January 1 and needs to be submitted by January 15. All those promoters who had submitted offline QPR for earlier quarters had to submit it online the previous quarters as well, said the order issued by RERA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rera-launches-online-facility-for-filing-quarterly-progress-reports/articleshow/80064966.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Jodhpur||RERA launches online facility for filing quarterly progress reports||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan real estate regulatory authority (RERA) has launched online facility for submission of quarterly progress reports (QPR) of registered projects from January 1. No offline reports will be accepted now onwards. The order issued by RERA said no fee is charged on the promoters for submitting online reports. But if the QPR has been submitted and the promoter wants to modify it, it will attract Rs 2,000 fee if editing is done before the end of next quarter and Rs 5,000 after the end of next quarter. As per Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Rules 2017, quarterly progress report for a quarter must be submitted within 15 days at the end of the quarter. QPR for October-December quarter is due on January 1 and needs to be submitted by January 15. All those promoters who had submitted offline QPR for earlier quarters had to submit it online the previous quarters as well, said the order issued by RERA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/rera-launches-online-facility-for-filing-quarterly-progress-reports/articleshow/80068190.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Udaipur||RERA launches online facility for filing quarterly progress reports||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan real estate regulatory authority (RERA) has launched online facility for submission of quarterly progress reports (QPR) of registered projects from January 1. No offline reports will be accepted now onwards. The order issued by RERA said no fee is charged on the promoters for submitting online reports. But if the QPR has been submitted and the promoter wants to modify it, it will attract Rs 2,000 fee if editing is done before the end of next quarter and Rs 5,000 after the end of next quarter. As per Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Rules 2017, quarterly progress report for a quarter must be submitted within 15 days at the end of the quarter. QPR for October-December quarter is due on January 1 and needs to be submitted by January 15. All those promoters who had submitted offline QPR for earlier quarters had to submit it online the previous quarters as well, said the order issued by RERA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/rera-launches-online-facility-for-filing-quarterly-progress-reports/articleshow/80068191.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 2 dupe youth of Rs 8 lakh in lieu of clearing exam, held||JAIPUR: Two conmen involved in duping an aspirant, who had appeared for the JEN recruitment exam, of Rs 8 lakh were arrested by the Jawahar Circle police on Friday. The duo had duped him on pretext of changing the OMR sheet of the aspirant. Both will be produced in a local court on Saturday. According to police, the two accused were also preparing for various competitive exams in Jaipur. The victim approached Jawahar Circle police station on Thursday and lodged an FIR stating that two youths came to him and asked him if he needed to clear the JEN recruitment exam. “Both promised that they will change OMR sheet of the aspirant and will insert an OMR sheet which will help him score good marks to clear the exam. They asked for Rs 8 lakh from the victim,” said police. Police arrested the two, identified as — Ajay Meena (25), a resident of Tajpura, Bamnavas in Sawai Madhopur and Kamal Meena (24), a resident of Bayana in Bharatpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-dupe-youth-of-rs-8l-in-lieu-of-clearing-exam-held/articleshow/80064970.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||MVD services go online||Thiruvananthapuram: In a big relief to citizens, motor vehicles department (MVD) has shifted several of its services online by ensuring that e-office facility is present in all of its offices. Services like renewal of licence, change of address, duplicate licenses can be done online and a personal appearance of the applicant will be required in cases that are suspicious or if there is a lack of clarity. By remitting postage charges along with application fee, the licence will be sent by post to the applicant. For renewing licence that has been uploaded in Sarathi software, it would be enough to scan the eye test certificate and upload it. For citizens residing abroad, they need to obtain eye test certificate from respective countries from a recognized doctor and upload it online. From January 1, pollution check certificate will be issued in centralized manner by MVD via pollution testing centres. Issuing driving licence online will not only help candidates avoid the pain of visiting offices with necessary documents, but also avoid the middlemen. MVD will also end the manual practice of verifying vehicle documents on road by replacing it with automatic verification by capturing the image of the vehicle and then analyzing it using systems that use AI. MVD will install 700 new cameras that can identify vehicle number plates (automatic number plate recognizing cameras) across Kerala and set up control rooms in all districts for the purpose, under Safe Kerala project. Cameras will read number plates and immediately generate details at control room including registration details, details of tax paid, insurance coverage, pollution certificate, validity of permit for commercial vehicles, fitness certificate and previous history of offence, if any.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/mvd-services-go-online/articleshow/80064048.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Delhi||Delhi model: Manish Sisodia invites Uttarakhand minister for debate||NEW DELHI: Deputy CM and education minister Manish Sisodia on Friday wrote a letter to Uttarakhand urban development minister Madan Kaushik and invited him for an open debate on ‘Kejriwal model v/s Trivendra Rawat model’ on January 4. He also invited him to have a discussion on Delhi’s development on January 6 where he said, he would show him the work AAP government has done in government schools, hospitals and on water, electricity, women safety and other fronts. Sisodia stated that “the Trivendra Rawat government has not done any work for the people of Uttarakhand in the last four years and people call him zero-work CM.” Uttarakhand is going to witness assembly election early next year and AAP wants to contest it. AAP believes that it can woo voters on the basis of the work done by its government in Delhi where a large number of people belonging to Uttarakhand live. Sisodia had visited Uttarakhand recently. Saying that the Uttarakhand minister had given him a challenge for debate, Sisodia asserted he was very happy to learn about the offer. “I am happy to know that you want to discuss education, health, electricity, water and other development issues,” Sisodia wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-model-sisodia-invites-ukhand-minister-for-debate/articleshow/80064985.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: 16-yr-old boy drugged and sodomised||JAIPUR: A 16-year-old teenager boy was drugged and sodomised allegedly by a 24-year-old man at the latter’s residence situated at Kardhani police station area in the city. Three days after the incident, the family of the minor lodged a case at the Kardhani police station on Thursday. According to the police, the minor boy got in touch with the accused identified as Neeraj Mishra through a social networking site. "Both were having conversion and chatting for a long time, thus, they also exchanged their phone numbers," said a senior police officer on Friday. As per the FIR, the accused Mishra invited the teenager to have dinner. "It is alleged in the FIR that the accused called up the boy and asked him to come for dinner. Both had dinner and later Neeraj took him to a room on the terrace of his house," the officer added. "At the terrace, Neeraj offered him a soft drink which was drugged. Thereafter, the teenager boy felt drowsy and that’s when the accused started molesting him. When the boy resisted, he was thrashed. Anyhow, he managed to reach his home situated in Raja Park and narrated his plight to the parents," the officer stated. Initially, the boy kept mum but after the parents inquired him, he narrated his plight. The family was also reluctant to take up the case initially but they lodged a case of sodomy on Thursday . The boy also claimed that the accused attempted to strangulate him and threatened him to keep mum else he will have to face dire consequences. "We have lodged a case under appropriate sections of POCSO Act and IPS and the accused would be arrested soon," said a senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/16-yr-old-boy-drugged-and-sodomised/articleshow/80064979.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan roadways smartcards to help cops execute warrants quickly||JAIPUR: Policemen from the rank of constable to inspector will now be able to travel in the RSRTC buses within the state by using an RFID card. In order to ensure faster execution of warrants, save time and avoid confrontation of policemen on duty with the bus staff, the state government is coming up with a facility of providing smartcards to them. The RSRTC too has issued directions in this regard on Friday. The welfare wing of police department has already forwarded a proposal to the state government in this regard which has been given in-principle approval. As per the plan, Rs 200 per month will be deducted from the salary of police staff availing the facility, while the remaining amount would be borne by the state government. “In the earlier system, a policeman on duty going to execute number of warrants in a city in Rajasthan had to get RSRTC warrants to claim his free travel. The cop had to undergo a tedious task of paper work. But this card facility will enable him a free travel within the state for official and personal work,” Bhupendra Dak, ADG, police and welfare, told TOI on Friday. Senior police officers stated that many a times a constable gets five to six warrants of different districts to be executed. “After this smartcard facility he would be able to travel without much hassle. Also this will benefit policemen to make their court attendance in cities and courts of their previous postings,” an officer added. He added that this facility will also save time of cops on duty and will ensure faster execution of warrants. “The proposal has been approved by state government and will be implemented soon,” said an officer. Meanwhile, RSRTC officials said they are awaiting final nod from state government to issue orders. “Over 90,000 policemen in state from constable to inspector rank would avail the services at Rs 300 per month out of which Rs 200 will be paid by the cops and Rs 100 by government,” said Rajeshwar Singh, CMD, RSRTC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/roadways-smartcards-to-help-cops-execute-warrants-quickly/articleshow/80064975.cms||Ashish Mehta
January 2, 2021||Kochi||Best 10 Books Of 2020||Puttu - Vinoy Thomas Vinoy is one of the finest voices in Malayalam and Puttu, which means anthill, is his second novel. Here Vinoy weaves multiple threads to tell the story of the human race through lives of migrant settlers. Murinavu - Manoj Kurur His first novel, 'Nilam Poothu Malarnna Naal', narrated the lives of people in Sangam age. Murinavu, too, is historical fiction that portrays the people in central Kerala when Budhdhist culture was widespread. Chayamaranam - Praveen Chandran Malayalam does not have many books that fall in the literary crime fiction genre. This crime novel by Praveen Chandran is at once entertaining and thrilling. Budhapatham - V Shinilal One of the finest short story writers in Malayalam, this is the latest collection by Shinilal. His writing is political but the literary merit is never compromised. French Kiss - Mini P C Humorous and filled with social satire, Mini P C's stories are markedly different from women’s writing currently seen in Malayalam. Urumbu Desham - Vinod Krishna Vinod Krishna is one of the notable faces among new-generation writers in Kerala and Urumbu Desham is a beautiful collection of stories. The Cock is the Culprit - Unni R Translated by J Devika, Unni R's first novel can be seen as an allegory of contemporary India. A beautiful translation of an urgent novel that retains the soul of the original. The Memory Police - Yoko Ogawa Though written in 1994, the novel's English translation by Stephen Snyder was published in 2020 and shortlisted for the Booker Prize. An essential read as the world makes the shift towards right-wing totalitarianism. The Discomfort of Evening - Marieke Lukas Rijneveld Translated by Michele Hutchison from Dutch, the 2020 Booker Prize-winning novel portrays the inner world of a girl living in a village farmhouse. Even nature and animals appear as characters. These Our Bodies Possessed by Light - Dharini Bhasker Tells the story of five women in a family abandoned by a man who sets out to be an artist. Poetic and poignant, the book was in the JCB Prize shortlist this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/best-10-books-of-2020/articleshow/80058423.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Budget session to begin on January 8||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The budget session of Kerala assembly will begin on January 8 with the address by governor Arif Mohammed Khan. A meeting of the state cabinet recommended the governor to convene the session from January 8. The budget for 2021-22 will be presented by finance minister T M Thomas Isaac, along with vote on accounts for four months. Considering the confusion arose while convening a special session of the assembly on December 31, the chief minister’s office is learnt to have obtained the informal nod from Raj Bhavan for the dates of the session. Though there is only seven-day notice instead of 15-days’ notice for convening a session as per precedence, the governor is unlikely to object to the dates. The plan of the government is to hold general discussion on budget for three days from January 18 and defer detailed discussion and voting for June after the new government assumes office in the last week of May. The finance minister has already clarified that he would present a full budget which comprises special projects to address issues of development, women empowerment and employment. This will be the 12th budget to be presented by Isaac and the minister has already begun work on budget at the Guest House, Vizhinjam, where had spent days preparing budget in previous years too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/budget-session-to-begin-on-jan-8/articleshow/80064054.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Budget session to begin on January 8||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The budget session of Kerala assembly will begin on January 8 with the address by governor Arif Mohammed Khan. A meeting of the state cabinet recommended the governor to convene the session from January 8. The budget for 2021-22 will be presented by finance minister T M Thomas Isaac, along with vote on accounts for four months. Considering the confusion arose while convening a special session of the assembly on December 31, the chief minister’s office is learnt to have obtained the informal nod from Raj Bhavan for the dates of the session. Though there is only seven-day notice instead of 15-days’ notice for convening a session as per precedence, the governor is unlikely to object to the dates. The plan of the government is to hold general discussion on budget for three days from January 18 and defer detailed discussion and voting for June after the new government assumes office in the last week of May. The finance minister has already clarified that he would present a full budget which comprises special projects to address issues of development, women empowerment and employment. This will be the 12th budget to be presented by Isaac and the minister has already begun work on budget at the Guest House, Vizhinjam, where had spent days preparing budget in previous years too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/budget-session-to-begin-on-jan-8/articleshow/80067158.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Jaipur||Rise in gold prices drawing firms’ interest in Rajasthan mines||JAIPUR: With gold price rising, queries from companies for exploration of the yellow metal in Rajasthan’s Bhukia gold mines has increased in recent months. The lower gold content of 1.97 gram per tonne of ore in the block against the commercial viability of 3 gram has now become viable as prices have jumped to over Rs 50,000 per 10 gram. With the macro-economic conditions of higher liquidity, depreciating dollar and stimulus measures to revive growth in the world providing the tailwind, there is an optimism that gold prices would stay firm in foreseeable future. But the state government does not want to rush into auctioning the blocks as it wants to have the legal case involving the joint venture partner of Australian miner Indo Gold for the block settled first. The case is scheduled to be heard on January 5, 2021. “Gold price appreciation in the past one year has certainly made our mines commercially viable. There is now an increased investor appetite for the mines and we will soon lay out a schedule for offering the blocks for auction,” said Ajitabh Sharma, principal secretary, department of mines and petroleum. He said as per the department’s estimates, the Bhukia gold mines has reserves of over Rs 1 lakh core (about 208 tonnes of gold) but there is a possibility the deposits can rise significantly as we mine deeper. Geological Survey of India (GSI) had undertaken 13 projects during 1992-2010 and submitted 12 exploration reports to Department of Mining and Geology of Rajasthan. In the 128 boreholes, the survey found the grades as well as thickness of the ore bodies were generally increasing with depth, meaning the presence of more gold content. Several attempts were made in the past for mining the yellow metal. Indo Gold, which had tied up with Indian company Metal Mining India Ltd (MMIL), was considered to be the best attempt to achieve that. In fact, 207 sq km area as reconnaissance permit (RP) was sanctioned to MMIL for three years in 2004. MMIL after reconnaiance survey applied prospecting license (PL) in 2008. But the PL application for 21.07 sq km was cancelled following discrepancies in the name of the company. MMIPL filed writ petition in Jodhpur high court against the cancellation order. A senior official of mines department said that they can still go ahead and start the auction process but that may not attract the maximum response it wants because of the legal case pending. “We can still go ahead with auctioning the blocks but we want to offer them clean, free from any legal or other issues, to investors. That would generate higher interest,” said the official. Dhani-Basri blocks in Dausa district also has reserves of around 5.13 tonnes with gold contents of 1.27 gram per tonne. While this is commercially not viable, the value is estimated to be over Rs 3200 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rise-in-gold-prices-drawing-firms-interest-in-raj-mines/articleshow/80064983.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
January 2, 2021||Kochi||Help positively a call away||Anshad Ali, 29, hailing from Muppainad in Wayanad, has been one of the first Covid‐19 patients in the district, after testing positive on March 29. But he has chosen not to end his brush with the pandemic even nine months after his recovery. Ali has been helping other infected people fight the fear and stress associated with the disease by offering tele‐ counselling service, mostly to anxious expats who have to undergo quarantine and treatment away from their families. With various organizations circulating his mobile number in WhatsApp groups, Ali has often been the first person called by many on getting their Covid positive test results. “I have been trying to spread positive messages to those who test positive by narrating my experience. Several patients get stressed up when they fail to test negative even after 20 days in the hospital and when I tell them that I was hospitalized for 27 days they become a bit relaxed,” Ali said. Ali, who is running a tea import and re‐ export business in UAE, said he has been continuing with tele‐counseling even after his return to UAE. “I still get calls from people who have tested positive…. Many of them are still keeping in touch,” he said. Ali has been active in encouraging Covid recovered persons for plasma donation through a WhatsApp group of recovered persons of which he is an admin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/help-positively-a-call-away/articleshow/80058442.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Lowest Covid count in 6 weeks, 2021 starts high on hope||BHOPAL: New Year started on a positive note as after more than 47 days, less than 800 fresh cases were reported in the state in a single day on January 1. A total 780 people tested positive for Covid-19, taking the count of positive patients in the state to 2,42,571 on Friday. It was on November 16 that 597 fresh cases were reported in state, since then more than 800 cases were reported every day in the state. And not only this — in another silver lining, the single day positivity rate for Covid-19 was less than 3 per cent on Friday, for the first time since more than two months. Overall, a total 28,750 samples were tested on Friday, of which 780 tested positive—thus the positivity rate — the number of people found positive out of every 100 samples tested for Friday — was 2.7 per cent. This has been above 3 per cent for the entire month of December and November as well. And on Friday, too, the number of people recovering from Covid-19 in a single day outnumbered the number of people testing positive. Against 780 fresh cases reported on Friday, a total 900 people recovered from the infection, taking the tally of recoveries to 2,29,731. The overall recovery rate of Covid-19 in the state also reached 94.7% on January 1. Apart from the fresh cases, 12 casualties were also reported in the state. With these new casualties, the Covid death toll in the state reached 3,618. Fresh cases were reported from 48 of the 52 districts of the state on Friday. Districts where no new cases were reported include Sidhi, Mandla, Dindori and Burhanpur. New cases were reported in double figures from 18 districts. The highest number of cases were reported from Indore where 219 people tested positive, followed by Bhopal where 147 people tested positive and then Rewa where 39 people tested positive and Khargone where 23 people tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/less-than-800-new-cases-in-mp-3-1-day-positivity-rate-after-2-months/articleshow/80064049.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana records more recoveries than new Covid-19 cases||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Friday reported more recoveries in the last 24 hours than cases, as the state reported 461 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths. A total of 617 patients recovered from the virus, taking the cumulative numbers to 2,79,456, while the total coronavirus caseload rose to 2,86, 815. Three deaths were reported during the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 1,544. The recovery rate has gone over 97 percent as against the national average of 96 per cent. The number of active cases in the state has also dropped to 5,815, including 3,674 who are in home or institutional isolation. Samples tested per million population ratio increased further to 1,86,048. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) reported 108 new cases in the last 24 hours. Out of 8,583 beds available in the 61 government hospitals treating Covid, 7,834 beds were vacant. A total of 749 people underwent treatment in these hospitals. In 219 private hospitals treating Covid patients, only 1,392 beds were occupied. Out of 7,790 beds, 6,389 were vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-more-recoveries-than-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/80065002.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Pune||Night curfew effect: 64% drop in drunk driving cases on New Year’s Eve in Pune||PUNE: Strict curbs on movement and assembly of people, besides general wariness due to the pandemic, contributed to a 64% plunge in drunk driving cases registered on this New Year’s Eve. The Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad police registered a combined total of just 212 cases during the night intervening Thursday and Friday. The Pune police booked 132 cases, while 80 were registered in Pimpri Chinchwad police limits. In 2019-20, as many as 460 and 124 cases, respectively, were registered. The Pune rural police registered five cases of drunk driving — four in Khed and one in Bhigwan. Under Section 185 of the Motor Vehicles Act, the legal limit is 30mg of alcohol per 100ml of blood. In a departure from regular drunk driving checks, the Pimpri Chinchwad police deployed eight ambulances with technicians to collect and test blood samples of suspected drunk drivers. Their Pune counterparts used disposable nozzles for Breathalyzers. Deputy commissioner of Pune police (traffic) Rahul Shrirame told TOI they had also considered deploying ambulances. “But it was not feasible, as we deployed personnel on other duties such as bandobast for the Koregaon Bhima anniversary, security and VVIP movement,” Shrirame said. Night curfew effect: Drunk driving cases down by 64%They zeroed-in on Breathalyzers fitted with extended disposable nozzles. “We provided 100 nozzles to each of the 23 traffic divisions and issued strict instructions on their usage and disposal to the personnel,” Shrirame said. The DCP attributed the sharp drop in cases to people ringing in the New Year at home, restrictions on Fergusson College Road, Jangli Maharaj Road and MG Road, and closure of hotels, restaurants, and pubs by 11pm. “All these played a vital role in preventing large numbers of people from gathering on the streets,” he said. The Pune police deployed 600 personnel, including 80 officers, at various checkpoints across the city. “These 132 cases will be sent to the motor vehicle court for further action. No fatal accidents were reported,” Shrirame added. His Pimpri Chinchwad counterpart, DCP Sudhir Hiremath, said they too had made use of disposable nozzles, apart from the ambulance teams. “Of the 80 cases, 50 were booked by the traffic branch and the rest were registered by various police stations,” Hiremath said. “The traffic branch also challaned 3,298 offenders and collected fines to the tune of Rs12.8 lakh, and also took preventive action against 55 people,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/night-curfew-effect-64-drop-in-drunk-driving-cases-on-new-years-eve-in-city/articleshow/80064993.cms||Asseem Shaikh
January 2, 2021||Hyderabad||SBI asked to pay up Rs 1.2 lakh for cancelling insurance policy||HYDERABAD: A district consumer forum here has directed the State Bank of India (SBI) and SBI Life Insurance to release the original title deed and pay Rs 1.2 lakh to a complainant for unilaterally cancelling the insurance policy of her husband on the home loan and for forcing them to clear the pending loan amount after his death. J Sujatha, the complainant, submitted that her husband, Chinna Venkata Ramana, obtained a housing loan for Rs 8.38 lakh on August 4, 2011, from SBI (earlier SBH), Dabeerpura branch along with the loan risk insurance coverage (Suraksha Loan). Sujatha claimed that her husband paid EMIs regularly until he fell ill and passed away on September 12, 2018. After the death of her husband, Sujatha said that she approached the bank with the death certificate of her husband and requested the officials to waive off the outstanding balance under the risk coverage and release the property documents. After receiving no satisfactory response, she even filed an RTI with the bank to get more details. Sujatha alleged that the bank failed to intimate the complainant about the cancellation of the insurance policy and that Rs 8,958 was deducted towards the Suraksha Insurance for the first year. Claiming that despite having Suraksha coverage, the bank representatives have been visiting regularly and harassing her and her children, she filed the complaint seeking relief. SBI submitted that the complainant’s husband was aware of the denial of insurance policy and added that he was a wilful defaulter. SBI Life Insurance, meanwhile, said that there is no relationship between them and the complainant. During the trial, the bench noticed that an outstanding amount of Rs 13, 653 was shown against the Suraksha Insurance loan in the Demand Notice dated June 8, 2017, issued to the complainant’s husband. “Demanding outstanding dues against the Suraksha Loan in the Demand Notice dated June 8, 2017, clearly shows acceptance of the policy by the insurer in this case,” said the bench, and added that the complainant is entitled to invoke the insurance policy after the death of her husband.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sbi-asked-to-pay-up-rs-1-2l-for-cancelling-insurance-policy/articleshow/80064995.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
January 2, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Customs to question UAE Consulate drivers||KOCHI: Customs will interrogate two drivers employed by UAE Consulate, Thiruvananthapuram as part of its investigation into the smuggling of US Dollars to Egypt by Khalid, former finance head of the consulate. Notices were issued to the drivers of Consul General and Admin Attaché to appear at customs office in Kochi on Monday for interrogation. The move follows confession statements given by Swapna Suresh and P S Sarith, key accused in the gold smuggling case and former employees of the consulate. Both said that Consul General and Admin Attaché had smuggled currencies while they travelled from to UAE from the capital. They had told that Khalid had travelled to Cairo via Muscat with $1.9 lakh, concealed in his baggage in Aug 2019. It was the kickbacks they received from Unitac Builders for allotting Wadakkancherry LIFE Mission project. Unitac Builder MD Santhosh Eappen had said that he had placed the money baggage into Khalid’s car when they met in Thiruvananthapuram. It is learnt that Customs got new leads after questioning Swapna and Sarith recently. Sources said that the Admin Attaché and Consul General had arranged dollars from some persons in the capital and the agency hopes to find them by interrogating the drivers. “Customs had questioned the drivers in the gold smuggling case. They will be aware of the currency suppliers as they had collected baggage from certain persons in the capital several times at the directive of Consul General. Customs could find leads about Consulate staff and diplomats who supported illegal activities using their diplomatic privileges,” said a source. Earlier, there were reports that speaker P Sreeramakrishnan would be interrogated by customs following the revelations made by Swapna and Sarith about influential persons in the state. Customs said nothing has been decided yet and there are a set of procedures it has to follow in such a case. Meanwhile, a notice was issued to assistant protocol officer MS Harikrishnan to appear before Customs on Tuesday as part of gold smuggling probe. Since several diplomatic baggage were sent by UAE Consulate staff in violation of protocols, customs is likely to collect details of goods imported via diplomatic channel with the permission of protocol department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/customs-to-question-uae-consulate-drivers/articleshow/80064064.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Customs to question UAE Consulate drivers||KOCHI: Customs will interrogate two drivers employed by UAE Consulate, Thiruvananthapuram as part of its investigation into the smuggling of US Dollars to Egypt by Khalid, former finance head of the consulate. Notices were issued to the drivers of Consul General and Admin Attaché to appear at customs office in Kochi on Monday for interrogation. The move follows confession statements given by Swapna Suresh and P S Sarith, key accused in the gold smuggling case and former employees of the consulate. Both said that Consul General and Admin Attaché had smuggled currencies while they travelled from to UAE from the capital. They had told that Khalid had travelled to Cairo via Muscat with $1.9 lakh, concealed in his baggage in Aug 2019. It was the kickbacks they received from Unitac Builders for allotting Wadakkancherry LIFE Mission project. Unitac Builder MD Santhosh Eappen had said that he had placed the money baggage into Khalid’s car when they met in Thiruvananthapuram. It is learnt that Customs got new leads after questioning Swapna and Sarith recently. Sources said that the Admin Attaché and Consul General had arranged dollars from some persons in the capital and the agency hopes to find them by interrogating the drivers. “Customs had questioned the drivers in the gold smuggling case. They will be aware of the currency suppliers as they had collected baggage from certain persons in the capital several times at the directive of Consul General. Customs could find leads about Consulate staff and diplomats who supported illegal activities using their diplomatic privileges,” said a source. Earlier, there were reports that speaker P Sreeramakrishnan would be interrogated by customs following the revelations made by Swapna and Sarith about influential persons in the state. Customs said nothing has been decided yet and there are a set of procedures it has to follow in such a case. Meanwhile, a notice was issued to assistant protocol officer MS Harikrishnan to appear before Customs on Tuesday as part of gold smuggling probe. Since several diplomatic baggage were sent by UAE Consulate staff in violation of protocols, customs is likely to collect details of goods imported via diplomatic channel with the permission of protocol department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/customs-to-question-uae-consulate-drivers/articleshow/80068813.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Pune||Pune: Ajit Pawar wants ‘Tata’ to go slow on power output from Mulshi||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday said “Tata” should use less water for generating electricity from the Mulshi dam and provide the saved water for drinking requirements to Pune. “The water from Mulshi dam, from which electricity is generated, should be given to Pune. Currently, there is surplus electricity in the state and the country. So, Tata (Tata power) should stop generating electricity from (the Mulshi) water,” the deputy CM said, while speaking at the inauguration of the Bhama Askhed dam water supply project on Friday. Pawar shared the dais with the leader of opposition, Devendra Fadnavis, at the event. During his speech, Pawar also referred to a proposal tabled by his party in the state assembly for allotting water from the Mulshi dam to Pune. Interestingly, Fadnavis was the chief minister of the state then. Pawar said around 5-7 TMC water can be used for meeting drinking water requirements in Pune. “The demand for water is likely to rise in Pune as 23 villages have been merged in the municipal limits. Farmers feel that water meant for irrigation will be diverted for the growing population of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. So, the proposal to bring Mulshi water to Pune for drinking was tabled,” he said. Pawar said he was in touch with the officer heading the committee to study the demand of getting Mulshi water to Pune. The report should be finalised and presented soon. He said the state government would not burden the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) with the water tariff charges for Bhama Askhed dam water. Around Rs 207 crore in water tariff, which the civic body was to pay to the state for using Bhama Askhed’s 2.6 TMC water for civic areas, will be waived off. “The PMC has spent a lot of money in land acquisition for this project. Asking it to pay around Rs 207 will not be viable financially. So, the state government will positively consider waiving off the charges. The members of the state assembly will be convinced for this waiver,” Pawar said. Fadnavis said increasing urbanisation had pushed up water demand in the city. “Pune is expanding. The water need for the city has gone up too. Proper management of water will be a key in future growth of Pune, which has the potential to become the city with most sustainable development,” he said. When contacted, a representative of Tata Power said it was too late for a response on the power generation issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dy-cm-eyes-mulshi-water-for-pune-wants-tata-to-go-slow-on-power-generation/articleshow/80065004.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: Students still in holiday mood, only 5% attend classes on Day 1||BHOPAL: Reopening of colleges turned out to be a damp squib on Friday as hardly 5% students reached the campus. And even they left after hardly staying on campus for half an hour. TOI teams which visited government and private colleges in the state capital noticed that students were not interested in attending classes. “Even during normal days, students hardly attend classes, all the more so when it is the first day of the New Year. We will decide to attend classes later,” said Neeraj Sen, a student. At MVM College, a couple of students were spotted on the campus. “We have not come to attend classes. We were checking with the teachers whether regular classes have been opened. We are told that only for practicals, classes are opened. I will come with friends next week,” said Chand Meena, a student. Same was the situation at Hamidia College where students were not found. “Expecting students on January 1 is no less than foolish. This is a college, not school where students would come to attend classes. Students won't come as it is not mandatory for them to attend classes,” said a teaching faculty not wishing to be named. The situation was even worse in Govt Naveen College and Benazir College. “We have been waiting since morning for the students. There was no meaning of opening the colleges on January 1. Students have gone to celebrate the New Year. Go and check parks and malls, they will be seen loitering there,” reacted a senior professor on condition of anonymity. The situation was no different in Barkatullah University. In several departments, neither students nor teachers were available. “In BU, students do not come for practical work as the condition of laboratories is known to everyone. Being the first day of the New Year, it was not possible to see students,” said an employee. All government and non-government colleges in Madhya Pradesh opened from Friday. Classes will be held for practicals only from January 1 to 10. Classes for UG final year and PG third semester will begin on January 10. As per the government’s new guidelines, regular classes will start from January 10. After this, a disaster management meeting of all districts will be held on January 20. Thereafter, the college will decide to increase the number of regular classes after assessing the effect of corona cases. Opening of engineering, management, pharmacy colleges and polytechnics will be opened after assessing the situation. These colleges will also start under the guidelines issued by the government and the UGC. Colleges will be opened only with the consent of institutions and students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/students-still-in-holiday-mood-only-5-attend-classes-on-day-1/articleshow/80064059.cms||Ramendra Singh
January 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Youth raise funds for unpaid teachers||HYDERABAD: With teachers from budget schools being among the worst hit during the Covid-19 induced lockdown due to non-payment of salaries and terminations, youngsters from the twin cities have come together to raise funds through crowd-funding platforms. Two youngsters—Abhijit Biswas and Romila Gillella, who are former alumni of the Teach for India programme—started an initiative titled ‘Bharat Dekho’, that has now taken up the task to help teachers from budget schools, which accommodate close to 52 per cent of the state’s school children. “Being a teacher myself, I know the pain of a teacher, especially one from a low budget private school working hard but getting a salary less than that of a construction labour.er Currently, we are working towards understanding the other interrelated issues like unemployment, domestic violence, basic necessities etc,” said Gillella. The team of youngsters has identified 220 teachers from 30 schools and are doing their ground research to understand the depth of the crisis. “Our hope is to push the government and civil societies to act on our ground research. For now, our aim is to provide at least one month ration kit worth Rs 1,300 to all the families participating in this research project,” said Gillella. They are raising funds by floating petitions on various crowd-funding platforms. “We have been able to collect Rs 25,000 so far from different sources other than the fund raising platforms. We are not just helping them with ration and funds but are also documenting their stories so that the same can be highlight as part of academic research,” said Biswas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/youth-raise-funds-for-unpaid-teachers/articleshow/80065006.cms||Preeti Biswas
January 2, 2021||Kolkata||Shots ring out in Kharagpur, TMC man dies||Kharagpur: A round of firing occurred in Kharagpur Town’s Mathurakati area on Friday evening. Arjun Sankar (29), a resident of Subhaspalli area and local Trinamool worker, was found lying unconscious and later declared dead. Trinamool supporters went to the spot and held an agitation over his death. Residents heard a few gunshots, making them rush to the spot only to find Sankar lying unconscious on the roadside with two injury marks on his body. He was rushed to Kharagpur subdivisional hospital, where he was declared dead. Trinamool’s district president Ajit Maity said Sankar was a party worker. BJP’s district president Samit Dash said any death was unfortunate but there was no political link to Sankar’s death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shots-ring-out-in-kharagpur-tmc-man-dies/articleshow/80066150.cms||Sujay Khanra
January 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu salt makers in a fix as Centre takes tender way to lease pans||CHENNAI: The salt industry in Tamil Nadu is set to undergo a sea change, as the Centre is preparing to float tenders to lease out salt pans located on its lands. The move, however, has come under fire from existing small and marginal salt manufacturers, who fear they would be made to compete with corporate houses. Tamil Nadu is second only to Gujarat in salt production in the country and has salt pans spanning about 51,000 acres, of which 17,500 acres belong to the Centre. The remaining belong to the state government, port trust, or are privately-owned. Sources in deputy salt commissioner’s office said the drafts are indeed being prepared and that tenders would be floated soon, and added that the tender process would provide a fair opportunity to everyone. Existing small and marginal manufacturers, however, said most of the small players would be wiped out if their leases are not renewed as they would have to compete against firms with high capital. “Big firms will come, quote high rates and start reaping benefits from our pans from day one, though we spent decades to develop and build these pans,” said K Mariappan, a former member of the Central Advisory Board for Salt and director of SKMS Salt Works, Chennai and Vedaranyam. “It is unfair because existing manufacturers have invested years of labour and money to convert barren lands into salt pans. It takes at least five years to attain full production. How is it fair for them to come and take it away?” he asked. There are 3,464 salt-producing units in Tamil Nadu, of which 1,195 are recognized and 2,369 unrecognized. The state used to make an estimated 20 lakh tonnes of salt every year till 2019. Trouble arose when, in 2013, the Union ministry of commerce and industry announced that leases of its salt lands would not be renewed automatically and that further leases for a period of 20 years would be awarded after a tender process. Existing salt manufactures were also called upon “to hand over peaceful possession of the land” to the respective salt factory officers. Following the order, at least 400 manufacturers got stay orders in the Madras high court and continued the business. The leases of 600 more in Vedaranyam will be expiring by March 2021 and many among them are planning to go to court. However, at least 100 small manufacturers had to hand over their leased lands and quit the trade as they could not obtain interim court orders. “We resist because calling tenders would create an unhealthy and unequal competition. Unlike other industries such as the automobile, investment in this sector cannot be taken back because we plough our money into barren lands,” said M S Prakash, president of Tuticorin Salt Association. “It is not easy to match to their size and investment. We wonder if the authorities want to create a monopoly by removing us,” said M Kandaswamy, partner, S K Subbiah Pillai Salt Industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tn-salt-makers-in-a-fix-as-centre-takes-tender-way-to-lease-pans/articleshow/80067987.cms||Aditi R
January 2, 2021||Erode||Tamil Nadu salt makers in a fix as Centre takes tender way to lease pans||CHENNAI: The salt industry in Tamil Nadu is set to undergo a sea change, as the Centre is preparing to float tenders to lease out salt pans located on its lands. The move, however, has come under fire from existing small and marginal salt manufacturers, who fear they would be made to compete with corporate houses. Tamil Nadu is second only to Gujarat in salt production in the country and has salt pans spanning about 51,000 acres, of which 17,500 acres belong to the Centre. The remaining belong to the state government, port trust, or are privately-owned. Sources in deputy salt commissioner’s office said the drafts are indeed being prepared and that tenders would be floated soon, and added that the tender process would provide a fair opportunity to everyone. Existing small and marginal manufacturers, however, said most of the small players would be wiped out if their leases are not renewed as they would have to compete against firms with high capital. “Big firms will come, quote high rates and start reaping benefits from our pans from day one, though we spent decades to develop and build these pans,” said K Mariappan, a former member of the Central Advisory Board for Salt and director of SKMS Salt Works, Chennai and Vedaranyam. “It is unfair because existing manufacturers have invested years of labour and money to convert barren lands into salt pans. It takes at least five years to attain full production. How is it fair for them to come and take it away?” he asked. There are 3,464 salt-producing units in Tamil Nadu, of which 1,195 are recognized and 2,369 unrecognized. The state used to make an estimated 20 lakh tonnes of salt every year till 2019. Trouble arose when, in 2013, the Union ministry of commerce and industry announced that leases of its salt lands would not be renewed automatically and that further leases for a period of 20 years would be awarded after a tender process. Existing salt manufactures were also called upon “to hand over peaceful possession of the land” to the respective salt factory officers. Following the order, at least 400 manufacturers got stay orders in the Madras high court and continued the business. The leases of 600 more in Vedaranyam will be expiring by March 2021 and many among them are planning to go to court. However, at least 100 small manufacturers had to hand over their leased lands and quit the trade as they could not obtain interim court orders. “We resist because calling tenders would create an unhealthy and unequal competition. Unlike other industries such as the automobile, investment in this sector cannot be taken back because we plough our money into barren lands,” said M S Prakash, president of Tuticorin Salt Association. “It is not easy to match to their size and investment. We wonder if the authorities want to create a monopoly by removing us,” said M Kandaswamy, partner, S K Subbiah Pillai Salt Industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tn-salt-makers-in-a-fix-as-centre-takes-tender-way-to-lease-pans/articleshow/80067989.cms||Aditi R
January 2, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu salt makers in a fix as Centre takes tender way to lease pans||CHENNAI: The salt industry in Tamil Nadu is set to undergo a sea change, as the Centre is preparing to float tenders to lease out salt pans located on its lands. The move, however, has come under fire from existing small and marginal salt manufacturers, who fear they would be made to compete with corporate houses. Tamil Nadu is second only to Gujarat in salt production in the country and has salt pans spanning about 51,000 acres, of which 17,500 acres belong to the Centre. The remaining belong to the state government, port trust, or are privately-owned. Sources in deputy salt commissioner’s office said the drafts are indeed being prepared and that tenders would be floated soon, and added that the tender process would provide a fair opportunity to everyone. Existing small and marginal manufacturers, however, said most of the small players would be wiped out if their leases are not renewed as they would have to compete against firms with high capital. “Big firms will come, quote high rates and start reaping benefits from our pans from day one, though we spent decades to develop and build these pans,” said K Mariappan, a former member of the Central Advisory Board for Salt and director of SKMS Salt Works, Chennai and Vedaranyam. “It is unfair because existing manufacturers have invested years of labour and money to convert barren lands into salt pans. It takes at least five years to attain full production. How is it fair for them to come and take it away?” he asked. There are 3,464 salt-producing units in Tamil Nadu, of which 1,195 are recognized and 2,369 unrecognized. The state used to make an estimated 20 lakh tonnes of salt every year till 2019. Trouble arose when, in 2013, the Union ministry of commerce and industry announced that leases of its salt lands would not be renewed automatically and that further leases for a period of 20 years would be awarded after a tender process. Existing salt manufactures were also called upon “to hand over peaceful possession of the land” to the respective salt factory officers. Following the order, at least 400 manufacturers got stay orders in the Madras high court and continued the business. The leases of 600 more in Vedaranyam will be expiring by March 2021 and many among them are planning to go to court. However, at least 100 small manufacturers had to hand over their leased lands and quit the trade as they could not obtain interim court orders. “We resist because calling tenders would create an unhealthy and unequal competition. Unlike other industries such as the automobile, investment in this sector cannot be taken back because we plough our money into barren lands,” said M S Prakash, president of Tuticorin Salt Association. “It is not easy to match to their size and investment. We wonder if the authorities want to create a monopoly by removing us,” said M Kandaswamy, partner, S K Subbiah Pillai Salt Industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-salt-makers-in-a-fix-as-centre-takes-tender-way-to-lease-pans/articleshow/80065039.cms||Aditi R
January 2, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal Covid count nears 40,000 with 158 new cases||BHOPAL: The state capital on Thursday reported 158 new cases of Covid-19. Two more people died due to Covid-19, taking the death toll to 577 in the state capital. In Bhopal, 39,281 people have been infected with Covid-19 since the pandemic began. On Thursday, 154 people recovered from the infection, taking the tally of recoveries to 36,708. On Thursday, there were 1,996 active cases of Covid-19 in Bhopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/city-covid-count-nears-40k-with-158-new-cases/articleshow/80064075.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Pune||Katraj-Swargate BRTS lane deadlock continues||PUNE: The stalemate over the Katraj-Swargate Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) corridor continued into the New Year, with neither the civic body nor PMPML agreeing on when to start the oft-delayed service. Pune Municipal Corporation said it has handed over the lane to Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML), which refused to start the service on an “incomplete” corridor and said it would first focus on trial runs to ensure passenger safety. Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol stated earlier this week that the service would start on January 1. Come Friday, nothing changed — private vehicles were running on the corridor has they had done for the past few years. On Friday, V Kulkarni, head of PMC’s road department told TOI they had handed over the corridor to the transport body. “PMPML can start BRTS operations on Friday. We have not installed automated doors at the bus stops, but completed all other preparations,” Kulkarni said. “We cannot accept anything that is incomplete,” PMPML chairman and managing director Rajendra Jagtap said, adding, “We just cannot start the service without ensuring passenger safety on the corridor. For that, we need to conduct comprehensive test runs.” On Thursday one bus took a test run on the corridor in the presence of senior PMPML and PMC officials. On Friday, a few more buses had test runs. “We also need footpaths to allow commuters to safely enter and exit the corridor. We expect the trial runs to continue for a while. We will take this opportunity and make a note of the shortcomings, if any, and submit a report to the PMC. We will allow the regular service to start only after these problems are fixed,” Jagtap further said. The lack of automated doors at bus stops along the 5km corridor has been a sticking point. On Tuesday, TOI had reported that the officials were considering temporary fixes — grilles or shutters — to start the service as early as next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/katraj-swargate-brts-lane-deadlock-continues/articleshow/80065038.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 2, 2021||Pune||CR station manager falls for gift bait, loses Rs 21 lakh||Pune: A 51-year-old Central Railway station manager ended up losing Rs21 lakh after he fell for a false tale spun by fraudsters that he had won an SUV in a lucky draw. Inspector Ajay Bhosale of the Sangvi police told TOI, “The victim, a resident of Pimple Gurav, had booked an oximeter on August 20 through an online service provider and the same was delivered to him on August 27. The following day, a delivery person from the same online service provider came to his house with an oximeter. However, the victim did not accept it.” “Later, the same day, he received a call from a woman who represented herself as an employee of the online service provider. She informed him that he had won an SUV worth Rs16.9 lakh in a lucky draw for using the online platform. The woman gave him the option of either collecting his prize in cash equivalent to the SUV prize or the SUV itself. The victim opted for the latter,” Bhosale said. He said the caller then told the victim to transfer Rs 4,500 to a specific bank account towards processing fees. “The victim immediately transferred the amount. After that the woman and her two more accomplices started asking money under the guise of registration charges, GST, transaction code, intercity charges and forwarding charges,” Bhosale said, adding, “The victim had transferred the amount as the suspects assured him of refund.” On September 5, the victim was informed that his gift amount has been increased and he could get Rs52 lakh from the online service provider. “The suspects again took money from him under the pretext of various charges. Within 15 days he had transferred Rs21 lakh to five different bank accounts,” Bhosale said. Bhosale said that the man kept transferring money till he realized he was being cheated and approached the police. “Prima facie probe revealed that the amounts had been transferred to the bank accounts in Jharkhand,” Bhosale said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cr-station-manager-falls-for-gift-bait-loses-rs-21-lakh/articleshow/80065047.cms||Mihir Tanksale
January 2, 2021||Salem||Tamil Nadu salt makers in a fix as Centre takes tender way to lease pans||CHENNAI: The salt industry in Tamil Nadu is set to undergo a sea change, as the Centre is preparing to float tenders to lease out salt pans located on its lands. The move, however, has come under fire from existing small and marginal salt manufacturers, who fear they would be made to compete with corporate houses. Tamil Nadu is second only to Gujarat in salt production in the country and has salt pans spanning about 51,000 acres, of which 17,500 acres belong to the Centre. The remaining belong to the state government, port trust, or are privately-owned. Sources in deputy salt commissioner’s office said the drafts are indeed being prepared and that tenders would be floated soon, and added that the tender process would provide a fair opportunity to everyone. Existing small and marginal manufacturers, however, said most of the small players would be wiped out if their leases are not renewed as they would have to compete against firms with high capital. “Big firms will come, quote high rates and start reaping benefits from our pans from day one, though we spent decades to develop and build these pans,” said K Mariappan, a former member of the Central Advisory Board for Salt and director of SKMS Salt Works, Chennai and Vedaranyam. “It is unfair because existing manufacturers have invested years of labour and money to convert barren lands into salt pans. It takes at least five years to attain full production. How is it fair for them to come and take it away?” he asked. There are 3,464 salt-producing units in Tamil Nadu, of which 1,195 are recognized and 2,369 unrecognized. The state used to make an estimated 20 lakh tonnes of salt every year till 2019. Trouble arose when, in 2013, the Union ministry of commerce and industry announced that leases of its salt lands would not be renewed automatically and that further leases for a period of 20 years would be awarded after a tender process. Existing salt manufactures were also called upon “to hand over peaceful possession of the land” to the respective salt factory officers. Following the order, at least 400 manufacturers got stay orders in the Madras high court and continued the business. The leases of 600 more in Vedaranyam will be expiring by March 2021 and many among them are planning to go to court. However, at least 100 small manufacturers had to hand over their leased lands and quit the trade as they could not obtain interim court orders. “We resist because calling tenders would create an unhealthy and unequal competition. Unlike other industries such as the automobile, investment in this sector cannot be taken back because we plough our money into barren lands,” said M S Prakash, president of Tuticorin Salt Association. “It is not easy to match to their size and investment. We wonder if the authorities want to create a monopoly by removing us,” said M Kandaswamy, partner, S K Subbiah Pillai Salt Industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tn-salt-makers-in-a-fix-as-centre-takes-tender-way-to-lease-pans/articleshow/80067992.cms||Aditi R
January 2, 2021||Trichy||Tamil Nadu salt makers in a fix as Centre takes tender way to lease pans||CHENNAI: The salt industry in Tamil Nadu is set to undergo a sea change, as the Centre is preparing to float tenders to lease out salt pans located on its lands. The move, however, has come under fire from existing small and marginal salt manufacturers, who fear they would be made to compete with corporate houses. Tamil Nadu is second only to Gujarat in salt production in the country and has salt pans spanning about 51,000 acres, of which 17,500 acres belong to the Centre. The remaining belong to the state government, port trust, or are privately-owned. Sources in deputy salt commissioner’s office said the drafts are indeed being prepared and that tenders would be floated soon, and added that the tender process would provide a fair opportunity to everyone. Existing small and marginal manufacturers, however, said most of the small players would be wiped out if their leases are not renewed as they would have to compete against firms with high capital. “Big firms will come, quote high rates and start reaping benefits from our pans from day one, though we spent decades to develop and build these pans,” said K Mariappan, a former member of the Central Advisory Board for Salt and director of SKMS Salt Works, Chennai and Vedaranyam. “It is unfair because existing manufacturers have invested years of labour and money to convert barren lands into salt pans. It takes at least five years to attain full production. How is it fair for them to come and take it away?” he asked. There are 3,464 salt-producing units in Tamil Nadu, of which 1,195 are recognized and 2,369 unrecognized. The state used to make an estimated 20 lakh tonnes of salt every year till 2019. Trouble arose when, in 2013, the Union ministry of commerce and industry announced that leases of its salt lands would not be renewed automatically and that further leases for a period of 20 years would be awarded after a tender process. Existing salt manufactures were also called upon “to hand over peaceful possession of the land” to the respective salt factory officers. Following the order, at least 400 manufacturers got stay orders in the Madras high court and continued the business. The leases of 600 more in Vedaranyam will be expiring by March 2021 and many among them are planning to go to court. However, at least 100 small manufacturers had to hand over their leased lands and quit the trade as they could not obtain interim court orders. “We resist because calling tenders would create an unhealthy and unequal competition. Unlike other industries such as the automobile, investment in this sector cannot be taken back because we plough our money into barren lands,” said M S Prakash, president of Tuticorin Salt Association. “It is not easy to match to their size and investment. We wonder if the authorities want to create a monopoly by removing us,” said M Kandaswamy, partner, S K Subbiah Pillai Salt Industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tn-salt-makers-in-a-fix-as-centre-takes-tender-way-to-lease-pans/articleshow/80067991.cms||Aditi R
January 2, 2021||Madurai||Tamil Nadu salt makers in a fix as Centre takes tender way to lease pans||CHENNAI: The salt industry in Tamil Nadu is set to undergo a sea change, as the Centre is preparing to float tenders to lease out salt pans located on its lands. The move, however, has come under fire from existing small and marginal salt manufacturers, who fear they would be made to compete with corporate houses. Tamil Nadu is second only to Gujarat in salt production in the country and has salt pans spanning about 51,000 acres, of which 17,500 acres belong to the Centre. The remaining belong to the state government, port trust, or are privately-owned. Sources in deputy salt commissioner’s office said the drafts are indeed being prepared and that tenders would be floated soon, and added that the tender process would provide a fair opportunity to everyone. Existing small and marginal manufacturers, however, said most of the small players would be wiped out if their leases are not renewed as they would have to compete against firms with high capital. “Big firms will come, quote high rates and start reaping benefits from our pans from day one, though we spent decades to develop and build these pans,” said K Mariappan, a former member of the Central Advisory Board for Salt and director of SKMS Salt Works, Chennai and Vedaranyam. “It is unfair because existing manufacturers have invested years of labour and money to convert barren lands into salt pans. It takes at least five years to attain full production. How is it fair for them to come and take it away?” he asked. There are 3,464 salt-producing units in Tamil Nadu, of which 1,195 are recognized and 2,369 unrecognized. The state used to make an estimated 20 lakh tonnes of salt every year till 2019. Trouble arose when, in 2013, the Union ministry of commerce and industry announced that leases of its salt lands would not be renewed automatically and that further leases for a period of 20 years would be awarded after a tender process. Existing salt manufactures were also called upon “to hand over peaceful possession of the land” to the respective salt factory officers. Following the order, at least 400 manufacturers got stay orders in the Madras high court and continued the business. The leases of 600 more in Vedaranyam will be expiring by March 2021 and many among them are planning to go to court. However, at least 100 small manufacturers had to hand over their leased lands and quit the trade as they could not obtain interim court orders. “We resist because calling tenders would create an unhealthy and unequal competition. Unlike other industries such as the automobile, investment in this sector cannot be taken back because we plough our money into barren lands,” said M S Prakash, president of Tuticorin Salt Association. “It is not easy to match to their size and investment. We wonder if the authorities want to create a monopoly by removing us,” said M Kandaswamy, partner, S K Subbiah Pillai Salt Industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-salt-makers-in-a-fix-as-centre-takes-tender-way-to-lease-pans/articleshow/80067988.cms||Aditi R
January 2, 2021||Pune||Cosmic huddle of planets among heavenly events||PUNE: A parade of celestial events is all set to unfold this year, and sky-gazers can scout for good watching grounds, whip out their binoculars, and ready their telescopes. The first interesting astronomical event will in February on the great conjunction of Saturn, Jupiter and Venus. Meteor showers that have drawn star-gazers will peak in August, and the zero shadow day will be witnessed on May 14. Four total eclipses are set to occur. But, not one can be observed in India. Director of Nehru Planetarium at Nehru Centre Arvind Paranjpye said the great conjunction is on February 10 and 11. Early risers will be rewarded with a unique spectacle. “Observing the eastern direction about 30 minutes before sunrise on February 10, one can see the thin lunar crescent, below which will be Saturn, then Jupiter and finally Venus. On February 11, Jupiter and Venus will be less than half a degree from each other. It will be a beautiful conjunction to watch as both are the top two brightest planets,” he said. A month later, on March 10, one can see Saturn and to its right will be the lunar crescent. Below it will be Jupiter and then Mercury. On March 11, the next day, the lunar crescent will be below and to the right of Mercury. Mars will be above the western horizon soon after sunset for nearly the entire night and it pairs up with other celestial objects. On April 17, Mars will be eclipsed by the moon. At about 5.30pm, the moon will block Mars behind it and by 7.15pm, Mars can be seen emerging from behind the moon. “Mars then pairs up with Venus on July 12. This will be another interesting event as the shining Venus will be seen alongside a muddy red Mars. Mars then pairs up with Mercury on August 19. It will be closest to Mercury at 8.48pm. In the evening of August 18 and 19, one has an excellent chance to see both. Mars again pairs up with Mercury on November 10, but that will be seen in the morning sky,” Paranjpye said. Meteor showers attract many people. Paranjpye said the Perseid meteor shower will peak on August 12 and 13, but this will be in the midst of the monsoon. Both the Leonid and Geminid showers in November will be washed out by bright moonlight. As the Earth and other planets go around the Sun in elliptical orbits, the distance between the planets and the Sun keeps changing. “The Earth will be closest to the Sun on January 2 in perihelion when it will be 147 million km away. It will reach its farthest point from the Sun called aphelion on July 6 and will be 152 million km away,” Paranjpye said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cosmic-huddle-of-planets-among-heavenly-events/articleshow/80065070.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 2, 2021||Kochi||Startups get their mojo back||In May, SectorQube, a startup based in Maker Village, the electronic hardware incubator, started manufacturing a product called Cogun that would help reduce unwanted contact with surfaces like doorknobs and elevator buttons. It wasn't rocket science but it was merely responding to the market situation. In a year that challenged their resilience, startups in the state showed resolve attracting more deals than ever. And the pandemic only provided them an opportunity to expand their portfolio. "There were simple improvisations, elegant customizations and fair innovations, starting from robotic solutions to simple smart touch devices. Most of these products touched the market and some even got exported," says Prasad Balakrishnan Nair, CEO of Maker Village. Among the practical solutions that hit the market were N95 respirators, sanitizing wipes and sprays. Companies designed and deployed bots that could assist with disinfection and delivery of meals in Covid facilities and carry out mass detection and fever monitoring in public spaces. "Startups faced a lot of difficulties, especially those catering to sectors like transportation and tourism. But most of them quickly adapted to the new situation. They were also able to raise funds despite the odds," says Sasi P M, CEO of Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM). Many hardware startups had trouble setting up distributor networks and sourcing components. Robin Alex Panicker, venture partner at Unicorn India, feels many startups expected things to take a turn for the worse but that never happened. "The number of deals is higher than last year though funds raised may be less," says Panicker. According to KSUM officials, startups in the state raised around Rs 412 crore in 2020. It was also the year success stories stopped revolving around major cities. VConsol, a product developed by Cherthala-based Techgentsia Software Solutions, won a national innovation challenge with prize money of Rs 1 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/startups-get-their-mojo-back/articleshow/80058458.cms||Binu Karunakaran
January 2, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: Disha police station records rise in number of cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: While crimes against women cases are on the decline, the number of petitions on family-related matters is on the rise, with as many as 1,594 applications received by the Disha police station in 2020, that is, between 10 to 15 petitions every day on average. 2020 witnessed a 24% decrease in cases of crimes against women, including cases filed under sections 498 A and 354 of the IPC. Vizag city registered 945 cases as against 1,251 cases in 2019. However, complaints lodged in the Disha police station shows that cases of harassment continue. Out of 1,594 complaints, 604 petitioners were counselled and 217 petitions were registered as FIRs under the Domestic Violence Act and Dowry Prohibition Act. Out of 217 cases, chargesheets were filed in 70 cases and are pending trial before court. The remaining cases are pending and under investigation. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP) of Disha police station Dr Prem Kajal said 22 such complaints received during the lockdown were resolved through tele-counselling and the families reunited. Till date, around 11 lakh people have downloaded the Disha mobile application. Visakhapatnam city has received 82 SOS calls through the application and registered 12 FIRs. Apart from this, 46 Mahila Mitra coordinators in police stations, 294 Mahila Mitra volunteers, besides three to four support groups in each police station are stationed to help women in distress. Further, Disha patrol teams have been formed to assist women. Seven patrol teams monitor Beach Road in the city. “They are focusing on illegal activities, eve-teasers and other issues in prevention of occurrence of crimes against women,” Vizag police commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha said. Disha patrolling teams will also focus on those found drinking in public, bike racing and other petty cases. Out of 1,594 complaints, 217 petitions were registered as FIRs under the Domestic Violence Act and Dowry Prohibition Act. Chargesheets were filed in 70 cases||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/disha-ps-records-rise-in-number-of-cases/articleshow/80063427.cms||Siva G
January 2, 2021||Pune||2020 in hindsight for many as resolutions factor in Covid-19||PUNE: The Covid-19 pandemic seems to have shaped New Year resolutions for a number of citizens. The pandemic resulted in big changes. The problems faced and lessons learnt as the coronavirus disrupted lives and lifestyles evidently reflect in some resolutions. “I’ve been taking my online classes very lightly because I thought that this is temporary and I would get serious when everything goes back to the way it used to be. Now, I realize that this is the way forward. I have to adapt and strive harder. I learn better with face-to-face or classroom teaching methods. This year, I have made a resolution to be better at online learning and to seek out technological tools to help me with it,” said Aakash Sharma, a student. Working from home has caused many problems but over the better part of last year, people have tried to figure out how to make the most of the situation. Neha Kawade, an IT professional, said, “It was difficult to work from home. It took a while for everyone to understand that even though we are at home, we have to go about doing our own work. There were many times that I had to multitask and I could not give my undivided attention to the task at hand. My New Year resolution is to manage my time in a better way so that it does not affect my productivity at work.” Sandeep Mangaonkar, BPO employee, said, “During the lockdown, I realized how much effort goes into household chores. I started helping out around the house, and I learnt how to cook basic recipes like dal and chawal. My resolution for the New Year is to become more independent and learn how to cook more dishes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2020-in-hindsight-for-many-as-resolutions-factor-in-covid-19/articleshow/80065087.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Bhopal||Tourists throng national parks, hill stations to celebrate New Year||BHOPAL: As people welcomed the New Year and celebrated the occasion amidst the coronavirus restrictions, hotels at major tourist places — especially those close to nature — did brisk business. With freezing cold wave conditions, a large number of people congregated in the jungles, Mandu, Khajuraho and resorts located near dams to celebrate New Year’s Eve. A spokesman of the MP Tourism Development Corporation (MPTDC) said people showed huge interest in places like Mandu, Bargi, Omkareshwer, Hanuvantia, Maheshwer, Gandhi Sagar, Khajuraho and the national parks of MP. The hill station of Pachmarhi and Madhai seemed to be the first choice for the tourists. The picnic points of Pachmarhi were thronged by tourists in large numbers. Besides, a large number of people visited Kanha national park, Bandhavgarh and Pench tiger reserve. MPT hotels were almost 100% booked. As many people had made advance bookings to enter the national parks, those who were not able to do so were disappointed. However, visits to the buffer areas compensated the loss to some extent, said Anubha Rao, a tourist who visited Bandhavgarh. “In the times of coronavirus spread, it is best to spend time near nature, especially in jungles,” she said. “In concrete jungles of urban areas, there is a crowd and that too undisciplined. The air here is fresh and the whole atmosphere exhilarating.” There were a large number of visitors in the resorts near Narmada river, including Hanuvantia, Omkareshwer, Bargi and Maheshwer. Managing director of MP Tourism Development Corporation, S Vishwanathan, said, “MPT units have 80% to 100% bookings till January 3. I hope the tourism industry will compensate for some of its losses incurred during the pandemic.” The MD said, “All our units strictly follow the standard operating procedures to check Covid-19. Tourists have also shown faith in us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/tourists-throng-national-parks-hill-stations-to-celebrate-ny/articleshow/80064121.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Pune||Pune experiences its warmest January 1 morning after 2013||PUNE: The city experienced its warmest New Year morning in eight years on Friday, while parts of north India shivered under cold conditions on the first day of 2021. The minimum temperature in Shivajinagar on Friday was as high as 15.5°C, making this New Year Day morning the warmest after January 1, 2013, when the minimum temperature had climbed up to 17.2°C. The minimum temperature at the location this January 1 was almost five degrees higher than that recorded on the same day last year. The first morning of 2021 was warm across the city. The minimum temperature on Friday in Pashan was 15.7°C and it was 16.8°C in Lohegaon. The city’s minimum temperature remained above normal under the influence of southerly winds over Pune and parts of Maharashtra. India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday forecast a gradual rise in minimum temperature in Maharashtra by 2-4°C during the next three days because of the southerly wind influence. The IMD officials stated that Madhya Maharashtra was currently recording one of the highest positive departure in minimum temperature in the country. Locations in Madhya Maharashtra, including Pune, recorded positive minimum temperature departures by 2-7°C on Friday, while those in Konkan and Marathwada recorded positive departures by 2-4°C. An IMD official said, “The minimum temperature is expected to rise because of a fresh weather system moving towards south peninsular India causing good rain over southern states. It will influence the weather over Madhya Maharashtra up to Pune and Nashik, causing night time clouding, which is associated with higher minimum temperature. Cloudy skies tend to trap the warm, outgoing long wave radiation from the earth’s surface during the night, curtailing its full escape into the atmosphere.” The official said the north-east monsoon had become active over south India during its last leg. “Northerly winds have been unable to penetrate into parts of Maharashtra, causing the night temperature to remain on the higher side. The dominant wind regimes during the past one month on most days have been easterly/south-easterly and now southerlies. These winds from the Bay of Bengal are relatively warmer and moist in nature in comparison to the cold, dry northerly winds from north India. Hence, they affect the weather of the region as per their nature,” he said. The official said northerly wind influence can be seen in Maharashtra by this time, especially with January beginning, when the night temperature dip significantly. This hasn’t happened in 2021. “The influence of southerly winds in parts of Maharashtra during the New Year period (like this time) is an anomaly,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/city-experiences-its-warmest-january-1-morning-after-2013/articleshow/80065091.cms||Neha Madaan
January 2, 2021||Chandigarh||CM hopes for early resolution to issue||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday greeted people on New Year, saying that he hoped for an early resolution to the problems of protesting farmers. Congratulating farmers for continuing to exercise their democratic and constitutional right to protest peacefully, Amarinder said they had won the hearts of the people worldwide with their behaviour. “Not a single instance of rioting or violence was resorted to by the agitating farmers earlier during their protest in Punjab, and now at the Delhi borders,” he pointed out. Amarinder said people of the state had not only fought the pandemic bravely, but also delivered excellent performance across agriculture, industry and trade and other fields. He mentioned frontline workers, including doctors, nurses, paramedics, police etc, who bravely fought through the pandemic to protect the people. He, however, warned that Covid had not yet ended and urged people to continue to take care of themselves and their families. “In a tough year, marked by the Covid crisis since March 22, 2020 followed by the prolonged farmers’ fight for justice, the state witnessed record production of wheat and rice,” said Amarinder. Expressing hope that 2021 will see a new era of progress in problems of farmers, Amarinder said his government would do everything to push development and resolve all issues facing the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cm-hopes-for-early-resolution-to-issue/articleshow/80065093.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Kochi||Stress, Stigma & Shadow Of Burnout||“May be this is the one from whom I will catch Covid.” This is the first thought that crosses the minds of health workers donned in protective gears, when they see someone approaching them while they are at work at emergency rooms. They are acutely aware of the risk they face and are haunted by the thought of bringing the virus home. The health workers are celebrated for their commitment to the battle against the pandemic, but most of them have never experienced this level of angst and anxiety before. “The situation is further compounded by the stigma and social isolation they and their families face,” says Smriti Rana, Director (Programmes), Pallium India. Pallium India conducts training sessions for health workers. One of the topics covered was on managing distress not only in patients and their families, but also amongst the healthcare staff. “Many of them don’t see their families for months together. They are saving lives at a great cost to themselves and their families. Many of them reported that they experienced a loss of meaning and purpose, especially when met with hostility by neighbours and communities,” says Smriti. “During the initial stages of the pandemic, the healthcare staff feared getting infected. That fear has now been replaced with the stress and strain of wearing PPE kits during care activities and facing death continuously,” says Dr K Vidhukumar, honorary editor, Indian Psychiatry Society (Kerala). “Human nature is such that we are able to adapt according to the circumstances. But there will be some who will be more affected than others and we fear that it may lead to increased incidents of depression and even suicides,” says Kerala IMA secretary Dr Gopikumar P. As the number of Covid cases continue to rise in the state there are many health workers who want to move out from the war zone-Covid hospitals. But they can't. “We live in uncertainty and though we would want to step aside, we can’t. So, now most of us have decided that we will live our destiny,” says Siby Mukesh, board member, Kerala Nurses and Midwives Council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/stress-stigma-shadow-of-burnout/articleshow/80058481.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Cong leaders visit agitating farmers||Chandigarh: Agitations point of Singhu, Tikri and Palwal on Haryana-Delhi borders were places of choice for the Congress leaders to spend their New Year eve. Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja spent a night with protesters at the Singhu border. Similarly, AICC communication head Randeep Surjewala, Rajya Sabja MP Deepender Hooda too spent time with agitating farmers. Party sources said the move came following the direction of Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Selja interacted with the farmers and also extended helped in serving langar. She also wrote an open letter to the farmers, stating she was upset to see that lakhs of farmers and labourers has been agitating against “the agriculture black laws of the BJP government” on the open roads in this cold for the one month and 46 had even sacrificed their lives. More than 10 farmers from Haryana have lost their lives in this movement, she said, demanding the government provide compensation and jobs to their families. She said in democracy, issues pertaining to public were paramount. She added the government should leave its stubbornness and repeal these three laws with immediate effect. The Union government should enact a law for guaranteeing the minimum support price (MSP) and also ensure that 100% of the crop was sold at the MSP. The government’s promises to the farmer leaders on the environment ordinance related to the straw and electricity bill should be fulfilled with immediate effect. Aam Aadmi Party leaders too spent time with farmers. Protesters organised community kitchen to serve food to all, especially the commuters of national highways on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-cong-leaders-visit-agitating-farmers/articleshow/80065113.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Vijayawada||CJI seeks Justice Ramana's response to Andhra CM's complaint||NEW DELHI: CJI S A Bobde has sought Supreme Court judge Justice N V Ramana’s response to a complaint filed by Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy accusing the judge of influencing the Andhra Pradesh HC, which has been passing orders criticising the state government. Earlier, the CJI had asked the AP CM to file an affidavit backing his earlier complaint letter dated October 6. The CM had sent the complaint to the CJI days after a bench headed by Justice Ramana had expedited the snail-paced trial in criminal cases pending against sitting and former MPs and MLAs. Over two dozen cases are pending trial against the AP CM. CJI Bobde had sought Justice Ramana’s response after Reddy backed up his complaint by filing an affidavit. “It is still not clear whether Justice Ramana has submitted his response to the complaint. After receiving the response, it is for the CJI to take a call on the fate of the complaint. The CJI could close the issue on finding Justice Ramana’s response adequate. Otherwise, he may decide to further inquire into the issue,” an SC source said. CM’s complaint had triggered fast-paced developments. First, the Collegium headed by CJI Bobde transferred out the chief justices of the HCs of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, the two states where the criminal cases are pending trial against Reddy. It was followed by an SC bench headed by the CJI staying an AP HC order that had expressed doubts over the working of constitutional order in the state given the spate of preventive and unwarranted detentions. As Jagan government celebrated the brownie points it scored against the AP HC — the transfer of the chief justice and the stay ordered by the SC on the HC's damaging order, a HC bench of Justices Rakesh Kumar and D Ramesh passed a stinging order on December 30, escalating the unsavoury spat between the state government and the HC. Justice Kumar (who had passed remarks about the breakdown of constitutional machinery in the state) and who retired on December 31, listed out the pending cases against Jagan — 11 filed by the CBI, six by the Enforcement Directorate and 18 police case. He said that the police started filing closure reports in some cases against Jagan immediately after the SC bench led by Justice Ramana on September 16 ordered expeditious trial of pending cases against sitting and former MPs and MLAs. The stinging order from Justice Rakesh Kumar came on an application filed by the state government seeking his recusal from hearing a petition against the government. Justice Kumar said, “...one can infer how the government in the state of Andhra Pradesh is proceeding. Firstly, attack was made on Legislative Council (for refusing to agree with Assembly for three capitals for the state), thereafter another constitutional body that is State Election Commission; and now the High Court of Andhra Pradesh and even the Supreme Court is under attack by persons, who are in power.” The state is readying an appeal against this order before the SC, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cji-seeks-justice-ramanas-response-to-reddys-complaint/articleshow/80066184.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 2, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Covid vaccine dry run in 13 districts today||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state health department will conduct a dry run of the Covid-19 vaccine in all 13 districts on January 2, Saturday. Officials have selected three locations in each district for the dry run. The exercise has already been carried out in Krishna district on December 28, when the Union government selected four states for the dry run. According to health officials, the three locations in each district include a teaching/district hospital, an outreach session site and a private facility. The dry run will be video-recorded and a report will be submitted to the state task force committee (STF). The dry run is aimed at testing planned operations and mechanisms before the original rollout of the vaccine. It would provide insights into the vaccine administration and any gaps/bottlenecks in the process, which can be addressed before the start of the drive. The dry run will be used to test Covid-19 vaccination processes, such as planning and preparation prerequisites, session site creation and mapping, data uploading on CoWIN, vaccinator deployment, vaccine and logistics mobilisation at session site, mock drill of beneficiary vaccination and reporting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/covid-vaccine-dry-run-in-13-districts-today/articleshow/80067940.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: Covid vaccine dry run in 13 districts today||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state health department will conduct a dry run of the Covid-19 vaccine in all 13 districts on January 2, Saturday. Officials have selected three locations in each district for the dry run. The exercise has already been carried out in Krishna district on December 28, when the Union government selected four states for the dry run. According to health officials, the three locations in each district include a teaching/district hospital, an outreach session site and a private facility. The dry run will be video-recorded and a report will be submitted to the state task force committee (STF). The dry run is aimed at testing planned operations and mechanisms before the original rollout of the vaccine. It would provide insights into the vaccine administration and any gaps/bottlenecks in the process, which can be addressed before the start of the drive. The dry run will be used to test Covid-19 vaccination processes, such as planning and preparation prerequisites, session site creation and mapping, data uploading on CoWIN, vaccinator deployment, vaccine and logistics mobilisation at session site, mock drill of beneficiary vaccination and reporting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/covid-vaccine-dry-run-in-13-districts-today/articleshow/80067938.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Pune||DJs suffer heavy pay cuts as parties wrap up hours before midnight||Pune: After struggling with unemployment due to the Covid-induced closure of clubs, bars and event venues, DJs had pinned their hopes on Christmas and New Year Eve parties. But implementation of night curfew severely impacted their income. “The DJ community was looking forward to making up for the losses suffered in the past eight months, but quite a few of the events were cancelled,” said DJ Garry Kumtekar. “We charge a little higher than our usual fees for Christmas and New Year Eve parties. The prime time for these is after midnight, but since venues needed to wrap up early, our payment was slashed by 40-50%,” said DJ Milind Dhadve. — Anjali Jhangiani||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/djs-suffer-heavy-pay-cuts-as-parties-wrap-up-hours-before-midnight/articleshow/80065111.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Covid vaccine dry run in 13 districts today||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state health department will conduct a dry run of the Covid-19 vaccine in all 13 districts on January 2, Saturday. Officials have selected three locations in each district for the dry run. The exercise has already been carried out in Krishna district on December 28, when the Union government selected four states for the dry run. According to health officials, the three locations in each district include a teaching/district hospital, an outreach session site and a private facility. The dry run will be video-recorded and a report will be submitted to the state task force committee (STF). The dry run is aimed at testing planned operations and mechanisms before the original rollout of the vaccine. It would provide insights into the vaccine administration and any gaps/bottlenecks in the process, which can be addressed before the start of the drive. The dry run will be used to test Covid-19 vaccination processes, such as planning and preparation prerequisites, session site creation and mapping, data uploading on CoWIN, vaccinator deployment, vaccine and logistics mobilisation at session site, mock drill of beneficiary vaccination and reporting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/covid-vaccine-dry-run-in-13-districts-today/articleshow/80063435.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu RERA hires CA to check money spent on delayed projects||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority has engaged a chartered accountant to scrutinise the bank account of a delayed housing project to verify utilisation of homebuyers’ payment and submit a report in a month. The first-of-its-kind direction follows a complaint by a homebuyers association, demanding a forensic audit to find out if funds meant for the housing project on Chennai’s outskirts were diverted. The complainant association will bear the CA’s Rs 1 lakh fee. In its order on a petition from Padmalaya Apartments Buyers’ Association over the project developed by Real Value Promoters (P) Ltd at Pudupakkam on Vandalur-Kelambakkam Road, TNRERA said there were variations in the financial progress stated by the two parties. “Therefore, it is necessary to make an independent assessment of the utilisation of the amounts paid by the allottees. The authority engages a chartered accountant to scrutinise the project account and furnish a report with specific reference to utilisation of amounts paid by the allottees,” it said. The association, with over 100 members, said despite 70%-80% of the cost being paid, construction didn’t reach 40% in four blocks and was yet to begin in two other blocks, and that the funds could have been diverted. The promoter said it received Rs 53 crore from buyers and spent Rs 56 crore on construction. Stating that details of expenses were given to the association in 2019, it said there was no need for a forensic audit. The TNRERA said the promoter should produce a CA-certified statement of accounts that will be verified to see if the funds for the project were used for it. The promoter didn’t file the Annual Report on Statement of Accounts under the Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority (General) Regulations, 2018 for 2018-19, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rera-hires-ca-to-check-money-spent-on-delayed-projects/articleshow/80065138.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
January 2, 2021||Pune||Armed youths vandalize six vehicles in Mohannagar||Pune: A group of youngsters armed with choppers and other weapons went on a rampage in the intervening night of Thursday and Friday and damaged four school vans, an autorickshaw and a car parked in the Mohannagar area of Chinchwad. An officer from the Pimpri police said as per the information received by the locals, the incident was a fallout of a clash between two groups of youngsters from the same locality earlier on Thursday evening. “We have arrested 12 youths and detained two minors for their involvement in the incident,” deputy commissioner of the Pimpri Chinchwad police Sudhir Hiremath told TOI. Police said some locals had intervened to defuse the tension and disperse the clashing youths on Thursday evening. “We believed the matter to be resolved after our intervention,” Baban Alankar (56) of Mohannagar, whose four school vans were vandalised, told TOI. Alankar stated that around 12.30am on Friday, he received information that a group of youths were damaging his vans with sharp weapons. “The damage was done by the time I reached my vehicles,” Alankar said, adding that this was the fourth time his vehicles were vandalised in the past two years. TIMES VIEW Cases of hooligans damaging vehicles parked on roads have been happening regularly. Majority of the times, people whose livelihoods depend on these vehicles become the victims of such mindless acts. The police need to put the fear of law in the minds of these criminals. The police can consult judicial experts to see if some out-of-the-box solutions can be worked out since just registering cases against the goons is not having the desired impact.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/armed-youths-vandalize-six-vehicles-in-mohannagar/articleshow/80065140.cms||Mihir Tanksale
January 2, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Farm stir affected civic body polls’||Ambala: Post-civic body polls held recently, BJP Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel on Thursday accepted that the farmers’ protest against the agri-laws had affected the outcome. “For sure, we have suffered due to kisan andolan (farmers’ agitation). However, despite the farmers’ call (to vote against BJP), we won 20 ward seats, which had mostly rural voters,” he said while addressing a press conference at the PWD rest house in Ambala City. About BJP alliance partner JJP’s failure to secure any seats in Ambala, Goel said, “We went by our gathbandhan dharma (coalition religion) and they have their own policy they have strong hold in rural areas. Most of their senior leaders came for campaigning but why the deputy chief minister did not come is their internal matter.” He assured that even if the mayor is not from BJP, it would not affect development in Ambala City. “We congratulate Venod Sharma Ji and his wife for winning the election. They will not face any lack of cooperation from our end,” he said. Asked about the victory of Haryana Jan Chetna Party (HJCP) in the civic body election, Haryana Democratic Front (HDF) chief Nirmal Singh said, “Victory of such people in politics is unfortunate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farm-stir-affected-civic-body-polls/articleshow/80065144.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Chandigarh||AAP Punjab co-incharge says SAD, BJP, Cong failed people||Amritsar: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab co-incharge Raghav Chadha on Fridy claimed that the SAD, BJP and the Congress had been fleecing the people of Punjab, so it was AAP which would form the government in the state after 2022 assembly elections. Raghav was on his maiden two-day visit to Punjab on Friday. “Punjab has been plundered by SAD-BJP combine and the Congress government, but now people of Punjab have made up their minds to get rid of these parties and form an AAP government,” he said, while talking to media. Accusing the Congress government of not fulfilling its pre-poll promises, he said, “Capt Amarinder Singh has forgotten his people and the promises he made to the people of Punjab.” Lashing out at Badals, he said when the three laws came into existence, SAD was part of the PM Narendra Modi-led central government. In reply to a question regarding AAP’s chief minister face in Punjab, he said the candidate would be one among the people of Punjab and the same would be informed in near future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/aap-punjab-co-incharge-says-sad-bjp-cong-failed-people/articleshow/80065135.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Vijayawada||Vijayawada roads deserted on New Year’s eve||VIJAYAWADA: Unlike other years, New Year’s eve 2020 passed like any other day, without a single untoward incident reported in the city. On account of Covid-19 restrictions, roads were deserted an hour before midnight. City police had announced that there would be no permission for any kind of New Year celebrations and appealed to people to stay home. Liquor shops and bars shut doors according to normal timings while police ensured all commercial establishments were closed on time and barricaded major roads. City police commissioner B Srinivasulu who made rounds through the city till midnight was all praise for residents who adhered to restrictions. People have shown a sense of social responsibility by refraining themselves from coming out on New Year’s eve, he said, adding that people’s support ensured there were no untoward incidents. Though gatherings at public places was prohibited, people welcomed the new year at home with families. Cakes were cut and fire crackers lit at midnight to mark the arrival of 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vij-roads-deserted-on-new-years-eve/articleshow/80063450.cms||Srikanth Aluri
January 2, 2021||Kochi||Nurses Symbolise Kerala's Success Story||Nurses from Kerala are respected globally for their ability and dedication. And now, for a change, their efforts are being recognized in their country, too. When the state’s healthcare apparatus came in for praise during the early months of the Covid-19 outbreak, special mention was reserved for the nursing fraternity, which held its own when their counterparts in other states were falling victim to the virus. That not even a single nurse was lost to the novel coronavirus, despite several positive tests, is testament to the care and precaution adopted by the system and institutions in the state. “The Kerala nurse returning to duty after recovering from Covid will be the enduring symbol of our healthcare system. When the state health department introduced a model for the sector during the pandemic, many nursing associations across the country wished to duplicate it,” says Prof Roy George, national president of trained nurses’ association of India (TNAI). The profession’s increased standing is now reflected in academic admissions with nursing seats in the state being filled up by students with cent percent scores in bio-maths subjects. Even those with 90% marks are having to look for admissions in self-financing colleges. Yet practitioners realize there is still work to be done on the Covid-front. “People have foregone all precautions. We see people ignoring all ‘break the chain’ and physical distancing rules,” says Anas S M, district president of Kerala government nurses’ union, Thiruvananthapuram. “Case numbers, which had declined by the first week of December, have shot up since the local-body election. Almost 60% of nurses and staff members at Thiruvananthapuram MCH have contracted Covid and recovered. When so many of us fall sick, the burden is on those working. And this translates into extended duty schedules and fewer breaks. It is important that the public doesn’t drop its guard so that we will be healthy enough to care for patients,” he says. A senior nurse who has been treating patients at Ernakulam MCH says that working in PPE kits is excruciating. “It exhausts us mentally and physically.” Personal protection equipment is proving to be a nightmare for every nurse because it restricts movement, does not allow them to even drink water or take toilet breaks. “Moreover, we have our own domestic concerns such as education of children and welfare of families. This has placed a lot of stress on nurses, who are now being catered to by psychiatrists and psychologists,” says Sona P S, state president of TNAI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nurses-symbolise-keralas-success-story/articleshow/80058493.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
January 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Focus on development projects this year, MC commissioner promises||Ludhiana: With the beginning of the new decade, 2021, municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal is aiming to complete the ongoing development projects at fast pace. According to him, this year the focus will be on the development of city so as to complete even those projects that could not be completed last year due to Covid-19. Apart from this, in 2021, the focus will also be on the rejuvenation of Buddha Nullah. The civic body is also going to get strict in implementing the ban plastic carry bags in city. Commissioner Sabharwal said, “The development projects and other works were the worst hit last year due to coronavirus, as at that time the entire focus remained on fighting against the deadly disease.” According to him, already many smart city projects — like ROB/RUB at Pakhowal Road and widening of old bridge at Sidhwan Canal in Sarabha Nagar — have picked up pace. He said as far as other development works are concerned, even those will be taken up at fast pace. He also said the Buddha Nullah rejuvenation project is going to start shortly, as tenders are already finalised and work order is also allotted. He said this month there are chances work might start on ground as well. He said they have already kicked off drive around drain for creating awareness among the masses to check solid waste in drain and they are hopeful of getting good results. Sabharwal said chain link fencing around drain is also going to start and encroachments will also be removed from its banks so as to complete face lifting of this drain. However, in the coming days, the focus will be on implementing plastic carry bags ban. He said the ban is there on plastic carry bags, but during pandemic emergency, the drive was halted in between and people again started using them. He said they will again start challaning those who carry plastic bags and other banned products. MC employees demand recruitment of more staff this year On the first day of new year, the Municipal Employees Sangharsh Committee members and MC employees organised path at MC zone D office on Friday to seek blessings of God. On the occasion, the employees requested the commissioner to get more staff recruited in the civic body so as to reduce excess burden on the existing staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/focus-on-development-projects-this-year-mc-commissioner-promises/articleshow/80063445.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Bike rally in Rohtak ramps up support for farm agitation||Rohtak: The youths of several villages in Rohtak district on Friday took out a bike rally to muster support for the farmers’ agitation on Haryana-Delhi border. The bike rally kicked off from Chamaria village and then passed through several villages. The youths also raised slogans in support of farmers’ unity. Advocate Guru Parshad, who was leading the rally, told TOI that the villages of Rohtak district had been dispatching food material to Singhu and Tikri borders for the past one month ever since the agitation started. “Now, the purpose of this bike rally is to put across the farmers’ demand to repeal three laws till the last person is alive in the villages,” he added. Ajay Hooda, another youth participating in the bike rally, said they also wanted to spread the message that even educated youths like him who are postgraduate are against the three laws. “The Centre should know that the educated sons and daughters of farmers who have read the laws are against the same and the government should not delay in accepting the demand of the agrarian community”, he said. Kuldeep Hooda said they respect their elders who are braving the cold on the Delhi borders and it was the duty of the youth to mobilise more people to sit with them in their solidarity. He said their bike rally would not limit to one-day event, but would continue going till the farmers’ demands are accepted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bike-rally-in-rohtak-ramps-up-support-for-farm-agitation/articleshow/80065172.cms||Sat Singh
January 2, 2021||Bhopal||Will make you rot in jail if you dupe MP farmers: Agriculture minister to traders||BHOPAL: After reports of frauds, leading to financial loss of many Madhya Pradesh farmers, agriculture minister Kamal Patel has warned that strict action will be taken against traders who try to dupe the farmers. One of the biggest frauds was reported from Dewas last week where almost 150 farmers of four districts were duped to the tune of Rs 5 crores - Rs 7 crores. These farmers had sold around 1,131 quintal chickpea and 1,291 quintal green gram to two Dewas-based traders - Suresh and Pawan Khoja – who promised them prices above the minimum support price (MSP), citing new farm laws for purchase outside the mandis. These traders purchased white chickpea and green gram from the farmers in the open market and failed to pay them. Some farmers were given cheques, which bounced. A group of 22 farmers later met the SDM of Khategaon and lodged a complaint on December 30. Farmers alleged that they were promised Rs 6,000 per quintal for moong and Rs 7,000 per quintal for chana, and payment within two days of purchase of crops, which didn’t happen. Farmers from Nasrullaganj in Sehore district, Harda and Hoshangabad were also duped by the Khoja brothers. Other cases of fraud were also reported from Seoni, Gwalior, Balaghat, Barwani and Jabalpur districts. In another incident, 13 farmers allegedly incurred a loss of Rs 20 lakh in Guna when cheques of three traders bounced, leading to a loss of Rs 20 lakh . The police have registered an FIR. Referring to these frauds, Kamal Patel said, “We initiated action against Khoja traders; they have been arrested. Now we will confiscate their property to give the money of farmers.” Warning all the erring traders, he said, “Don’t dupe farmers or we will take strict action against you. We will not only confiscate your property but also make you rot in jail by initiating NSA”. He also “requested” the farmers to first get money in their account and then hand over their produce to traders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/will-make-you-rot-in-jail-if-you-dupe-farmers-agri-min-to-traders/articleshow/80064191.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
January 2, 2021||Chennai||State records 13 deaths, fresh cases remain below 1,000||Chennai: Thirteen people died as the state added 921 positive cases to the Covid-19 registry reporting below four-digit mark for the third consecutive day on Friday. This pushed the cumulative toll to 12,135 and case tally to 8,18,507. There were 8,380 active cases until Friday noon. Among those tested positive, one person with had travel history to Karnataka and entered TN by road, public health officials said. “The state continues to test between 65,000 to 75,000 people every day. We still use only the gold standard RT-PCR tests,” health minister C Vijayabaskar said. Between Thursday and Friday, 66,808 people underwent tests taking the total number of people tested so far to 1.39 crore. The Covid-19 registry added fresh cases to all districts barring Perambalur on Friday, while deaths were reported from seven districts. The worst affected district, Chennai, reported 252 cases and six deaths. With 82 fresh cases, Coimbatore reported the second highest number of cases. Salem, which had two deaths, was the district to record the highest number of deaths after Chennai. Chengalpet, Coimbatore, Ramanathapuram, Thanjavur and Tiruvannamalai reported one death each. Eleven districts reported a single digit increase in new cases. While Ranipet and Tenkasi reported nine cases, Pudukottai reported eight, Karur and Krishnagiri had seven each, Theni and Tirupattur reported six cases each, Sivaganga had four, Ariyalur reported three, and Kallakurichi and Ramanathapuram reported two each. The eleven northern districts together reported 458 new cases and eight deaths. This included 378 cases and seven deaths from the Chennai Region (Chennai, Kancheepuram, Chengalpet and Tiruvallur). After the north, the eight western districts reported 265 cases and three deaths. While the ten southern districts together clocked 114 cases, central zone had 84 cases. The south and central zones had one death each. Active cases were highest in the north (3,737) followed by 2,224 in the west. The southern districts had 961 people still under treatment and central districts had 822. As on Wednesday, the number of recoveries were 7,98,420.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/state-records-13-deaths-fresh-cases-remain-below-1000/articleshow/80065281.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Land bank digitisation programme to halt encroachments launched in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: YSRC Rajya Sabha MP V Vijayasai Reddy launched the ‘automated change detection analysis for land management’ (land bank digitisation) initiative of the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) here at the VMRDA office on Friday. For the pilot project under the initiative, the VMRDA has identified two land pockets—137 acres in Madhurawada and 91 acres in Paradesipalem in the suburbs of Vizag. Speaking on this occasion, Vijayasai Reddy said that the VMRDA would extend the initiative to other areas after monitoring the initiative and technology for two months. Earlier, the urban development authority, which is executing the project, gave a presentation on the technology being used in the initiative and how the software would detect the changes made, if any, to land pockets of the VMRDA. “Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy is very keen on safeguarding and protecting all the government lands. The VMRDA has taken up the initiative on similar lines,” said the Rajya Sabha MP. VMRDA metropolitan commissioner P Koteswara Rao said the software would detect any physical changes made to the lands or any encroachments, and send an SMS and an e-mail to the concerned officials. “This would also help detect unauthorised layouts in the jurisdiction of the VMRDA,” said Koteswara Rao. VMRDA additional commissioner Manazir Jeelani Salmon and others were present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/land-bank-digitisation-prog-to-halt-encroachments-launched/articleshow/80063462.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Kochi||NIV team refuses to break the chain||Since February 2020, the National Institute of Virology’s Alappuzha unit has been working round the clock to turn around Covid-19 tests and help the state to fight the pandemic. Its scientists and technical staff have dedicated themselves to ensuring that the fight against the novel coronavirus is taken to its logical conclusion. “My ancestral home is in Malappuram but I am settled in Chennai. I have not visited my family members since February 2. But I don’t feel sad as all of us are working for our state and its people. Our prime focus is to provide accurate results as soon as possible. The NIV unit is meeting the demands of the state health department through team work and dedication,” says A P Sugunan, scientist and officer in charge of NIV Kerala. Sugunan and his team, including lab-in-charge Dr B Anukumar, technical staffers Bestin Payyapilly, Jijo Koshy, Nikhil T L, Sreelekha K P, Amalmol Peter, Shyma V S and Kunjila Konikkara, have been skipping holidays and leaves to ensure the smooth functioning of the unit. “Though I was involved in the testing process during the outbreak of H1N1, the pandemic has proved to be unlike anything I have experienced,” says 60-year-old Sugunan. The NIV unit kicked off Covid-19 testing on February 2. Initial capacity was capped at 200 samples a day. This was later increased and at present it can test 1,500 samples. “Of course, we missed many important family functions. We also remained isolated from our family members, including children, for a long time. Though painful it is fulfilling when we remember it is for our state and country,” a technical staffer said. “Early on, there was a shortage of test kits. But Kerala Medical Service Corporation Ltd (KMSCL) stepped up by increasing supply. We also purchased test kits from the ICMR depot. Besides test kits, KMSCL ensured that we were never short of safety gear, such as gloves, masks, etc. Initially, we only had two RT-PCR machines. When testing was increased, KMSCL allotted us two additional machines. Later, ICMR provided us with another machine and Alappuzha MP A M Ariff helped get us one more machine,” say team members. “ICMR instructed us to provide complete laboratory and research support to the state government. The workload was very high during the months of July and August when the team worked 24x7 for eight to ten days at a stretch. Alappuzha Medical College Hospital arranged accommodation for our women staffers at its hostels. Our task would have been made more difficult without the help from the various quarters,” Sugunan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/niv-team-refuses-to-break-the-chain/articleshow/80058508.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Amaravati||After 200 days, AP records zero Covid-19 deaths||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh on Friday did not report any Covid-19 death, first since the pandemic reached its peak in June last year, reports Umamaheswar Rao. The last time AP reported no deaths from the virus was about 200 days ago on June 13. AP is the third state to achieve the feat. Only two other states — Haryana and Goa — have registered nil mortality on one occasion each after the outbreak of novel coronavirus in the country. Earlier, Haryana reported zero deaths after a gap of nearly four-and-a-half months in October. Similarly, Goa recorded no pandemic deaths for first time in about five months in November last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/after-200-days-ap-records-zero-covid-19-deaths/articleshow/80066201.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Commisioner reviews drive to check chucking garbage into Buddha Nullah||To review the ongoing awareness drive around Buddha Nullah and to check its impact on the public, municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal went for a field visit along with health officials on Friday. The civic body has launched a drive against the practice of throwing solid waste into the drain, as it chokes the movement of water and pollutes the water body. The MC commissioner asked the locals how they settle their garbage at home and it was found that people were aware of wet and dry waste and were giving the waste in segregated form to the waste collectors. The MC teams had gone to Kundanpuri area in ward number 90 where garbage inside drain is a major issue and drain remains choked with solid waste inside. The MC staff also carried out a rally in the area for creating awareness among the masses that drain further reaches Satluj river and due to pollution in drain even Satluj river gets polluted. Commissioner Sabharwal said, “I had gone to just check whether our awareness drive is bringing desired results or not and it was surprising as well as satisfactory for me that public were aware. Moreover, they said they were doing segregation of waste properly.” He said they would have issued challans to violators but when they did not catch anybody throwing solid waste in drain so they only talked to people and conveyed the message.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/commisioner-reviews-drive-to-check-chucking-garbage-into-buddha-nullah/articleshow/80063466.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 2, 2021||Nagpur||After 2 decades, NU clears Inst of Science’s autonomy proposal||Nagpur: After efforts spanning over two decades, the Government Institute of Science here may get to realize its dream of attaining autonomy from the next academic session (2021-22). The Nagpur University’s Management Council (MC) has granted its approval for bestowing the coveted status on one of the oldest colleges in Central India established in 1906. Now, clearance will be needed from University Grants Commission (UGC) for NU to award autonomy to the college. Formerly referred as ‘Science College’, the college has produced a host of stalwarts. As per NU officials, the prestigious college was the first one to apply for autonomy about two decades back. TOI had earlier reported about how NU administration was nonchalant about granting the approval. The college administration under director RG Atram moved the proposal again in January 2020. The MC cleared it during its meeting held on Wednesday. “We are happy the MC has accepted our request. Now, a team from University Grants Commission (UGC) would visit our premises and inspect infrastructure, facilities, teaching and non-teaching staff strength among others. It will also interact with the faculty, staff and students and go through their academic performance,” an elated Atram told TOI. After NU’s nod, the college administration immediately contacted UGC which agreed to send a team under chairman Naresh Chandra Gautam, who is the vice-chancellor of Mahatma Gandhi Chitrakoot Gramoday Vishwavidyalaya, on January 8 and 9. The visit has been deferred till February 12-13 as one of the team members has contracted Covid-19. MC member Vishnu Changde said the college’s proposal was accepted by voice vote as it was one of the oldest and prestigious institutions in the region. NU officials said earlier the college lacked the faculty strength which was the main criteria for getting autonomy. The government was reluctant to fill up the posts and like NU, the college also recruited contractual teachers for a temporary period. Atram, however, said they wouldn’t face any problem this time during UGC inspection as the government can transfer teachers from other colleges in the state to the city. “We are fully geared up for the UGC team’s visit,” he said. NU officials said after UGC’s team’s clearance, the final proposal would need clearance from its statutory bodies. Currently, NU has seven autonomous colleges out of 500 affiliated ones, which is very low in comparison to big universities like Mumbai and Pune. Even as the Institute of Science’s proposal is the oldest one, NU first granted autonomy to engineering colleges. NU has been granting the coveted status to traditional colleges only since last couple of years, with Bajaj Group of Institutions taking the lead. # Autonomous colleges under NU * Yashwantrao Chavan College of Engineering * GH Raisoni College of Engineering * Ramdeobaba College of Engineering & Mgmt * Janki Devi Bajaj Science College in Wardha * GS College of Commerce & Economics * Datta Meghe Institute of Mgmt Studies (MBA) * GH Raisoni Institute of Engineering & Tech||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-2-decades-nu-clears-inst-of-sciences-autonomy-proposal/articleshow/80065149.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Stop choking trees by cementing them in, engineers’ body complains||Ludhiana: The members of council of engineers have once again taken the matter of fixing interlocking tiles on pavements and as well as the habit of cementing trees in and thus damaging the roots of the trees. The COE members have complained against this practice with National Green Tribunal chairperson. They demanded that NGT should issue instructions to the municipal corporation (MC) and Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) officials for rectifying this problem and in future grass paver tiles should be installed at road side so that rain water could go underground. In the complaint, the members mentioned that it is a well known fact that roots of trees also absorb water, oxygen and other nutrients that are essential for growth and development of trees. When concrete is placed over the roots, it damages critical root structures, it inhibits the tree’s ability to take in water and oxygen, they said, adding that laying concrete around an existing tree may result in its death. Pointing out at the recent Supreme Court suggestion to calculate the value of a tree by volume of oxygen it gives, the COE members said officials concerned at MC and LIT, without consulting horticulturists and experts about the effect of concrete around the trees, continuously cover trees with cement and fix interlocking tiles (paver) over it. Now again, the interlocking tiles are being fixed at B-block of BRS Nagar without leaving the mandatory space of one meter radius around the trees, which is a direct violation of orders of NGT as well as sheer wastage of public money too, they alleged. The members have already submitted a complaint on January 19, protesting against the practice at Zone-D at Sarabha Nagar, just outside the office of municipal commissioner. It also pointed out similar situation in other parts of city like Sarabha Nagar, BRS Nagar, Kitchlu Nagar and Tagore Nagar. The president of COE, Kapil Arora said large number of colonies are without green space and air quality of city is a matter of concern and many trees were axed in the name of development. He said in 2013, the NGT had directed the Delhi civic agencies to leave one metre radius around trees and agencies failing to comply with it had to face a fine of Rs 10,000 per tree. They had specifically mentioned such important directions in complaint filed with local government department, Punjab but instead of rectifying the mistake done earlier, MCL as well as LIT, both are continuing with such practices till date, alleged Arora.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/stop-choking-trees-by-cementing-them-in-engineers-body-complains/articleshow/80063473.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 2, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Housing beneficiary receives New Year wishes from PM||VISAKHAPATNAM: A city-based daily wage labourer Satraboyina Durga has drawn everyone’s attention by receiving New Year greetings from Prime Minister Narendra Modi on video-conference on Friday. Durga was recently declared winner in the ‘best house construction’ category in the annual awards of the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs for implementation of its Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana Urban Mission (PMAY-U) scheme. The Prime Minister interacted with Durga at a scheduled meeting with chief ministers of six states on various housing projects on January 1. As per instructions from the Centre, Visakhapatnam collector V Vinay Chand invited Durga. “I was thrilled and have no words to explain to my happiness. I did not expect that one day the Prime Minister would directly talk to me and that too convey New Year wishes. I thank chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy and everyone who helped me and my family to come out of poverty,” Durga told TOI. Durga and her husband Appanna Babu are daily wage labourers and have a son and a daughter, studying in class 10 and 8 respectively in a government school. Appanna Babu said they migrated to the city 25 years ago from Tuni in East Godavari and set up home in a thatched house at Peda Gantyada, which now falls under ward number 50 under Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) limits. “During then chief minister Y S Rajasekhara Reddy’s regime, we got a house site from the state government. We then heard of the PMAY-U scheme and got Rs 2.5 lakh support from it. We ourselves took up the labour work and finally completed our house in 2019,” Appana Babu said. The Prime Minister took a few minutes to interact with Durga and praise the chief minister on the sidelines of a programme where he laid the foundation stone of Light House Projects under Global Housing Technology Challenge-India at six sites via video-conferencing. The chief minister, who attended the video-conference from Tadepalligudem, said the government is distrubuting 30.75 lakh house sites to beneficiaries and developing 16,098 houses for economically weaker sections (EWS). The government will spend Rs 1,400 crore on EWS houses for infrastructure development. As many as 20.21 lakh houses have been allocated to the state under the PMAY-U scheme. The government has acquired 68,677 acres of land to distribute house sites in the state, the chief minister said. I was thrilled and have no words to explain to my happiness. I did not expect that one day the Prime Minister would directly talk to me and that too convey New Year wishes||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/housing-beneficiary-receives-new-year-wishes-from-pm/articleshow/80063477.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
January 2, 2021||Madurai||Decomposed body found in unused rly coach||Tirunelveli: The decomposed body of an unidentified man was found in an unused railway coach at Tirunelveli on Friday. It was spotted when the railway staff stepped in to check its condition to operate it for a special train service between Tirunelveli and Palakkad from Monday.Railway officials said that the coach was last used in a Shramik special train and has been lying idle at Tirunelveli junction for the last few months. It was on platform five and then at lay bay two before it was last shifted to lay bay three.The sleeper coach where the body was found on the floor was among the middle coaches and the coach was also locked. Following announcement of special service from Tirunelveli, the officials entered the coach to check the electric lines before it could be cleaned and used. On seeing the body, they alerted the railway police who retrieved the body and sent it to the government hospital for autopsy. Preliminary investigations revealed that the man could have died two to three weeks ago. Efforts are on to identify the man while checking CCTV footages from the station. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/decomposed-body-found-in-unused-rly-coach/articleshow/80065276.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Hyderabad||HC slams Telangana after farmers harassed for e-record of land||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court on Friday took the state government to task for harassing farmers and was particularly critical of revenue officials for making plot owners run from pillar to post to get even normal revenue-related matters resolved. A division bench of Justice A Rajasheker Reddy and Justice K Lakshman wondered why revenue authorities were refusing to issue e-pattadar passbooks to those farmers who were already in possession of pattadar passbooks. The bench was hearing a batch of appeals filed by the state government and the revenue authorities against an order of a single judge. The single judge had directed the revenue officials to grant e-pattadar passbooks to Burra Venugopal Goud and other farmers in respect of their 38-acres at Sikanderguda village in Gandipet mandal. The judge had also declared that Sikanderguda is not a Paigah village as portrayed by revenue officials. Recalling his own experience in similar matters, Justice Rajasheker said the revenue officials were causing hardship to the hapless farmers and owners of the plots under the pretext of digitisation, land survey, etc. Stating that they have certain points to make in this regard, the state counsel sought time to argue his case after Sankranti vacation and sought an extension of the stay on the single judge order. The judges, however, refused to grant any further time and posted the case to January 7, asking the counsel to argue first on how the state government was even eligible to seek an extension on the stay. “This is not an automatic extension, you (state) have to argue your case first,” the bench said. KS Murthy, counsel for the farmers, argued that their ancestors had the land for more than 100 years and the revenue authorities granted them pattas and recognised their rights over the land 40 years ago. “Since e-pattadar passbooks are made mandatory to avail various governmental schemes, the farmers have applied to the revenue authorities seeking e-passbooks. Instead of granting them e-passbooks, the officials have rejected their representations,” he said. Murthy said while the state was not claiming any title over this piece of land, the revenue officials were causing untold hardship to the farmers. Following appeals filed by the state government, the high court had earlier stayed the order of the single judge. Now when the matter has come up for hearing, the state counsel sought an extension of the stay. The stay will continue till January 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-critical-of-govt-says-farmers-cant-be-harassed-in-name-of-digitisation/articleshow/80066233.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
January 2, 2021||Madurai||Arittapatti hillocks near Madurai's Melur to be declared biodiversity heritage site||MADURAI: Arittapatti, a cluster of seven hillocks near Melur in Madurai district which is home to rare birds including 20 species of birds of prey, raptors and a variety of flora and fauna, is likely to be declared a bioheritage site. A member of Tamil Nadu Biodiversity Board said the process has been initiated for the declaration. Dr S Nagarathinam, head of the department of communications and co-organiser of the regional Eco-Next Media lab, said they had identified threats to the natural eco heritage site, and organized awareness programmes along with National Council for Science and Technology Communication (NCSTC) in the site for three years. ``We unofficially declared it a bio-heritage site to create awareness and it would be a huge leap if this is done through an official announcement,’’ he said. A Ravichandran, founder of Arittapatti Biodiversity Centre and secretary of Ezhumalai Paathukaapu Iyakkam, said these hillocks, which were about 300 to 500 feet high, are home to rare birds including legger falcon, which have been sighted for the first time in the region apart from northwest India. The formidable Peregrine falcon, its resident subspecies Shahseen falcon, are found to be breeding in the hillocks. What make biodiversity thrive in these hillocks are the 72 water bodies, including natural springs which supply the water. Ornithologist Dr T Badri Narayanan said though renowned ornithologist Salim Ali had stated in one of his books that Shahseen falcon was endemic to Western Ghats, the fact that they were thriving in these hillocks, which were not connected to Western Ghats, was a matter of great interest. Raptors like Bonelli’s eagle and migrant species like booted eagle were also a feast to the eyes in these hillocks. Director/Scientist F, Eco Next, NCSTC, DST, Govt of India, Dr Pamposh Kumar, who has been a part of the awareness campaigns in these hillocks, said that science could go a long way in self-preservation of biodiversity and heritage. Local people’s knowledge when augmented with technical knowledge and inputs contribute to preservation. Local people say they did not give much importance to these birds till the organised programmes were conducted. K Selvaraj of Kambur says they are seeing more birds in recent times after quarrying activities in the vicinity of the hillocks came to a standstill thanks to court orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/arittapatti-hillocks-to-be-declared-biodiversity-heritage-site/articleshow/80065275.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Madurai||People throng places of worship on New Year||Madurai/Trichy: With the government banning celebrations on New Year’s eve in hotels and public places, celebrations welcoming 2021 were muted in the southern and central districts. With Covid-19 pandemic continuing to impact lives and livelihood, many people chose to visit places of worship on Friday.Large crowds which thronged the Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple from early morning were allowed in after frisking. Many of them wore mask but those who came without it were told to purchase from outside enabling mask vendors to make a quick buck. Special pujas were performed in many of the temples for New Year. Temples and churches in Trichy city attracted significant footfall with people arriving in families. Flower prices shot up with jasmine selling for as much as Rs 2,000 a kilogram and a strand of 100 buds for Rs 35 to Rs 50. Restaurants organised special menus and bakeries saw good sales of cakes and sweets. Special prayer meets were also held in churches in Madurai and Trichy. The places of worship were grandly decorated to welcome the new year. In the evening, parents were seen taking children to parks and recreation spots.Ukkirakali Amman temple in Thennur, Vekkaliamman temple in Woraiyur and Ayyappan temple on Lawsons road were visited by a large number of local people in Trichy. To tackle the footfall, queue system was followed in the temples. Kodaikanal hill station saw a huge rush of tourists on Friday in view of the New Year celebration resulting in traffic jams at some places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/people-throng-places-of-worship-on-new-year/articleshow/80065292.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Salem||Jasmine price rises to Rs 3,132 per kg||Erode: The price of per kilogram of jasmine skyrocketed to Rs 3,132 on Thursday, while it was sold for Rs 100/kg a week ago. Because of mist and unusual rainfall, jasmine cultivation has been stopped across the Sathyamangalam region in Erode district. With the arrival of jasmine declining in markets, prices of jasmine went up. "Climatic conditions such as heavy mist and rain will usually affect the jasmine production in Sathyamangalam region," A V Nagarajan, one of the cultivators, said. Talking to TOI, he said that the cultivators have to face this situation every year during November and December. Nagarajan said one kilogram of jasmine flower was sold for Rs 100 a week ago. "But, it was sold for Rs 3,132 per kilo on Thursday and Friday," he said, adding that this will be maintained for the next couple of weeks as the Pongal festival approaches. Jasmine is cultivated in over 50,000 acres in villages such as Sikkarasampalayam, Pudukkuyyanur, Puduvadavalli, Bhavanisagar, Thandampalayam and Kenjanur in Sathyamangalam taluk. Flowers which are produced in these areas will be sent for sales to Mysuru, Thumkur, Shimoga and Bengaluru. Jasmine cultivators said they expected good sales in September, October, November and December due to marriage periods. They also expected that there would be a huge demand for flowers especially to Jasmine. "All our expectations shattered due to Covid-19 and many people did not perform the marriages in a grand manner," said P Muthusamy, another cultivator from Bhavanisagar. He said due to this, many farmers did not wish to cultivate jasmine as there’s no good demand for the flower in those months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/jasmine-price-rises-to-rs-3132-per-kg/articleshow/80065312.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Most of 13,000 rich farmers in Telangana still get Rythu Bandhu aid||HYDERABAD: Exactly how many rich farmers in Telangana get the benefit of the state government’s flagship Rythu Bandhu scheme? According to estimates prepared by the state government, there are roughly 13,000 farmers who have between 20 and 40 acres and collectively own more than 3.19 lakh acres. Rythu Bandhu categorisation of beneficiaries shows that the state has no land owner who owns more than 40 acres. Technically, these are well-off landlords, but a very small number of them return the Rs 5,000 input subsidy per season per acre that the state gives land-owning farmers under Rythu Bandhu scheme. Sources told TOI that only 743 people returned money with sums of up to just Rs 95 lakh last year. This has led to many people saying that all rich farmers should return their Rythu Bandhu deposits, especially in a tough year such as 2020-21 when the government is struggling to meet revenue targets. Payments depend on Telangana’s financial conditionSources added that if all farmers with large landholdings accept one season’s Ryuthu Bandhu payment, the state would have to shell out nearly ₹150 crore from its depleted coffers. This year, the government has started releasing Rythu Bandhu fund. The government intends to pay everyone but, “... it depends on the financial condition of the state. If it improves, everyone will get the money like in the first season,” says state principal secretary for agriculture Janardhan Reddy. “Forget 20 to 40 acres, a farmer with 10 acres can be treated as rich. The state government may have had good intentions behind not putting a cap on land size while releasing Rythu Bandhu funds, but the onus is now on the beneficiaries to show a big heart and return the money,” says Kiran Vissa, state committee member of Rythu Swaraja Vedika. According to the land ceiling limit prevailing in the state, no one can own more than 18 acres of wet land or 54 acres of dry land. There are certain exceptions made to land ceiling when it comes to plantation and other purposes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/most-of-13000-rich-farmers-in-t-still-get-rythu-bandhu-aid/articleshow/80066258.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 2, 2021||Madurai||11 tribal kids from Tamil Nadu to go for higher education, be ambassadors for slender loris||DINDIGUL: Eleven tribal children in the Sukkavali cluster in the Ayyalur forest range in the district will be the first from their villages to attend higher education as their education will be sponsored by Ponnammal Educational Trust. They also have been made ambassadors for slender loris, that thrive in the forest range, by SEEDS Trust. Ponnammal Educational Trust will give Rs 1 lakh to each student through through SEEDS Trust. PAWS-Bosch has been funding slender loris conservation under its CSR activity through SEEDS Trust which has been interacting with students on nature conservation. The 11 students were appointed as student ambassadors for the slender loris conservation project in the area. The children were handpicked based on the following criteria - children belonging to families with more than five daughters, orphans living with relatives, children whose father is disabled and mother is the breadwinner, school-dropouts working to augment family income and children from below poverty line families. SEEDS Trust founder P Muthusamy, who has been working on slender loris conservation in 40 villages in Ayyalur forest since 2014, said that the tribes here belonged to the Valayar community and were destroying it by overgrazing and other related activities. They also killed slender loris or captured and sold it to outsiders as they lacked knowledge about the importance of bio-conservation. Child marriage was very high in this community, resulting in high mother and child mortality. “We found that both boys and girls dropped out from school even before 10th standard due to poverty and lack of awareness,” he said. The selected students include - A Pitchammal, Class XI student; C Sivakumar and G Gnanaprakash, BSc students at RVS College, Dindigul; C Naveenkumar, BSc at GTN college, Dindigul; and A Uthamadevi, Class X student. “We talk to fellow students about these cute animals and have now kindled interest among fellow students in school and college who say they would love to see them,” said M Krishnaveni, one of the ambassadors. The children say they have now got a taste of higher education and will urge their parents to refrain from marrying them young. “Another activity that they take seriously is to protect slender loris from poachers,” said Muthusamy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/11-tribal-kids-to-go-for-higher-edu-be-ambassadors-for-slender-loris/articleshow/80065304.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Madurai||Work on JICA project at GRH gains pace||Madurai: The Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) funded project to establish an advanced six-storey operation theatre complex building at Government Rajaji Hosptital (GRH) has finally started to take off after years of delay. The infrastructure project worth Rs 325 crore, which was approved in 2016, faced setbacks over the years before demolition work of existing buildings commenced in the last week of December.Portions of the buildings at GRH housing the departments of ophthalmology, dermatology and general medicine which were earmarked for the JICA project were shifted last week to alternative areas to carry out the demolition work.Initially, there were protests against demolishing heritage buildings in GRH for the project which delayed the commencement of the project. Later the buildings on the GRH campus were assessed and a few portions initially proposed to be razed down including the Dean chamber were spared. Some of the buildings which had maintenance issues were earmarked to be demolished and make way for the theatre complex. JICA consultants also held several meetings over many months with senior health officials of the state health department and the GRH staff to finalise issues regarding the equipment, technology and skill training to be provided.The demolition work which was expected to commence by June 2020 was further delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. With the work for the project progressing and set to gain pace this year, it is expected to be completed by 2022.The JICA project comprises constructing 24 state-of-the-art operation theatres, post-operative care and intensive care units. Under the project the doctors too will be trained in advanced technology and innovative techniques to be used in their respective departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/work-on-jica-project-at-grh-gains-pace/articleshow/80065314.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Dehradun||Van falls into gorge, 2 bodies found||Pithoragarh: Two persons were killed in a road accident after their van fell into a deep gorge on Kanchoti Narayan Ashram Road on Thursday night. The two were returning after New Year’s celebrations. While the man was identified as a dentist named Brijesh Singh Thalal (25), the woman Sashi Gunjiyal (21), was a graduation student. Both were residents of Dharchula and had gone to Narayan Ashram, which was 40 km away. The incident took place on their way back. On Friday morning, the van was spotted by passersby who informed police officials. Police said while Brijesh’s body was found stuck inside the vehicle, Sashi’s body was found at some distance. The road is in a very remote area. Any further information has not been ascertained yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/van-falls-into-gorge-2-bodies-found/articleshow/80063486.cms||Prem Punetha
January 2, 2021||Madurai||College students make most of online classes||Madurai: Though there were initial challenges, college students are adapting to online classes by making the best use of it as full semester almost comes to an end. While students still miss campus life, students and faculty feel that apart from practical classes, online classes have been almost as same as regular physical classes. In fact, students say that online learning has given them extra time in their hands. “Though we had some problems at first and were anxious of how we’ll learn only through online classes, now we got used to things. Also, I usually have to travel for more than two hours every day on public transport to get to my college and return home. With online classes, both time and money spent on travelling is saved and I can also concentrate better,” said K Priya, a second year BSc computer science student.Students who reside in other districts or states benefit the most as they can attend classes from their homes. Some students are using their extra free time to attend additional online or offline courses to learn something new, develop skills or work on their hobbies.College faculty too say that students are not missing out much in online classes and that online submissions of assignments or use of e-resources were done by students even before Covid-19. “Except for first year students, who we had to integrate from school to college and also not having met them in person at all, for other students online classes were mostly comfortable. Connectivity issues are of course going to be there but teaching college students is different from teaching school kids. Our students are mostly able to pick up and don’t require spoon feeding,” said an assistant professor at an arts and sciences college. Though colleges have reopened partially with final year students returning before online semester exams begin, both students and faculty said that blended learning is here to stay even after Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/college-students-make-most-of-online-classes/articleshow/80065315.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
January 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Announce date for board exams, teachers tell govt||Coimbatore: A day after the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announced the public examination dates for classes X and XII, teachers of the state government schools have demanded the government to announce dates for board exams for their students as well. They have also demanded to notify the reduced portion for classes X and XII. "It has been months since the government announced its decision to reduce the syllabus for all the classes but it has not yet notified about it. At least for the classes X and XII, the portions should be notified at the earliest. Because, most of the schools had already completed the syllabus," state treasure of Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary School Government Teachers Association (TNHHSSGA) T Arulanantham said. Pointing out that every year they would identify the average and below average students by December and prepare a minimum level material for them, he said without knowing about the deleted portions, the teachers could not prepare the material. "If some of the questions that we had included in the material were from the deleted portions, then it would demotivate the students. We don’t understand why the government is delaying it to this extend," he added. On Thursday, state education minister KA Sengottaiyan said the examination dates would be announced only after the announcement of election dates. Arulanantham said that the government should not mix education with the politics, and announce the examination dates at the earliest. President of Tamil Nadu Teachers’ Association PK Ilamaran said the government should announce the public examination dates at the earliest because teachers would need at least a couple of weeks to train the students psychologically for the examinations. "Teaching in groups at micro level ie., a teacher for five students, should be formed to prepare the students mentally. Before that, the school education department should release the deleted portion, and it would give a sort of hope to the students. At present, both the teachers and students are confused due to the prevailing uncertainty," he added. Expressing hopes that the examination dates will be announced in January, president of Tamil Nadu Private Schools Association R Vishalakshi said at least if the portions are released now, we could utilize the remaining time and fine tune the students on it. Also, the government should issue guidelines regarding the practical examinations because students had not attended any practical sessions this year, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/announce-date-for-board-exams-teachers-tell-govt/articleshow/80065316.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 2, 2021||Madurai||Madurai dist cops grapple with shortage of personnel||Madurai: The short-staffed Madurai rural police unit is struggling to cope with its various duties saddled as it is with a range of tasks from bandobast to law and order deployment apart from crime prevention and detection. Being the gateway for the southern districts, the district is the most happening place next to Madurai city. Due to the presence of airport, Madurai district witnesses frequent movement of VIPs, protests and law and order issues. Sources said the rural police unit is forced to perform range duties with the strength fixed decades ago.There are 40 law and order police stations in the district. Police sources say though the district has grown by leaps and bounds in two decades, it has not got any new station, forcing the meagre number of officers to stretch their working hours to meet the demand. The last station to be opened in the district was at Melavalavu in 2000 after the brutal killing of seven scheduled caste members including an elected representative.Neighbouring districts like Virudhunagar and Theni have higher police strength compared to Madurai despite their small size and lesser happening places, the sources say. An officer said the 40 stations have been categorized as heavy, medium and light. A heavy station is supposed to have two police inspectors, one for crime and another for law and order, six sub-inspectors and 80 police personnel, but they have hardly 60-70% of this strength. A medium station has to have an inspector, two SIs and 50 police personnel, whereas a light station should have an SI and 30 police personnel.“The numbers can be increased only if the sanctioned strength is revised according to heavy, medium and light stations. At present there are roughly 1,200 police personnel and officers, which will increase to around 1,600 if the strength is revised. There is an additional 300-armed reserve police available,” he added. Another police officer said that since the same police officer has to do crime detection, law and order works, court duty and night rounds he might get stressed. A proposal to bifurcate the Melur police station has been sent but it is yet to be approved by the government.IG south zone, S Murugan, admitted that Madurai district requires more strength for which he has written to higher officials to. It is up to the government to decide as it involves allocation of additional funds. He however, said that services to the people are not affected and whenever needed, personnel from neighbouring districts are being provided to Madurai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-dist-cops-grapple-with-shortage-of-personnel/articleshow/80065313.cms||V Devanathan
January 2, 2021||Madurai||Woman duped of valuables||Madurai: A woman in Madurai was cheated of her gold ornaments and valuables by a man who promised to arrange the government’s Pongal gift hamper for Rs 800. The incident occurred days after the Tamil Nadu government announced a Pongal gift hamper comprising Rs 2,500 and a few other commodities to be distributed to all rice ration card holders in the state.The victim, S Saroja, told police that she met a man on December 23 on the premises of the Madurai district court who promised to fetch her the Pongal gift hamper for Rs 800. She said that she gave her purse and gold ornaments to the accused when he demanded her to get her photo taken. However, the accused fled with her ornaments and purse in which she had her cash, Aadhaar card, ration card and house key. She pegged the value of the stolen articles at Rs 19,075.Based on the woman’s complaint registered on Thursday, a case of cheating and theft has been registered at the Anna Nagar Police Station under sections 420, 379 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-duped-of-valuables/articleshow/80065320.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Only 48 of 100 property tax defaulters pay up||Coimbatore: Two months after the city corporation released the list of top 100 property tax defaulters, who had to pay Rs 21 crore, only 48 of them had paid the tax till Thursday. The corporation had released the list of top 20 defaulters in each of its five zones on October 27. Most of the defaulters were educational institutions, companies and commercial establishments. Some of them had not paid their due since 1998. While releasing the list, the corporation had warned the defaulters to pay the due amount at the earliest to avoid disconnection of water supply and also warned to seize the movable properties if they fail to pay the due amount even after disconnecting water connection. “In the last two months, as many as 48 defaulters paid Rs 4.39 crore. We continue to warn the remaining defaulters. A drive is also going on to collect the tax amount,” said a corporation official. But city-based activists slammed the civic body for being too lenient on the defaulters. “If the defaulters had not paid the due amount even after two months, the corporation should have taken action against them and collected the pending amount,” said activist K Kathirmathiyon. “No penalty is being slapped on them. The corporation should slap penalties and an interest on the pending amount to make such people pay. Also, it should not provide them any approval or service connection unless the due amount is paid.” Most of the defaulters are businessmen, said activist S P Thiyagarajan. “Why is the corporation hesitating to take action? It should make the defaulters understand that they will be punished if they don’t pay the tax on time. By being too lenient, the corporation is setting a bad example.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/only-48-of-100-property-tax-defaulters-pay-up/articleshow/80065323.cms||Nivedha Selvam
January 2, 2021||Meerut||Man kills friend over illicit relationship with wife||Muzaffarnagar: The body of Mohit Kashyap (20), resident of Deoband in Saharanpur, who was missing for the last three days, was fished out of Kali river on Friday. According to police, Kashyap was killed by his friend Suraj (22), who suspected the former of being involved in an illicit relationship with his wife. In a case of premeditated murder, Suraj invited Kashyap to a booze party near the Kali river, and spiked the victim’s drink with poison. When Kashyap fell unconscious, Suraj threw the body in the river from a bridge.According to sources, both friends used to work together as plumbers. Kashyap would often visit Suraj’s home and allegedly established a romantic relationship with Suraj’s wife. But when the relationship became public, Suraj hatched a conspiracy to murder his friend, and called Kashyap for a party nearby Kali river on December 29.During interrogation, the accused revealed he had added poison to Kashyap’s drink, and later tied his limbs before throwing him into the river. Chhapar police station SHO Yashapal Singh said, “After investigation, it was revealed that Suraj had committed this crime. Based on information provided by the accused, we recovered Kashyap’s body and sent it for postmortem. A case has been registered against the accused, who has been sent to jail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-kills-friend-over-illicit-relationship-with-wife/articleshow/80063518.cms||Mohd Dilshad
January 2, 2021||Aurangabad||NPA syllabus & trainer to help fix Aurangabad cops’ attitude problem||Aurangabad: With the aim to correct the ‘arrogant’ behaviour of policemen while dealing with complainants or the public at large, the Aurangabad city police have decided to use a portion of a syllabus from the National Police Academy as well as rope in a professional trainer to inculcate manners and etiquette among the personnel. The training would focus on bringing an ‘attitudinal change’ among the police personnel at the grassroot level so that besides bridging the gap between the police and the society, the training also helps the police improve its public image.The project is the brainchild of police commissioner Nikhil Gupta, who has served as a trainer at the National Police Academy in Hyderabad and is credited with imparting training to seven batches of IPS officers before being posted as the commissioner of police for Aurangabad city four months ago. When contacted, Gupta said, “To serve the society better and perform the duties for which police personnel are recruited, they need to have appropriate knowledge, skills and attitude. Though frequent training, courses and workshops are conducted for honing their skills and knowledge, nothing much is done to address their attitude problem.”Citing that there is no scale to measure someone’s attitude but can only be sensed through one’s behaviour, Gupta said, “Attitudinal change of the policemen while looking at a case or handling a situation will definitely bring a check on the ever-increasing friction between police personnel and the commoners.”The pilot project would be initiated at one of the 17 police stations in the city and would cover all aspects — right from receiving and greeting a person, victim or complainant visiting a police station to being empathetic towards their loss. Moreover, focus would also be on following a standard operating procedure of quickly responding to the complaint received by them, being courteous and use of decent language.“Attitude is the reflection of a person’s overall experiences in life, his culture, background, knowledge, goals and priorities in life. Though it is not that easy to instantly one’s attutude with a single training, but considering the syllabus and the training experience we will have, we are confident of getting good results,” said Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/npa-syllabus-trainer-to-help-fix-aurangabad-cops-attitude-problem/articleshow/80063523.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Pump manufacturers hike prices by 15%||Coimbatore: Pump manufacturers here increased the price of all models by 15% from Friday due to rising cost of raw materials. Prices of raw materials have increased by 10 to 40% in the last two months along with the price of spare parts, said K Maniraj, president of the Kovai Power Driven Pumps and Spares Manufacturers Association (Kopma). “Despite several requests, the central and the state government failed to take steps to control the price hike. So, we decided to increase the price of all varieties – household, industries and agriculture – by 15% from Friday.” Meanwhile, members of the Railway Suppliers Association (Rasa) submitted a petition to the railway, requesting to settle bill payments at the earliest. “Even though the railway board has issued two circulars instructing officials to release the MSME bill payments without delay, the bills are much delayed. As railway delays the bill payment, suppliers are unable to complete their orders on time. Store officials are levying penalty for the delays. While MSMEs are on the verge of collapse due to Covid-19 pandemic and rising price of raw materials, it increases our burden further,” Rasa president S Surulivel said. The Coimbatore Sidco Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Welfare Association (Cosiema), in a statement, said it had requested the central government to control the export and import of raw materials by imposing suitable customs duty and to form a committee comprising representatives from industrial associations, to monitor rise in raw material price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pump-manufacturers-hike-prices-by-15/articleshow/80065325.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Kudos to cops for safely ringing in New Year||Coimbatore: The district witnessed an incident-free New Year on Thursday night, thanks to vigilant personnel in the police department.As many as 2,050 cops deployed in the urban and rural parts of the district made sure that public celebrations are banned on streets. No road accidents were reported and no cases were booked for traffic rules violation. While the city police had deployed 1,350 personnel from Thursday night to Friday morning, the rural police had 700 cops on patrol.Police had set up 34 temporary checkpoints in the city to curb drunk driving. “We closed the Avinashi Road flyover, Dr Nanjappa Road flyover, 100 Feet Road – Chinnasamy Road flyover and North Coimbatore flyover. Most of the hotels were closed by 10pm. Streets were deserted after that. Cops stopped reckless bike riders and shared safe riding tips,” said deputy commissioner of police G Stalin. Deputy commissioners E S Uma, R Mutharasu, Stalin and city police commissioner Sumit Sharan made their presence known in the city, patrolling streets. They also greeted cops.District superintendent of police Ara Arularasu visited the southern part of the district including Pollachi. Additional deputy superintendent of police Vijayakarthik Raja visited Thudiyalur.Raja and Thudiyalur police inspector Balamurali Sundaram cut a cake and distributed it to motorists. ADSP G S Anitha met the cops who were on duty on the streets and conveyed New Year greetings.Eighty motorists, who were stopped for drunk driving and other traffic violations at Kaniyur toll plaza on Thursday night, were asked to wait under a shamiana, where Karumathampatti police personnel showed them videos on road safety.Inspector general of police K Periaiah, who arrived at the spot around 12am, cut a cake along with the motorists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kudos-to-cops-for-safely-ringing-in-new-year/articleshow/80065326.cms||A Subburaj
January 2, 2021||Patna||No political crisis in my government: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Friday said there was no political crisis in his government. He said this in response to a media query after a series of review meetings with senior officials of different departments on the New Year. When a journalist asked, “Is any political crisis looming over (your government), Sir?” Nitish quickly replied, “No, not at all.” Earlier in the day, former Bihar CM and RJD leader Rabri Devi said Nitish’s writ no longer ran in the government he was heading and it was the BJP, his numerically stronger ally, which was calling the shots. RJD has been trying to goad Nitish to quit the NDA, following the recent defection of six JD(U) MLAs to BJP in Arunachal Pradesh. “He (Nitish) should have thought carefully before taking oath as the CM with the support of his bigger ally BJP,” Rabri told reporters. Nitish’s JD(U) has only 43 MLAs, compared to BJP’s 74 and 75 of RJD. The NDA has total 125 MLAs in the 243-member assembly. “All those officers who have been loyal to Nitish are likely to be sidelined in the days to come,” Rabri told reporters while referring to major bureaucratic reshuffle on Thursday. Earlier on Wednesday, Nitish had rubbished his former minister and now RJD leader Shyam Rajak’s claim that 17 JD(U) MLAs were in touch with his party leaders. “Once, their number will go up to 28, the two-third number of total JD(U) MLAs, they can defect to the RJD,” Rajak had claimed. Nitish on Friday categorically said that no political crisis was looming over his government. CM holds series of review meetsUnlike previous years when Nitish, as the CM, used to meet his cabinet colleagues, political workers and even common people at his residential office to exchange the New Year’s greetings on the first day of a calendar year; he on Friday chose to visit his office at the secretariat and held a series of review meetings with senior officials of different departments. Nitish went to his office on Friday after several months. In recent months, especially during the Covid-19 period, he used to hold a majority of meetings from his residential office. Even the cabinet meetings used to take place at the CM secretariat. The CM spending too much time at the main secretariat led to speculations in political circles that something “unusual” might happen in the state government. However, Nitish said after the meetings, “Earlier, I used to come here (at the main secretariat’s office) on a regular basis. Once again, I have thought about executing my work while sitting here. Therefore, I decided to begin this exercise from today itself. Henceforth, I will come here at least a day in a week and discharge my duty from the main secretariat office.” While reviewing the works of the rural development department and the Jeevika, the CM asked the officials to ensure that the canteens of all district-level Sadar hospitals are managed and run by the Jeevika didis. The CM also inaugurated a new ‘Lok Sewa Kendra’ on the ‘Suchna Bhavan’ premises through videoconferencing from his main secretariat office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-political-crisis-in-my-government-nitish/articleshow/80063985.cms||Madan Kumar
January 2, 2021||Coimbatore||SDPI conducts candlelight protests||Coimbatore: Hundreds of Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) cadres conducted candlelight protests at five places here on Friday to support the farmers, who have been protesting against the farm laws in New Delhi. SDPI organised the protests at Athupalam, Karumbukadai, Ukkadam, Selvapuram and Thudiyalur at 12am. More than hundred SDPI cadres gathered at Athupalam holding candles. The protesters raised slogans against the Union government for implementing the laws and demanded their withdrawal. They also urged the government to accept the farmers’ demands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sdpi-conducts-candlelight-protests/articleshow/80065332.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Auto driver held for killing woman in Tamil Nadu||COIMBATORE: The Tirupur rural police on Thursday night arrested an autorickshaw driver for murdering an elderly woman and stealing five sovereigns of gold mangalsutra and Rs 10,000 from her on December 30. The accused has been identified as B Sakthivel, 35, of Thiruvalluvar Nagar at Vellakoil in Tirupur district. Police said Arumugam, 65, and wife A Eswari, 55, were residing on Moolanur Road at Vellakoil in Tirupur district. Their son Udhayakumar, 35, married Selvarani, 34, 12 years ago and was residing in a house at Sultanpet in Coimbatore district. The couple did not have a child. Arumugam has been running a furniture shop on Semmandampalayam Road at Vellakoil for the last seven years. He used to send the furniture items to his customers’ place in Sakthivel’s auto. A few weeks ago, Arumugam discussed with Sakthivel about his son not having a child. Sakthivel advised Arumugam to perform parihara puja ritual at his furniture shop on December 30 for his daughter-in-law to conceive. Believing his words, Arumugam made arrangements for the puja. Sakthivel conducted the puja and later, asked the couple to lie on the ground to offer prayer to the God. When the couple did so, Sakthivel took a sickle and attacked Eswari and Arumugam. Eswari died on the spot and Arumugam was battling for life. Meanwhile, Sakthivel snatched five sovereigns of gold mangalsutra from Eswari and took away Rs 10,000from the shop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/auto-driver-held-for-killing-woman/articleshow/80065328.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Hyderabad||ED books ex-TDP MLA Yarapathineni Srinivasa Rao under PMLA for illegal mining||HYDERABAD: Enforcement Directorate (ED) has booked a case under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) against TDP ex-MLA Yarapathineni Srinivasa Rao and others in connections with the illegal mining scam. ED has booked the case based on Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI) FIR on the scam. The agency has begun recording statements of witnesses in the case. CBI conducted searches at 25 locations in Hyderabad and Guntur district against the accused recently. ED took up the CBI FIR that is originally pertaining to 17 cases of illegal mining of limestone booked against the accused. The CBI FIR was issued on August 26 last year against 17 accused. The agency alleged in the Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) that the accused had fraudulently conducted unauthorized mining, quarrying and transportation of limestone in Guntur district. Illegal mining took place in Konanki village of Piduguralla mandal, Kesanupalli and Nadikudi villages of Dachepalli mandal, Guntur district for several years and thereby caused revenue loss to the government and other leaseholders, and also exploited natural resources. ED is looking into the allegations that several lakh tonnes of limestone was mined by the accused during from 2014 to 2018. The CBI case was booked for theft, extortion, criminal trespass, cheating and under sections of Andhra Pradesh Minor Minerals Concession Rules whereas ED booked its case under PMLA. “We are tracking money routing. The criminal proceeds acquired through illegal mining will be tracked,” said a source in ED.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ed-books-ex-tdp-mla-yarapathineni-under-pmla-for-illegal-mining/articleshow/80065327.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 2, 2021||Meerut||Two arrested for trying to extort with 'inappropriate' pictures of married woman||BIJNOR: A team of Afzalgarh police station arrested two people, after a man complained that someone had sent messages to his wife’s mobile phone containing her inappropriate pictures, and had even later tried to extort Rs 4 lakh from her. During investigation after an FIR was registered, names of two suspects came up, and they were arrested on Friday. According to police, an Afjalgarh resident had filed a complaint that two people — Mukul Kumar and Manoj Kumar from Bhagijot village under Afjalgarh police station area — had sent objectionable messages to his wife’s WhatsApp number, and then demanded a ransom of Rs 4 lakh. Bijnor superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh said police have registered a case under sections 384 of IPC and 66 of the IT Act. Police arrested the accused and sent them to jail on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-arrested-for-trying-to-extort-with-inappropriate-pictures-of-married-woman/articleshow/80063530.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 2, 2021||Ranchi||Housing scheme for urban poor in Ranchi inaugurated||RANCHI/KODERMA: Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation of the Light House Project (LHP) in Ranchi on Friday. Under the LHP, a housing initiative for economically weaker sections in urban areas, 1,008 houses will be built in Ranchi. Modi laid the foundation stone via video-conference as chief minister Hemant Soren attended the event in Dhurwa along with Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth and Hatia MLA Navin Jaiswal. Speaking at the event, Soren underscored the need for the Centre to raise its financial support for the project. “Under the project, a beneficiary will have to afford Rs 7 lakh. I request the Prime Minister to increase Centre’s share so that thefinancial burden on poor people could be minimized. People living here have a low income and most of them are labourers.” The houses will be built with shares from the Centre, state and beneficiaries. Soren further said, “Jharkhand is a backward state and people from rural areas come to the cities for jobs. I would urge the government to also make housing schemes for these people.” The LHP will be implemented in Ranchi’s Dhurwa area on a 7.5-acre plot using innovative construction technology dubbed as ‘NAVARITIH’ (new, affordable, validated, research innovation technologies for Indian housing). The project cost is pegged at Rs 133.99 crore and will be complete by 2022. The carpet area of each flat will be 315 square feet and the LHP will be laced with solar panels, sewers, drainage systems and common pathways. Besides Ranchi, Modi laid foundations of the project under Global Housing Technology Challenge (GHTC)-India in Indore (Madhya Pradesh), Rajkot (Gujarat), Chennai (Tamil Nadu), Agartala (Tripura) and Lucknow (Uttar Pradesh). Modi also felicitated online the Koderma district administration for its performance in implementing the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban) in Jhumri -Tilaiya Municipal Council. Among the 4,041 urban local bodies nationwide, Jhumri-Tilaiya was ranked second after Mirzapur (Uttar Pradesh). Kaushalesh Yadav, the chief executive officer of the council, said: “Around 2,025 houses have been completed so far against the target of 3,284.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/housing-scheme-for-urban-poor-in-ranchi-inaugurated/articleshow/80064957.cms||Dhritiman Ray
January 2, 2021||Ranchi||Dry run for Covid vaccine in 6 dists today||Ranchi: Acting on the directives of the Union health ministry that mandated a nationwide dry run for Covid-19 vaccination to be undertaken on Saturday, the state health department has chosen six districts for the one-day programme. The districts selected for the dry run in the state were Ranchi, Simdega, Chatra, East Singhbhum, Palamu and Pakur. The department through the dry run will assess the operational feasibility of the Co-WIN application and check linkages between the planning, implementation and reporting mechanisms for the planned vaccination drive. According to senior officials of the state health department, the dry run will help in identifying the challenges prior to the actual implementation of the programme. Talking to TOI, state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said: “Any vaccination programme requires elaborate planning and the development of protocols that need to be adhered to. With Covid-19 vaccination programme we have to be extra careful and that is why we have already assigned tasks to officials from the state to the block level so that everyone involved is trained and informed about the protocols.” Kulkarni further said: “We have identified 10 areas to be monitored during the dry run. These include planning for prerequisites for the vaccine introduction as per guidelines, creation of facilities, data and users on Co-WIN application, identification and mapping of sites, uploading of data of healthcare workers, deployment of vaccinators and other manpower, mobilization of logistics at sites, correct reporting of vaccination receipts at different levels and mock drill of vaccination and its reporting by health care workers. We have also decided to hold review meetings at the block, district and state levels for feedback and to make changes based on requirement.” Dr Ajit Prasad, the nodal officer for the vaccination programme at the state NHM unit, said: “Each identified sites will have four officials and they will have to conduct dry runs in a two-hour slot.” Talking about the preparations made for the dry run, Palamu DC Shashi Ranjan said: “We are going to conduct dry runs at two centres — Palamu Medical College and Hospital in Daltonganj and the sub -ivisional hospital in Chhatarpur. The personnel involved have been provided training and they have also been briefed by senior officials. We are making all necessary arrangements as per the check list provided by the health department.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dry-run-for-cov-vaccine-in-6-dists-today/articleshow/80064939.cms||Gaurav Pandey
January 2, 2021||Ranchi||Bokaro picnic points witness massive turnouts on New Year||Bokaro: The Bokaro picnic spots on Friday remained crowded as revellers thronged popular spots like City Park, Garga Dam, Konar Dam, Cooling Pond and Tenughat Dam to indulge in some New Year merriment. As the picnickers danced, sang and cooked, they were found violating the Covid-control measures across all the spots. A jubilant Gayatri Sinha, who was spotted picnicking in one of the aforementioned spots, said, “We should forget the past and step into 2021 with nothing but positivity and hence, we decided to celebrate today by spending some quality time with our friends and family.” Even the places of worship, like Jagannath Temple, Ram Mandir, Sree Ayyappa Temple, Gayatri Temple and Navanath Temple, saw a rush of devotees with many of them praying for the virus to go away. Sunil Kumar, who hails from City Centre, said, “I started the first day of 2021 by offering puja and sought the Almighty’s blessings in putting an end to coronavirus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bokaro-picnic-points-witness-massive-turnouts-on-new-year/articleshow/80064353.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Ranchi||Cop escorting Bihar MP to Latehar killed in road mishap||Daltonganj: A police vehicle escorting Bihar’s Aurangabad MP Sushil Kumar Singh to Latehar met with an accident on Friday morning, injuring four cops and killing one. The deceased policeman, Madanjit Kumar Singh (30), was a member of the small action team of Chatterpur police and a native of Pahley village under Paton block of Palamu district. The accident occurred at Sultani Ghati on NH-98 around 9.30am, Chatterpur sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Shambhu Kumar Singh said. Madanjit received injuries to his head and was taken to Palamu Medical College and Hospital, where he died after a couple of hours. Another cop was reported to be in a critical state. “The escort vehicle was ahead of the MP’s car. Sushil Kumar Singh and others present in his car did not get hurt in the incident. The driver of the escort vehicle is injured and is not in a position to explain how the accident took place,” the SDPO said. Sushil Kumar Singh enjoys Y-Category security. He had entered Jharkhand through Hariharganj and Hariharganj police escorted him up to Chatterpur. Madanjit and his colleagues had to escort the MP from Chatterpur to Nawa Bazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cop-escorting-bihar-mp-to-latehar-killed-in-road-mishap/articleshow/80064921.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Ranchi||Low-key festivities at Cheshire Home||Jamshedpur: Residents of Cheshire Home had an unusual New Year celebration on Friday this year with just five different groups dropping in with gifts, unlike other years when the place would flood with people who arrive with chocolates, biscuits and other food items for the specially-abled children of the home. Although the children cut cakes, danced and made merry, the celebrations were largely low-key keeping the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. “This year only five groups, including a group of chartered accounts and a few families, arrived,” said Sister Philomena, head of Cheshire Home. “Since Diwali, we have not seen any corporate house visiting with gifts, barring ISWP (Indian Steel and Wire Products Ltd) that took utmost care of the inmates during the lockdown,” she added. Suru (11), one of the children at Cheshire Home, said, “We enjoyed the new year. Many children did not wear masks.” Nine-year-old Sabina was expecting more guests but was disappointed at the low turnout. “It was good. We had cakes and chocolates,” she said. Philanthropist Pappu Sardar, who often visits Cheshire Home, said, “Covid-19 prevented several donors from visiting the home physically. I hope 2021 will liberate us from the disease and we will be back to the earlier days as far as the flow of visitors is concerned.” “In the wake of Covid, we are avoiding taking them to outside while outsiders visiting the kids have also gone down. Therefore to keep them motivated, we organize sports, yoga and meditation sessions,” Sister Philomena said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/low-key-festivities-at-cheshire-home/articleshow/80064313.cms||B Sridhar
January 2, 2021||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand records 128 fresh Covid cases, no death on NY||RANCHI: Fresh infections continue to outshine recoveries even as the state capital of Ranchi reported a hike in the number of fresh infections on New Year’s Day. The numbers remained neck-and-neck on Friday with 128 fresh infections and 105 recoveries in the state. Meanwhile, there was no casualty due to Covid on Friday, keeping the death toll due to virus in Jharkhand to 1,030. As many as 14 districts reported fresh infections in single digits while seven, including Chatra, Giridih, Godda, Gumla, Koderma, Pakur and West Singhbhum reported zero cases. Barring Ranchi, Palamu and East Singhbhum which reported 71, 12 and 11 cases, respectively, the rest reported less than 10 cases. As per government data, as many as 1,15,241 people have been infected by the virus till date and 1,12,529 have recovered from the infection, taking the recovery rate up at 97.64%. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.14% against the national average of 0.16%. The doubling rate of the virus in the state stands at 508.21 days against the national figure of 424.26 days. The casualty rate the state stands at 0.89%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/state-records-128-fresh-cov-cases-no-death-on-ny/articleshow/80070923.cms||Gaurav Pandey
January 2, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand records 128 fresh Covid cases, no death on NY||RANCHI: Fresh infections continue to outshine recoveries even as the state capital of Ranchi reported a hike in the number of fresh infections on New Year’s Day. The numbers remained neck-and-neck on Friday with 128 fresh infections and 105 recoveries in the state. Meanwhile, there was no casualty due to Covid on Friday, keeping the death toll due to virus in Jharkhand to 1,030. As many as 14 districts reported fresh infections in single digits while seven, including Chatra, Giridih, Godda, Gumla, Koderma, Pakur and West Singhbhum reported zero cases. Barring Ranchi, Palamu and East Singhbhum which reported 71, 12 and 11 cases, respectively, the rest reported less than 10 cases. As per government data, as many as 1,15,241 people have been infected by the virus till date and 1,12,529 have recovered from the infection, taking the recovery rate up at 97.64%. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.14% against the national average of 0.16%. The doubling rate of the virus in the state stands at 508.21 days against the national figure of 424.26 days. The casualty rate the state stands at 0.89%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-records-128-fresh-cov-cases-no-death-on-ny/articleshow/80064971.cms||Gaurav Pandey
January 2, 2021||Ranchi||Ranchiites soak in festive fervour, ignore Covid rules||Ranchi: In a desperate attempt to beat the pandemic blues and put 2020 behind them, Ranchiites threw caution to the wind and thronged the picnic spots and temples here on the first day of the new year, resulting in safety norms like social distancing, for example, going for a toss. On Friday morning, people from all age groups were spotted in popular picnic spots like Patratu Valley, Dhurwa Dam, Dasam Falls, Jonha Falls and Hirni Falls. From teenagers clicking selfies to adults spending some quality time with their friends, all of them were seen behaving in a way which indicated that the outbreak no longer exists. Almost everyone was roaming around without masks or he/she did not maintain social distancing. When asked, Tupudana resident Ranjit Kumar Singh, who had come to Dhurwa Dam with his friends for a picnic, said, “We have been cooped up in our homes for the past nine months because of the outbreak and now we cannot take it anymore. How can one expect us to not go out or indulge in some merry-making with our near and dear ones on the first day of the New Year.” Similar scenes and sentiments prevailed in temples as devotees made a beeline for Jagganathpur temple (in Dhurwa), Sai Mandir and Sai Ashram (in Pundag) and Shiva temple (in Ranchi Pahadi) “to pray for a virus-free 2021”. Needless to say, the temple authorities had a tough time in managing the devotees as they violated the safety norms. Though the authorities distributed masks at the entry point and made sure the devotees sanitised their hands prior to their entrance, things took a turn for the worse inside the temple premises when social distancing wnet for a toss and the volunteers had a tough time in enforcing it. At Sai Dham, the temple management committee seemed helpless as its repeated requests to maintain social distancing fell on deaf ears. “We have deployed five security guards and distributed over 300 masks and are asking people to use sanitizers before they enter the premises. We asked the devotees not to crowd the place but they are not listening,” Pragya Shambhavi, one of the trustees of Sai Dham, said. The temple’s security guards said that faced maximum resistance from the women devotees when they did not pay attention to their request to maintain the safety norms. “Despite asking them repeatedly to not crowd the area, the women devotees aren’t ready to budge. They continue to stay put and refuse to leave the premises after their darshan,” a security guard preferring anonymity said. Khushi Singh, a first-year student of Nirmala College who was spotted at Saidham temple, said, “I prayed for our offline academic session to resume since our studies has suffered a lot due to the pandemic. I cannot afford to have another year wasted because of coronavirus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchiites-soak-in-festive-fervour-ignore-cov-rules/articleshow/80064305.cms||Gaurav Pandey
January 2, 2021||Ranchi||Civil society groups appreciate govt move on tribal code, urge to drop Pathalgarhi cases ‘as promised’||Ranchi: Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (JJM) — the umbrella organisation of several civil society groups and activists – on Friday welcomed the mahagathbandhan government’s announcements made during its first anniversary celebrations on December 29 regarding eradicating hunger and pressing for a separate code for tribals, for example, howevere it also asked chief minister Hemant Soren to fulfill the promises he made when he came to power in December, 2019. “One of the biggest promises made by the CM on December 29, 2019 (when Hemant took oath) was that he would drop the cases against the Pathalgarhi activists. But more than a year has passed by and no action has been taken in this regard,” JJM member Aloka Kujur said. She added, “As per information obtained through RTI, of the 30 cases, 16 have been recommended for withdrawal by the three district administrations where these cases were registered. However, these cases are pending before the state home department.” JJM, however, appreciated the government’s acknowledgement of the “widespread widespread hunger and malnutrition in state”. Kujur said, “Many eligible citizens have not yet been included in the Public Distribution System (PDS) and the CM’s recent announcement to include 15 lakh beneficiaries in it is a step in the right direction.” She added, “Even the decision for the universal extension of old age social security pension is also a positive step since at present, more than half of the senior citizens’ in Jharkhand are deprived of a social security pension.” JJM also lauded the government’s decision to increase MGNREGA wages to Rs 225 from Rs 194 by utilising the state funds. It also drew the government’s attention to the “widespread corruption in NREGA which is facilitated by the nexus between government officials and contractors”. Elina Horo, another JJM member, said, “In Jharkhand, people have put up with red-tapism and systemic corruption for availing their daily benefits. The decision to implement the service guarantee act through ‘JharSewa’ and holding the officials concerned accountable is important. The system should be implemented through panchayat and block offices and not through pragya kendras or private agencies for the sake of transparency.” While appreciating the decision to press for a separate code for tribals in the Census register, JJM asked the government to focus on implementation of the Panchayat Extension to Scheduled Areas Act. “The land bank policy should be cancelled and land should be returned to the Adivasi-moolvasi raiyat (tribal and indigenous land owners) in projects where it was forcibly taken rom them,” Horo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/civil-society-groups-appreciate-govt-move-on-tribal-code-urge-to-drop-pathalgarhi-cases-as-promised/articleshow/80064294.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
January 2, 2021||India||Great Friday freeze: Sub-zero temperatures in 3 cities even in plains||NEW DELHI: It was a freezing Friday over the northern plains of the country as the mercury dropped to below-zero in as many as three cities, with Hisar in Haryana recording -1.2 degrees Celsius and Churu (Rajasthan) and Bathinda (Punjab) -0.2 degrees Celsius each. While it's rare for so many places in the plains to record temperatures below freezing point in a single day, two other cities clocked near-zero temperatures. These were Faridkot in Punjab and Narnaul in Haryana, both recording a minimum of 0.2 degrees C. More to the east, the Lucknow airport clocked 0.5 degrees C while Delhi reported its lowest January temperature of 1.1 degrees C at Safdarjung. This winter, which has been one of the harshest so far in recent years, has seen as many as five cities in the plains hitting freezing point, the other two cities being Sikar in Rajasthan and Narnaul, both recording a minimum of -0.5 degrees C in recent days. That's not all, two more cities came close to freezing in the last week of December. Pilani in Rajasthan recorded a low of 0.2 degrees C and Amritsar in Punjab 0.4 degrees C. "Lower than normal minimum temperatures in the northern plains were expected this winter. The India Meteorological Department had said as much in its seasonal forecast in early December. On a global scale, this is a La Nina year, when temperatures over the Pacific are unusually low. Such years normally lead to harsh winters in north India," said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, head of IMD. The latest spell of severe cold weather was caused by icy northerly/northwesterly winds sweeping across the region amid clear skies - conditions that lead to bitterly cold nights as heat from the sun quickly dissipates at night in the absence of a cloud cover, IMD officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/great-friday-freeze-sub-zero-temperatures-in-3-cities-even-in-plains/articleshow/80066685.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
January 2, 2021||Mumbai||Covid deaths in Mumbai in December down by 1/3rd compared to November||MUMBAI: In the sharpest indicator of Covid-19 pandemic's decline in Mumbai, deaths in December dropped sharply- 33% - compared to November. Corresponding drop across Maharashtra is 21%. Mortality, according to state Covid task force member Dr Shashank Joshi, is the most telling measure of a pandemic's severity. "Number of daily cases don't tell the whole story. If lesser tests are performed in a day, there are bound to be fewer positive cases. But deaths can't be hidden,'' he said. The falling death rate in both Mumbai and Maharashtra, said Dr Joshi, indicate the "decline of the first wave of the pandemic." On most December days, the city reported less than 12 deaths against 18 on an average in November. A total of 374 Covid-19 deaths were reported in Mumbai in December as against 558 in November. The state reported 2,973 deaths in November, while 2,350 were reported in December. Decline of Covid's first wave in Mumbai and Maharashtra become clearer if statistics since September-the peak period-are taken. In September, daily caseload in the state hovered around 20,000 and deaths over 400. Corresponding average values for December are 3,500 and 60 deaths. In Mumbai as well, from 2,500-plus cases a day in September, the number has dropped to between 500 and 800 now. There is a nearly 24% drop daily in the state as well as the city. Public health doctors said the dip in deaths could also be attributed to quicker detection of cases and streamlining of treatment protocols. "We see a drop in the number of critical cases. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.5% and we are working to bring it down to 1%," said a senior official from the state government. When Covid-19 first emerged in the city in March, there was little knowledge about the virus's behavior and complications. Dr Shashank Joshi said, "Now, nine months down the line, we know how to diagnose early and realize the importance of hitting the disease hard and early. This has contributed to the drop in deaths." If Mumbai saw 50-plus deaths on a day in August, average has dropped to below 10 in December's second fortnight. BMC executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare said the decline in deaths in Mumbai is in tune with the situation nationwide. "People now seek medical help earlier than they used to,'' added Dr Gomare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-deaths-in-mumbai-in-december-down-by-1/3rd-compared-to-november/articleshow/80066699.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 2, 2021||Mumbai||Congress opposes Shiv Sena push for renaming of Aurangabad||MUMBAI: A fresh rift is on the cards in the one-year-old ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi in the state over the Shiv Sena's demand for renaming Aurangabad as Sambhaji Nagar. State Congress president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat has opposed the Sena's demand. For a long time, the Shiv Sena has been demanding renaming of Aurangabad as Sambhaji Nagar. According to reports, on January 4 last year, the state administration submitted a proposal to the MVA government to rename Aurangabad as Sambhaji Nagar. Thorat, who was recently in Aurangabad for the campaign for the gram panchayat elections, strongly opposed the proposal, saying the MVA government will adhere to the common minimum programme, and that it will be improper to step beyond the CMP. "There is no proposal before the MVA to rename Aurangabad as Sambhaji Nagar. Congress will strongly oppose any such move. We will not move beyond the CMP," Thorat said. Thorat pointed out that changing the name of the city would not result in development of the city. "The MVA has been formed by political parties which are opposed to the theories and ideology of parties like the BJP. We are a government of three parties, and we take decisions by consensus. There may be differences on certain key issues, but we will adhere to the common minimum programme. We are determined to ensure the progress and welfare of all sections of society," Thorat said. Thorat said that ever since theMVA had taken over the reins of the state more than a year ago, the BJP appears to be on the back foot, particularly after the debacle in elections to the legislative council from the teachers' and graduates' constituencies. "We won all the five seats. BJP lost all the seats it contested, we won even from Nagpur, the stronghold of the BJP. In fact, we wrested the Nagpur seat after five decades," Thorat said. On the reduction in ready reckoner rates and premium on FSI too, there are differences within the MVA. While RR rates were reduced unilaterally "without consulting" the Congress by the Sena and NCP, when the Sena brought about policy changes in the premium, Congress not only objected to the proposal but succeeded in stalling it. "We expect that basic changes will be made in the ready reckoner rates as well as premium policy and the CM will take a final decision. The Congress view is that the changes were made keeping in mind a section of leading builders in Mumbai," a senior Congress minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/congress-opposes-shiv-sena-push-for-renaming-of-aurangabad/articleshow/80066711.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
January 2, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: 375 healthcare workers to participate in vaccination drill today||BENGALURU: A total of 375 registered health workers will take part in a two-hour dry run of the Covid-19 vaccination programme in Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru, Belagavi, Kalaburagi and Shivamogga on Saturday. The Karnataka leg of the nationwide exercise, which seeks to check the programme’s systems and preparedness, will begin at 9am, with respective district administrations initiating the process. Teams will look to complete identity verification and mock administration of the vaccine shot for each person (i.e. a registered health worker) in five minutes. Three vaccination session sites — the district hospital, a taluk hospital and a primary health centre — have been identified in each of the five districts for the test run. In Bengaluru Urban, the exercise will be carried out at Kamakshipalya urban, Vidyapeetha and Hargade (Anekal) primary health centres. It will be a litmus test for the micro-planning of the Covid-19 inoculation programme. The time taken for each step will be recorded and the efficiency of new Co-WIN software will be checked. Co-WIN, short for ‘Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network’, will be used to monitor vaccine delivery among prioritised categories of the population and to track vaccine storage temperature at all primary health centres. Every person undergoing vaccination will be registered on the platform and tracked for adverse effects. The person’s data will be stored and message alerts mentioning the date of the second round of inoculation will be sent to their phone. “The main objective of the dry run is to ensure the efficiency of micro-planning,” said Pankaj Kumar Pandey, commissioner, state health and family welfare department. An orientation programme was held on Friday to train officers and staff who will man the session sites. Every step of the programme will be executed without actual vaccination. After Saturday’s trial, the state Covid-19 task force will review the feedback and suggest improvements or changes. The state will also share the feedback with the Union ministry of health. Experts told TOI that they had observed vaccine eagerness and scepticism among people. “We need to create awareness and explain to people why a phased and prioritised approach has been adopted for vaccination. We must also address the concerns of people who have doubts about the safety of vaccines by highlighting scientific facts,” said an expert who is working with the state government. In the actual programme, inoculation of a person will take 35 to 40 minutes. In the first five minutes, the healthcare worker will enter the site, check the person’s identity, and administer the shot (to be done in a minute). After that, the person will be asked to sit in an observation area for 30 minutes. During this period, health workers will monitor the person for any immediate adverse reaction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-375-healthcare-workers-to-participate-in-vaccination-drill-today/articleshow/80066735.cms||Sunitha Rao R
January 2, 2021||Mysuru||Karnataka: 375 healthcare workers to participate in vaccination drill today||BENGALURU: A total of 375 registered health workers will take part in a two-hour dry run of the Covid-19 vaccination programme in Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru, Belagavi, Kalaburagi and Shivamogga on Saturday. The Karnataka leg of the nationwide exercise, which seeks to check the programme’s systems and preparedness, will begin at 9am, with respective district administrations initiating the process. Teams will look to complete identity verification and mock administration of the vaccine shot for each person (i.e. a registered health worker) in five minutes. Three vaccination session sites — the district hospital, a taluk hospital and a primary health centre — have been identified in each of the five districts for the test run. In Bengaluru Urban, the exercise will be carried out at Kamakshipalya urban, Vidyapeetha and Hargade (Anekal) primary health centres. It will be a litmus test for the micro-planning of the Covid-19 inoculation programme. The time taken for each step will be recorded and the efficiency of new Co-WIN software will be checked. Co-WIN, short for ‘Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network’, will be used to monitor vaccine delivery among prioritised categories of the population and to track vaccine storage temperature at all primary health centres. Every person undergoing vaccination will be registered on the platform and tracked for adverse effects. The person’s data will be stored and message alerts mentioning the date of the second round of inoculation will be sent to their phone. “The main objective of the dry run is to ensure the efficiency of micro-planning,” said Pankaj Kumar Pandey, commissioner, state health and family welfare department. An orientation programme was held on Friday to train officers and staff who will man the session sites. Every step of the programme will be executed without actual vaccination. After Saturday’s trial, the state Covid-19 task force will review the feedback and suggest improvements or changes. The state will also share the feedback with the Union ministry of health. Experts told TOI that they had observed vaccine eagerness and scepticism among people. “We need to create awareness and explain to people why a phased and prioritised approach has been adopted for vaccination. We must also address the concerns of people who have doubts about the safety of vaccines by highlighting scientific facts,” said an expert who is working with the state government. In the actual programme, inoculation of a person will take 35 to 40 minutes. In the first five minutes, the healthcare worker will enter the site, check the person’s identity, and administer the shot (to be done in a minute). After that, the person will be asked to sit in an observation area for 30 minutes. During this period, health workers will monitor the person for any immediate adverse reaction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/karnataka-375-healthcare-workers-to-participate-in-vaccination-drill-today/articleshow/80066740.cms||Sunitha Rao R
January 2, 2021||Hubballi||Karnataka: 375 healthcare workers to participate in vaccination drill today||BENGALURU: A total of 375 registered health workers will take part in a two-hour dry run of the Covid-19 vaccination programme in Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru, Belagavi, Kalaburagi and Shivamogga on Saturday. The Karnataka leg of the nationwide exercise, which seeks to check the programme’s systems and preparedness, will begin at 9am, with respective district administrations initiating the process. Teams will look to complete identity verification and mock administration of the vaccine shot for each person (i.e. a registered health worker) in five minutes. Three vaccination session sites — the district hospital, a taluk hospital and a primary health centre — have been identified in each of the five districts for the test run. In Bengaluru Urban, the exercise will be carried out at Kamakshipalya urban, Vidyapeetha and Hargade (Anekal) primary health centres. It will be a litmus test for the micro-planning of the Covid-19 inoculation programme. The time taken for each step will be recorded and the efficiency of new Co-WIN software will be checked. Co-WIN, short for ‘Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network’, will be used to monitor vaccine delivery among prioritised categories of the population and to track vaccine storage temperature at all primary health centres. Every person undergoing vaccination will be registered on the platform and tracked for adverse effects. The person’s data will be stored and message alerts mentioning the date of the second round of inoculation will be sent to their phone. “The main objective of the dry run is to ensure the efficiency of micro-planning,” said Pankaj Kumar Pandey, commissioner, state health and family welfare department. An orientation programme was held on Friday to train officers and staff who will man the session sites. Every step of the programme will be executed without actual vaccination. After Saturday’s trial, the state Covid-19 task force will review the feedback and suggest improvements or changes. The state will also share the feedback with the Union ministry of health. Experts told TOI that they had observed vaccine eagerness and scepticism among people. “We need to create awareness and explain to people why a phased and prioritised approach has been adopted for vaccination. We must also address the concerns of people who have doubts about the safety of vaccines by highlighting scientific facts,” said an expert who is working with the state government. In the actual programme, inoculation of a person will take 35 to 40 minutes. In the first five minutes, the healthcare worker will enter the site, check the person’s identity, and administer the shot (to be done in a minute). After that, the person will be asked to sit in an observation area for 30 minutes. During this period, health workers will monitor the person for any immediate adverse reaction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/karnataka-375-healthcare-workers-to-participate-in-vaccination-drill-today/articleshow/80066741.cms||Sunitha Rao R
January 2, 2021||Mangaluru||Karnataka: 375 healthcare workers to participate in vaccination drill today||BENGALURU: A total of 375 registered health workers will take part in a two-hour dry run of the Covid-19 vaccination programme in Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru, Belagavi, Kalaburagi and Shivamogga on Saturday. The Karnataka leg of the nationwide exercise, which seeks to check the programme’s systems and preparedness, will begin at 9am, with respective district administrations initiating the process. Teams will look to complete identity verification and mock administration of the vaccine shot for each person (i.e. a registered health worker) in five minutes. Three vaccination session sites — the district hospital, a taluk hospital and a primary health centre — have been identified in each of the five districts for the test run. In Bengaluru Urban, the exercise will be carried out at Kamakshipalya urban, Vidyapeetha and Hargade (Anekal) primary health centres. It will be a litmus test for the micro-planning of the Covid-19 inoculation programme. The time taken for each step will be recorded and the efficiency of new Co-WIN software will be checked. Co-WIN, short for ‘Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network’, will be used to monitor vaccine delivery among prioritised categories of the population and to track vaccine storage temperature at all primary health centres. Every person undergoing vaccination will be registered on the platform and tracked for adverse effects. The person’s data will be stored and message alerts mentioning the date of the second round of inoculation will be sent to their phone. “The main objective of the dry run is to ensure the efficiency of micro-planning,” said Pankaj Kumar Pandey, commissioner, state health and family welfare department. An orientation programme was held on Friday to train officers and staff who will man the session sites. Every step of the programme will be executed without actual vaccination. After Saturday’s trial, the state Covid-19 task force will review the feedback and suggest improvements or changes. The state will also share the feedback with the Union ministry of health. Experts told TOI that they had observed vaccine eagerness and scepticism among people. “We need to create awareness and explain to people why a phased and prioritised approach has been adopted for vaccination. We must also address the concerns of people who have doubts about the safety of vaccines by highlighting scientific facts,” said an expert who is working with the state government. In the actual programme, inoculation of a person will take 35 to 40 minutes. In the first five minutes, the healthcare worker will enter the site, check the person’s identity, and administer the shot (to be done in a minute). After that, the person will be asked to sit in an observation area for 30 minutes. During this period, health workers will monitor the person for any immediate adverse reaction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karnataka-375-healthcare-workers-to-participate-in-vaccination-drill-today/articleshow/80066742.cms||Sunitha Rao R
January 2, 2021||Thane||Curfew effect: 35 drunk driving cases in Mumbai on New Year's Eve||MUMBAI/ THANE/ NAVI MUMBAI: The pandemic and night curfew reduced the number of drunk driving cases on New Year's Eve to a trickle. Across Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), 521 motorists were booked for getting behind the wheel inebriated, including 35 in Mumbai, the lowest figure recorded in the city on the last day of the year since 2017. While the traffic police in Mumbai and Navi Mumbai decided not to use breathalyzers in view of the Covid-19 situation, Thane traffic police went ahead, dressing up their personnel in PPE kits and changing the nozzles of breathalyzers after every use. This could have been one of the reasons why Thane recorded the highest number of drunk drivers (416) between Thursday night and early on Friday, while Mumbai had mere 35 cases and Navi Mumbai 27. In contrast, 3,037 motorists were booked for drunk driving on December 31, 2019, across MMR, when breathalyzers were commonplace. "It had been announced in advance that not more than four people should congregate at any location. People largely adhered to the guidelines and New Year's Eve was brought in without any road crashes," said joint commissioner, Mumbai traffic, Yashasvi Yadav. In previous years, nakabandis used to get stricter post-midnight as people staggered out of watering holes. But this year, nakabandis in the city were largely disbanded post midnight. All 35 drunk drivers booked in Mumbai were male. Twenty-six of the offenders were motorcyclists, eight drove four-wheelers and there was one autorickshaw driver. Vikhroli and Mulund divisions recorded the highest number of drunk driving cases-five each. In Thane, traffic police went a step ahead and booked co-passengers too (207). They also called up the parents of 20 youngsters who were caught sloshed at the wheel. "Some of these youngsters were minors. We called up their families to inform them what their children were up to," said an officer. Fifty-four teams were stationed for checks with at least one member wearing a PPE kit and handling the breathalyzer. In Navi Mumbai, the police admitted that not using breathalyzers meant hauling every suspected drunk driver to hospital for a blood-alcohol test which was cumbersome. Only four drunk driving cases were recorded in Kalamboli as against 41 caught on December 31, 2019. Not a single drunk driving case was recorded on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway. Among other traffic violations, Mumbai recorded 4,056 cases, including helmetless riding (812), failure to produce driving licence (390) and no parking (304). In Navi Mumbai, there were 395 other traffic violation cases, including helmetless riding and driving without wearing seatbelt. (Inputs from Sandhya Nair)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/curfew-effect-35-drunk-driving-cases-in-mumbai-on-new-years-eve/articleshow/80069878.cms||George Mendonca
January 2, 2021||Mumbai||Curfew effect: 35 drunk driving cases in Mumbai on New Year's Eve||MUMBAI/ THANE/ NAVI MUMBAI: The pandemic and night curfew reduced the number of drunk driving cases on New Year's Eve to a trickle. Across Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), 521 motorists were booked for getting behind the wheel inebriated, including 35 in Mumbai, the lowest figure recorded in the city on the last day of the year since 2017. While the traffic police in Mumbai and Navi Mumbai decided not to use breathalyzers in view of the Covid-19 situation, Thane traffic police went ahead, dressing up their personnel in PPE kits and changing the nozzles of breathalyzers after every use. This could have been one of the reasons why Thane recorded the highest number of drunk drivers (416) between Thursday night and early on Friday, while Mumbai had mere 35 cases and Navi Mumbai 27. In contrast, 3,037 motorists were booked for drunk driving on December 31, 2019, across MMR, when breathalyzers were commonplace. "It had been announced in advance that not more than four people should congregate at any location. People largely adhered to the guidelines and New Year's Eve was brought in without any road crashes," said joint commissioner, Mumbai traffic, Yashasvi Yadav. In previous years, nakabandis used to get stricter post-midnight as people staggered out of watering holes. But this year, nakabandis in the city were largely disbanded post midnight. All 35 drunk drivers booked in Mumbai were male. Twenty-six of the offenders were motorcyclists, eight drove four-wheelers and there was one autorickshaw driver. Vikhroli and Mulund divisions recorded the highest number of drunk driving cases-five each. In Thane, traffic police went a step ahead and booked co-passengers too (207). They also called up the parents of 20 youngsters who were caught sloshed at the wheel. "Some of these youngsters were minors. We called up their families to inform them what their children were up to," said an officer. Fifty-four teams were stationed for checks with at least one member wearing a PPE kit and handling the breathalyzer. In Navi Mumbai, the police admitted that not using breathalyzers meant hauling every suspected drunk driver to hospital for a blood-alcohol test which was cumbersome. Only four drunk driving cases were recorded in Kalamboli as against 41 caught on December 31, 2019. Not a single drunk driving case was recorded on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway. Among other traffic violations, Mumbai recorded 4,056 cases, including helmetless riding (812), failure to produce driving licence (390) and no parking (304). In Navi Mumbai, there were 395 other traffic violation cases, including helmetless riding and driving without wearing seatbelt. (Inputs from Sandhya Nair)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/curfew-effect-35-drunk-driving-cases-in-mumbai-on-new-years-eve/articleshow/80066744.cms||George Mendonca
January 2, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Curfew effect: 35 drunk driving cases in Mumbai on New Year's Eve||MUMBAI/ THANE/ NAVI MUMBAI: The pandemic and night curfew reduced the number of drunk driving cases on New Year's Eve to a trickle. Across Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), 521 motorists were booked for getting behind the wheel inebriated, including 35 in Mumbai, the lowest figure recorded in the city on the last day of the year since 2017. While the traffic police in Mumbai and Navi Mumbai decided not to use breathalyzers in view of the Covid-19 situation, Thane traffic police went ahead, dressing up their personnel in PPE kits and changing the nozzles of breathalyzers after every use. This could have been one of the reasons why Thane recorded the highest number of drunk drivers (416) between Thursday night and early on Friday, while Mumbai had mere 35 cases and Navi Mumbai 27. In contrast, 3,037 motorists were booked for drunk driving on December 31, 2019, across MMR, when breathalyzers were commonplace. "It had been announced in advance that not more than four people should congregate at any location. People largely adhered to the guidelines and New Year's Eve was brought in without any road crashes," said joint commissioner, Mumbai traffic, Yashasvi Yadav. In previous years, nakabandis used to get stricter post-midnight as people staggered out of watering holes. But this year, nakabandis in the city were largely disbanded post midnight. All 35 drunk drivers booked in Mumbai were male. Twenty-six of the offenders were motorcyclists, eight drove four-wheelers and there was one autorickshaw driver. Vikhroli and Mulund divisions recorded the highest number of drunk driving cases-five each. In Thane, traffic police went a step ahead and booked co-passengers too (207). They also called up the parents of 20 youngsters who were caught sloshed at the wheel. "Some of these youngsters were minors. We called up their families to inform them what their children were up to," said an officer. Fifty-four teams were stationed for checks with at least one member wearing a PPE kit and handling the breathalyzer. In Navi Mumbai, the police admitted that not using breathalyzers meant hauling every suspected drunk driver to hospital for a blood-alcohol test which was cumbersome. Only four drunk driving cases were recorded in Kalamboli as against 41 caught on December 31, 2019. Not a single drunk driving case was recorded on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway. Among other traffic violations, Mumbai recorded 4,056 cases, including helmetless riding (812), failure to produce driving licence (390) and no parking (304). In Navi Mumbai, there were 395 other traffic violation cases, including helmetless riding and driving without wearing seatbelt. (Inputs from Sandhya Nair)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/curfew-effect-35-drunk-driving-cases-in-mumbai-on-new-years-eve/articleshow/80069879.cms||George Mendonca
January 2, 2021||Delhi||UK strain: Four private hospitals asked to create isolation wards||NEW DELHI: In the wake of an increase in the number of UK returned people and their contacts testing positive for Covid, Delhi government has asked four private hospitals to create isolation wards to accommodate those willing to shift to a paid facility. The isolation facilities will be created at Max Saket, Batra Hospital, Fortis Vasant Kunj and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. The number of UK returnees and their contacts who have tested positive for Covid increased to 42 on Friday. All of them are currently admitted at a special isolation ward in Lok Nayak Hospital. Authorities in the districts are tracing contacts of all those who have lately tested positive and all of them are being tested. It is likely that the number may increase further. “The samples of all the positive persons have been sent for genome sequencing to find out if they are infected with the new variant of the coronavirus spreading in the UK or the local coronavirus,” said an official. All the family members of the new persons testing positive have been put into quarantine. In an order issued on December 30, Director General of Health Services of Delhi government ordered creation of institutional isolation facility in the private sector for international passengers who have travelled from or transited through United Kingdom in the past four weeks (November 25 to December 24) and tested positive, on payment basis. The new variant of SARSCoV 2 virus is estimated by European Centre for Disease Control to be more transmissible and affecting younger population. This variant is defined by a set of 17 changes or mutations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/uk-strain-four-private-hospitals-asked-to-create-isolation-wards/articleshow/80066745.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Boyfriend, teen beat 19-year-old girl to death at New Year bash in Khar tower||MUMBAI: In the first murder registered in the city on the first day of 2021, a 19-year-old girl was found brutally beaten to death allegedly by her boyfriend and another teenager on the ground floor of a Khar (West) highrise early on Friday. The trio were at a 10th floor terrace party at Bhagwati Heights organised by some youngsters who reside there. Prima facie, police suspect a love triangle gone wrong. Jhanvi Kukreja, the victim, had been invited to the party along with the two suspects -Shree Jogdhankar (22) and Diya Padankar (19). The two have been detained, but no arrest had been made till late on Friday night. Police were in the process of questioning the 12 others who were at the party. Police told TOI that the attendees said amid the loud music, they spotted the suspects and the victim pushing one another, though they were not aware what led to the fight. "Kukreja's close friends said she was brutally beaten up by the duo who then allegedly grabbed her by the hair and pulled her down the stairs to the second floor. Bloodstains were found on the staircase. Those at the party rushed downstairs and saw the victim. Jogdhankar is the prime suspect," a Khar police officer said. Love triangle may have led to Khar killing, say policePolice suspect a fight broke out between the trio after Kukreja suspected Jogdhankar of cheating on her with Padankar. Kukreja was a Santacruz resident, while the two suspects are from Khar. “As of now, the exact motive is unclear. It is a suspected case of a love triangle. The two detained have also been hurt, with Jogdhankar suffering injuries on his head and back,” said an officer. According to police, the building’s closed-circuit television (CCTV) has captured Kukreja leaving the terrace with the suspects in the middle of the party at 12.30am. “She was found dead with injuries around 2.30am on the building premises. She is suspected to have been pushed down the stairs,” the officer added. Joint commissioner of police (law and order) Vishwas Nangre-Patil said the case will be solved by Saturday. Deputy commissioner of police (Zone IX) Abhishek Trimukhe said the terrace party started after 11pm on Thursday. As the number of attendees was not large, no one from the building complained about any nuisance. “Khar police rushed to the spot after receiving a call and found the victim dead on the building premises,” said Trimukhe. Mumbai police spokesperson S Chaitanya said they have registered a case under the Indian Penal Code Section 302 for murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-boyfriend-teen-beat-19-year-old-girl-to-death-at-new-year-bash-in-khar-tower/articleshow/80066751.cms||V Narayan
January 2, 2021||India||India seeks 'urgent' help for sailors stranded off China||NEW DELHI: The government on Friday sought assistance for 39 Indian crew members stuck on cargo ships in China in an "urgent, practical and time-bound" manner, reminding Beijing about the grave humanitarian situation that was developing on board the ships. While acknowledging statements by China, expressing willingness to extend assistance in this matter, the MEA said Indian authorities were working with the shipping companies involved to facilitate a crew change and that the Indian embassy in Beijing had written to Chinese authorities seeking approval for the same. While Indian bulk cargo vessel MV Jag Anand is on anchorage near Jingtang port in Hebei province since June 13 with 23 Indian nationals as crew on board, another vessel, MV Anastasia, with 16 Indian nationals remains on anchorage near Caofeidian port since September 20. "Our embassy in Beijing has repeatedly taken up these cases both with the Chinese ministry of foreign affairs and also the local provincial authorities, requesting that the ships be allowed to dock and/or the crew be allowed to be changed. They have been following up this matter for the last few months," said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava, adding that Indian ambassador had personally taken up this issue with the Chinese vice-foreign minister. The issue has also been taken up with the Chinese embassy here. Claiming to provide sailors help and necessary supplies, Beijing had earlier said China allows crew change while meeting certain quarantine conditions and that the Jingtang port was not in the list for such crew change. The Chinese embassy had said this week the "real cause" of the situation was that the freight forwarder didn't want to adjust plans because of commercial interests. The vessels with Indians have been waiting for discharge of their cargo. "There is growing stress on the crew on account of the long delay. Given this and our concern for the increasingly difficult conditions for our crew, these two cases are being pursued vigorously," said Srivastava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-seeks-urgent-help-for-sailors-stranded-off-china/articleshow/80066762.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Amaravati||Committee set up to devise warning system for Covid in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state government has constituted an epidemiological committee to understand the Covid-19 disease occurrence pattern and potential in Andhra Pradesh. The committee is supposed to forecast and suggest the measures to be taken to contain the spread of the epidemic in the state. The epidemiological committee also has a role to put an early warning system in place, as it is very crucial to disseminate alerts, and warnings and ensure there is constant state of preparedness. The early warning system would contain risk analysis, monitoring and warning; dissemination and communication; and a response capability. The state has set up another expert committee for clinical management of Covid-19. The expert committee will suggest administrative and clinical measures to manage the disease and reduce mortality. The committee will inspect and guide Covid-19 hospitals. The committee would also take care of implementation of Infection prevention and control protocols in the hospitals and attached labs. As per the terms of reference of the committee, the expert team may invite specialists, experts or resource persons on a subject matter as special invitees as deemed appropriate. The team would conduct sample death audits at state-level and guide the district teams. The committee will undertake extensive field visits and report to the principal secretary of health, medical and family welfare department on every Monday and submit weekly trends. The actionable points recommended by the committee will be submitted to director of medical education and other officials for taking necessary action. On the other hand, the principal objective of the epidemiological committee is to make recommendations for securing quality epidemiological study design with proper justifications and protocols, calculating sample sizes, developing case definitions, choosing an appropriate comparison group, and designing questionnaires. They would analyse the data with appropriate techniques by duly following the epidemiological studies and interpret the findings into perspective, key take-home messages, and recommendations relevant to the field situations of Andhra Pradesh. The epidemiological committee shall decide the methodology for its work and co-opt any specialist as deemed appropriate. The committee shall meet at least once in two weeks or as often as required and submit bi-weekly report to the principal secretary of health, medical and family welfare department. Project director, AP Health Systems Strengthening Project, Dr Vinod Kumar V would act as the chairperson of both the committees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/committee-set-up-to-devise-warning-system-for-covid/articleshow/80067955.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Vijayawada||Committee set up to devise warning system for Covid in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state government has constituted an epidemiological committee to understand the Covid-19 disease occurrence pattern and potential in Andhra Pradesh. The committee is supposed to forecast and suggest the measures to be taken to contain the spread of the epidemic in the state. The epidemiological committee also has a role to put an early warning system in place, as it is very crucial to disseminate alerts, and warnings and ensure there is constant state of preparedness. The early warning system would contain risk analysis, monitoring and warning; dissemination and communication; and a response capability. The state has set up another expert committee for clinical management of Covid-19. The expert committee will suggest administrative and clinical measures to manage the disease and reduce mortality. The committee will inspect and guide Covid-19 hospitals. The committee would also take care of implementation of Infection prevention and control protocols in the hospitals and attached labs. As per the terms of reference of the committee, the expert team may invite specialists, experts or resource persons on a subject matter as special invitees as deemed appropriate. The team would conduct sample death audits at state-level and guide the district teams. The committee will undertake extensive field visits and report to the principal secretary of health, medical and family welfare department on every Monday and submit weekly trends. The actionable points recommended by the committee will be submitted to director of medical education and other officials for taking necessary action. On the other hand, the principal objective of the epidemiological committee is to make recommendations for securing quality epidemiological study design with proper justifications and protocols, calculating sample sizes, developing case definitions, choosing an appropriate comparison group, and designing questionnaires. They would analyse the data with appropriate techniques by duly following the epidemiological studies and interpret the findings into perspective, key take-home messages, and recommendations relevant to the field situations of Andhra Pradesh. The epidemiological committee shall decide the methodology for its work and co-opt any specialist as deemed appropriate. The committee shall meet at least once in two weeks or as often as required and submit bi-weekly report to the principal secretary of health, medical and family welfare department. Project director, AP Health Systems Strengthening Project, Dr Vinod Kumar V would act as the chairperson of both the committees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/committee-set-up-to-devise-warning-system-for-covid/articleshow/80067958.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Committee set up to devise warning system for Covid in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state government has constituted an epidemiological committee to understand the Covid-19 disease occurrence pattern and potential in Andhra Pradesh. The committee is supposed to forecast and suggest the measures to be taken to contain the spread of the epidemic in the state. The epidemiological committee also has a role to put an early warning system in place, as it is very crucial to disseminate alerts, and warnings and ensure there is constant state of preparedness. The early warning system would contain risk analysis, monitoring and warning; dissemination and communication; and a response capability. The state has set up another expert committee for clinical management of Covid-19. The expert committee will suggest administrative and clinical measures to manage the disease and reduce mortality. The committee will inspect and guide Covid-19 hospitals. The committee would also take care of implementation of Infection prevention and control protocols in the hospitals and attached labs. As per the terms of reference of the committee, the expert team may invite specialists, experts or resource persons on a subject matter as special invitees as deemed appropriate. The team would conduct sample death audits at state-level and guide the district teams. The committee will undertake extensive field visits and report to the principal secretary of health, medical and family welfare department on every Monday and submit weekly trends. The actionable points recommended by the committee will be submitted to director of medical education and other officials for taking necessary action. On the other hand, the principal objective of the epidemiological committee is to make recommendations for securing quality epidemiological study design with proper justifications and protocols, calculating sample sizes, developing case definitions, choosing an appropriate comparison group, and designing questionnaires. They would analyse the data with appropriate techniques by duly following the epidemiological studies and interpret the findings into perspective, key take-home messages, and recommendations relevant to the field situations of Andhra Pradesh. The epidemiological committee shall decide the methodology for its work and co-opt any specialist as deemed appropriate. The committee shall meet at least once in two weeks or as often as required and submit bi-weekly report to the principal secretary of health, medical and family welfare department. Project director, AP Health Systems Strengthening Project, Dr Vinod Kumar V would act as the chairperson of both the committees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/committee-set-up-to-devise-warning-system-for-covid/articleshow/80063401.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Civic body to restore tax on sub-500 sq feet housing units||MUMBAI: Dwelling units in Mumbai of less than 500 sq feet will soon attract higher property tax than in the previous year. "It was a mistake," said municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal about the previous year's assessment. "The state legislature while amending the BMC Act had allowed the waiver of only general tax. Instead of waiving only the general tax, we waived seven other components as well. This year we realised our mistake and have informed the government about it. We cannot repeat the same mistake every year and so this year's bill will reflect the charges for the other seven components," said Chahal. There are 1.85 lakh dwelling units in the city that are less than 500 sq feet in size. The BMC annually earns Rs 360 crore from these units as property tax, which constitutes eight components including general tax. Waiver of the other seven components has cost the BMC Rs 285 crore. It works out to roughly Rs 150 per unit. Chahal said BMC is considering recovery of the excess amount waived off last year. "We are yet to take a decision, and if we do recover the dues it would be at a later date," he said. While the BMC has claimed it is an oversight, civic observers said it was too much of a coincidence considering that last year there were the general elections as well as the state assembly elections. The Shiv Sena had made the waiver a prestige issue. Samajwadi Party corporator and MLA Rais Shaikh said the decision was intentional. "It is a fraud on Mumbaikars. If property tax for hoteliers and industry can be waived without approaching government, why not for ordinary citizens? It was a promise made by the chief minister and he must fulfil it, otherwise it will adversely impact the Maha Vikas Aghadi in the BMC elections," he said. BJP leader Prabhakar Shinde said it was a repeat of the promised electricity bill sops. "Initially the government promised to waive excess electricity bills but then refused to do it. The same story is being repeated in the BMC. First they give an assurance and then refuse to fulfill it," said Shinde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-civic-body-to-restore-tax-on-sub-500-sq-feet-housing-units/articleshow/80066770.cms||Clara Lewis
January 2, 2021||Vijayawada||Adoni honour killing: Cops arrest Adam’s father-in-law, his brother||VIJAYAWADA: A day after the honour killing of a Dalit physiotherapist, the police arrested his father-in-law and another person for their alleged involvement in the brutal murder at Adoni town in Kurnool district on Friday. The accused were identified as Chinna Eeranna and his brother Pedda Eeranna – both residents of Gurazala town in Guntur district. According to Adoni Two Town police, the accused followed the victim Adam Smith (30) who was returning home for lunch from his workplace - Sridevi Nursing Home. They then rammed his head with an iron pipe causing him to fall from his bike. They then then took a boulder and dropped it on his head causing fatal injury. Soon after eyewitnesses saw the crime, they managed to flee from the spot. Adam eventually succumbed to his injuries while receiving treatment at a local government hospital. Speaking to the media, Adam Smith’s wife Maheshwari (24) cited that they had already sought police protection weeks ago after her family members threatened to kill them. “They (Police) even counselled my parents and yet they have killed my husband. I loved him (Adam Smith) for the past eight years and chose to get married after finishing our studies and we did that. They were opposed to our love because he was a Dalit and I belonged to Kuruva community (OBC). Is it wrong to love a Dalit?,” an inconsolable Maheshwari questioned. Maheswari explained that they took the decision to get married after Adam got a job as a physiotherapist and she too recently completed her graduation has been seeking a job in the banking sector. She made it clear that she would continue to stay with her in-laws and once again sought police protection stating that her life is still in danger. Maheshwari also said that she has nothing to do with her father Chinna Eeranna and her uncle Pedda Eeranna. Cops said that they confirmed that both the accused committed the crime themselves on Thursday afternoon after eyewitnesses personally identified them. “We will soon produce them to the district sessions court and send them to judicial remand,” a senior police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/adoni-honour-killing-cops-arrest-adams-father-in-law-his-brother/articleshow/80063416.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
January 2, 2021||Mangaluru||Karnataka: School campuses come alive as students return in numbers||MYSURU/MANGALURU/ HUBBALLI/BELAGAVI: Students across Karnataka were thrilled to see their friends and teachers on Friday as schools reopened for grades 10 and 12 after a nine-month gap. As part of Covid-19 precautions, they wore masks, followed social distancing and washed hands frequently. Classes were held for limited hours and with a limited number of students. Still, campuses were buzzing with energy after months of quiet. Schools went the extra mile to make students feel safe and welcome, organising skits, performing artis, writing positive messages and offering plenty of encouragement. “I am really excited to be back in school. At one point, I had wondered whether I would see my classmates and teachers on the campus again,” said Ananya, a class 10 student in Raichur. Geeta, a class 10 student of Vidyaranya High School in Dharwad, is relieved that on-campus learning has resumed. “I was fed up with online classes. I was missing actual classroom studies and, of course, my teachers and friends,” she said. II PU science student Ashok Kumar echoed the sentiment, saying he found the online maths class difficult to grasp. “It’s good that on-campus classes have begun. We have to work hard now,” he said. Schools strictly enforced health-safety guidelines, taking the temperature of everyone before granting entry and allowing only one or two students per bench. The turnout for class 10, II PU and the Vidyagama programme (for grades 6 to 9) was good in most districts. In Belagavi and Chikkodi, some schools cut cakes and offered roses to children. The attendance was nearly 75 per cent. Chikkodi deputy director of public instruction Gajanana Mannikeri said that parents happily sent their kids to schools. In Gadag, the attendance was up to 80 per cent. Industries minister Jagadish Shettar, who oversees Dharwad district, greeted students of St Michael. Hubballi city BEO Shrishail Karikatti said that most schools there reported 40 to 50 per cent attendance, while colleges reported 60 to 70 per cent attendance In Kalyana-Karnataka region, schools saw about 60 per cent turnout, according to Nalin Atul, the additional commissioner of public instruction. Koppal district was an exception as schools saw only 10 per cent attendance. This is mainly because hostels and residential schools are yet to reopen. In Mysuru district, students turned up in large numbers for Vidyagama and SSLC sessions, but not for II PU. Teachers of Mysuru taluk’s Varakodu Government Higher Primary School, where 130 students attended Vidyagama sessions, spent their own money to create awareness about Covid-19. Schools and colleges in Dakshina Kannada district reported about 66 per cent attendance. Except residential educational institutions, all 585 schools, including private ones, reopened. In Uttara Kannada, about 50 per cent of SSLC and II PU students went to their campuses. Many schools expect the turnout for II PU to improve from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karnataka-school-campuses-come-alive-as-students-return-in-numbers/articleshow/80066771.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Mysuru||Karnataka: School campuses come alive as students return in numbers||MYSURU/MANGALURU/ HUBBALLI/BELAGAVI: Students across Karnataka were thrilled to see their friends and teachers on Friday as schools reopened for grades 10 and 12 after a nine-month gap. As part of Covid-19 precautions, they wore masks, followed social distancing and washed hands frequently. Classes were held for limited hours and with a limited number of students. Still, campuses were buzzing with energy after months of quiet. Schools went the extra mile to make students feel safe and welcome, organising skits, performing artis, writing positive messages and offering plenty of encouragement. “I am really excited to be back in school. At one point, I had wondered whether I would see my classmates and teachers on the campus again,” said Ananya, a class 10 student in Raichur. Geeta, a class 10 student of Vidyaranya High School in Dharwad, is relieved that on-campus learning has resumed. “I was fed up with online classes. I was missing actual classroom studies and, of course, my teachers and friends,” she said. II PU science student Ashok Kumar echoed the sentiment, saying he found the online maths class difficult to grasp. “It’s good that on-campus classes have begun. We have to work hard now,” he said. Schools strictly enforced health-safety guidelines, taking the temperature of everyone before granting entry and allowing only one or two students per bench. The turnout for class 10, II PU and the Vidyagama programme (for grades 6 to 9) was good in most districts. In Belagavi and Chikkodi, some schools cut cakes and offered roses to children. The attendance was nearly 75 per cent. Chikkodi deputy director of public instruction Gajanana Mannikeri said that parents happily sent their kids to schools. In Gadag, the attendance was up to 80 per cent. Industries minister Jagadish Shettar, who oversees Dharwad district, greeted students of St Michael. Hubballi city BEO Shrishail Karikatti said that most schools there reported 40 to 50 per cent attendance, while colleges reported 60 to 70 per cent attendance In Kalyana-Karnataka region, schools saw about 60 per cent turnout, according to Nalin Atul, the additional commissioner of public instruction. Koppal district was an exception as schools saw only 10 per cent attendance. This is mainly because hostels and residential schools are yet to reopen. In Mysuru district, students turned up in large numbers for Vidyagama and SSLC sessions, but not for II PU. Teachers of Mysuru taluk’s Varakodu Government Higher Primary School, where 130 students attended Vidyagama sessions, spent their own money to create awareness about Covid-19. Schools and colleges in Dakshina Kannada district reported about 66 per cent attendance. Except residential educational institutions, all 585 schools, including private ones, reopened. In Uttara Kannada, about 50 per cent of SSLC and II PU students went to their campuses. Many schools expect the turnout for II PU to improve from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/karnataka-school-campuses-come-alive-as-students-return-in-numbers/articleshow/80066772.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Hubballi||Karnataka: School campuses come alive as students return in numbers||MYSURU/MANGALURU/ HUBBALLI/BELAGAVI: Students across Karnataka were thrilled to see their friends and teachers on Friday as schools reopened for grades 10 and 12 after a nine-month gap. As part of Covid-19 precautions, they wore masks, followed social distancing and washed hands frequently. Classes were held for limited hours and with a limited number of students. Still, campuses were buzzing with energy after months of quiet. Schools went the extra mile to make students feel safe and welcome, organising skits, performing artis, writing positive messages and offering plenty of encouragement. “I am really excited to be back in school. At one point, I had wondered whether I would see my classmates and teachers on the campus again,” said Ananya, a class 10 student in Raichur. Geeta, a class 10 student of Vidyaranya High School in Dharwad, is relieved that on-campus learning has resumed. “I was fed up with online classes. I was missing actual classroom studies and, of course, my teachers and friends,” she said. II PU science student Ashok Kumar echoed the sentiment, saying he found the online maths class difficult to grasp. “It’s good that on-campus classes have begun. We have to work hard now,” he said. Schools strictly enforced health-safety guidelines, taking the temperature of everyone before granting entry and allowing only one or two students per bench. The turnout for class 10, II PU and the Vidyagama programme (for grades 6 to 9) was good in most districts. In Belagavi and Chikkodi, some schools cut cakes and offered roses to children. The attendance was nearly 75 per cent. Chikkodi deputy director of public instruction Gajanana Mannikeri said that parents happily sent their kids to schools. In Gadag, the attendance was up to 80 per cent. Industries minister Jagadish Shettar, who oversees Dharwad district, greeted students of St Michael. Hubballi city BEO Shrishail Karikatti said that most schools there reported 40 to 50 per cent attendance, while colleges reported 60 to 70 per cent attendance In Kalyana-Karnataka region, schools saw about 60 per cent turnout, according to Nalin Atul, the additional commissioner of public instruction. Koppal district was an exception as schools saw only 10 per cent attendance. This is mainly because hostels and residential schools are yet to reopen. In Mysuru district, students turned up in large numbers for Vidyagama and SSLC sessions, but not for II PU. Teachers of Mysuru taluk’s Varakodu Government Higher Primary School, where 130 students attended Vidyagama sessions, spent their own money to create awareness about Covid-19. Schools and colleges in Dakshina Kannada district reported about 66 per cent attendance. Except residential educational institutions, all 585 schools, including private ones, reopened. In Uttara Kannada, about 50 per cent of SSLC and II PU students went to their campuses. Many schools expect the turnout for II PU to improve from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/karnataka-school-campuses-come-alive-as-students-return-in-numbers/articleshow/80066773.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Visakhapatnam||50-year-old rowdy-sheeter murdered near Rajahmundry||VISAKHAPATNAM: A 50-year-old rowdy-sheeter was allegedly murdered by his rivals near Kateru village on the outskirts of Rajahmundry in East Godavari district on Friday. The deceased was identified as Y Srinu, the prime accused in a six-month-old murder case near quarry market centre in Rajahmundry. Srinu was a real estate agent and had property disputes with competitors. According to the police, on Friday afternoon, Srinu was requested to go to an unknown location by someone he knew. Later, he was found dead near Kateru village. Police have found some injury marks on the body and suspect that Srinu was first beaten and then strangled to death. Preliminary investigation revealed that a property dispute could be the likely reason behind the murder. The body has been sent to a government hospital for autopsy. Police have registered a case and formed a team to nab the suspects. Cops are examining CCTV footage at specific locations in a bid to identify the culprits. Family members of the deceased have sought stringent action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/50-yr-old-rowdy-sheeter-murdered-near-rmundry/articleshow/80063420.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Chennai||New cluster at Chennai hotel, 85 test Covid positive in two weeks||CHENNAI: Greater Chennai Corporation has ordered ITC Grand Chola to not hold banquets, events and gatherings after 85 people, including employees and guests, tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 15 days. Civic authorities have advised saturation testing of all employees, guests and residents at the hotel. This is the second cluster reported in the city after IIT-Madras earlier this month. By Friday, 605 people at the hotel were tested for the viral infection of whom 85 people tested positive, said corporation joint commissioner (health) Divyadharshini S. "All patients who tested positive were isolated. They were either asymptomatic or had mild symptoms," she said. While some of them have been discharged, the health condition of others is stable. ITC Grand Chola in a statement to TOI said: "The health and safety of our guests and associates is of paramount importance. The property is following the necessary SOPs laid down by the authorities, along with its own accredited stringent sanitation and hygiene protocol -- from social distancing at public areas to strict kitchen hygiene and regular checks of associates. The authorities have received all necessary information. Every member of the team is trained and sensitized on following all prescribed prevention of Covid-19 protocol. We have a large percentage of people who are working from home and not coming into the workplace. They have had no contact with the workforce at the hotel or our guests." Besides employees including kitchen staff at the hotel, inmates of Aditya Residencies, Sundra Residencies and Spark Apartments, all serviced apartment complexes, tested positive for the viral infection, civic officials said. The hotel reported its first case on December 15. On Friday, there were 13 more cases. Health secretary J Radhakrishnan said he visited the areas where employees resided. "We organised a fever camp and advised them to visit the government testing centre if they or their family members have symptoms," he said. He also advised all hotel managements to ensure they follow disinfection protocols. "Fever clinics and RTPCR testing and disease containment are only a reactive approach. We have to ensure sanitation, masks and social distancing at all times. It is the only sustainable way forward till vaccines actually get approval and supplies start," he said. Hotels, he said, fail to restrict the number of people when they organise events such as weddings or birthday parties. "We will not hesitate to issue notices or initiate legal action if managements do not ensure compliance," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/new-cluster-at-chennai-hotel-85-test-covid-positive-in-two-weeks/articleshow/80066793.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Nagpur||67 rounded up as cops raid New Yr party for violations||Nagpur: The city police rounded up 67 revellers, including 19 women, during a raid on New Year celebrations organized at a posh hotel in Ramdaspeth in the early hours of Friday. Police also seized liquor, hookah and other material worth more than Rs 2 lakh and registered offences at Sitabuldi police station against manager Sanjay Pendse and owners, Mohabbat Singh Tuli and Kukku Tuli, for allegedly allowing the party to continue beyond 11pm and violating Covid-19 protocols. Following a tip-off, a crime branch team under DCP (crime) Gajanan Rajmane conducted the raid when parties with loud music were allegedly underway at the rooftop, garden lawn and also at the second floor corridor where liquor and hookah were made available to the revellers by the hotel. Two cartons of liquor were also recovered from the terrace. Police have seized the CCTV footage from the hotel. Though the hotel had permission to serve liquor, it was being served at different floors violating the licencing norms, said a source in police. The source also stated that the rooftop had a capacity of 120 patrons but around 300-400 guests were being served as per the footage available with police. City police chief Amitesh Kumar said hotels and such establishments were told to shut down by 11pm as per the guidelines issued by the state government.“We had also taken excise department team along with us so that action can be taken as per the department’s norms and the management is pulled up for violations,” said Kumar. The top cop has asked additional CP (crime) Sunil Phulari to initiate the process for cancelling the liquor licence of the hotel. It’s learnt, the hotel had allowed the guests to check in the rooms though they were local residents. As cops started the raid, several guests tried to take shelter in these rooms. After rounding up the guests, the cops later took them to Government Medical College and Hospital for blood test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/67-rounded-up-as-cops-raid-new-yr-party-for-violations/articleshow/80064203.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 2, 2021||Nagpur||In two days, cops checked 1,200 goons||Nagpur: The city police checked around 1,203 goons in two days starting from December 30 till the early hours of Friday as a measure to keep the New Year celebrations peaceful. A slew of policing actions were initiated during the extensive drive with CP Amitesh Kumar leading from the front. Kumar, along with Zonal DCP Neelotpal, DCP (crime) Gajanan Rajmane and additional CP (crime) Sunil Phulari, led staffers from Yashodhara Nagar police station during an hourlong foot patrolling in highly sensitive slums of north Nagpur shortly before the midnight on New Year’s Eve. Later, Kumar and the officers, along with staff from Ganeshpeth police station, visited another crime-prone locality of Bajeria. “City police initiated combing and special operations in the slums to rein in the goons and slumlords,” said the top cop. Cops managed to recover a pistol apart from slapping preventive actions on around 35 goons. The cops also registered 20 offences related to liquor and conducted a raid on a gambling den too. In all-out mode, the officers of every rank were engaged in various actions, checking 44 hotels, bars, restaurants and lodges. Around 175 history-sheeters were checked during the nightlong operations apart from conducting inquiries regarding 40 externed or tadipaar goons. Around half-a-dozen cases under Arms Act were also registered during which equal number of weapons were seized too. Kumar said the action had kicked-off against the goons around a week ago and was intensified as the New Year’s Eve approached. “Goons were thoroughly checked and their movement were placed under close surveillance for the last few days. Actions were initiated under various provisions as per the circumstances,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-two-days-cops-checked-1200-goons/articleshow/80064208.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 2, 2021||Nagpur||Metro raking in non-ticket revenue||Nagpur: With ridership of Nagpur Metro reaching pre-Covid levels, MahaMetro has been able to rake in money. The revenue is being generated through leasing commercial spaces in its stations, wrapping its trains with advertisements, permitting use of the space below its viaduct for advertising, co-branding of Metro stations etc. Other than this, non-ticket revenue is coming from transit oriented development (TOD), royalty on automatic fare collection (AFC) system etc. A MahaMetro spokesperson said all small shops in Jhansi Rani Square, Institute of Engineers (IoE), Subhash Nagar had been leased out for nine years. “The tender for other stations has been floated. A miniplex is to be constructed at Jai Prakash Nagar Metro Station over an area of 2,000 square feet,” he added. On advertisement rights within Metro stations, he said, “Deals for space admeasuring 1,000 sq ft at nine of the eleven Metro stations for five-year period have been finalized. Space admeasuring 3,000 sq ft has been already allotted.” Plasto Limited and Glocal Mall have proposed to be part of co-branding at Chhatrapati Metro station and Sitabuldi Interchange. One train has been wrapped with Bank of Maharashtra information papers for which the bank is paying MahaMetro. Similar tender for six other metro trains has been floated. Tender for outdoor advertisement on the median from Airport Metro station to Sitabuldi Interchange has been floated. It involves allowing advertisement space of 11,000 sq ft. The agency which gets this tender will get to advertise on the median between successive spans. It will also be responsible for taking care of trees planted on the median. The arrangement will be on revenue sharing basis. This is being done initially in Reach-I and will be later executed in Reach-III. A billboard measuring 6 feet by 8 feet can be installed as part of this arrangement. A tender for Zero Mile building has been floated. It involves construction of 2.4 lakh sq ft and will be executed on revenue sharing model on public private partnership (PPP) basis. The tender is for hospitality sector. A seventeen-storey building is to be constructed there. MahaMetro had signed an agreement with SBI for the common mobility card. It has earned Rs12 crore through SBI’s MahaCard. The agency has benefitted from two decisions of the state government. The government had imposed a 1% additional cess on stamp duty, which was to be transferred to MahaMetro. An amount of Rs212.23 crore was collected by the revenue department till March 31, 2020, on behalf of MahaMetro. The state government temporarily abolished this cess from April 1 due to Covid. An amount of Rs57.63 crore has been earned by MahaMetro through TOD till December 15. Under TOD policy, realtors can increase the floor to space index (FSI) of their building by paying a premium. Half of the premium amount is transferred to MahaMetro. MahaMetro managing director Brijesh Dixit has set a target of earning more than 50% revenue from non-ticket sources. Only Hong Kong Metro has been able to achieve this target in the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/metro-raking-in-non-ticket-revenue/articleshow/80064212.cms||Ashish Roy
January 2, 2021||Bengaluru||Teachers in Karnataka visit tribal kids who lack network||BENGALURU: Teachers have started visiting hamlets of Soliga tribes in K Gudi forests in BR Hills, Chamarajanagar district, to engage children in academic activities. This comes after TOI published a report — Pandemic derails education of children from tribal community — in these columns on December 18, 2020, highlighting the ordeal of at least 70 students belonging to the tribal community and living in K Gudi. They were deprived of online classes due to mobile network issues. Following the report, the department of public instruction issued a notice and swung into action. The department’s assistant project coordinator visited the villages and spoke to parents and children living in these forested areas. There are about 38 tribal hamlets in the area. ST Javaregowda, deputy director of public instruction, Chamarajanagar, told TOI they received a notice from the department of public instruction and tried to contact parents via phone, but it did not work. “Our teachers then visited the hamlets and spoke to the children. They have given books to the kids and will be visiting them regularly. These teachers are also giving them home assignments and creating awareness about classes that are telecast on television. Special focus will be on students who are in class 10,” said Javaregowda. According to locals and forest officials, till date, no Covid-19 case has been reported in these hamlets. Shivanna, father of Sridevi, a student from one of the villages, said teachers came and handed over books and gave assignments to the children. “Our children have picked up books after eight months,” he said. There are 70 students like Sridevi, aged between 6 and 16, belonging to the Soliga tribe in 38 hamlets in K Gudi region. None has attended classes of any sort after the lockdown was lifted. Students have to travel 10km by bus to attend classes at the nearest government school. For mobile network and internet, they have to travel 5km, braving possible attacks by animals, to reach an elevated spot. Many of them were not aware of classes being telecast on television.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/teachers-in-karnataka-visit-tribal-kids-who-lack-network/articleshow/80066780.cms||Kiran Parashar
January 2, 2021||Delhi||Cold start to 2021: At 1.1°C, Delhi shivers on chilliest day in 15 years||NEW DELHI: Delhi entered the New Year with dense fog and freezing cold that saw the mercury dip to 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest minimum temperature for any month in the last 15 years, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Friday. It was the coldest New Year day in recent memory across north India as the temperature dropped below freezing point in three cities. It was a double whammy for Delhiites setting out in the early hours, as air quality was also classified as “severe” according to CPCB’s daily index. Delhi had last recorded a lower minimum temperature on January 8, 2006, when the mercury fell to 0.2 degrees Celsius. Expect some relief from coldMet officials, however, say respite is around the corner, with temperatures set to rise from January 2 onwards, owing to a western disturbance. Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) is also expected to receive light rain between January 3 and 5, officials said. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre (RWFC) in Delhi said clear sky conditions on the previous day led to low night-time temperature with the day-time heat quickly dissipating. “Delhi saw very dense fog in the morning and the coldest temperature of the season. This is the lowest minimum in January since 2006. The minimum was 6 degrees below normal, making it a severe cold wave day,” said Srivastava. According to India Meteorological Department easterly winds have started influencing Delhi already, with an active western disturbance to bring rain to between January 3 and 5, while snowfall may also occur in the mountains. “The minimum temperature could rise to around 5 degrees Celsius by January 2 and further to around 8 degrees Celsius by January 4. The peak impact of this western disturbance will be seen on January 4 with rain, strong surface winds of 20-30 km/hour and hailstorm activity expected. Mercury will once again stop dropping from January 6 onwards, once the western disturbance retreats,” said Srivastava. While Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station recorded a low of 1.1 degrees Celsius, Ayanagar had a minimum temperature of 1.2 degrees, while it was 1.4 degrees at Lodhi Road. The maximum temperature meanwhile was 19.2 degrees Celsius on Friday. Delhi has been recording “cold wave” to “severe cold wave” conditions since December 28, 2020, with it intensifying on December 29, when mercury fell to 3.6 degrees Celsius. On December 30, the minimum was 3.5 degrees, while it was 3.3 degrees on the last day of the year. The lowest minimum temperature in January last year was 4 degrees, while it was 2.4 degrees Celsius in January 2019. In terms of air quality, ‘severe’ air was recorded after December 24, 2020, when the overall Air Quality Index was 423. On Friday, the AQI was recorded at 441 by the CPCB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cold-start-to-2021-at-1-1c-delhi-shivers-on-chilliest-day-in-15-years/articleshow/80066778.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
January 2, 2021||Nagpur||CR plans to upgrade trains’ speed to 130kmph||Nagpur: Divisional railway manager (DRM) Richa Khare on Friday said the Nagpur division of Central Railway is working on plans to upgrade the speed of trains to 130kmph under its jurisdiction between Itarsi and Ballarshah. The Railway Board already announced its plans to run trains to 130kmph in Golden Quadrilateral of Mumbai-Delhi-Howrah-Chennai, and Golden Diagonal between Mumbai-Howrah and Chennai-Delhi. According to sources, work on running trains at 130kmph has already completed between Delhi-Mumbai and Delhi-Howrah. Even in Golden Diagonal, work has been completed between Delhi to Itarsi and Chennai to Ballarshah. “There are some technical specifications which we need to work on. We expect to start trials on running trains at 130kmph in around six months. We have already commissioned the third lines between Teegaon-Chichonda and Sindhi Railway-Butibori and the fourth line between Sindhi and Borkhedi, all critical sections,” she said. Addressing her maiden press meet after joining as DRM, Khare said, “Though we suffered a setback during Covid-19, we could generate a revenue of up to Rs2,000 crore. Though it doesn’t match our last year’s revenue, we are confident to achieve the set targets.” The Nagpur Central Railway was given a freight target of 34.4 MT in 2020-21. Till December, of the set target of 25.2 MT, the division has achieved 22.77 MT, which is 10% less. “With a focus on transporting new commodities, we will meet the target,” said Khare. On the redevelopment of the Nagpur station, Khare said, “Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC) is in process of issuing tenders. We will sign an agreement with ISRDC. We are orienting ISRDC to ensure that our planned works like FOB from platform 1 to 8 is not hampered in any way.” The DRM admitted that existing developmental and infrastructural works barring safety have been affected due to the financial crisis. “However, operational and safety works will in no way be stalled,” she said. When asked about the introduction of more passenger trains, Khare said, “The decision will be taken by the Railway Board and it will be done in phases depending upon the occupancy.” On unused passenger coaches that were converted as a quarantine facility for Covid-19 patients, Khare said, “It was a policy decision. These coaches were not put to use as the need was not felt after the government gave a boost to its facilities. Now, these coaches will be again remodeled into passenger coaches.” On future plans to boost development, the new DRM said, “Increasing revenue through freight, passenger services, and non-fare revenue besides operating more Kisan Rails is on the agenda. While doing so safety and punctuality will be top priority.” ADRM Anup Satpathi, SrDCM Krishnath Patil, Sr DEN Pawan Patil, SrDOM Sumeet Badrake, DCM Vipul Suskar, ACM/PRO SG Rao, and DyCE (construction) Gautam Kumar were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cr-plans-to-upgrade-trains-speed-to-130kmph/articleshow/80064224.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Nagpur||After 27 yrs, Ghugus finally gets status of municipal council||Chandrapur: The struggle taken up by the citizens of Ghugus town to elevate its status to municipal council has finally paid off. The state government issued a notification elevating the Ghugus gram panchayat to the status of municipal council late on Thursday. While the gram panchayat elections in the town have been cancelled, Chandrapur’s tehsildar has been appointed as the administrator of new municipal council. Ghugus is one of the largest towns in the district with a population of over 32,000. The people and the political leaders here were pushing for elevating the status of local gram panchayat to municipal council since the last 27 years. The state government had recently announced to raise the status of Ghugus to municipal council and had summoned the suggestions and objections for the same. However, before the process could be completed, the Eelection Commission announced the gram panchayat elections in district, including in Ghugus gram panchayat. Political leaders backed by people boycotted the elections and petitioned the urban development ministry to cancel the polls and raise the status of the town. People were steadfast over their demand and not a single nomination was filed for Ghugus gram panchayat elections. “Finally, paying heed to people’s feelings, the urban development ministry issued a notification sanctioning the status of Ghugus as municipal council,” said guardian minister Vijay Wadettiwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-27-yrs-ghugus-finally-gets-status-of-municipal-council/articleshow/80064227.cms||Mazhar Ali
January 2, 2021||Nagpur||966 fined for drunk driving only in Sadar||Nagpur: As many as 966 motorists were fined for drunk driving only in the Sadar traffic zone while overall 5,249 were booked for flouting various other provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act in the city during the New Year’s celebrations. Almost 730 police personnel and 50 senior officials from 10 zones of traffic police conducted random checks from Thursday evening till early morning. During checking, the Sadar traffic zone caught 966 motorists for driving under the influence of liquor. The zone also caught 483 motorists for various other traffic rules violations. Most people had come to Sadar for celebrating the New Year. Other zones could not conduct drive against drunk driving cases due to Covid-19 scare, said sources. Traffic cops have stopped using breath analysers since the outbreak of novel coronavirus in March last year. At Sadar zone, police sources said the drivers themselves admitted to driving under the influence of liquor and their samples too were tested at government hospitals. According to the DCP (traffic) data, last year there were 1,114 traffic violation cases, including 180 drunk driving, on New Year’s Eve. The police had then recovered Rs2.86 lakh as fine from the violators, while this year the violators paid Rs7.70 lakh fine. DCP (traffic) Sarang Awad, officiating ACP Ajay Malviya, senior PIs Asha Khapre among others were on the city roads to ensure accident free New Year. It bore results as the city did not report any fatal accident, said the police. During night curfew hours after 11am, 844 motorists were caught for driving without seat belts, 639 for driving/riding vehicles having fancy number plates, 537 for using mobile phones while driving while 335 for not carrying driving licence. Sitabuldi zone and Sonegaon traffic zone too witnessed high number of cases. Cops here penalized 647 and 625 drivers, respectively. Cases——-Zone 480--———-MIDC 625--——-Sonegaon 647———Sitabuldi 1,449--—-Sadar 615———Cotton Market 448--——Lakadganj 387--——Ajni 502--——Sakkardara 542--——Indora 520---Kamptee||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/966-fined-for-drunk-driving-only-in-sadar/articleshow/80064235.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 2, 2021||Hubballi||Karnataka: Silent campaign that forced govt to restart schools||BELAGAVI: A silent campaign initiated by education activists, experts, doctors and members of school development and monitoring committees (SDMCs) was instrumental in changing wary parents and government’s opinions about on-campus learning during the pandemic. The efforts were focused mainly on addressing fears over restarting schools and Vidyagama sessions. In October last year, concerns about coronavirus infections among teachers and students forced the government to halt the Vidyagama programme. The concerns, activists argued, were not based on hard data as the actual number of Covid-19 cases among students and teachers was lower than what many had thought. Citing experts, TOI reported how the fears were unfounded. Education expert VP Niranjanaradhya said that a lot of effort went into battling wrong perceptions and allaying the concerns of parents and other stakeholders. “We showed international research papers, which spoke about the lower risk among children and how discontinuation of schools will affect the wellbeing of children,” he said. Niranjanaradhya and others circulated fact-based information on social media. “We activated SDMCs to hold webinars and discussions on the subject, so the right information could reach parents and students,” he added. Dr Srinivas Kakkilaya, who collated data from the Covid-19 war room in Bengaluru, said that there was robust data on infection rates among children of various groups. The rates were not high. “This data was shared with officials and parents to ease concerns,” Kakkilaya said. With the help of All India Students Federation and SDMCs, several WhatsApp groups were created to provide accurate information. Parents were part of these groups. This helped build consensus about reopening schools. Syed Hafizullah of the Bharatiya Gjana Vignana Samithi said the organisation highlighted the plight of rural children in North Karnataka — how suspension of on-campus classes and Vidyagama had led to instances of child labour and marriage. Niranjanaradhya said that later, students joined the calls for oncampus learning. A group of students started a campaign called ‘Namma Nade Shaleya Kade (Our walk will be towards school)’, creating 1,000 clips. SDMCs put more pressure on the government by defying curbs and reopening many schools on December 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/karnataka-silent-campaign-that-forced-govt-to-restart-schools/articleshow/80066799.cms||Shreyas HS
January 2, 2021||Nagpur||Tigress, 2 cubs die of ‘poisoning’ in Karhandla||Nagpur: In a bad start for big cats in 2021, a tigress C3 was found dead with her two six-month-old cubs in Karhandla beat on Friday evening. The animals are suspected to have died due to poisoning as a half-eaten cattle carcass was also found nearby. The tragedy struck the sanctuary at a time when tiger numbers had increased to 11 in the latest estimation. The incident, a suspected case of revenge killing, must have occurred around four days ago in compartment number 1415, but was noticed by a van majoor at 4pm on Friday. The officials have arrested an accused Diwakar Nagokar from Navegaon (Sadhu) village. The tigress and the cubs lay dead in the forest and an agricultural field of Nagokar is close by. The village is 2km away from the spot. C3 is one of the litters of the park’s dominant tigress Chandi, which has migrated to Bramhapuri division last year. This is the third case of poisoning in the last two years in which eight tigers have died. Of the three, two cases were recorded in Umred-Karhandla alone and one in Chimur range in January and July 2019, respectively. A female nicknamed Raai and a male tiger Charger, both were found dead due to poisoning in December-January last. In another case, a tigress and her two cubs had died on July 7, 2019, in Chirmur forest range after consuming a calf that was poisoned by its owner. The sanctuary has lost four tigers in the last 39 days with a tigress and its four foetuses were found dead in Tass area on November 22, 2020. Pench CCF & field director Ravikiran Govekar said, “It’s a sad story of poisoning. As it was dark, post mortem will be conducted on Saturday. Such incidents are occurring despite all benefits are being passed on to fringe villages under Dr Syama Prasad Mukherjee Jan Van Scheme through eco-development committees (EDCs).” As per the All India Tiger Estimation (AITE)-2018, there are 312 tigers in Maharashtra. However, in the last two years, Maharashtra has lost 40 tigers, including 22 in 2019 and 18 in 2020. In 2020, the country lost 105 tigers. “This is a classic case of fence eating the farm. The forest department has launched several initiatives to benefit fringe villages. One such EDC is also present in Navegaon (Sadhu). Yet, people are killing tigers. One also needs to check whether timely cattle kill compensation is paid in the adjoining Umred territorial range or not,” said former honorary wildlife warden Roheet Karoo. BOX Karhandla guides launch stir Over 28 guides from Umred-Karhandla-Paoni Wildlife Sanctuary (UKPWS) launched a strike to demand reopening of Satighat area which has been kept inviolate. Though tigers are being sighted regularly in the park, guides say closure of the area has led to poor sighting of other wild animals and birds. On Friday, tourists entered the park without guides. Van majoors and staff accompanied the tourists. On October 28, the guides had launched similar protests to demand reopening of the 15km route. The route was open till March before the closure of tourism due to spread of Coronavirus. The route has been closed this season when the park was reopened for tourism in October. Pench officials have already made it clear that Satighat area has been closed to keep it inviolate as there is a breeding population of tigers there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tigress-2-cubs-die-of-poisoning-in-karhandla/articleshow/80064257.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 2, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Over 50 flights delayed due to dense fog||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded “very dense fog” on the first day of the New Year on Friday, with over 50 flights delayed in the early hours as visibility fell to zero at 6am in Palam. India Meteorological Department (IMD) said “dense” to “very dense” fog prevailed between 4am and 8.30am with conditions only improving slightly later in the day. While no flights were cancelled due to poor visibility, airport officials said 10 flights were cancelled in the morning due to technical glitches and poor destination weather. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist, IMD and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre said, “By 6am, there was zero visibility at Palam and it remained so till 6.30am before slight improvement. However, it was still below 200 metres until 8.30 am,” he added. IMD classifies fog as “dense” when visibility is below 200 metres and “very dense” when it is below 50 metres. It is “moderate” when visibility is between 200 and 500 metres. According to IMD, only moderate fog is expected on Saturday, with shallow fog forecast for Sunday. “Clear skies and moisture lead to dense fog formation, however, a western disturbance will influence the region and lead to a reduction in the fog intensity until January 6. Moderate fog may return by January 7,” said Srivastava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-over-50-flights-delayed-due-to-dense-fog/articleshow/80066800.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Chennai||'Convene Tamil Nadu assembly to pass resolution against farm laws'||CHENNAI: DMK president M K Stalin on Friday asked chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to convene a special session of Tamil Nadu assembly to pass a resolution against the three farm laws introduced by the Centre. "Starting with Punjab earlier and Kerala on December 31, 2020, states have convened assembly sessions and passed resolutions against the three farm laws, which will make farmers destitutes before corporates. The Centre is not even making a mention about Minimum Support Price (MSP)," Stalin said in a letter to EPS. Several lakh farmers, braving severe cold, have been camping and protesting in Delhi for 37 days. They are determined to force the Centre to withdraw the new farm laws, Stalin said. Tamil Nadu, which was the first state to offer free electricity to farmers and waive farm loans, has to extend its support to these protesting farmers. Noting that he was reflecting the wish of farmers in Tamil Nadu, Stalin urged chief minister Palaniswami to convene the assembly and pass a resolution asking Centre to repeal the three new farm laws. "As a leader of the opposition, I request you to forget differences. Let us all come together for the sake of farmers," Stalin said. The Kerala state assembly on Thursday unanimously passed a resolution asking the Centre to withdraw the three farm laws. Not only the ruling LDF and the opposition UDF, even the lone BJP MLA supported the move against the Centre. The ruling AIADMK had supported the farm laws in both the Houses of the Parliament. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, who calls himself a farmer, has been repeatedly saying the farm laws would benefit farmers. "The AIADMK will not convene the assembly, especially since they supported the farm bills in the Parliament. But it is our duty to mount pressure on the government in support of the farmers," DMK Rajya Sabha MP and party spokesperson T K S Elangovan told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/convene-tamil-nadu-assembly-to-pass-resolution-against-farm-laws/articleshow/80066808.cms||D Govardan
January 2, 2021||Mumbai||Covid cases register further drop in Mumbai, rise slightly across Maharashtra||MUMBAI: The new year began on a mixed note with a marginal rise in Covid-19 cases in the state even as cases dropped further in Mumbai. A total of 3,524 cases and 59 deaths were reported on Friday, taking the total cases in the state to 19,35,636 and the total deaths to 49,580. The BMC authorities added 631 cases to the Mumbai tally on Friday as against 714 reported the previous day. The city's tally since March is 2.93 lakh. The daily mortality figure (9 on Friday) in Mumbai has been under 20 for a month now. The toll in Mumbai since March is 11,116. BMC officials said the Covid situation has been encouraging since Diwali in November; the surge that was expected due to festival rush didn't take place. The active cases in the state and the city too reported a drop on Friday. There are a total of 52,084 active cases in the state, of which 8,943 are in Mumbai. As the BMC daily dashboard showed on Friday, almost 91% of the beds in the Covid Care Centres (for mild and asymptomatic patients) are vacant. There is only 32% occupancy in the various Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCHs). While 55% of the 1,886 ICU beds are vacant, 76% of the 12,012 normal beds are vacant. Despite the low occupancy and decline in daily Covid-19 cases, the BMC isn't planning to reduce the number of beds or shut down its jumbo centres. "We have decided to maintain the same level of preparedness for another 15 to 20 days," said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. The winter will be in its last phase in the city, and the presence and impact of the highly contagious Covid-19 strain found in the United Kingdom would be known by then. "We are anxiously waiting for the gene sequencing report from the NIV, Pune, on the 22-odd samples of the UK returnees who tested positive for Covid," said Kakani. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said the state was all geared up to conduct the vaccination dry run in the four districts shortlisted across the state on Saturday. Pune, Nagpur, Jalna and Nandurbar districts have been shortlisted, and each district will have three vaccination centres, with 25 people for vaccination at each centre. "At each centre there will be four sections, one where a person's identity is verified, one where he is screened, a section where he is vaccinated and the other where post-vaccination procedure will be done," Tope said. He said the state is fully prepared and training of 16,000 vaccinators has been completed. Meanwhile, Thane city recorded 99 new cases and two deaths. In Kalyan-Dombivli, 82 tested positive and one died. In Navi Mumbai, 100 cases and three deaths were reported on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-cases-register-further-drop-in-mumbai-rise-slightly-across-maharashtra/articleshow/80066803.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 2, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Group suggests check-ups for citizens aged above 35 years||BENGALURU: The state health vision group held its first meeting on Friday and starting annual health screening of all citizens aged above 35, specifically to check for noncommunicable diseases, was one of the main topics. The state government has asked a team of 38 doctors to submit, in six months, a report listing measures to strengthen the public healthcare system. Apart from annual screenings, the members of the team, or vision group, discussed the need to set up more trauma and emergency care centres in Karnataka, encourage public-private partnerships, improve primary health centres and focus more on preventive medicines. Addressing the media after the group’s first meeting, health minister K Sudhakar said that the government was working on a comprehensive transformation in the health sector. “Currently, the National Health Policy 2017 is in place and we are committed to provide quality healthcare to the people of Karnataka. The road map to achieve this was discussed in the meeting,” Sudhakar said. The vision group members suggested that there should be a trauma care centre at every 50km or at every taluk hospital. They discussed the need for creating Indian Medical Services and Karnataka Medical Services cadre on the lines of IAS and KAS, leveraging artificial intelligence and robotics technology, adopting tele-ICU at every hospital, and using retired senior doctors’ services for tele-medicine. One suggestion was to request the central government to provide human resources and funds to establish new medical colleges and hospitals in Karnataka. On tackling infectious diseases, the group said that the government should strengthen the overall surveillance system by using the best aspects of the Covid-19 prevention model. “What we should learn from the pandemic is the way the measures were implemented to contain the Covid spread. We need to follow a similar strategy to prevent other communicable diseases,” a member told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-group-suggests-check-ups-for-citizens-aged-above-35-years/articleshow/80066804.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: This New Year’s eve was like no other||It was a given that the New Year celebrations would be subdued due to the government disallowing celebratory events at hotels, clubs and resorts and police announcing that Marina beach and Elliot’s beach will be shut. When the clock struck 12, most of the city residents welcomed the New Year indoors in contrast to the usual joyrides on the city roads. However, the beginning of 2021 was marred by incidents of violence as two persons were killed in separate incidents during drunken revelry. In Nungambakkam, Kathar, a 56-year-old house broker was stabbed to death by two brothers in a drunken brawl. Police investigations revealed that the victim was invited to a party by Palani and Murugan in Kamdhar Nagar. While consuming liquor, the brothers picked an argument with Kathar and broke a beer bottle and stabbed him. Neighbours rushed to the house hearing screams and alerted police, who have launched a hunt for the brothers. In another murder at Mangadu, an assistant director was stabbed to death, allegedly by his colleague. The victim, Rudhra, 24, was celebrating the New Year with assistant directors Manikandan, 22, and Ramkumar, 28, at Manikandan’s house near Mangadu. The trio had cut a cake and were consuming liquor when a fight broke out. Preliminary inquiries revealed that Manikandan stabbed Rudhran after the victim hit him. Across the city, around 10,000 police were deployed and 300 check points were put up to keep a check on speeding and drunken driving. Some who ventured out were intercepted and let off with a warning. “The entire Kamarajar Salai was blocked and vehicles were not allowed to ply along Marina beach. Traffic diversion was put in at least 200 places across the city to prevent bike racing,” a senior police officer said adding that small stretches leading to Kamarajar Salai were barricaded. Special teams of city police visited pubs and clubs to ensure that the government norms were followed and that they were not operated after 10pm. City residents hosted house parties and terrace parties for their friends and families and stayed indoors. “We usually go for a drive to the beach and exchange New Year wishes with strangers. It was like a tradition the whole city follows and we did the same. This year, we had a small gettogether with friends,” said Vimal Shankar, a banker. While revelry was subdued on city roads, there were crowds at places of worship. Churches held special masses from 6pm on New Year’s Eve and allowed public in batches. From Friday morning, people came in droves to all major temples across the city like the Kapaleeswarar temple in Mylapore and other temples on the outskirts where special prayers were held.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-this-new-years-eve-was-like-no-other/articleshow/80066806.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Kolkata||Amartya, his lawyers refute allegations over VB row||Santiniketan: Two letters — one from lawyers representing economist Amartya Sen to Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and the other from Sen to Sudipta Bhattacharyya, a senior teacher at the university — have challenged the allegations levelled by Chakrabarty against the Nobel laureate during an address to the faculty last month. While Sen, in an earlier email to Bhattacharyya, had denied Chakrabarty’s allegations of having introduced himself as Bharat Ratna and then requested the VC not to evict hawkers from outside his home in Santiniketan, the Nobel laureate in the latest letter to the senior teacher dismissed the suggestion that he was in India at the time the purported call was made. According to VB authorities, Sen’s call to Chakrabarty was made from a local phone in June 2019. In the email to Bhattacharyya, Sen wrote: “I was not in India at all in June 2019. I am extremely rarely in India in June. I prefer to come only after the monsoon settles in — so it tends to be July, not June.” Sen further said that to the best of his knowledge, he had talked with the present VC of Visva-Bharati only once. “This was a few years ago when he was chairing a meeting for the release of a book by Pranab Bardhan. His claim that we have talked on the phone and I introduced myself as Bharat Ratna is tantalisingly untrue,” Sen wrote. Lawyers for the economist have also sent a legal notice to the VC, demanding that he immediately withdraw land-related allegations against Sen. “Our client has learnt from newspapers that you and your officers have made statements, among other false statements, to press/news agencies/journalists that a plot of land owned by Visva-Bharati is unlawfully occupied by our client. However, no communication in this regard has ever been received by our client. Nor is this allegation correct. In fact, your allegations are completely false. Our client hereby calls upon you to produce to our client documentary evidence to justify your aforesaid statements,” the solicitors, Sandersons & Morgans, said in a communication to Chakrabarty. “We, on behalf of the client, reserving our client’s legal recourse against you, call upon you to immediately withdraw the allegations made by you against our client and refrain yourself from making any further false allegation,” added the communication dated December 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/amartya-his-lawyers-refute-allegations-over-vb-row/articleshow/80066161.cms||Someswar Boral
January 2, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal scheme for instant solutions to kick off today||Midnapore: The West Bengal government’s ‘Paray Paray Samadhan’ programme, to be launched on Saturday, will start work on all projects requiring funds up to Rs 5 lakh by January 10 and projects requiring funds over Rs 5 lakh to Rs 1 crore by January 20. The programme aims to resolve neighbourhood and community-level issues. Nine senior bureaucrats will be part of a state-level task force that will monitor all work. KMDA CEO Antara Bhattacharya, a task force member, will supervise all projects under this scheme in Kolkata. According to a meeting held in Nabanna on December 30, the scheme will complement the ‘Duare Sarkar’ campaign, which is aimed to reach out to individuals. The Bengal government has already created a database of around 10,000 hyper-local issues that can be solved by infrastructure enhancement, manpower augmentation and streamlining services. To resolve the complex financial approval matrix, which often leads to delays, the state finance department will now give powers to departmental heads to sanction schemes up to Rs 1 crore under ‘Paray Paray Samadhan’ scheme. To fast-track work, district magistrates have been asked to identify feasible projects and tender out the work immediately through implementing agencies. Kolkata Municipal Corporation will be the primary implementing agency in Kolkata, KMDA for all urban local bodies in the Kolkata Metropolitan Area (KMA), and Municipal Engineering Directorate (MED), which is under the state urban development department, will implement work beyond KMA. According to the plans, the timelines have been eased for bigger projects. Schemes having an estimate of Rs 1 crore will have a tender notice of a week and schemes where project cost is pegged at Rs 1 crore to Rs 2 crore will require a tender notice of a fortnight. Projects estimated to be above Rs 2 crore will take the usual departmental approval route. “The work, from planning to implementation, will be tracked and monitored by the state task force. The senior officers will also step in to ease any issues that require additional approvals. “To help the district magistrates, the state has allowed them to recruit around two retired state officers per district to upload data on real-time basis on the Paray portal,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-scheme-for-instant-solutions-to-kick-off-today/articleshow/80066183.cms||Sujoy Khanra
January 2, 2021||Kolkata||Calcutta HC asks police to record e-statement||Kolkata: Calcutta High Court has directed Bengal police to question the complainant and victim in an abduction case through video-conference and emails. Last February, a Bihar trader had lodged an FIR at Dankuni police station about his father being abducted and then released for ransom. The court was told that police were insistent that the complainant and his father physically appear before the investigating officer (IO) and respond to questions relating to the ongoing probe. The complainant and his father were reluctant to travel from Bihar to Bengal, citing “threat to life” and restrictions amid the pandemic. Police told the court that two persons had been arrested and evidence collected. The IO, police said, was asking the complainant and the victim to record their statements, but they were reluctant Advocate Bhaskar Prosad Banerjee said, “The IO has been repeatedly summoning the victim and his son. They have been told that in case they do not appear, they will face legal consequences. We appealed in HC that statements can be recorded over video-conference. If police seek a test identification (TI) parade, they will definitely appear if provided security.” Justice Jay Sengupta, in his order on Thursday, said considering the facts of the case and the threat calls given to the victim, “it will be fit and proper to undertake such exercise by video-conferencing and/or exchange of emails, so far as practicable”. Justice Sengupta, however, made it clear that if the victim was required to attend a TI parade, the IO shall make necessary arrangements “by taking due care about the safety and security” of both the victim and his son, and give them time to appear physically. The court asked the father-son duo to cooperate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/calcutta-hc-asks-police-to-record-e-statement/articleshow/80066167.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Kolkata||On party anniv, TMC renews people pledge||Kolkata: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday said Trinamool Congress’ “immense struggle” for the last 23 years since its formation had only one objective – to speak up for “the cause of only the people”. It was on this day in 1998, Banerjee, then with Congress, broke away with several of her supporters to form Trinamool Congress. She indicated it would be the same resolve that would steer the party in future. Banerjee posted on Twitter: “As Trinamool turns 23 today, I look back at the journey we began on January 1st, 1998. Our years have been of immense struggle, but throughout this time we have continued to achieve our objective of being committed to the cause of only the people. On TMC Foundation Day, I extend my sincere gratitude to our Maa-Mati-Manush and all our workers who continue to fight with us in making Bengal better and stronger each day. The Trinamool family will carry on with this resolve for times to come!” The Trinamool foundation day celebrations came amid a looming political battle in West Bengal this year. Party national secretary Subrata Bakshi told party workers in Trinamool Bhawan: “The battle for 2021 is not only important but significant. It is significant because it will fight to restore the Constitutional ethos. This is what Mamata Banerjee has spoken for. India is watching us. 2021 will set the tenor for 2024.” The celebrations also came amid repeated barbs by BJP to counter the “party-of-defectors” allegations hurled by Trinamool. BJP leaders have alleged that Banerjee too had “defected”. It wasn’t without reason that Trinamool national spokesperson and Rajya Sabha MP Derek O’Brien tweeted: “Many illustrious politicians, including a former Rashtrapati, have broken away from parent parties to form new ones. Almost all failed badly. Others abandon ideology and take shortcuts; join a political rival. Respect and admiration for Mamata Banerjee on 23rd Foundation Day of Trinamool Congress.” Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, a Congress MLA who followed Banerjee into Trinamool, said: “The indomitable spirit of Mamata Banerjee inspired many Congressmen of Bengal to form All India Trinamool Congress on this day in 1998 under her fiery leadership to better combat the Left.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/on-party-anniv-tmc-renews-people-pledge/articleshow/80066139.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Kolkata||Petrol demand in Bengal rises in third quarter, but diesel lags||Kolkata: West Bengal has witnessed a surge in fuel demand in the third quarter of this Covid-hit fiscal (October-December) as the country as a whole is also adjusting to a new normal. Atul Gupta, chief general manager (operations) of West Bengal state office, Indian Oil (IOC), said the company has registered a healthy 10% growth in demand for petrol (motor spirit) in Oct-December 2020, compared to the same period last fiscal. He was talking to TOI on the sidelines of the launch of XP 100 in the city. It is a special grade high-octane petrol of IOC, formally launched by petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan in seven cities. Petrol’s overall growth, taken together with all oil PSUs — Bharat Petroleum, Hindustan Petroleum — would also be in the same range, said an official of IOC. Diesel, however, has yet to recover fully as demand in the third quarter was down by 2% compared to the same period last year. For the entire Covid-hit fiscal (April-December 2020), there has been a marginal 4% growth in petrol though diesel was down by 12%. “Due to lockdown in April-May, there was hardly any demand,” Gupta said. Incidentally, the total demand for petrol in Bengal is around 1.2 lakh kilo litre (1 KL is 1,000 L), while diesel demand is around 3 lakh KL, taken together by all companies. IOC has 50% marketshare in Bengal alone. Elaborating on LPG demand, an IOC official added there has been almost 14% growth in domestic LPG from April-November 2020, compared to the same period last fiscal. For non-domestic LPG, the growth was higher at 17%. Pradhan had earlier said that from 13 crore customers in 2014, the country now had 30 crore LPG customers. “Our ministry has ensured LPG penetration in the country, which is now almost 99% up from 55.9% in 2014. We are now looking at making this kitchen-friendly fuel more accessible to all. Until a few years back, it was very difficult to get an LPG connection. Now, with just a missed call, a new connection can be obtained,” he added. On an earlier occasion, Pritish Bharat, executive director of West Bengal state office of IOC, had said for the first time in pandemic days since April, petrol demand in Bengal had surpassed pre-Covid level on a comparable basis till September 28 from the beginning of that month. “In July, petrol demand almost reached 99% of pre-Covid level and diesel 95%, but in August, due to some lockdown, there was some drop in demand. But again in September, it has picked up,” Bharat had earlier said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/petrol-demand-in-bengal-rises-in-third-quarter-but-diesel-lags/articleshow/80066311.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: TMC redraws political lines as Soumendu Adhikari goes to BJP||NANDIGRAM: The Trinamool Congress government’s decision to remove Soumendu Adhikari as Contai Municipality board of administrators (BoA) chairperson has triggered a redrawing of East Midnapore’s political fault lines with Soumendu, along with 14 other civic councillors, defecting to BJP on Friday in elder brother Suvendu’s presence in Kanthi dormitory ground, an Adhikari family stronghold. Suvendu’s “the lotus has only bloomed” and “Ram Navami abhi baki hai (there is still time for Ram Navami)” statements in Nandigram earlier in the day fuelled speculations on whether the Adhikari satrap, Sisir, and his son Dibyendu, both Trinamool MPs, will follow Suvendu and Soumendu’s lead to switch political allegiance. The removal of Soumendu, who was helming Contai Municipality for the last decade, has already prompted a reticent Dibyendu to write to chief minister Mamata Banerjee and publicly question the move, sources said. In 1969, Sisir first stepped into the municipality as its commissioner. Since then, an Adhikari has always headed the civic body for 45 years, and without a break since 1986. Suvendu said: “This is not about being my brother. Soumendu has worked for the municipality for a decade. Even I was a two-time councillor here. People know what we did.” Referring to the Contai South assembly segment, also a family bastion, which Sisir first won in 1982 and which has always elected an Adhikari since 2001, Suvendu said: “In the 2017 bypoll, BJP had lost this election by 19,000 votes. Today, 5,000 supporters are joining BJP. If they even have four votes in their families, from today we have reversed the lead.” In 2017, Trinamool had handpicked Chandrima Bhattacharya to contest the Contai South bypoll overlooking Soumendu. The seat was vacated after Dibyendu won the Tamluk Lok Sabha bypoll in 2016. To consolidate their position, Trinamool has already sounded out Sisir loyalist and Bhagabanpur MLA Ardhendu Maiti to succeed Suvendu as the Haldia Development Authority (HAD) chairperson and two-time Nandigram MLA Firoza Biwi to contest from Nandigram again in 2021. Ardhendu said: “I received a call (to assume charge as HDA chairperson). I will do so on Monday.” Firoza, who lost her son Imdadul Sk in the March 2007 Nandigram police firing, was handpicked by Suvendu to contest the 2009 bypoll in Nandigram. Firoza only said: “I’m busy with the party foundation day programme. I have nothing to say.” Both Ardhendu and Firoza had earlier stressed that their political allegiance is with Mamata Banerjee and Trinamool. The possibility of Firoza contesting from Nandigram again and anticipating a possible split in his supporter base in minority-dominated Nandigram-1 block, Suvendu announced he will hold a lakh-strong rally on January 8 in Nandigram. “Every locality has to send 5,000 people. I will provide whatever buses are required. If anyone is stopped, call me, I will come to you,” he said here on Friday. Suvendu, however, did not iterate his “jihadi” barb at the Friday meeting, referring to the December 29 attack on 15 BJP supporters in Nandigram. But he said: “Religions teach us to respect other religions. Why would anyone attack women and children who were coming to have prasad?” He added: “In 2019 Lok Sabha polls, BJP workers had won 18 seats even after being assaulted. They had taken a lead in 100 assembly seats. We will reverse the results in which BJP trailed. We start this from Kanthi today.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-redraws-political-lines-as-soumendu-goes-to-bjp/articleshow/80066120.cms||Suman Mandal
January 2, 2021||Kolkata||Manish Shukla case: CID chargesheet names 10||Kolkata: The CID has submitted the first chargesheet in the Manish Shukla murder case at a Barrackpore court on Friday on the first day of the year. The chargesheet, filed 87 days after the first arrest, has named 10 people as directly accused. All 10 had been arrested. They have been charged under IPC Sections 302 (murder), 120B (criminal conspiracy, 201 (tampering of evidence) and 34. The CID has named 12 others as those “still under probe for their suspected role” in the murder of the BJP Titagarh leader. This includes names of two senior Trinamool Congress functionaries — Uttam Das, former Barrackpore Municipality chairman, and Prashanta Chowdhury. Both had been questioned earlier by CID. “If we find that these suspects do indeed have a role in the case, we will file a supplementary chargesheet,” said a CID officer. Both leaders were named in the FIR filed originally by Shukla’s father. Another FIR accused, Bhola Prasad, has been named as a suspect. CID officers said the key accused named in the chargesheet include Md Khurram, who was one of the first to be arrested at Titagarh; Nasir Ali, the accused who allegedly fled to Bangladesh and was arrested only last month, Subodh Roy and Raja Roy. Among those named are three sharpshooters whom CID arrested from Punjab. The sleuths said call record dump analysis and CCTV footage have been used in the chargesheet that cites a number of witnesses as the murder had taken place on busy BT Road in October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/manish-shukla-case-cid-chargesheet-names-10/articleshow/80066202.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 2, 2021||Kolkata||Babul escapes unhurt as vehicle hits convoy car||Jamuria: Union minister Babul Supriyo’s convoy on Frid-ay met with an accident when an Bolero entered the wrong lane and hit the last car. While he escaped unhurt, his PSO Arijit suffered leg injuries. Babul had left for Kolkata from Asansol in the afternoon and taken NH-2. While his car was approaching Satgram Fatak area in Jamuria around 5.45pm, the Bolero suddenly entered NH-2 taking the link road. “I was with my family and driving the car. I managed to bypass the errant car, but it hit a car in my convoy,” Babul said. His security guard and personal assistant were in the car behind him. Babul stopped his car and offered the errant driver, Md Kablu (47), some water. Asansol-Durgapur police commissioner Sukesh Kumar Jain said: “There was an accident with a car in the convoy but everyone is fine now. We have started investigation and the driver has been arrested.” Babul said: “Police should take strong action in such cases. I asked cops to take legal steps but not be harsh on the driver.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/babul-escapes-unhurt-as-vehicle-hits-convoy-car/articleshow/80066256.cms||Mohammad Asif
January 2, 2021||Kolkata||2 companies of CRPF to be redeployed in Bengal||Kolkata: The Union ministry of home affairs has decided to send two companies of CRPF to Bengal. The forces, likely to come within a couple of days, will be stationed in Durgapur and Kharagpur. These are among the last batch of five companies of central forces withdrawn from Junglemahal ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and sent to Jammu and Kashmir. The state government had earlier requested the Centre to redeploy all the five CRPF companies in the wake of intelligence inputs that movement and concentration of Maoists were being seen in parts of Junglemahal after a gap of nine years. In August last year, the Centre had agreed to redeploy the forces and send three companies immediately. Asked if the central forces would be used for VVIP security during the assembly elections, an official said, “Law and order is a state subject and the state government will decide how to use the forces”. Currently, one company of CRPF in Bengal is used for VVIP security. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and a host of politicians, including leader of the opposition in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and BJP leaders Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikari enjoy the privilege.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-companies-of-crpf-to-be-redeployed-in-bengal/articleshow/80066128.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Kolkata||Covid vaccine dry run at three West Bengal sites today||KOLKATA: Vaccination dry runs will be carried out at three sites in Bengal — one in the city and the others in North 24 Parganas — on Saturday, as part of the national preparatory exercise before the imminent rollout. The urban primary health centre (UPHC) in Duttabad, off the EM Bypass, would be the site in the city, while the other two would be at Madhyamgram (the UPHC under Madhyamgram Municipality) and Amdanga (the Rural Health Centre), sources at Swasthya Bhavan said. “We are prepared for the dry run at the three sites,” said Ajay Chakraborty, director of health services (DHS). The drill is aimed at assessing the operational feasibility, including use of the Co-WIN app, where all data on the vaccination during the actual rollout is supposed to be updated. “Apart from helping health officials identify challenges and plugging loopholes before the actual vaccination programme, such drills are also a confidence-building exercise,” a health official said. The exercise will replicate the entire vaccination process, from transporting the vaccines from storage and putting them in the cold chain at the sites, to administering the shots and feeding the data to the Co-WIN app system. The only difference from an actual vaccination programme would be that an actual vaccine would not be used, just a placebo. Health department sources indicated that about 25 beneficiaries could be part of the dummy exercise at each of the three sites. The department has conducted, and still conducting, training programmes for personnel at various levels, who will be involved in the vaccination programme, in anticipation of the vaccine rollout. “We have been preparing for the rollout,” said Chakraborty. “Our cold chain points are ready. Various training and orientation programmes are going on, while some training has been completed. In the state, we have roughly around 18,000 vaccinators in the districts and around 7,000 in Kolkata and surrounding urban areas. Even as they are part of the routine vaccination programmes, they, too, have undergone training so that everything goes smoothly.” Cold chain handlers from 43 cold chain points in Kolkata, including those from medical colleges and hospitals, will also undergo skill upgrade training between January 4 and 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vaccine-dry-run-at-3-bengal-sites-today/articleshow/80066329.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 2, 2021||India||20 years after failed attempt, UP plans another law to control religious places||LUCKNOW: The UP government is likely to introduce an ordinance soon to regulate and control religious places on private and public land. A presentation in this regard was made before chief minister Yogi Adityanath recently. After that, top circles in the governing BJP and the bureaucratic setup were conveyed about the intention of the government. A similar attempt was made by the BJP government in the state in January 2000, when Ram Prakash Gupta was the CM. Named 'UP Regulation of Public Religious Building and Places Bill 2000', the Bill was passed by the assembly amid loud protests by the opposition. However, when it went for the assent of Raj Bhawan, then governor Suraj Bhan sent it to the President. The presidential consent never came and the Bill failed to turn into an Act. Highly placed sources told that in a bid to avoid such a situation, the government is considering promulgating an ordinance for its immediate implementation. The new ordinance is likely to be called 'Uttar Pradesh Regulation and Registration of Religious Places'. It will be moved by the religious affairs department with views and inputs from the law and parliamentary affairs departments. "As in 2000, the proposal of the government is to control and regulate the functioning of all religious places, irrespective of communities. However, just the way certain minority communities had opposed the bill then, this time too they are apprehensive of the government's intervention in the (affairs of) religious places," said a political analyst. The Yogi government has already introduced an anti-conversion ordinance and 'Recovery of Damage to Public and Private Property Ordinance', which have generated much heat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/20-years-after-failed-attempt-up-plans-another-law-to-control-religious-places/articleshow/80066823.cms||Subhash Mishra
January 2, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Man arrested for kidnap of minor girl||CHENNAI: Police on Friday arrested a 33-year-old man employed in a central government unit at Thirumani near Chengalpet under the stringent Pocso Act for kidnapping a minor girl on the promise of marriage . A mahila court later sent G Manimaran to prison. Police said the arrested man, a resident of Chengalpet, lived with his wife, two sons and a daughter. He worked at a leprosy research institute and hospital in Chengalpet. He had befriended a Class X student after meeting her at a function. He bought her a mobile phone and they spoke to each other. On December 14, the girl informed her family she would return after meeting her friend and went out. When she didn't return, her family members lodged a complaint with police. Initial inquiries revealed that Kumari would often speak to some unknown number. Police traced her to a house in Thailavaram near Maraimalai Nagar and arrested Manimaran. The girl was rescued and handed over to her parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-man-arrested-for-kidnap-of-minor-girl/articleshow/80066837.cms||---
January 2, 2021||India||Now, Gujarat too plans an 'anti-love jihad' law||GANDHINAGAR: Close on the heels of BJP-governed UP and MP enforcing laws to thwart 'love jihad', the Gujarat government is planning to introduce a legal provision to act against those who force an individual into religious conversion in the name of love and marriage. Although the stated objective of the Gujarat Freedom of Religion Act, 2003 is "prohibition of conversion from one religion to another by the use of force or allurement or by fraudulent means", the state government has been mulling introduction of an altogether new law to check 'love jihad' or further strengthening of the existing law to include the aspect of 'love jihad'. The government has directed the departments concerned - home, law and legislative and parliamentary affairs - to legally vet the laws against 'love jihad' that have been enacted by the UP and MP governments. "The government, meanwhile, is also considering the ordinance route to introduce a law against 'love jihad'," a key government source said. The 2003 law mandates that a citizen obtain prior approval from the district authority for conversion. Anyone found guilty of forced conversion can face imprisonment up to three years and a fine of up to Rs 50,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/now-gujarat-too-plans-an-anti-love-jihad-law/articleshow/80066844.cms||Kapil Dave
January 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Covid vaccine dry run in Hyderabad, Mahbubnagar today||HYDERABAD: The dry run for Covid-19 vaccine will be taken up in 2 districts, Hyderabad and Mahbubnagar, in the state on Saturday, reports Sribala Vadlapatla. The dry run is likely to begin at 11 am and continue for two hours. In the city, Gandhi Hospital, Yashoda Hospital and primary healthcare centre in Tilak Nagar are the dry run centres. "The idea of conducting this dry run is to see if there are any issues with CoWIN (Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network) software. We will also get an idea as to how many vaccine boxes should be kept at each PHC. At least 25 health staff will be present during Saturday's dry run," public health director Dr G Srinivasa Rao told TOI. Health department officials said Covid-19 vaccination could begin before January 10. "We are ready to roll out the vaccine within 24-48 hours of the Centre giving the approval and getting the doses," Dr Srinivasa Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-vaccine-dry-run-in-hyderabad-mahbubnagar-today/articleshow/80066862.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 2, 2021||India||8 high courts get new CJs, Andhra CJ sent to Sikkim||NEW DELHI: As many as eight high courts got new chief justices (CJs) on Thursday with the law ministry notifying their appointments late in the evening on the last working day of 2020. These appointments included the shifting of Andhra Pradesh HC chief justice J K Maheshwari to Sikkim and Telangana chief justice R S Chauhan to Uttarakhand. The high courts of J&K and Ladakh, Orissa, Telangana, Madras, MP, Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh and Sikkim had new CJs appointed. The law ministry issued as many as 15 notifications on the last working day of the year, on Thursday, including transfers of many HC judges. Though recommendations for appointments and transfers of HC judges and CJs are made by SC Collegium, these are effective only when the government notifies them. It is mandatory for the government to go by the recommendations made by the collegium, but in cases where it has a difference of opinion, the government generally puts notifications on hold. In some cases, the government returns recommendations for reconsideration. Justice Pankaj Mithal, judge of the Allahabad high court, has been appointed as the chief justice of J&K and Ladakh; Justice S Muralidhar, judge of the Punjab & Haryana HC as CJ of Orissa HC; Justice Hima Kohli, judge of the Delhi HC as CJ of Telangana HC and Justice Sanjib Banerjee, judge of the Calcutta high court as CJ of Madras HC. While Justice Mohammad Rafiq, CJ of the Orissa HC, has been transferred to MP HC as its CJ, two others - CJs of Andhra and Sikkim - have swapped positions. The shifting of Andhra CJ assumed significance in the backdrop of a complaint lodged by the state's CM with the CJI against the HC judges' alleged interference in governance of the state. Six judges of different HCs have also been transferred.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/8-high-courts-get-new-cjs-andhra-cj-sent-to-sikkim/articleshow/80066876.cms||---
January 2, 2021||World||US: Rejecting Trump veto, Republican-led Senate backs defense bill||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump suffered a stinging rebuke in the US Senate on Friday when fellow Republicans joined Democrats to override a presidential veto for the first time in his tenure, pushing through a defense policy bill he opposed just weeks before he leaves office. Meeting in a rare New Year's Day session, senators voted 81-13 to secure the two-thirds majority needed to override the veto. Eight previous Trump vetoes had been upheld. The Senate also ended for now a push by Democrats to increase Covid-19 financial relief checks from $600 to $2,000, a change sought by Trump. Senator Bernie Sanders again joined Democrats in a bid to force a vote on higher payments, only to be blocked by Republicans. Republican lawmakers have largely stood by the president during his turbulent White House term. Since losing his re-election bid in November, however, Trump has lashed out at them for not fully backing his unsupported claims of voter fraud, for rejecting his demand for bigger Covid-19 relief checks, and for moving to override his veto. The Democratic-controlled House of Representatives on Monday voted to override the veto. A president has the power to veto a bill passed by Congress, but lawmakers can uphold the bill if two-thirds of both houses vote to override the veto. The $740 billion National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) determines everything from how many ships are bought to soldiers' pay and how to address geopolitical threats. Trump refused to sign it into law because it did not repeal certain legal protections for social media platforms and included a provision stripping the names of Confederate generals from military bases. "We’ve passed this legislation 59 years in a row. And one way or another, we’re going to complete the 60th annual NDAA and pass it into law before this Congress concludes on Sunday," Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell had said ahead of the vote. Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi accused the president of using his final weeks in office "to sow chaos," saying in a statement that Congress urged him to "end his desperate and dangerous sabotage." Until Friday's vote, Trump had been on track to be the first president since Lyndon Johnson with no vetoes overridden. The bill also overhauls anti-money laundering rules and banning anonymous shell companies, a victory for law enforcement and rights groups which have long sought changes to make it easier to police illicit money flows. US weak rules on disclosing corporate owners have allowed criminals to use legal entities to shuffle their cash around the world, according to the authorities. The vote could have implications for two U.S. Senate runoff elections in Georgia on Tuesday that will decide control of the chamber under Democratic President-elect Joe Biden, who takes office on Jan. 20. The senators facing a runoff, Republicans David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler, strongly back both Trump and the military. But neither Perdue nor Loeffler voted on Friday. Neither did another staunch Trump ally, Senator Lindsey Graham. Perdue entered quarantine this week after contact with someone who tested positive for COVID-19. Spokesmen for Loeffler and Graham did not respond to requests seeking comment. The push to have Confederate names stripped from U.S. bases gained momentum after George Floyd, an unarmed black man, was killed by a Minneapolis police officer last May, triggering months of protests over racial injustice. The legislation requires the defense secretary to establish a commission with 45 days charged with developing a plan to remove the names of Confederate soldiers and leaders from Defense Department property and to implement that plan within three years. Among the bases that would require a name change is the largest U.S. Army base, Fort Bragg in North Carolina, named for Confederate General Braxton Bragg. The bill limits Trump's ability to immediately withdraw all remaining U.S. troops from Afghanistan. The measure requires Trump to submit a "comprehensive, interagency assessment of the risks and impacts before using funds to draw down U.S. military personnel in Afghanistan below 4,000 or current levels and again before drawing down below 2,000," a summary says. As votes were being counted indicating Trump had lost, the president took to Twitter to tout a protest rally being planned in Washington on Wednesday, the day the new Congress officially tallies the Electoral College votes certifying Biden's presidential victory. Some Trump allies in Congress have said they plan to object on Trump's behalf, including Senator Josh Hawley who expects to be joined by as many as 140 other House Republicans. The objections are expected to be dismissed by the majority of lawmakers. Hawley acknowledged that he is still undecided about how many state election results will be the targets of his objections. Republican Senator Ben Sasse blasted the move as an effort by ambitious politicians to tap into Trump's populist base, saying on Facebook on Wednesday: "Adults don't point a loaded gun at the heart of legitimate self-government." Trump tweeted about the Senate's refusal to take up his call for more COVID-19 relief aid and to lift legal protections for social media platforms. "Our Republican Senate just missed the opportunity to get rid of Section 230, which gives unlimited power to Big Tech companies. Pathetic!!! Now they want to give people ravaged by the China Virus $600, rather than the $2000 which they so desperately need. Not fair, or smart!" he wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/rejecting-trump-veto-republican-led-senate-backs-defense-bill/articleshow/80066918.cms||---
January 2, 2021||Hyderabad||UP best performer state in PMAY-urban scheme||NEW DELHI: From being among one of the worst performing states in the implementation of urban segment of the PM Awas Yojana (PMAY) scheme in 2017, Uttar Pradesh has emerged as the best performer among all states and urban territories in the past three-and-a-half year, registering 99 times increase in sanction of houses. Official data show that before March 2017, only 19,000 houses under this scheme were sanctioned under the Centre’s scheme to provide houses to all in urban areas. On Friday, this number stood at 17.6 lakh and the number of houses completed has increased from barely 38,000 in March 2017 to 6.5 lakh now. On Friday, Uttar Pradesh received the award of best performing state in the implementation of this scheme. Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh were ranked second and third while Tripura got the first award among all north-eastern states. ‘UP put up good show due to policy-driven approach’Sources said since the launch of the scheme in June 2015, successive urban affairs ministers had written about 19 letters within a span of less than two years urging the earlier UP government to expedite the process considering the state had a high share of urban households who did not have a permanent house. Officials said the main factors behind the complete turnaround of UP after Yogi Adityanath took charge of the state were rigourous monitoring and appointing officers especially for expeditious implementation. “Governance and leadership really matter. Sustained policy driven approach and rigourous implementation strategy helped the state to put up a good show,” joint secretary (housing) Amrit Abhijat told TOI. Sources said the state government almost institutionalised weekly review of the progress and the CM visiting sites and holding stocktaking meetings with district magistrates and municipal bodies helped expedite the implementation. The state government also tied up with the lending institutions including HUDCO to ensure there was no fund crunch. Officials said the UP government adopted different modules of the scheme for different categories of cities and towns for accelerated implementation. For example, in B and C tier towns, the focus was on beneficiary led house construction (BLC) where people had the required land for building houses. UP also ranks third in the CLSS vertical (interest subsidy on home loan) of the PMAY scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/up-best-performer-state-in-pmay-urban-scheme/articleshow/80066920.cms||Dipak K Dash
January 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Cattle-dung thrown at former BJP minister Tikshan Sud’s gate||HOSHIARPUR: A group of farmers threw cattle-dung at the gate of former BJP minister Tikshan Sud’s residence over his reportedly derogatory remarks that people were "going to Delhi borders for a picnic". When Sud and some other BJP workers challenged the protesters who were carrying black flags and tried to stop the tractor-trolley on which the cattle-dung was brought, police officials intervened. Sud facing flak for making remarks against farmersPolice later registered a case against the protesters for attempt to murder and house trespass with intention to cause hurt as well as other offences and got the place cleaned. A language daily had attributed a statement to Sood in which he was quoted as saying that "most of the farmers were not even aware of the farm laws and most people were going there on a picnic while the protest was being funded from abroad". He was also quoted as saying that those protesting were not farmers. Sood had been facing flak for this alleged statement on social media and protesters on Friday cited this statement as a reason for their protest. However, when asked on Friday about the allegations levelled by the protesters about his "picnic" statement, Sood said his remarks had been twisted. "How can I say the protesters are going to a picnic when I am myself a farmer. Those who came to my place were not farmers but mischievous elements and they also raised slogans of Khalistan," he said. The entire incident was captured on camera, but such slogans are not audible in the available videos. Police registered a case under various Indian Penal Code sections as the complainant alleged that the protesters tried to attack the BJP workers, run them over with the tractortrailer and also tried to attack with weapons. However, the video only showed protesters carrying black flags. The FIR says that Dal Khalsa leader Ranbir Singh was driving the tractor and he was later detained by police. While Ranbir has been named in the FIR, others remain unidentified and police raided residences of some Dal Khalsa activists. Later in the evening Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma visited Sood’s residence and said that some mischievous elements were involved in the incident in the name of farmers’ agitation and wanted to spoil the atmosphere of the state. He said the incident also exposed the hollowness of Punjab CM’s claim that the law and order situation was fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-cattle-dung-thrown-at-former-bjp-minister-tikshan-suds-gate/articleshow/80066938.cms||IP Singh
January 2, 2021||India||70% of plaints to NCW helpline in 2020 on 'right to live with dignity'||NEW DELHI: An overwhelming 70% of calls received by the complaints cell of National Commission of Women (NCW) in 2020, a year dominated by the Covid-19 pandemic, related to women seeking to secure their right to live with dignity, protection from domestic violence and harassment of married women. As many as 16,786 out of the 23,722 complaints received by the NCW over 12 months fell in the three categories. NCW categorises complaints across 24 categories and of the total complaints received in 2020, the highest number of complaints came from women seeking help to secure their right to live with dignity (7,708), followed by domestic violence (5,294) and 3,784 complaints relating to harassment of married women including complaints related to harassment for dowry. Besides these categories, there were 331 complaints related to dowry deaths. Times ViewThe worrying data, in all likelihood, is the tip of an iceberg. It points to a deep-rooted social malaise. No surprise, India is ranked 153 in the UN’s Gender Development Index. The concerned ministry must find ways and means to provide prompt remedies in such cases and to encourage more of those facing such issues to report them.NCW also received 1,234 complaints related to rape and attempt to rape, 376 related to sexual harassment, 201 about sexual harassment at workplace and 110 complaints of sexual assault. There were 1,679 complaints of outraging the modesty of a women/ molestation and 704 complaints related to cyber crime. Panel chief Rekha Sharma told TOI, "The unprecedented situation arising out of the pandemic has increased stress levels, anxiety, financial worry and instability, which in many instances resulted in domestic violence. Usually the cases were of a squabble between husband and wife on small issues. There were other cases also in which the in-laws had created hostile environment for women." The "right to live with dignity" involves harassment other than domestic violence. If a woman is facing any sort of harassment (mental or physical), it amounts to breach of her right under Article 21 of the Constitution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/70-of-plaints-to-ncw-helpline-in-2020-on-right-to-live-with-dignity/articleshow/80066960.cms||Ambika Pandit
