January 3, 2021||Chandigarh||Folk dances of India take centre stage at Lok Utsav||The Tagore Theatre in Sector 18 was abuzz with activities on Friday evening as several folk dance troupes from all over India descended there to show their dancing prowess. The event done by North Zone Cultural Centre (NZCC), Patiala had artists from Odisha, Telangana, Punjab, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Tripura, J&K, Gujarat, etc. The sequences had diversity, for the dancers performed energetically on folk forms as well as tribal dance forms of their areas. The cultural night also saw many people turning up. They were excited to see the place buzzing as it remained closed and was out of action for months due to the coronavirus situation. Kathak maestro Shobha Koser was also present during the event as the guest of honour. While Agartala artists gave a heady performance on Mamita (Tripura's folk dance), the dancers from Odisha showed Sambalpuri, which is performed during the Durga Puja. There was a Bihu performance by Assam dancers. And what caught everyone's attention was a girls group from Srinagar which presented Rouf dance form of Jammu & Kashmir. Maharashtra's Lavni, Telangana's Mathuri, MP's Badhai, Phaag and Ghoomar (Haryana) and Punjab's Luddi and Bhangra were more traditional dance forms showcased during the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/folk-dances-of-india-take-centre-stage-at-lok-utsav/articleshow/80077022.cms||---
January 3, 2021||India||Covid vaccine to be free for ‘most prioritised’ beneficiaries: Vardhan||NEW DELHI: The vaccine against Covid 19 will be provided free to most prioritised beneficiaries including one crore healthcare and two crore front-line workers, health minister Harsh Vardhan said as a nationwide dry-run to test preparedness for the vaccination drive took place on Saturday. Vardhan said details are also being finalised for vaccination of 27 crore people in the 50 plus age group and those who are younger but have serious comorbidities. Official sources said various options like offering a subsidised price and use of Ayushman Bharat insurance are being evaluated for inoculation of those above 50 years age and those with co-morbidities. The government has already registered over 75 lakh beneficiaries on Co-WIN - the IT platform developed by the Centre to implement the mega vaccination drive. Besides, around 1,14,100 vaccinators have been trained and sufficient supplies of syringes and other logistics have also been ensured to begin the vaccination drive. The government plans to roll out the vaccine within ten days of the final regulatory approval. While the subject expert committee (SEC) examining applications from different companies seeking emergency use authorization has recommended a grant of permission for two vaccines - Serum Institute's Covishield and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, both jabs are waiting for a final nod from the Drugs Controller General of India. The government plans to innoculate 30 crores 'priority' population by July. However, healthcare and frontline workers will be among the 'most prioritized' beneficiaries to receive the vaccine during the first two months of its rollout, when supplies are likely to be limited. Ahead of the actual vaccination drive, the health ministry on Saturday conducted a nationwide mock drill at 286 session sites across 125 districts to test the end-to-end planned operations and the mechanism that has been set up to ensure smooth conduct of the Covid 19 vaccination that is expected to begin soon. "I appeal to people not to pay heed to rumours. Ensuring the safety and efficacy of the vaccine is our priority. Different kinds of rumours were spread during polio immunisation but people took the vaccine and India is now polio-free," Vardhan said after reviewing the dry run at Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) hospital and Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) in Daryaganj in Delhi. Watch COVID-19 vaccine will be free across country: Harsh Vardhan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-vaccine-to-be-free-for-most-prioritised-beneficiaries-vardhan/articleshow/80077154.cms||Sushmi Dey
January 3, 2021||Goa||FC Goa can breathe easy in second leg of Indian Super League||Panaji: FC Goa will have time to breathe as they kickstart the second leg of the Indian Super League (ISL) with an intriguing clash against Jamshedpur FC at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda on January 14. Juan Ferrando’s boys play the last league clash of the first leg against SC East Bengal on Wednesday and will target full points that will take their tally to a decent 17. Knowing they may need a minimum of 30 points to qualify for the playoffs and having lost three games already, the League champions cannot afford more slip-ups. The clash against Jamshedpur will be an intriguing one. Jamshedpur had a legitimate goal disallowed against Goa, who struck back with a dramatic late winner from Spanish striker Igor Angulo. While Goa complained of having to play matches too quickly, without sufficient rest, in the first leg, they will have enough time to prepare in the second. Interestingly, the last two league clashes against Bengaluru FC and Hyderabad FC will both be played on Sundays at 5pm. Meanwhile, the second Kolkata derby in the Indian Super League between ATK Mohun Bagan and SC East Bengal will be played on February 19. According to the fixtures released by the organisers on Saturday, ATK Mohun Bagan will play Mumbai City FC in the concluding league clash on February 28. The schedule for playoffs and final will be announced later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fc-goa-can-breathe-easy-in-second-leg-of-indian-super-league/articleshow/80077572.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Goa||Mumbai City move to the top with 2-0 win over misfiring Kerala Blasters||The 12-day break seems to have done more good than harm for Mumbai City as they coasted to a 2-0 win over Kerala Blasters, a result that took them to the top of the Indian Super League (ISL) ladder. Coach Sergio Lobera had feared that the unusually long break could upset their momentum. But Adam Le Fondre’s third-minute penalty and a goal from Hugo Boumous in the eleventh was enough to reclaim the top spot. Mumbai now have 19 points from eight matches, two more than challengers ATK Mohun Bagan. Kerala are stuck at the bottom half of the table with just one win from their first eight matches. While Kerala were undone by poor defending – commentators even called it school-boy stuff – they could have still got something out of this game. Kibu Vicuna’s team were unrecognisable in the second half from the first, attacking in numbers and making life difficult for the rival defence, championed by Mourtada Fall. However, the lack of cutting edge upfront saw Sahal Abdul Samad miss twice from close range and Lalthathanga Khawlhring once. Mumbai are the strongest side in the league, at least on paper, and they don’t need New Year gifts on the field. They got an early one when Costa Nhamoinesu brought down Boumous inside the danger zone and Le Fondre converted the resultant penalty. It was a fortunate strike as goalkeeper Albino Gomes saw the ball slide through his legs. The ‘penalty specialist’, though, made amends in the second half when he stopped Boumous’ penalty, which he himself won after a contentious decision. Just three minutes earlier, Boumous was booked for simulation. It was Boumous, though, who provided Mumbai with an early cushion, striking the second goal in the 11th minute. Again, another gift. This time, it was Ahmed Jahouh who sprayed a ball from his own goal – measured at 74.6m – and Kerala just watched as last year’s Golden Ball winner made a run and slid the ball past the keeper. Kerala were a much better side after the change of ends. There were chances and Amrinder Singh even palmed an attempt from Vicente Gomez straight on to the crossbar. There was a ‘goal’ scored too from Jordan Murray, ruled offside, as Mumbai warmed up in style for their next two games – tough ones against Bengaluru FC (January 5) and ATK Mohun Bagan (January 11).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mumbai-city-move-to-the-top-of-isl-with-easy-win-over-kerala-blasters/articleshow/80077634.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
January 3, 2021||India||If demands not met, farmer unions threaten Delhi march on Jan 26||NEW DELHI: Delivering an ultimatum to the government ahead of next round of talks on January 4, the farmers' unions opposed to the central farm laws on Saturday said the farmers, stationed at Delhi borders, would be compelled to march into the Capital and hold 'Kisan Gantantra Diwas Parade' (Farmers Republic Day Parade) if their core demands of repeal of laws and legal guarantee to MSP are not met by January 26. Noting that they haven't even got in writing whatever the government had agreed to on their "minor demands" during the previous round of talks on December 30, they said their position was absolutely clear on their core demands and the time has come for "decisive action". The farmers will, however, not disrupt official parades or functions in any way and start their march, using tractors, trolleys or whatever vehicles they can get or on foot, only after the conclusion of the official parade at Rajpath. "We intend to be peaceful and we told the government long ago during our talks that it has only two options - either repeal the three central farm acts or use force on us to evict us. The time has come for decisive action here," said the union leaders at a joint press conference, held for the first time in the Capital ever since they gathered on borders around Delhi. The press conference was addressed by Balbir Singh Rajewal, Darshan Pal, Gurnam Singh Chadhuni, Ashok Dhawale, Jagjit Singh Dallewal, Abhimanyu Kohad and Yogendra Yadav on behalf of the unions' umbrella body, representing all 41 farmer leaders who attended the previous round of talks. "We appeal to farmers from adjoining areas of national capital to be prepared and request every farmer family of the country to send at least a member to Delhi, if possible, to participate in the 'Kisan Gantantra Diwas Parade'," said Yogendra Yadav of Jai Kisan Andolan - the farm union which has been part of the group of 41 outfits, involved in discussion with the government over farmers' demands. Though Yadav himself did not attend talks with the government, he is one of seven members of the coordination committee of the unions. Since different related matters on farmers' protests and farm laws will come up for hearing in the Supreme Court on January 5, the farmers' unions will begin their next phase of ongoing protest from January 6, comprising multiple programmes in "absolutely peaceful" manner in different parts of the country. "We have chosen January 26 because the Republic Day represents the supremacy of the people and also because we would have demonstrated patiently and peacefully at Delhi's borders for two full months in extreme weather conditions by then our resolve to get our demands met", the union leaders said. On the government's appeal to them for an "alternative to repeal of farm laws", farmer leader Jagjit Singh Dallewal said, "We have no alternative and if the government does not meet our demand by January 26, we will be left with no option other than to start marching peacefully into Delhi by crossing the borders." Explaining their demand of legal guarantee to MSP, another farmer leader, Gurnam Singh Chadhuni, said, "The government has refused to agree, even 'in principle', to our demand for legal right to purchase at MSP." He said the government had a deep pocket for corporates and others, but not for farmers. The farmer leaders have, however, so far, not sought any permission for their march on January 26. Darshan Pal of Krantikari Kisan Union said the permission would be sought in due course, insisting that whatever farmers intend to do will be done in a peaceful manner and there would be no disruption of official functions. On the outcome of December 30 talks, Avik Saha, national convenor of Jai Kisan Andolan and general secretary of the farm groups' umbrella body, AIKSCC, said, "We have not even received in writing what the government agreed in the previous meeting. I urge the government to come out with a statement, putting it out on record what it has agreed to and how it intends to implement whatever it has agreed to." Ahead of their plan to hold 'Kisan Gantantra Diwas Parade' on January 26, the unions would organise a fortnight of nation-wide campaign - called "Desh Jagriti Abhiyan" - during January 6-20 period when they will hold rallies, conferences and 'dharnas'. As announced at Singhu Border on Friday, the farmers will march on KMP Expressway on January 6 and subsequently move towards Delhi border from Shahjahanpur if the talks on January 4 fail to deliver any result. On Lohri on January 13, they will observe 'Kisan Sankalp Diwas' by burning the copies of the three farm laws. They will observe January 18 as 'Mahila Kisan Diwas' to underline the role of women farmers. Besides, Azad Hind Kisan Diwas will be marked on Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose's birth anniversary on January 23 by protesting outside governors' official residence in all state capitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/if-demands-not-met-farmer-unions-threaten-delhi-march-on-jan-26/articleshow/80077637.cms||---
January 3, 2021||India||Operation to rescue hostage reveals 200m-long India-Bangladesh tunnel||SILCHAR: Assam Police have found a 200-metre-long tunnel connecting India and Bangladesh in Karimganj while rescuing a man who was abducted from there, SP Mayank Kumar said on Friday. Cops believe the tunnel is used for international smuggling or abduction. Police unearthed the tunnel while rescuing Dilwar Hossain who was abducted on December 28. The abductors had called his family demanding a ransom of Rs 5 lakh. READ: Three arrested in abduction of Karimganj man to BangladeshAfter returning, Dilwar informed cops about the tunnel and on Friday, a special team conducted a search operation in Balia area. Kumar said the tunnel is hidden deep inside a forest with a barbed fence over it. Dilwar said the tunnel leads to Sylhet in Bangladesh and miscreants use it regularly to smuggle goods or take abducted people to the other side. "BSF has already been asked to close the Indian side of the tunnel," SP Kumar said. According to Dilawar, there are around 63 “natural gaps” along an approximately 92km-long border in Karimganj. Infiltration is rampant through these places as there are 22 unfenced patches. In May 2018, a similar tunnel was found at Madanpur in Karimganj district which was used for cattle smuggling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/operation-to-rescue-hostage-reveals-200m-long-india-bangladesh-tunnel/articleshow/80078052.cms||BB Goswami
January 3, 2021||India||US data firm gives PM strong ratings for handling Covid-19||NEW DELHI: BJP on Saturday celebrated US-based data firm Morning Consult's strong approval of Narendra Modi's handling of the coronavirus pandemic, saying it is testament to the PM's handling of the crisis. Information & broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar emphasised that the PM's approval rating of 55% was the highest among leaders of 13 democracies surveyed by the US data firm. "The PM has broken all records of popularity at a global level and has given dynamic and decisive leadership," Javadekar told a presser at the party headquarters. While the popularity of leaders fluctuates, the PM's popularity continues to grow in defiance of the pattern, he said. "BJP is delighted over this achievement and greets PM Modi for raising the honour and stature of India at the global level. Modiji is a visionary leader who always thinks and works for making the future of India bright and progressive. He has a definitive vision for India for which he makes programmes and policies and then works tirelessly to make it successful," he said. The release of Morning Consult's findings coincided with emergency-use authorisation of Covidshield vaccine to be produced by Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and finalisation of the rollout plan for the first phase of vaccination. BJP sources said the strong endorsement is reassuring because of the "baseless" allegations Congress's Rahul Gandhi and others in opposition and "prejudiced experts" have levelled against the PM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/us-data-firm-gives-pm-strong-ratings-for-handling-covid-19/articleshow/80078095.cms||---
January 3, 2021||India||Pvt cos, PSUs may get access to govt's crime database, for a fee||NEW DELHI: Private companies may soon get to check for any criminal antecedents of a prospective employee by getting access to the Crime and Criminals Tracking Network Systems (CCTNS), a centralised repository of criminal records across the country's digitally-interlinked police stations. The 'employees verification' facility may entail a fee, it is learnt. Though some experts are likely to raise data privacy issues and point to the possibility of 'discrimination' in hiring, a former IPS officer, who had been associated with the CCTNS initiative, said that letting private companies, PSUs and government departments access "public documents" like FIRs would not entail any legal complications. As far as not hiring an applicant on finding a criminal record is concerned, it will depend on the company's policy and would be the same even with a traditional police verification, the former officer added. When reached, home ministry officials did not confirm or deny the move. According to the home ministry website that lists the citizen services offered by CCTNS, "Citizens/Institutions/Companies can also seek antecedent verification of prospective employees (including for domestic help, drivers, teachers, security guards etc.), tenants or for any other purpose. Citizens can also seek certification of their own antecedents. Government departments can also verify the character and antecedents of employees at the time recruitment in CCTNS data." Minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy had recently said that out of the total of 16,098 police stations in the country, CCTNS software was being used in over 95% of them. In March last year, privacy concerns were raised after the home ministry informed the Rajya Sabha that National Crime Records Bureau had been authorised to use automated facial recognition system (AFRS) for identification of criminals, unclaimed bodies and missing persons. NCRB plans to integrate AFRS with CCTNS. The ministry, however, insisted that this shall not violate privacy, as AFRS will can be accessed only by the law enforcement agencies. Watch Pvt cos, PSUs may get access to govt's crime database for employee verification||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pvt-cos-psus-may-get-access-to-govts-crime-database-for-a-fee/articleshow/80078171.cms||---
January 3, 2021||India||In a 1st, NIV-Pune isolates, cultures Covid's UK variant||NEW DELHI: In a first, Pune's National Institute of Virology (NIV) has isolated and cultured the new UK variant of SARS-CoV2, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Saturday underlining that no other country has so far reported isolation and culture of the latest UK strain. "UK-variant of the virus, with all signature changes, is now successfully isolated and cultured at National Institute of Virology (NIV) from the clinical specimens collected from UK-returnees," ICMR said. Read Also20 ministries, 23 depts to play big roles in Covid vaccine roll-outIn its SOP, the health ministry has mentioned that coordination mechanisms at the national, state, district and block levels have already been defined. At least four departments - urban development, revenue, PWD, public health engineering - have been told to help with the identification of CovidVero-cell lines were used by the scientists of ICMR-NIV to culture the UK-variant of the virus, it added. Isolation of the virus is the first step towards expediting development of drugs, vaccines and rapid diagnostic kits in the country. Follow TOI's live blog for latest updates on CoronavirusSARS-CoV-2, the virus causing Covid-19, was being tracked through countrywide network of ICMR laboratories since early days of the pandemic in India. India has reported at least 29 cases of the new coronavirus variants. While the new variant has higher transmissibility, it has prompted comprehensive contact-tracing for co-travellers, family members and others of those who have travelled to the UK in the last 38 days. From November 25 to December 23, 2020, midnight, about 33,000 passengers disembarked at various Indian airports from the UK. All these passengers are being tracked and subjected by states to RT-PCR tests to detect Covid-19. Apart from India, the presence of the new strain of the mutant virus has already been reported by Denmark, Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-a-1st-niv-pune-isolates-cultures-covids-uk-variant/articleshow/80078249.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Kochi||Willingdon Island-Bolgatty Ro-Ro service to start soon||Kochi: A new Ro-Ro service connecting Willingdon Island and Bolgatty is expected to start within a few days. Kerala State Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC) will be managing the vessels, which will be transporting container-laden trucks in the first phase. Later on, other vehicles also will be transported. Though the service was expected to be started on November 1, 2020, it had to be rescheduled due to technical reasons. “There was a clearance issue. The height of some of the trailers carrying containers required more clearance. So, the vessels were taken back to Cochin Shipyard Ltd (CSL) where they were built. After alterations, the CSL has returned the vessels,” an official with KSINC said. The vessels — M V Adisankara and M V Raman — were constructed at a cost of Rs 15 crore. “Of the two vessels, only one will be plied at first. So, we require berthing lot for the other vessel. We have approached Cochin Port Trust (CPT) authorities for the purpose,” a KSINC official said. “The second vessel also will start services once the operations of the first one is streamlined,” the official said. Once the service is started, the trucks transporting containers to the southern parts of the state from the International Container Trans-shipment Terminal at Vallarpadam can use the shortcut without entering the busy city roads. This will reduce the travel time and cost as well as decrease traffic congestion in the city. Meanwhile, there has been demand for extending the timings of the Ro-Ro services, which are already plying in the Fort Kochi-Vypeen sector. Vypeen Janakeeya Koottayma (a forum of residents in Vypeen) has demanded to extend the services to 24X7. “As of now, the services would start at 6am and end at 10pm. There should be two vessels plying from 6am to 10pm. One vessel should ply from 10pm to 6am,” said Vypeen Janakeeya Koottayma chairman Majnu Komath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/willingdon-island-bolgatty-ro-ro-service-to-start-soon/articleshow/80076022.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
January 3, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Railways extends run of 23 pairs of special trains||PATNA: The railways has extended the run of 23 pairs of special trains either originating from or passing through different places falling under the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR) till January and February to cope with the huge rush of passengers. Only people having confirmed tickets will be allowed to enter the station premises. According to ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, the Dhanbad-Patna (03329/03330), Muzaffarpur-Howrah (05271/05272) and Patna-Ranchi (02363/02364) specials have been extended till January 3. “The Rajendra Nagar Terminal-Ajmer (02395/02396) and Darbhanga-Mysore (02577/02578) weekly specials have been extended till January 29,” the CPRO said, adding that the train will leave Darbhanga every Tuesday and Mysore every Friday. Similarly, the Muzaffarpur-Ahmedabad weekly special (05269/05270) will run till January 30. The Barauni-Ernakulam (02521/02522), Darbhanga-Jalandhar City (05251/05252), Jaynagar-Udhna (05563/05564), Darbhanga-Amritsar (05211/05212) weekly specials and Gaya-New Delhi (02397/02398) and Patna-Jammu Tawi (02355/02356) biweekly specials will run till January 31. Meanwhile, the Patliputra-Chandigarh biweekly special (03255/03256) and Saharsa-Amritsar (05531/05532), Udaipur-New Jalpaiguri (09601/09602) and Patliputra-Yeswanthpur (03251/03252) weekly specials will run till February 1. “The Rajendra Nagar Terminal-Durg (03287/03288), Raxaul-Mumbai Lokmanya Tilak (05267/05268), Rajendra Nagar Terminal-Howrah (02352/02353) specials and Patna-Mumbai CST biweekly special (03259/03260) will run till February 2,” Kumar said, adding that the service of the Saharsa-Anand Vihar weekly special (05529/05530) has been extended till February 28. Likewise, the Tata-Chhapra special (08181/08182) will run till March 31. “The train will leave Jamshedpur every Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday and Chhapra every Wednesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/railways-extends-run-of-23-pairs-of-special-trains/articleshow/80075779.cms||Kumod Verma
January 3, 2021||Patna||Students, schools welcome delay in CBSE exams||PATNA: Students and schools have started preparations for the CBSE Class X and XII board examinations slated to be held from May 4 to June 10, as announced by Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal on Thursday. International School directress Farhat Hasan said, “The schedule will help us with adequate time to prepare the students for the exams. It will also give us the required time to conduct physical examination for students to give them a better understanding of the process.” Stuck in one of the most tumultuous years for education, the students feel grateful for the respite as the exams are slightly delayed. Ananth Sharma, a Class X student of Delhi Public School, said: “The date extension will help us in proper preparation and revision of the syllabus.” Rishika Singh, a student of Loyola High School, said: “Due to the pandemic, our academic session commenced late. So, the delay is welcome.” As the Covid-19 pandemic presented new challenges to educational facilities, the education system shifted to online classroom mode with the help of teachers. Although beneficial, it was not accessible to students residing in ‘poor internet network’ areas. “We cannot undo what has happened the previous year, but the coming three months are crucial for the students. Curtailed syllabus coupled with reopening of regular physical classes will be beneficial for students,” said Sharat Kumar Singh, principal, Litera Valley School. Aadarsh Kumar Singh, a student at the Tribhuvan School, said: “I am preparing for the board exams with a well-planned approach, tackling subjects according to difficulty level and weightage given in the exams.” Schools affiliated with Council For The Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) are, however, still waiting for the exam dates for their Class X and XII examinations. “We are still in the dark regarding the exam dates, but are planning our routine according to the tentative schedule,” said Shanya Singh, a student at Carmel High School. Abhishek Patrick, assistant director of Jesus and Mary Academy, said, “We have been asked to submit the practical and internal assessment marks by January 31 to the board. As for the exams, we are almost done with the syllabus through the online mode of classes and special physical doubt classes conducted from November onwards.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/students-schools-welcome-delay-in-cbse-exams/articleshow/80075630.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Patna||Bihar yet to trace 44 UK returnees||PATNA: The state is yet to trace 44 passengers, who had returned from the United Kingdom recently. The health department has a record of 246 returnees, of whom 202 have been identified and 135 have tested negative for Covid-19. Officials are finding it difficult to identify the remaining passengers because many of them have not entered Bihar after returning to India. Some even have vague addresses. Meanwhile, Bihar reported 397 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 2,53,652. With three deaths in Gaya, Arwal and Bhagalpur, the toll reached 1,403. However, with 2,47,579 recoveries, there are 4,668 active cases in the state. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) registered two deaths — those of a 70-year-old from Danapur and a 65-year-old from Jehanabad. While 13 patients from localities like Rajendra Nagar, Ashiana Nagar, Kankarbagh, Raghunath Path and Anandpuri were admitted to the hospital, eight people, including HAM (S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi, were discharged on Saturday. AIIMS-P’s nodal officer for Covid, Dr Sanjeev, told TOI that Manjhi was in the hospital for two weeks and had not shown much improvement initially. Patna accounted for 219 of the 397 new Covid-19 cases. Fresh cases were also registered in other districts like Nawada (23), Muzaffarpur (17), Begusarai (16), Nalanda (16), Kaimur (14) and Saran (10). According to a tweet of health minister Mangal Pandey, 490 people recovered from corona in 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery rate to 97.61%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-yet-to-trace-44-uk-returnees/articleshow/80075607.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Patna||Locals clash with sanitation workers over trash removal||DARBHANGA: The residents of Bela Mohalla under the Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU) police station area clashed with sanitation workers of the Darbhanga Municipal Corporation on Saturday over the accumulation of a pile of garbage in front of a house. Police had to intervene into the matter to bring the situation under control. According to LNMU police station SHO Satya Prakash Jha, an FIR has been lodged against the sanitation workers and investigation is underway. Darbhanga municipal commissioner Manesh Kumar Meena told this newspaper that an inquiry committee would conduct a probe into the matter and take action against the employees found “guilty”. Sources claimed that a ‘shradh’ feast had been organised in the locality on Friday night, following which a spat occurred between the sanitation workers and the locals over the removal of garbage on Saturday morning. Later the workers fled from the spot with their garbage collection vehicles and the residents blocked the road near the Durga temple in the locality. The blockade was lifted after the intervention of police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/locals-clash-with-sanitation-workers-over-trash-removal/articleshow/80075785.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Patna||Patna airport may operate 4 flights every hour||PATNA: In an attempt to reduce congestion, the Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport has come up with a plan to operate only four flights per hour. All the airlines have, therefore, been asked to pick their time slots accordingly. A suggestion in this regard was made at a meeting attended by the officials of the Airports Authority of India, different airlines and Central Industrial Security Force on Friday evening. According to airport director Bhupesh C H Negi, the step will manage the flow of passengers inside and outside the terminal building in the long run. “There is no scope for further expansion of the existing terminal building as the work on redevelopment of the airport is in full swing,” Negi told this newspaper on Saturday. At present, the airport, whose peak hour passenger handling capacity is 1,400, operates 42 flights from 7.45am to 9.50pm under its winter schedule. The number of flights will, however, increase from January 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-airport-may-operate-4-flights-every-hour/articleshow/80075589.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 3, 2021||Patna||Post-corona clinic opens at Patna hospital||PATNA: Four super speciality clinics were inaugurated at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) on Saturday, including one dedicated to post-Covid treatment. The other three are liver, kidney and cornea clinics. IGIMS superintendent Dr Manish Mandal said the clinic for post-Covid-19 treatment was first of its kind in Bihar. “Even after recovering from Covid-19, people suffer from weakness, lung problems, cardio problems, vertigo and stress. These people had to run from one place to another for treatment. Hence we decided to come up with such a health facility so that all their problems are addressed under one roof,” Dr Mandal said. “In the post-Covid clinic, there will be experts of general medicine, pulmonary medicine, neuro medicine, cardiology department and physiotherapy department, which can be accessed with a registration fee of Rs 50,” he added. Dr Mandal said nearly 40% of people who had recovered from Covid-19 required post-recovery treatment. IGIMS director Dr NR Biswas inaugurated the post-Covid-19 treatment clinic. Dr Biswas had earlier contracted the virus and also suffered from post-Covid symptoms. He was the first patient at this clinic. He said he too was suffering from various health issues and felt patients like him had to wander from one place to another for treatment. In another development, the body 69-year-old Bhagya Chandra Jain was donated to the IGIMS on Saturday. Hospital administration appreciated the efforts of Dadhichi Deh Dan Samiti for this donation. Jain, a resident of SP Verma Road had taken the pledge to donate his body. The hospital administration appreciated the cooperation of Jain’s family members, including his wife Manju Jain, daughter Kavita Jain and son-in-law Sanjay Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/post-covid-treatment-clinic-opens-at-igims/articleshow/80075602.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 3, 2021||Patna||Man beaten to death for bike seizure in Bihar||PATNA: A villager was beaten to death for protesting suspicious activities of his panchayat mukhiya’s grandson near his cousin’s house and getting his bike seized by police at Deotha under Pasraha police station area in Khagaria district on Friday night. The deceased was identified as Gado Baitha (50). Police said Deotha panchayat mukhiya Chattri Sharma and his seven other associates had been named in the FIR lodged by Gado’s wife. All the accused were evading arrest. Village sources said Chattri’s grandson with another person reached near Gado’s cousin Kare Baitha’s residence at around midnight on Thursday. “Kare, after hearing some noise, came out and spotted the mukhiya’s bike parked there. The mukhiya’s grandson with another person fled from the spot when Kare tried to stop him,” a villager said. He said Kare called chowkidar and got the bike seized and taken to the police station. He said the mukhiya is presently associated with JD(U), but earlier he was with RJD. When contacted, Gado’s elder brother Lakhu Baitha told TOI over the phone that the mukhiya along with 50 other supporters reached Kare’s residence Friday night and started thrashing him for daring to get his bike seized by the police and protesting against his grandson. “Gado also reached there and he was also thrashed which resulted in his death. All the accused fled away,” he said. Pasraha police station SHO Amlesh Kumar said raids were on to nab the mukhiya and his supporters. “Gado’s wife has not mentioned any reason behinds his killing,” he said. Kumar said the body was handed over to family members after postmortem on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-beaten-to-death-for-bike-seizure/articleshow/80075802.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Patna||Sub-inspector booked in DA case in Bihar's Purnia||PATNA: A case has been registered against sub-inspector of police (SI) posted in Purnia for amassing properties worth around of Rs40 lakh disproportionate to his known source of income in a short tenure of 11 years of service. The disproportionate asset (DA) case was registered against SI Madan Kumar with Khajanchi Hat police station by additional SP Bambam Chaudhary on Friday. Additional SP Hari Mohan Shukla has been made the investigating officer of the case, Khajanchi Hat police station SHO Sunil Kumar Mandal said. Police sources said this has set a new trend as DA cases were either registered by vigilance investigation bureau or special vigilance unit of state government with their exclusive police stations in Patna. Police sources said the case was lodged on the direction of former Purnia IG Ratan Sanjay Katiyar a day before his transfer as IG (modernization) in Patna on Thursday. Madan, a 2009-batch SI, hails from Naugachia in Bhagalpur. Sources said Madan came on Katiyar’s radar after it surfaced that while posted as Maranga police outpost incharge, Madan had turned an incident of house dacoity into a simple theft case. He was suspended in November last year. “Jewellery worth around Rs11 lakh owned by him was not mentioned in the income tax return filed last year,” a senior police officer said, preferring anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sub-inspector-booked-in-da-case-in-purnia/articleshow/80075815.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 3, 2021||Patna||Get famous ‘tilkut’ of Gaya by post anywhere in Bihar||GAYA: People from any corner of the state will now be able to have a taste of the delicious ‘tilkut’ of Gaya. The postal department has started delivering Gaya’s tilkut across the state ahead of Makar Sankranti festival. Sources said more than 1500kg of tilkut have already been sold from the counter of post offices in different districts of the state in the last 14 days. Senior superintendent of post offices in Gaya division, Ranjay Kumar Singh said, “We have made an agreement with a sweetshop in Gaya. On the first day when Gaya division of India Post started the scheme on December 20 last year, we sent 340kg of tilkut from here. The half kilogram packets of tilkut are sent to Patna GPO by road. From there, the packets are sent to different districts, according to the demand. There is a very good demand of the product across the state, especially in north Bihar districts.” He added: “Made from sugar, a 1/2kg packet is being sold for Rs180. The 1/2kg tilkut of gur (jaggery) is available at Rs185. This includes postal charge. There is no limit in terms of quantity for the order. But it is not for business purpose.” Ranjay said WhatsApp numbers have been issued in every district for placing the order for tilkuts. Gaya District Tilkut Vyawsayi Sangh president Laljee Prasad said: “Tilkut has special significance on the occasion of Makar Sankranti and Gaya is famous for this sweet. Crisp and quality tilkut is supplied to different parts of the country from here. Tilkut is prepared in December and January from gingili (til) and sugar or gur. It is known as tilkutam in Chennai, gajak in Mumbai, Uttar Pradesh Delhi and Kolkata and tilpatti in Rajasthan. But the quality of tilkut made in Gaya is the best.” He added: “At present, more than 5,000 persons are engaged in making tilkut in Gaya district. Ramna Road and Tekari Road in Gaya town, Dangra in Mohanpur block and Tekari are famous for it. Tilkut is sent to Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi from here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/get-famous-tilkut-of-gaya-by-post-anywhere-in-bihar/articleshow/80075795.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Private hospital Covid-bed occupancy dips to lowest since March as non-Covid demand surges||KOLKATA: Occupancy of Covid beds has dropped to less than 40% across Kolkata’s leading private hospitals — the lowest since the pandemic began in March. At some hospitals, Covid occupancy has dropped to as low as 30% and Covid beds are being converted and used for non-Covid treatment — that has seen a huge spurt in demand. Most say this will continue unless there is a sudden spike in cases that warrants re-conversion. At Peerless Hospital, which still has 150 designated beds, there were just 57 Covid patients on Saturday. Till November, Peerless didn’t even have Covid-bed vacancies. “The patient flow has dropped steadily over the last month and is at its lowest now. By next week, we will reduce 50 beds and if the trend continues, we will shrink the unit further,” said CEO Sudipta Mitra. Occupancy has dropped to 30% at Medica Superspecialty Hospital, which has seen a huge rise in demand for non-Covid beds and treatment. Out of its 200 designated beds, just 60 are occupied. Till a week ago, Medica had a 220-bed Covid unit which was shrunk by 20 beds. At the height of the pandemic, between June and October, the hospital had 100% occupancy and a long waiting list. “We are waiting for a further reduction in numbers to reduce more beds,” said Medica chairperson Alok Roy. AMRI Hospitals have 110 Covid patients across its three units at Dhakuria, Salt Lake and Mukundapur, which have a total of 180 beds now. It has been reduced in phases from 275 beds. “We will reduce it further if the number drops. In case there’s a surge, we can reconvert these beds,” said CEO Rupak Barua. The drop in the number of Covid patients has come at a time when non-Covid treatment has seen a manifold increase in demand. Most hospitals are still struggling to accommodate non-Covid patients. “The shrinking of Covid units will let us serve the rest. There is a pent-up demand for surgeries and treatment of chronic ailments that were initially deferred due to the lockdown and then due to the fear of transmission. Now, we have a deluge of non-Covid patients, many of whom require urgent attention and care,” said Mitra. Covid occupancy has come down to 35%-40% at RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) while the non-Covid patient flow is back to pre-Covid numbers, said zonal director R Venkatesh. “We have begun accommodating non-Covid patients in the designated beds ensuring proper demarcation between the two. We have not reverted any infrastructural changes, however, so that in case of a case surge, we can quickly take Covid patients. As of now, we have only 47 occupied Covid beds against the 130 available,” said Venkatesh. At Belle Vue Clinic, only 69 of the 120 Covid beds are occupied. The hospital has reduced 50 beds over the last three weeks and plans to reduce 13 more next week. “Non-Covid treatment is back to normal and we have regular surgeries and outpatient consultations. We need more beds and room for non-Covid services now,” said CEO P Tondon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pvt-hosp-cov-bed-occupancy-dips-to-lowest-since-march-as-non-covid-demand-surges/articleshow/80076510.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
January 3, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata-London flight off radar, flyers to transit Delhi, Mumbai||KOLKATA: The weekly flight between London and Kolkata is not in the limited number of flights that have been allowed to operate between the UK and India from January 8 to January 23. The ministry of civil aviation on Saturday announced the list of 15 flights a week between airports in India and those in the UK. While Delhi has a daily flight, Mumbai has six and Bengaluru two. Telephones at the Air India office in Kolkata kept ringing on Saturday as anxious passengers booked to travel on the direct weekly flights between Kolkata and London enquired when they would be able to fly. The flurry of calls was triggered by an earlier MoCA notification on Friday evening announcing regulated resumption of flights between the two countries from January 8. “We have received hundreds of calls since the morning from passengers seeking clarification on their travel. We are assuring everyone that there is no need to panic. Since they are booked on AI, the airline will ensure that they reach the destination, be it passengers set to travel to London or arrive here,” an AI official said. Among the callers was Lalit Tejwani, whose son Vikram was originally scheduled to travel on Sunday. “There is no clarity at this point on when Vikram will be able to fly. We hope the airline will make some arrangement via another city,” said Tejwani. Vikram has completed four years in Leeds university and has to return after the Christmas break for the fifth year. The direct flight between Heathrow and Kolkata had last operated on December 20, 2020, before India announced a ban from Christmas day till December 31 to control the more contagious UK strain of the novel coronavirus. The ban was later extended to January 7, 2021. With no flights scheduled to operate between Kolkata and London this month, it entails cancellation of four flights. According to the airline, the flights were filled to capacity on the Kolkata-London sector while those on the London-Kolkata sector also had around 60% load. “Flights on December 27, January 3, 10 and 17 had 200-plus bookings each. They will now have to be booked via Delhi, Mumbai or Bengaluru. The task will be challenging, but we will get it done,” the airline official said, adding that a similar routing will be carried out for passengers booked on flights from Heathrow to Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-london-flight-off-radar-flyers-to-transit-del-mum/articleshow/80076523.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Metro likely to do away with e-passes by middle of month||KOLKATA: Metro Railway is likely to do away with e-passes from mid-January, when the contract with the developer of the technology behind the e-pass ends. The colour-coded e-passes, generated from a URL and booked in advance to access the north-south line, were key to controlling crowd when Metro resumed services after a 176-day Covid-induced lockdown on September 14. The state had appointed Ideation Technology, a technology partner with the state transport department, on a three month’s contract. When the contract ended in December, transport department officials met with Sanjay Chatterjee, who heads Ideation Technology, to extend the contract for another month. State officials said since the use of e-passes has now been minimized to only two hours each in the morning and evening, Metro Railway may be asked to take a call on whether the contract should be terminated. Metro Railway’s GM Manoj Joshi said, “The Covid situation in the state is improving. We probably won’t need to increase the e-passes beyond the contract period. We can take the final call after assessing the circumstances next week.” Joshi explained that Metro is currently getting just about 25% of its pre-pandemic rider count. “The trend shows that we can stop the e-pass system now. But we don’t want to take hasty decisions,” he said. Metro has always exempted weekends from the purview of e-passes. Before March 22, Metro registered a 5 lakh footfall on Saturdays. Now, even without e-passes, there are only around 1.2 lakh travelling on Saturdays. Similarly, only 47,000 ride on Sundays. To handle extra passengers who might be encouraged to travel during the e-pass-free hours on Monday, 12 more services will be added, taking the total number to 228.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-likely-to-do-away-with-e-passes-by-middle-of-month/articleshow/80076556.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
January 3, 2021||Patna||7 IPS officers to superannuate||PATNA: Altogether seven IPS officers, including incumbent director general of police (DGP) Sanjeev Kumar Singhal, are retiring from service this year. One of the IPS officers likely to superannuate by the end of the year is currently on central deputation. According to information available on the state home department’s website, three IPS officers each in DG rank and DIG rank and one of SP rank will retire from service in 2021. Out of the seven, three are direct recruits in the IPS. While DGP Singhal is retiring from service on August 31, Dinesh Singh Bist, currently posted as DG, Bihar State Sports Authority, will superannuate on November 30. Kumar Rajesh Chandra, who is on central deputation, is retiring on December 31. The three DIGs likely to retire from service are Shankar Jha, Shiv Kumar Jha and Ashok Kumar, all promoted to IPS from Bihar Police Service (BPS) under state quota. Shankar Jha, who is posted as DIG, vigilance investigation bureau, will superannuate on July 31. Similarly, Shiv Kumar Jha, who is posted as DIG in EOU, will retire from service on March 31 and Ashok Kumar, DIG, Security, on June 30. Dheeraj Kumar, who is holding the post of commandant of BMP-4 stationed at Dumraon in Buxar district, is likely to superannuate on November 30. The cadre strength of the IPS officers in the state is 242. Before revision of the cadre strength by the Centre a few years ago, the total strength of the IPS officers in Bihar was 231 only. In all, 19 IPS officers — four in DG rank, five in ADG rank, six in IG rank and two each in DIG and SP ranks — are at present serving with different central police organizations. S Raveendran returned from central deputation recently and was posted as additional director general in the antiterrorism squad (ATS) of the state police on December 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/7-ips-officers-to-superannuate/articleshow/80075768.cms||Ramashankar
January 3, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Now, get more questions in Matric and Inter exams||PATNA: In a bid to reduce the burden on students amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) will increase the number of questions in the examinations of classes X and XII this year. The decision has been taken in view of the closure of schools that forced children to stay home for a large part of the academic year. “The question papers have been redesigned to help the Matriculation and Intermediate students fetch good marks. They will have to attempt only 50% of the total questions from each section, including objective, short and long ones,” A BSEB official told this newspaper on Saturday evening. The BSEB has already uploaded the model question papers to www.biharboardonline.bihar.gov.in. Hailing the move, principal of Bankipore Girls’ High School, Meena Kumari, said the relaxation would help students score well. “Covid-19 disrupted the entire academic year. The model papers have, therefore, been uploaded to the official website of the BSEB,” she added. Although doubt-clearance sessions are being organized for the students of classes IX to XII since September, regular classes will resume from January 4. Principal of Bapu Smarak Mahila Ucch Vidyalay, Meenakshi Jha, said once the schools reopened, teachers would help the students get used to the new question pattern. Class XII exams from Feb 1: The practical exams of classes XII and X will be conducted from January 9 to 18 and January 20 to 22 respectively. The Inter examinations will begin on February 1 with physics, political science and Hindi papers and conclude on February 13. Nearly 13 lakh students will take the exams. The Matric exams will begin with the science paper on February 17 and end on February 24. Over 15 lakh candidates will write the Class X exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/now-get-more-questions-in-matric-and-inter-exams/articleshow/80075616.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 3, 2021||Patna||Bihar conducts Covid-19 vaccine dry run in 3 districts||PATNA: The state health department successfully conducted the dry run of Covid-19 vaccination programme in three districts of Bihar on Saturday. Health minister Mangal Pandey said the state was ready for immunization process and the database of government healthcare workers were stored, while the private ones had been told to submit the list. “All the preparations have been done now. Vaccination can begin any day in Bihar after getting the Centre’s nod. Vaccine will be administered as per its availability from the Centre. First shots will be given to healthcare workers and a database of government health workers has been prepared, while the private ones have been told to submit the list,” Pandey said. The dry run of vaccine in Bihar was conducted at three session sites each in Patna, West Champaran and Jamui districts. Pandey visited Phulwarisharif community health centre and Danapur sub-divisional hospital to inspect the dry run process. Health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit, who was monitoring the dry run at Danapur said, “It has been successfully done and we are eagerly waiting for the vaccine. Dry run was to see the preparation and find out any hiccups. It was absolutely fine,” he said. He even denied media reports that there was some confusion in the names of beneficiaries who had to be given the dummy shot at Phulwarisharif PHC. Patna district magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh, who was also present at Danapur subdivisional hospital, said, “Everything was done smoothly. At each of the three session sites, 25 healthcare workers were administered the demo shot. Now we are confident of carrying out the vaccination process. ” Singh said once the vaccine is available, healthcare workers will be given the shot in the first round of the first phase, followed by frontline workers, who include urban local body employees, cops and other government staff who come in the direct contact of common people. In the third round those above 50 will be administered the shots. Singh further said while the healthcare workers will be vaccinated at their own health institutes where they are deployed, outreach session sites will be created for those selected in the second and third rounds. In Jamui, three session sites were created at government schools, said Dharmendra Kumar, who was the DM before his transfer late Thursday night. However, he was in the district on Saturday morning. Dharmendra said the entire process was conducted smoothly. In West Champaran, the dry run was conducted at Bettiah urban primary health centre, Chanpatia primary health centre (PHC) and Majhaulia PHC. DM Kundan Kumar, who was present at Bettiah UPHC, said, “It was successfully conducted and the database had been properly uploaded online. The civil surgeon has been instructed to ensure the real vaccination process is also smooth.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-conducts-covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-in-3-districts/articleshow/80075599.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 3, 2021||Patna||Land acquisition for Patna Metro depot to begin soon||PATNA: The process of land acquisition for the Patna Metro depot near Patliputra ISBT at Mauza Pahadi on Patna- Gaya Road would begin soon. The Patna Metro Rail Corporation (PMRC) has identified a 76-acre plot and its social impact assessment would start within a week. District land acquisition officer, Pankaj Patel told this newspaper on Saturday that the land acquisition process would be completed at the earliest. “The PMRC needed 76 acres in Pahadi and Ranipur area. Once the social impact assessment is done, which will take around 45-days, we will start the process,” Patel said. He added, “As per the Land Revenue Act 2013, the state government would provide funds to the owner of land Pahari area and Ranipur area.” The depot will consist of two workshop bays with provision for two in the future, two inspection bays with provision for two in the future, 8 stabling lines which can accommodate 32 three-coach trains, and auto-coach washing plant. The administrative area will consist of an auditorium, training school, canteen and operational control centre. Senior officials in the urban development and housing department said the construction work of ISBT rail depot would be complete before the priority corridor between New Patliputra ISBT and Malahi Pakri under the Corridor I. “As all activities would start from the depot, it would be developed on a priority basis. The construction work would complete within 18 months after the commencement of work. Earlier, two depots were proposed, however, due to some changes in metro alignment, the Aitwarpur depot was dropped. Now, both the corridors have one depot near ISBT,” the officials said. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) would invite companies for the construction of Patna Metro’s depot. The pre-bidding meet for the same is likely to be held on January 6. In the first phase, the 6.1- km stretch will come up, which include five elevated stations — New Patliputra ISBT, Zero Mile, Bhutnath, Khemnichak and Malahi Pakri. The Corridor I will be 17.9 km long from Danapur to Khemnichack via Meethapur, of which 7.3km will be elevated, and 10.5km underground. The Corridor II will be 14.5 km from Patna station to ISBT. Of which, 7.9km will be underground and 6.6km will be elevated. The Patna Metro is an ambitious project of the Nitish Kumar-led government, which would be developed at an estimated construction cost of Rs 9,201.22 crore (excluding land acquisition cost, which is to be borne by the state government). Twenty per cent of the project cost will be borne by the state government, 20% by the Centre and the remaining 60% will be borrowed from the Japan International Corporation Agency (JICA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/land-acquisition-for-patna-metro-depot-to-begin-soon/articleshow/80075772.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 3, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Chief secretary among 28 IAS officers to retire this year||PATNA: The state’s top three senior-most bureaucrats—chief secretary Deepak Kumar, development commissioner Arun Kumar Singh and chairman-cum-member the board of revenue Tripurari Sharan, are scheduled to retire in the next eight months. While the chief secretary, a 1984 batch IAS officer, is scheduled to retire on February 28, the second top bureaucrat the development commissioner (1985 batch) on August 31. Singh’s batch-mate Sharan is scheduled to hang up his boots on June 30. They are among 28 Bihar cadre IAS officers who are scheduled to retire in the current calendar year. Of the 28 officers, six are in the chief secretary rank, one in the secretary rank, 11 in the special secretary rank and the rest 10 in the joint secretary rank. The chief secretary completed 60 years, the age of retirement, on February 29 last year. But he was given two extensions of six months each by the Centre at the recommendation of the Nitish Kumar-led coalition government. He is now scheduled to retire on February 28 this year. Other three chief secretary-rank IAS officers who will be retiring in 2021 are Ravikant, currently posted as secretary, food and public distribution department in the Union ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution, Ravi Mittal, secretary, Union ministry of information and broadcasting and ELSN Bala Prasad, currently posted as special secretary to the President of India at the Rashtrapati Bhawan. While Ravikant (1984 batch) and Bala Prasad (1986) will be retiring on June 30, Mittal (1986) on September 30. The trio is currently posted in New Delhi on central deputation. Other prominent IAS officers who are currently serving in the state government and will be retiring in the next four months are divisional commissioner, Darbhanga, Radheshyam Sah (retirement date March 31), state’s cane commissioner Arshad Aziz (April 30), the urban development and housing department’s special secretary Abhay Raj (January 31), the home department’s special secretary Ishwar Chandra Sinha (February 28), the secretary, board of revenue Surendra Jha (February 28), the director statistics Rajeshwar Prasad Singh (January 31). Currently, altogether 200 IAS officers are on the state government’s rolls against a sanctioned strength of 342. “Of the 200 officers, 168 are working with the state government while the rest 32 are either on the central or inter-state deputation. Of the 168 IAS officers currently posted in the state, 12 (of 2019 batch) are under probation period,” a senior officer of the general administration department told TOI on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cs-among-28-ias-officers-to-retire-this-year/articleshow/80075748.cms||Madan Kumar
January 3, 2021||Patna||RJD continues to woo Nitish Kumar to return to GA||PATNA: The main opposition party, RJD, continued with its endeavour to woo chief minister Nitish Kumar to leave NDA and return to the Mahagathbandhan in the wake of severe jolt received by JD(U) at the hands of ally BJP in Arunachal Pradesh recently. A day after former CM Rabri Devi said the RJD top leadership may consider Nitish’s comeback, senior RJD leader Bhai Birendra told the media on Saturday that Nitish would sooner or later return to the Mahagathbandhan as he was being downsized by BJP. “Nitish Kumar hamare the aur aage bhi hamare rahenge (Nitish was with us in the past and will be with us in future also),” the RJD MLA from Maner said. He, however, didn’t reveal the party’s strategy to bring Nitish to the mahagathbandhan fold. When asked about the posters put up by the RJD in the state capital on Saturday, projecting BJP leaders cutting the chair in which Nitish is sitting, Birendra said it is happening with Nitish these days. “We feel deeply hurt the manner Nitish, a leader with socialist mindset, is being humiliated by the BJP. RJD will not hesitate in standing behind him when he finds himself in the political crisis,” he told this newspaper over phone. On Friday, Rabri had said Nitish’s writ no longer ran in the government he was heading and claimed that it was the BJP, which was calling the shots. “He (Nitish) should have thought carefully before taking oath as the CM again,” she had told the media. Surprisingly, former Union minister and RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha told a select group of mediapersons at Patna airport on Saturday that the RJD leaders were issuing such statements to insult the people’s mandate. “Janata ne Nitish Kumar ke paksh mein chunav mein mandate diya hai,” he said, adding the RJD leaders should refrain from daydreaming of coming to power. Reacting to the RJD leaders’ statements, JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said there was no confusion among the NDA partners and they (RJD leaders) were making such statements at Tejashwi Yadav’s behest. “Our alliance is intact and it would continue without any hassle,” he added. Taking a dig at RJD, senior BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member Sushil Kumar Modi tweeted, “The two political parties (read BJP and JDU) have worked together to take the state out of the ‘jungle raj’ and maintained the development rate in 10 digits. Electricity was provided to every house in villages and work started on agriculture road map.” SuMo further said new academic institutions were set up to boost higher education. “Now the NDA government is working on providing jobs to 20 lakh unemployed youths. Moreover, the industries department was working on implementing a single window system to boost industrial growth. But some people are issuing statements to derail the state from the development path,” SuMo tweeted. The RJD had earlier offered Nitish to make Tejashwi the CM and himself focus on being the prime ministerial candidate of the opposition in the 2024 parliamentary polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-continues-to-woo-nitish-to-return-to-ga/articleshow/80075773.cms||Ramashankar
January 3, 2021||Patna||One killed over land dispute in Bihar||PATNA: A man succumbed to his injuries on Saturday while his minor son is battling for life as they were allegedly thrashed by their neighbours for keeping cattle feeding trough near their house at village Balubigha under Town police station area in Arwal Friday night. Police said Vijay Singh (40) died during treatment at PMCH while his son Deepu Singh (14) is in a serious condition. Town police station SHO Shambhu Paswan said Rambhu Pandit, the neighbour of Vijay, is the prime accused in the case. “Rambhu and his associates fled from the village after committing the crime,” he said. Paswan said the neighbours had a fight after Vijay allegedly kept his round trough a few inches inside Rambhu’s land. “Their argument snowballed into a brawl. Rambhu gathered his supporters and thrashed Vijay with sticks and rods. They didn’t even spare his son, who tried to save his father. Both were rushed to Patna after initial treatment at Arwal,” the SHO said. Arwal SDPO Shashi Bhushan Singh said the cause of the brawl is old enmity over a small plot of government land measuring mere one decimal in front of their houses. “Vijay and Rambhu always tried to capture the plot for their personal use and kept cattle their. They had frequent quarrels, leading to Friday’s clash,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/one-killed-over-land-dispute/articleshow/80075810.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Patna||Man killed in group clash in Bihar, two arrested||PATNA: Two persons were arrested on Saturday for killing a man in a group clash over an old dispute at Chakmohammad under Bidupur police station area in Vaishali district on Friday night. At least half a dozen people were injured in the clash. Those arrested were identified as Sunil Rai and Praveen Rai, both in their 40s. Bidupur police station SHO Dhananjay Kumar said the deceased was identified as Rajendra Rai (50). He said the families of Rajendra and Sunil had also clashed around two years back. “That clash had taken place following a fight between the children of the two families during playtime in the village,” he said. Kumar said the Friday clash started with hurling abuses from both sides. “It led to a group clash in which stones, bricks, rods and sticks were used,” he said and added: Rajendra’s son Rajnish Kumar has lodged an FIR against 11 persons, including Sunil and Praveen. “Rajnish has also alleged that Sunil and his supporters fired several rounds in the air to terrorize them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-killed-in-group-clash-two-arrested/articleshow/80075821.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Kolkata||Active Covid cases at 6-month low in Kolkata, but fatalities still at 2.3%||KOLKATA: A higher discharge rate and fewer Covid deaths in the second half of 2020 have raised the city’s hopes. Kolkata’s active cases, now nearly at a six-month low, is at 2.1% of the 1.2 lakh cases the city has reported since March 17. The discharge rate has also scaled the 95% mark, but Covid fatalities remain at 2.3%. Kolkata reported 2,690 active cases on January 1. It had last reported fewer active cases on July 7, but on that day, when Kolkata had reported 2,552 active cases, its total Covid case count was 7,680. The active cases that day were at 33% of the total cases. On Friday, however, the total cases were at 1,23,605, of which only 2.1% were active. This is better than the national average of 2.4%. Bengal’s active Covid case count is much better — only 2% of its 5.5 lakh cases are active. Bengal’s CFR is 1.7% and the national CFR is 1.4%. Kolkata’s CFR continues to remain 2.3%. Over 30% of Bengal’s Covid deaths have been reported in Kolkata. In Bengal, in nearly 84% of Covid fatalities, the patients had co-morbidities, a trend which has also been observed in Bengal. In Bengal, only Howrah’s CFR is more than that of Kolkata. The district has reported 1,007 Covid deaths among the 34,680 cases reported till Friday. Kolkata’s high CFR, however, has also coincided with a high discharge rate, which has now crossed the 95% mark. In Kolkata, 1,17,959 people have been successfully treated for Covid. Kolkata had reported Bengal’s first Covid case, as well as the first Covid fatality. Barring a brief phase, when cases in North 24 Parganas overtook Kolkata, the city has been reporting highest Covid cases and fatalities in Bengal. However, state health experts also point out that in Kolkata, in December, fewer people died of Covid since July, when the state started to analyze all Covid fatalities. In December, only 270 Covid deaths were reported, much lower than in the preceding months. August, the state health data indicated, had the worst — 530 deaths. October had 496 deaths in Kolkata. “Covid fatalities should be 1% of the total cases. In Kolkata, it is still a long battle, but the overall parameters have improved significantly,” an official said. The drop in active cases has also unclogged the battered state Covid facilities in Kolkata, bringing some relief to healthcare professionals. For the first time since it was converted into a full-fledged Covid facility, MR Bangur Hospital now has 423 vacant beds while CNCI Rajarhat has 406. ID Hospital has 113 vacant Covid beds. State-wide, Covid bed-occupancy has dropped to arou-nd 10%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/active-cases-at-6-month-low-in-city-but-fatalities-still-at-2-3/articleshow/80076506.cms||Saibal Sen
January 3, 2021||Varanasi||Ram temple fund collection drive to begin on Sankranti||The 42-day special fund-raising drive by Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya will run across the country from Makar Sankranti with the help of local denizens having good credibility in their locality or villages. Addressing the inaugural sessions of two-day Akhil Bhartiya Sant Samiti’s executive body meet at Hanuman Prasad Poddar Andh Vidyalaya premises in Durgakund in Varanasi on Saturday, trust general secretary Champat Rai gave this information while sharing the strategy to raise fund for the construction of a grand temple at birth place of Lord Ram in Ayodhya. Rai said, “The biggest fundraising drive of the world is going to be started from the day of Makar Sankranti on January 14 or 15 till Maghi Purnima falls on February 28. Rai said, “We will run this drive in hill, coastal, forest and all other regions of the country with the help of local people having good credibility among the people of their villages and localities. Number of people getting involved in fund collection would be in lakhs as they will have to cover 55 crore population of around 11 crore families in five lakh villages.” He said people will be encouraged for voluntary contributions as per their own wish. In his address, UP minister of state (independent charge) for tourism, religious affairs and culture Neelkanth Tiwari highlighted how the religious affairs department was lying ignored in previous governments despite its formation in 1983. He said, “Due to lack of a directorate this department could not become effective. But now its directorate is going to be established in Kashi, which will help in accelerating the pace of work for the development of all religious sites to encourage more and more pilgrims to visit them.” The minister gave credit to seers for keeping the feeling of nationalism alive in crisis time in the history of the past several centuries. He said that today there is a need for all states to focus on conserving their religious sites to boost the tourism sector. “In UP we are focusing on development of religious shrines and sites at Ayodhya, Mathura, Chitrakoot and Kashi and these initiatives are helping the state in boosting the prospects of tourism in the state,” he added. On the inaugural day, some resolutions wee moved including extending cooperation in fundraising for temple construction in Ayodhya and seeking CBI probe into killing of two sadhus in Palghar in April 2020 by the participants. They also hailed the decisions on bringing ordinance against love jihad, abolitions of Article 370 and Article 35(A) and others. Samiti’s national spokesman and Patalpuri Peethadhishwar Swami Balakdas welcomed the guests while its national president Swami Avichal Das chaired the sessions. Important among others Swami Vasudevanand Saraswati, Mahamandaleshwar Swami Balkanand Giri, Mahant Phooldol Bihraidas, Swami Dharmdev, Mahant Kamalnayan and Swami Hansanand Tirth were also present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ram-temple-fund-collection-drive-to-begin-on-sankranti/articleshow/80077308.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
January 3, 2021||Dehradun||Dry run for Covid-19 vaccination held at five spots in Dehradun||DEHRADUN: Participating in the nationwide rehearsal to administer Covid-19 vaccine, the Uttarakhand health department on Saturday conducted mock inoculation at five Dehradun-based facilities, including Gandhi Shatabdi Hospital, urban healthcare centre at Khurbura, government allopathic dispensary in Bhogpur and Ranipokhari, and the primary healthcare centre in Bhaniyawala. Officials said that the mock drill, that started at 9 am, covered the entire gamut of steps involved in the vaccination process, including the uploading of data, session site allocation, session site management with test beneficiaries, cold chain management and transportation arrangements. “The objective of the dry run was to examine the operational feasibility of Covid-19 vaccination drive in a field environment. The mock drill was aimed to prepare our staff, upgrade the state machinery, and improve the vaccine delivery infrastructure. During the exercise, we had set a target to mock vaccinate 123 healthcare workers and we managed to vaccinate 121 of them,” said Dr Saroj Naithani, director, National Health Mission (NHM). During the dry run, the healthcare workers were informed, via SMS, about the location where Covid-19 vaccine will be administered to them. Their IDs were checked at the entrance of the location and then seating arrangements, while maintaining distancing, was made for each of them. “Initially, we did the mock exercise on six people. Subsequently, we orchestrated emergency situations — that are likely during the actual vaccination drive — and our staffers managed to tackle the emergencies very well,” said Naithani. Notably, the state is planning another dry run for Covid-19 vaccination in the Kumaon region around January 10. The state has already shortlisted around one lakh healthcare personnel, including ASHA and ANM workers, who would be given vaccines on priority. Meanwhile, Dr Harsh Vardhan, Union health minister, on Saturday said that there should be no misconceptions about the safety of the coronavirus vaccine that India plans to use as "everything has been checked in detail".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dry-run-for-covid-19-vaccination-held-at-five-spots-in-dehradun/articleshow/80076034.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 3, 2021||Chandigarh||Covid shots to be given at nine sites in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: Inoculation against Covid-19 will be done at nine centres in the city, with five vaccinators at each site, according to director health services (DHS) Dr Amandeep Kang under whose supervision a dry run to test the mechanism for vaccination delivery and detect gaps was conducted as part of the nationwide exercise on Saturday. “We have identified nine sites for vaccination. An escalation depends on the number of people to be vaccinated, vaccines available and the duration in which the process is to be completed. We can accordingly make changes and use schools and community centres,” said Kang who oversaw the drill that started at 9.30 am at the designated sites— Government Multi-specialty Hospital, 16, civil hospitals, Manimajra , and Sector 22, and continued till 11.30 am. “We will have five vaccinators at each site. If 200 vaccines are to be given at a site, another vaccinator will be added. Else, there will be 100 people vaccinated at one site,” said Dr Kang. She said, “We are ready for the actual vaccination now as we have things in place.” As many as 150 health workers took part in the two-hour dry run that was observed by a WHO official. Some doctors from PGI and Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, had visited the sites to understand the mechanism during the dry run. One of the suggestions the health department made after the drill got over was of introducing a way to telephonically call up people given the shots to inquire about their health status within 24 hours. It was decided a helpline number (107) would also be texted to them to call up the helpdesk in case of any medical issue post-vaccination. Later, real time data was uploaded on the CO-WIN application and top health officials held a meeting with deputy commissioner Manjit Brar and apprised him about the set-up. However, no CCTV cameras were installed at the vaccine stores to check pilferage. This has been mentioned in the guidelines prepared by the government. “The stock will be entered on the register and the person responsible has to make an entry on the register before distributing from the store. Also, as the vaccines are tracked, there can be no pilferage,” said the DHS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-shots-to-be-given-at-9-sites-in-city/articleshow/80076646.cms||Shimona Kanwar
January 3, 2021||Kochi||Clearing posters of poll candidates: Squads submit report on expenses||KOCHI: Authorities are preparing the list of candidates who should meet the expense incurred by the government as part of the defacement during the recently-concluded local body elections in Ernakulam. The defacement squads set up at taluk levels had submitted the report to the election officials on the expenditure for defacement of posters, banners and hoardings of candidates at public places. While Kochi taluk incurred Rs 37,625, it was Rs 30,200 for Muvattupuzha, Rs 19,435 for Kothamangalam and Rs 13,027 for Kanayannur for defacement during the election. This amount should be included in the election expenditure of the candidates whose posters or other election-related advertisements were defaced or removed by the squads. Aluva and Kunnathunad taluks are yet to submit reports to the district authorities. The list will be submitted to the election officials who in turn will peruse the list and conduct hearings with the candidate concerned whose expenditure crosses the fixed amount. “The candidate, whose expenditure crosses the limit, will be disqualified if he or she fails to give proper explanation. The Election Commission will take a decision on that. We are yet to start checking the expenditure of candidates as the election procedures are not over yet,” said a senior district election official in Ernakulam. The candidate should submit the expenditure details to the election authorities in 30 days of declaring the result. The candidate will be disqualified for failing to submit the details in 30 days. Copy of voucher and bills should be attached with the details, which should include the number of posters, banners and hoarding he or she had used for campaign. The expenditure for candidates in panchayats, block panchayats and district panchayats have been fixed at Rs 25,000, Rs 75,000 and Rs 1,50,000 respectively. It is Rs 75,000 and Rs 1,50,000 for each candidate in municipalities and corporations. But candidates who won in the city admit that the expenditure were two or three times above the fixed amount depending on the population in the area and the competition. “One has to shell out a minimum of Rs 4-5 lakhs in a division, where population is high and faces hot contest. If there is more party workers for campaigning, the expenditure will rise further. We have to meet the expenses for corner meetings, family meetings, announcements, posters in various types, leaflets and other expenses. Since there is no accounts for many of these expenses, one can submit the details of expenses within the limit fixed by the EC,” said a councillor who won to the Kochi corporation in the recently-concluded election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/clearing-posters-of-poll-candidates-squads-submit-report-on-expenses/articleshow/80076032.cms||T C Sreemol
January 3, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra committee builds case to scrap time limit for filing money lending complaints||NAGPUR: A state government committee headed by former NCP legislator Vidya Chavan is veering around the view that the period limitation for filing complaints under state’s private money lending regulation law should be done away with or extended. Under the Maharashtra (Regulation) of Money Lending Act, 2014, cognisance cannot be taken if the complaint pertains to a money lending case older than 15 years. The report is yet to be submitted before the government. Borrowers whose land or other asset has been usurped by a private lender can file a complaint seeking action under the state law. This can lead to taking back the asset from the lender too. The committee members say rampant exploitation of borrowers by private money lenders has been found, especially in Vidarbha and Marathwada. They have come across cases of land being usurped by private lenders for recovery of meagre amounts. Apart from farmers a whole gamut of low income earners like artisans, petty businessmen and workers in private establishments depend on moneylenders for funds in emergency. The lenders have also been charging rates way beyond the permissible limit of 18%, said the members. The committee, which is scheduled to hold a meeting on January 5 in Pune, is expected to finalize the report during the month. Even as the report is yet to be tabled before the government, there is a general opinion that the existing law needs to be strengthened. A source in the state’s department of cooperatives, which also governs private lending, said there are instances where builders have taken over the lands pledged by the borrowers. Chavan said that there are reports that the borrowing from a lender straightway creates a lien on the land. “They are not given a loan without signing the papers. The interest rates are so high that borrowers are not able to repay and have to ultimately give up the holding,” she said. Maharashtra can follow Madhya Pradesh on this issue where the period of limitation has been completely done away with, said Chavan. Ram Hari Rupnawar, also a former legislator and member of the committee, said money lenders have been found using muscle power to intimidate the borrowers. The committee is also examining the prospects of having stricter penal provisions for violations. Chavan said even the cooperative department needs to be strengthened for effective implementation of the law. Apart from licensed lenders, there is a wide network of illegal lenders spread across rural areas which include traders in the hinterland, said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/committee-builds-a-case-to-scrap-time-limit-for-filing-money-lending-plaints/articleshow/80076669.cms||Shishir Arya
January 3, 2021||Lucknow||Happy Thinking Lab to cheer Lucknow University students, help them beat the blues||LUCKNOW: The Lucknow University students will now be able to stay happy by getting their mental and physical fitness tested in a lab and avail necessary interventions to stay calm under stressful conditions. A mix of Indian traditional meditation system and modern science, a ‘Happy Thinking Lab’ was inaugurated on Saturday with LU vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai being the first person to avail benefits of the technology. While the VC was found in perfect health, the facility will open for students soon. Director of counselling and guidance cell and head of psychology department, Prof Madhurima Pradhan, said: “The lab uses three equipments—Biofeedback, Bio-Well and Karada scan machine—based on Russian technology to measure mental and physical wellness.” “These machines conduct physical and psycho-analysis of a person and based on the findings necessary steps can be taken for his well-being. The data will be used for research and ways will be suggested to help students improve wellness,” she said. “The machines will measure, evaluate and analyze the body and mental well-being of students by reading ‘chakras’ and health vitals,” LU VC Prof AK Rai said. ‘Chakras’ are various focal points used in ancient Indian and Chinese meditation practices. In Sanskrit, ‘chakra’ means disk or wheel referring to energy centres in the body. Balance of ‘chakras’ is a must for physical and emotional well-being. LU authorities, however, did not share information if the facility will be free for students or a fee will be charged. Any analysis of a student will be done after taking her/his consent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/happy-thinking-lab-to-cheer-lu-students-help-them-beat-the-blues/articleshow/80077799.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Rajkot||Fire NOC: Rajkot IMA threatens to shut hospitals||RAJKOT: The office bearers of Rajkot branch of Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Saturday asked the civic body officials to discuss with them before taking any coercive steps while implementing the town planning and fire safety rules. It has asked the RMC to act ‘sympathetically’ in case of nursing homes. It has also warned the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) of locking up smaller hospitals in the city if the the civic body starts sealing up of such hospitals over non-compliance of fire safety rules. Following the fire incident in Uday Shivanand hospital where six patients lost their lives, the RMC issued notices to more than 300 hospitals asking them to adhere to fire safety norms within a stipulated period. There are more than 500 private hospitals and nursing homes registered with IMA in Rajkot. The doctors submitted a representation to the municipal commissioner in which they also stated that there are many nursing homes working in commercial complexes. While the nursing home concerned is ready to comply with all the rules, the other units of the building don’t comply with the rules, and the building doesn't get an NOC. In this case the nursing homes should not be punished. Dr Jay Dhirwani, president of IMA Rajkot branch, told TOI, “We have asked the RMC to adopt a practical approach. There is a shortage of vendors and fire equipment so we want eight to 12 months’ time to fulfil all the required stipulations. It’s not possible in such a short period of time as the RMC has fixed.” Dhirwani further said that the association will be compelled to lock up smaller hospitals by itself if the the RMC starts sealing hospitals as it doesn’t want the “stains of sealing on its forehead.” Municipal commissioner Udit Agarwal, however, told TOI: “There won’t be any leniency in the rule.” RMC had pasted seals on the doorstep of eight hospitals last week directing the managements to vacate the hospital as soon as the existing patients get discharged. They are also asked not to further examine new outdoor patients. According to doctors it’s not possible for the hospital managements to make structural changes in the buildings. “There are many hospitals which are decades old, where building a second exit or an escape staircase is not possible. Some hospitals require to construct water tanks as per the new rules which is also not possible in such old buildings,” Dhirwani added. “In this current Covid situation, not everybody can afford fees of corporate hospitals and the middle class people are in need of smaller nursing homes. At such a time, the RMC should consider the rules ‘sympathetically’ in the case of these nursing homes,” the representation also stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ima-warns-rmc-to-be-lenient-over-fire-noc/articleshow/80076655.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Kochi||Kochi: Police chief vows concrete plans to fight online frauds||KOCHI: Hardening the target is the ideal solution against online frauds, said inspector general of police and the new city police chief, C H Nagaraju. Nagaraju took over as city commissioner in place of Vijay Sakhare, who was promoted as ADGP law and order. Nagaraju said that plans are underway to equip citizens to steer clear of such frauds. “There are lots of online frauds all over the world and what we need to do is target hardening. This is a term used when the danger is invisible or elusive. The citizen is the target of the criminal. Hence, we build a fort of protection around the target since we don’t know from where the attack can happen. We will come up with some concrete awareness and training programmes as part of this so that people won’t trust such random calls, messages or links,” said Nagaraju. Nagaraju added that the strategy to deal with Covid has undergone a change and in the new year he would tell the officers to not forcefully impose but remind people of the Covid protocols. “Now, people are educated and they are aware of dangers. We are all at risk and we would do the facilitation work by reminding the public that the danger is still with us.” He said. He added that action would still be initiated against individuals who purposefully create problems. “When people deliberately flout the rules, it becomes a public health issue and then we would have to take stern action,” said the commissioner. He added that we should continue the cautious approach till we get an effective vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/police-chief-vows-concrete-plans-to-fight-online-frauds/articleshow/80076040.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Dehradun||Dehradun mayor launches city’s first piggy bank made from & for recycled plastic||DEHRADUN: Municipal commissioner Vinay Shankar Pandey inaugurated Dehradun’s first piggy bank made from recycled plastic at the DMC office on Saturday. The piggy bank will be used for collecting plastic waste, which will be later sent for recycling. The bank, made from recycled used beverage cartons (UBCs), was installed at the DMC office by Waste Warriors, a social organisation. The officials of the NGO said that the aim of installing this bank is to raise awareness among the locals regarding the right disposal of UBCs and tell them that this category of waste, which people generally dump in garbage, is actually recyclable. Meanwhile, DMC officials said that the plastic generated from tetra packs of milk and juice packaging are being collected from rag pickers, who are being paid Rs 7 per kilogram of plastic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-mayor-launches-citys-first-piggy-bank-made-from-for-recycled-plastic/articleshow/80076058.cms||Abhijeet Singh
January 3, 2021||Lucknow||Covid vaccination dry run held, city ready for rollout||Lucknow: A youth complained of drowsiness soon after getting a Covid-19 shot and collapsed on the sofa in the post-vaccination waiting room. Paramedics swung into action and administered first aid before rushing him to the hospital. This emergency situation was created as part of the dry run for Covid-19 vaccination drive conducted at the Kalam Centre of King George’s Medical University (KGMU) on Saturday morning. The youth was a paramedical student who posed as a dummy candidate for the steps to be taken in case a vaccination causes reaction in a person. There were 49 other dummy candidates who got their identification verified on arrival. Thereafter, a mock vaccine shot was given and they were allowed to go after a 20-minute waiting period. The entire exercise was carried out as per laid protocols by the staff trained for the job. Besides KGMU, mock drill of the vaccination drive was conducted at five other centres in the city – Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences, Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences, a private hospital in Gomtinagar and community health centres in Mall and Malihabad. Each centre carried out mock vaccination of 25 beneficiaries. SGPGIMS has 5,500 healthcare workers who will get Covid-19 vaccination in the days to come. Vaccination will be done on four days in a week. According to plan, 1,800 people will be vaccinated in a day. Three portions of old OPD have been converted into areas for identification, vaccination and observation. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar said, “Overall, the dry run was successful. Right from supply chain preparedness and communication between various centres to the technological part of the drive, everything went off smoothly. The mock vaccination process was also carried out with SOPs in place.” At each booth, a three-tier system with identification, health check-up and vaccination was put in place. The designated rooms for waiting and observation were also created with support staff. Those who were vaccinated were given a slip mentioning the timing of the vaccine and contact details for emergency help. They were also given approximate date for the second shot – the booster dose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-vaccination-dry-run-held-city-ready-for-rollout/articleshow/80077775.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
January 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Covaxin shot proudly wears its made-in-India tag||HYDERABAD: The emergency use authorisation (EUA) approval by the drug regulator to indigenously developed Covaxin marks a momentous day in the history of the Indian vaccine industry. Indian companies have mostly manufactured vaccines while the R&D has been done by global MNCs in other countries. But Covaxin is the first vaccine to be developed from scratch in India. Right from the virus strain being isolated from an Indian patient by the Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Virology (ICMR-NIV), Pune, to the formulation, animal studies and human trials, everything has been done locally. For Shanchol, which was the world’s first cholera vaccine to be developed in India, the formulation was done by Shantha Biotechnics along with a South Korean institute. Covaxin has shown 80-85% efficacyAn ecstatic Bharat Biotech founder chairman and managing director Dr Krishna Ella termed it as a dream moment for Indian science. “It’s an achievement of the young generation scientists of the country,” he told TOI. Dr Ella, who worked as a scientist in the US, turned entrepreneur in 1996 when he decided to give up the American dream and return to India to set up Bharat Biotech. Covaxin, which has enrolled over 23,000 of the targeted 26,000 volunteers, has shown efficacy of over 80-85%, said sources. US-based company Ocugen has joined hands with Bharat Biotech for codeveloping the vaccine for the US market. Shantha Biotechnics founder KI Varaprasad Reddy said EUA recommendation is a proud moment for India and Hyderabad. “It’s good news. The year 2021 has brought new hope with our own 'Made in India’ vaccine,” Reddy said. Watch Covaxin proudly wears its made-in-India tag||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covaxin-proudly-wears-its-made-in-india-tag/articleshow/80077431.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
January 3, 2021||Kochi||Perumbavoor road projects pick up pace||KOCHI: After many months of being in limbo, two road projects - the Perumbavoor town bypass and Iringole-Vallam Ring Road - that would help solve woes of Perumbavoor, which witnesses traffic snarls on a daily basis, have picked up momentum. Authorities are hoping to complete the process of fixing the basic price of land to be acquired for the bypass project by January-end. Details of the rehabilitation package for those affected by the project would be finalized along with it. The surveying activities of the bypass project except that of block 117 have been completed, officials said. The 3.76km-long bypass road starts off at Palakkattuthazham Bridge on Aluva-Munnar road and ends at Maruthukavala on Perumbavoor-Kothamangalam road, excluding Perumbavoor town. The second-phase survey of Iringole-Vallam ring road has also been started but there are apprehensions over its impact on the Iringole Kavu, a biodiversity hotspot, because the alignment is close to the sacred grove. The state government had allocated Rs 25 crore for the road project, which help solve traffic woes of Perumbavoor. In the second phase of the survey for the ring road project activities like soil testing for bridges would be undertaken along with finalization of alignment. A total of Rs 20 lakh has been allocated for the survey. The survey report is being prepared by a firm called GS Infrastructure. The proposed ring road has a total length of 7.3km and width of 25m. It starts from Perumbavoor-Rayamangalam road near the KSRTC bus stand and passes by the vicinity of Iringole Kavu to reach Aluva-Munnar Road and ten cross the Aimuri road and Koovappadi Road to reach MC Road near the Vallam bridge. The Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) has allocated a total of Rs 133.24 crore for the first phase of the bypass project, which was mooted almost a decade ago. It is estimated that the second phase would cost around Rs 170 crore. Roads in the region had received a fillip in the last budget with an allocation of Rs 25 crore for Muvattupuzha-Koothattukulam Road, Rs 10 crore for Aluva-Munnar Road and Rs 25 crore for Iringol-Vallam Ring Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/perumbavoor-road-projects-pick-up-pace/articleshow/80076053.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Varanasi||CM: Farmers neglected before 2014, lakhs committed suicide||Gorakhpur: Launching an attack on the opposition for opposing the new farm laws and criticising government, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath listed the pro-farmer schemes of BJP government and recalled that lakhs of farmers committed suicide between 2004 and 2014. Addreesing a gathering at Campierganj tehsil in Gorakhpur district on Saturday, CM Yogi attacked previous governments saying, “Lakhs of farmers committed suicide between 2004 and 2014 because no one was there to take care of them.” “Farmers didn’t get seeds, fertilizers and minimum support price of their crops. There was no procurement scheme for them. Farmers didn’t get any compensation after any natural calamity,” he added. “PM Narendra Modi worked for welfare of farmers and changed all this. He introduced PM crop insurance policy, PM irrigation scheme and linked technology with agriculture and irrigation,” the CM said. “Every farmer was linked with Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana and money was transferred directly to them. Corrections are being made to include left out farmers so that they also get Rs 6,000 in their bank accounts under the scheme,” he said. “Minimum support price is being paid to farmers for their crops. Rs 1,12,000 crore has been paid to sugarcane farmers. Arrangements are made to start closed sugar mills,” he added. CM Yogi further said, “We have given government jobs to 3.75 lakh youths in the state. Our government provided jobs to 15 lakh youth in the private sector and employment to 1.5 crore youths. We are giving the benefits of schemes to all without any discrimination so everyone can lead a life of happiness, but few people don’t like it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-farmers-neglected-before-2014-lakhs-committed-suicide/articleshow/80077334.cms||Arjumand Bano
January 3, 2021||Hyderabad||No biology, but NRI can study MBBS: Telangana HC||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court has directed Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences (KNRUHS) to grant admission to MBBS course to an Indian-American girl student with roots in Warangal under NRI quota meant for foreign nationals in the ongoing counselling session. The girl, Srikeerthi Reddi Pingle, was born and brought up in the US. The court said KNRUH cannot set new guidelines that were not put forward by the authorities of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education (TSBIE) for giving admission to foreign nationals. The state government is thinking in terms of preferring an appeal against this order. A division bench of justices MS Ramachandra Rao and T Amarnath Goud pronounced this order after hearing a petition filed by Srikeerthi, a native of Parkal in Warangal. Her father VR Reddi Pingle had settled down in the US long ago. Srikeerthi completed her class XII in Conard High School under West Hartford Board of Education, Connecticut. Aspiring to secure admission to the medicine course, she had appeared for NEET (hall ticket No. 4205004360) in the foreign nationals category. She secured an all-India rank of 4,82,207 (category rank No. 1,59,648). However, Kaloji university (on December 12, 2020) rejected her candidature on the ground that she did not study biological sciences at the Intermediate level which, it said, was the pre-requisite for securing admission to MBBS course. “She may have studied biological sciences at the class X level, but that does not fit into our book of rules which say that an aspirant should have passed his or her Intermediate with biological sciences, physics and chemistry,” additional advocate general J Ramachandra Rao, who appeared for the university, said. Petitioner’s counsel Vedula Srinivas, however, told the court that the school counsellor of Conard High School had issued a certificate on December 11, stating that she had taken the advanced placement biology course and studied topics like biochemistry, cellular biology, organismal biology, population biology, evolution, genetics and ecology in the10th grade itself. “She had also submitted a letter signed by the supervisor of the West Hartford science department certifying her academic credentials to this effect,” the counsel pointed out. The Consulate General of India, New York, had also issued a letter on Dec 22 certifying that the 12th year high school diploma obtained by the petitioner in the US is equivalent to Intermediate study in India. “Even the TSBIE (on Dec 23) issued an equivalence certificate stating that what Srikeerthi studied at West Hartford Board is equal to Intermediate in Telangana,” Srinivas contended. At this, the judges said the rules pertaining to foreign nationals clearly provide space for equivalence certificate. “Since Srikeerthi had got a certificate from the TSBIE itself, there is no reason why new objections should be raised. Though the candidate satisfied this criterion, the officials are now citing a new ground that she did not study biology at class XII level,” the bench said. Declaring such argument as untenable, the judges directed the university to provide her admission under the NRI quota.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-clears-decks-for-mbbs-admission-to-nri/articleshow/80077483.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
January 3, 2021||Lucknow||PM’s top world rating a matter of pride: CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Congratulating Prime Minister Narendra Modi for being chosen as the “most popular leader in the world” in a survey by US data firm, Morning Consult, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said the achievement was a matter of pride for the entire country. As per the global survey, Modi received 74% approval rating, followed by the Brazil’s President (46%), the US President (41%) and the UK Prime Minister (39%). “This has been possible due to the body of work of the PM and his unquestionable popularity among the masses,” the CM said. Congratulating the PM on behalf of the population of UP, the CM said it was a proud moment for the entire country. Yogi said the PM had rendered “relentless service” to 135 crore people of the country in the last six years and ensured their well-being in the most selfless manner. “It was his towering leadership and efficiency that allowed the country to successfully control the coronavirus pandemic. Even the World Health Organisation praised India for its endeavour,” he said. He added that the PM started several schemes without any discrimination and made India proud by winning many prestigious awards. “Recently, the Indian Ambassador to the US accepted the prestigious ‘Vision of Merit’ award on behalf of the PM. Apart from this, he received prestigious awards in various fields from countries like UAE, Russia and South Korea. It has undoubtedly increased the prestige of the country,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pms-top-world-rating-a-matter-of-pride-cm/articleshow/80077823.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Lucknow||UP set to launch vaccination around Makar Sankranti: CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh will start the vaccination for protection against Covid-19 around January 14, chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced on Saturday. Speaking at a function in Gorakhpur, the CM added that after a dry run in six districts including Lucknow on January 2, further dry runs in anticipation of the vaccine would be carried out in all 75 districts of the state on January 5. “A dry run for vaccination was carried out in Lucknow on Saturday; on January 5, we will have a dry run in the entire state. Around Makar Sankranti, we will be ready with the vaccine and will be in a position to defeat the biggest pandemic of this century,” the CM said. The CM said that over the past 10 months, Covid-19 had affected everyone. The world’s most developed countries had been inundated with Covid cases. “Look at the US, the world’s biggest superpower, and how bad the situation is there. In Britain, where vaccination started, a new strain has created problems and people are heading towards another lockdown,” he said. Covid fight a community effort: YogiIn India, and in UP, under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, we started a programme in March and I can say with confidence that we will emerge from the pandemic very soon,” he said. Yogi said that the fight against Covid-19 had been a community effort, adding that the government cannot face the challenges of a pandemic alone. “Since it is a pandemic, the government will lead the fight against it, provide leadership but then the entire system and people will have to come together to cooperate and achieve success. If the World Health Organisation has appreciated UP’s performance, it is because it has been a community effort,” he said. Talking about UP’s performance, the CM said that till about two months back, there were more than 68,000 positive cases in the state. On Saturday morning, he added, the number was down to about 13,000. “Recovery rate in the state is about 97% while death rate is around 1%. Everyone has appreciated the arrangements we have made in hospitals,” he said. Meanwhile, under the mock drill scheduled for January 5, six centres—three each in rural and urban areas—of each district will hold these tests to check for various protocols and SOPs. The drive will include assessing response of systems like ambulance network, rapid response teams, call centres and verification of recipients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-set-to-launch-vaccination-around-makar-sankranti-cm/articleshow/80077842.cms||Neha Lalchandani
January 3, 2021||Kozhikode||Mani C Kappan rules out switch but holds firm on Kerala's Pala||KOTTAYAM/KOZHIKODE: Pala MLA Mani C Kappan reiterated that NCP will continue to be a constituent of LDF. Kappan told reporters in Pala on Saturday that there was no dispute over the matter. “I have never thought of switching to another political front,” he said, adding that the news being propagated about NCP joining the UDF were created in somebody’s imagination. He also did not rule out the possibility of the role of interested parties behind the propagation of such news. “I was able to bring several developments in Pala in a short time. Issues like reclassification of land, ration kits for the first time for the nuns, etc. were implemented. I have also given memorandum to the chief minister and the finance minister requesting to declare the support price of rubber at Rs 200 in the budget. I have been continuously running around for the development of Pala,” he said. Kappan also said that the UDF has the freedom to welcome them into their fold. That right can never be denied, he said. In an apparent dig at Jose K Mani, Kappan asked what right a passer-by has got to claim Pala seat. “The Jose faction, which had lost in Pala in the last elections, has no right to stake claim for Pala,” he said. Asked about the statement of NCP leader and minister A K Saseendran that some compromises have to be made, Kappan opined that it would be apt if Saseendran yields his assembly seat from which he had contested several times. “No discussions were held in the LDF regarding Pala seat. So, there is no relevance in a discussion regarding that,” he said. Not to take any step that will harm LDF: Saseendran NCP leader and transport minister A K Saseendran has said that NCP would not leave the LDF and the reports currently doing the rounds in this regard were baseless and ill-timed. “NCP will not take any decision which will weaken the LDF,” Saseendran told reporters in Kozhikode. He said that the party has not carried out any talks at any level on leaving the LDF and added that the Left front has been formed for political reasons and there has been no change in the political situation. “Also, the LDF or its constituents have not carried out any talks regarding assembly polls. Pala MLA Mani C Kappan had been staking his claim for the seat on several occasions. Other than that there has been no development in the party,” Saseendran said. “For instance, in Kozhikode, there will be a small reduction in the number of seats we contested last time as it will not be possible to include new parties without such small losses. It is a natural development,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kappan-rules-out-switch-but-holds-firm-on-pala/articleshow/80079094.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Father kills sons, commits suicide in Kerala's Navaikkulam||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: On Saturday, the capital witnessed a tragedy in which Safeer (32), an auto driver residing at Navaikkulam, allegedly committed suicide after killing his sons Althaf (12) and Alshad (10). Police said the bodies of Safeer and Alshad were found in the pond of Mahavishnu Temple located around 1.5km away from their residence. Althaf’s body was found at home, his was throat slit open. It is suspected that Safeer allegedly murdered Althaf at home and then took his younger son to the pond where he drowned the child and killed himself. Police said residents noticed Safeer’s auto parked near the pond around 9am and sensed that something was wrong and called the police. Residents had also found a pair of sandals on the steps of the pond and two face masks inside the auto, which gave rise to suspicion. Police summoned fire and rescue personnel and launched an underwater search. They also found a piece of handwritten note in which a few phone numbers were written and also a message that Althaf was lying dead at home. Following this, police found Althaf’s body in the bedroom around 10.30am. When their search did not yield result, scuba diving experts of fire and rescue personnel dived and found Safeer’s body around 11.30am. Alshad’s body was found by around 1pm. Rural SP B Ashok said Safeer took this extreme step owing to marital problems. His estranged wife Regina was living with her brother at Vairamala near Navaikkulam for the past few months. The children were also staying with her. “On Friday, Safeer reportedly visited her and took the children with him. He used to take the children home occasionally and spend time with them. Hence Regina might not have suspected anything,” he said. Kallambalam station house officer Inspector I Faroze said that Safeer had reportedly taken the children to Varkala beach for sightseeing on Friday. “It is suspected that he murdered the elder son late at night and arrived at the pond by 1am,” he said. The staffers of a pump house functioning at the pond told the police that they had heard a splash around that time. The three bodies were moved to the mortuary of Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital. Autopsy will be conducted on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/father-kills-sons-commits-suicide-at-navaikkulam/articleshow/80076057.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Kanpur||Kanpur: Scribe found murdered in car in Barra||KANPUR: A 30-year-old journalist working with a local Hindi newspaper was found strangled inside a car near CTI canal at Dharmendra Nagar of Barra area in the city on Saturday. Police claimed several cases, including loot, were pending against him. “The family of the victim, Ashu Yadav, a resident of Khapra Mohal in Rail Bazar area, has claimed he was a scribe working with a local Hindi daily and left home after receiving a call on his mobile phone on December 31 night in a car,” SSP/DIG Preetinder Singh said on Saturday. When he did not return home the next day, the family members registered a missing report with the Rail Bazar police, he added. Yadav’s body was recovered from a car on Saturday afternoon with injury marks on his body parts including his face, besides serious strangulation marks on his neck, he said. The body was found on the rear passenger seat of a car, which had stickers of a Hindi newspaper pasted on it, the police said. The family have raised suspicion on a local resident of Rail Bazar, police said. “As per the victim’s family members, Ashu had an enmity with a local resident of Khapra Mohal. Only recently, the latter over some issue had brutally attacked him with a blunt object causing injuries on his head. The local person had also threatened him with dire consequences. We have recorded the statements of the kin of the deceased. We are awaiting the postmortem report, but as of now the motive behind the murder is still unclear,” he added. The SSP/DIG further said, “We are scanning the CCTV footage of the spot and the locality of the deceased. Also, we are in the process of procuring CDR (call detail record) to zero-in on the murderers. Going by the preliminary findings, it appears that the victim was murdered elsewhere and his body was transported in the car abandoned close to CTI canal in Dharmendra Nagar area of Barra.” The body has been sent for post-mortem. Efforts are on to nab the culprits, he added. Circle Officer, Govind Nagar, Vikas Pandey said, “There were nearly 10 cases including that of loot and SC/ST Act pending against him at Cantt and Rail Bazar police stations of the city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/scribe-found-murdered-in-car-in-barra/articleshow/80077458.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Allahabad||Soon, Allahabad to get 75 self-cleaning toilets||PRAYAGRAJ: After jumping to 20th rank in all-India Swachh Bharat rankings, Prayagraj would soon get the facility of smart public toilets too. The administration would build 75 automatic self-cleaning toilets under the Smart City projects. People would be able to use these toilets by inserting coins. The walls and toilet seats would be made of steel and the water tap would be powered by sensors. The administration will spend a corpus of Rs 4 crore on the construction of these toilets. After Prayagraj Municipal Corporation (PMC) floated a tender for construction of these toilets, it received technical bids for six agencies. The technical bids have been opened and after opening the financial bids, an agency will be selected which has quoted the lowest rate. The construction of these toilets would commence once the agency is finalised by the authorities. These automatic self-cleaning toilets would be set up in three stages in an area-based development project. The agency has to construct 25 toilets at each stage. Despite having a self-cleaning mechanism, the selected agency will hire a sanitation worker for every five toilets and a supervisor for every 10. A manager will be appointed to supervise the hired staff. “A regular public toilet requires an average of seven litre of water per person. However, these toilets will require about one-third less of the requirement i.e. two and a half litre of water. These toilets will be made eco-friendly and will function only when the user puts a coin in the slot,” said PMC’s environment engineer Uttam Verma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/soon-city-to-get-75-self-cleaning-toilets/articleshow/80077618.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Vadodara||Reluctance to share details plagues VMC survey teams||Vadodara: Teams of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) are facing difficulties in some areas while collecting details of people who have to be given Covid-19 vaccines on priority. This has come as a surprise as most had hoped that people would be keen to give required details.Sources said that the problem was acute in pockets of the minority community.The teams of the civic body have visited some of these areas to collect details of persons who are over 50 years and those who have health conditions or co-morbidities and need a vaccine on priority. “It is true that in some areas people are not willing to part with details. Since this is a voluntary exercise, we cannot force people into giving us the details too,” said VMC’s medical officer (health) Dr Devesh Patel. The residents of some of these areas had been reluctant in the measles rubella (MR) vaccination drive too. A major awareness drive was taken up to ensure that children from these pockets also got vaccinated.Patel said that people would start coming forward gradually as and when the awareness regarding the vaccine increased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/reluctance-to-share-details-plagues-vmc-survey-teams/articleshow/80076672.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Allahabad||Luxury lounge to make travelling more comfortable||Prayagraj: Passengers to the city would now be able to enjoy quality services at the ‘Luxury Traveller Lounge’ recently introduced at the Civil Lines side of Prayagraj Junction. The lounge would be the first such facility to be introduced in North Central Railway. Launched under the Startup India scheme, the lounge has been constructed by ‘Fresh Rooms’ on the ‘bulid-operate-transfer’ model. Passengers will be able to come and relax in rooms and can also eat after paying for the service. The lounge will have a centralised air conditioning system and other facilities like a public address system to announce arrival and departure of trains, a hassle-free billing system, showers, touch-free and waterless urinals and a smart locking system among others. The entry rates for two-hour and one-hour stays at these lounges are Rs 150 and Rs 70 per adult respectively. The lounge will also have free WiFi service and a secure locker facility which will be available on an hourly basis. Tea, coffee and snacks will also be made available for the passengers in the waiting room.  Prayagraj division has also set up a waste management and water recycling system at the lounge. DRM (Prayagraj) Mohit Chandra said, “Prayagraj division has always been striving to provide the best of facilities to its passengers and this lounge is just another addition.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/luxury-lounge-to-make-travelling-more-comfortable/articleshow/80077545.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Allahabad||Two arrested for smuggling illegal firearms from MP||Prayagraj: Two men were arrested on Saturday for allegedly smuggling country-made weapons procured from Khandwa in Madhya Pradesh to Uttar Pradesh and Mumbai. The accused Rajendra Nishad and Bheem Shankar Pathak were residents of Jhunsi and Meja respectively and, were arrested by a team of Ghoorpur police and Special Operations Group. They were arrested near a well-known roadside eatery in Ghoorpur while the two were riding on a motorcycle after the police were tipped off about their whereabouts. Twelve country-made handguns, a pistol, seven live cartridges and a motorcycle were recovered from the two, said SP (trans-Yamuna) Saurabh Dixit. Police said that the two had been arrested earlier by the UP STF on charges of weapon smuggling. “During interrogation, the two said that they used to procure the weapons from Khandwa at cheap rates and then sell them in Prayagraj at a price ranging between Rs 5,000 and Rs 10,000 each. The same weapons were sold in Mumbai for a price as high as Rs 40,000. They used to board a bus in Khandwa with the illegal weapons and reach Rewa. From there they used to come to Prayagraj on a motorcycle while hiding the weapons in the dickey,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/two-arrested-for-smuggling-illegal-firearms-from-mp/articleshow/80077643.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Surat||Surat: 44-year-old woman trying to hang self rescued||SURAT: Cops rescued a 44-year-old woman who was about to hang herself after being scolded by her father on Friday. Around 8pm on Friday, police control room (PCR) got a call from a young girl that her mother had locked herself in a room and she might do something to herself in Nanpura area. Soon a PCR van was alerted which reached the house within minutes. Despite knocking, the woman who had locked herself inside was not opening the door. Cops tried to talk to her and convince her to open the door but she refused. Later the cops broke open the door. The woman had already put the noose around her neck when cops entered the room. Police constable Dilipsinh Dhansinh lift the woman by her legs while the family members removed the noose from her neck. The woman had placed a table on the bed and tied a rope to the ceiling fan to hang herself.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/44-year-old-woman-trying-to-hang-self-rescued/articleshow/80076617.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Varanasi||UK returnee tests Covid positive, 23 contacts isolated||Varanasi: Twenty-three contacts of a UK returnee, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, have been isolated in Mirzapur and Varanasi. The youth — who returned from Britain a fortnight ago — has been admitted to a separate ward at level-3 facility of BHU hospital. His sample has been sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, to confirm whether he is infected with the mutant Covid strain, which was recently detected in the UK, triggering travel restrictions across the globe. So far, traces of the new variant have been found in two people, who recently returned from the United Kingdom. A government official said the two cases were found in Meerut and Gautam Buddh Nagar (Noida). Additional chief medical officer Dr AK Maurya said with the help of a comprehensive contact-tracing, the Mirzapur resident was traced at his in-laws house in Sundarpur area of Varanasi on Thursday, when his sample was collected and sent for test. On Friday evening, he was rushed to the hospital after reports confirmed he was Covid positive. “We collected his sample and sent for an advanced test at National Institute of Virology, Pune. We expect the report in three days,” he said. Meantime, all his contacts, including 14 family members in Mirzapur and nine of in-laws family in Varanasi, have been tested and quarantined. Their report is expected by Sunday evening. The areas, where they live in Mirzapur and Varanasi, have been sealed. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials to prepare a list of visitors from countries where the mutant strain of Covid-19 virus has been reported. During the Covid-19 review with Team-11 on Friday, the CM stated that surveillance and testing were the only way to stay ahead of the pandemic virus. All the hospitals have been asked to have adequate backup of medicines, medical equipment and oxygen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/uk-returnee-tests-covid-positive-23-contacts-isolated/articleshow/80077191.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Lucknow||3,400+ startups set up in UP since 2017||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh has witnessed an exponential rise in startups under the present regime, with 3,406 startups setting up base in the state in the last three and a half years, registering a massive increase of 1700% from just 200 in 2017. Giving credit to the state government’s startup policy for the achievement, a spokesperson said, “Till 2017, there were only 200 startups in UP. Today, more than 22,000 people have got employment through new startups.” Additional chief secretary, IT and Electronics, Alok Kumar said, “Startups established in 73 districts have provided direct employment to 10,000 people and indirect employment to 12,000. ‘10K more startups to be set up, will generate 1.5L jobs’Currently, 18 incubators are functioning in the state and shortly, 100 more will be set up, with at least one in each district. These incubators will provide management training and other essential services and assistance to help in setting up new startups in the state.” The government is expecting that at least another 10,000 more startups will be established, providing direct employment to over 50,000 people and indirect employment to over 1 lakh, Kumar added. Sharing the break-up, he said 1,154 startups have been established in Noida, 533 in Ghaziabad, 500 in Lucknow and 186 in various districts of Bundelkhand and Purvanchal. Kumar said lakhs of migrant workers who had returned to the state after Covid-19 lockdown were being helped in establishing their own startups as a means of ensuring employment. “The UP government provided employment to more than 4 lakh migrant workers who had returned from other states. The aim of the government was to provide such jobs to the workers which would suit their profession and also promote self-employment opportunities in various sectors,” he said. The new startups are coming up in information technology, public services, education, health, agriculture, textiles, and other sectors, Kumar added. The new startup policy will promote an efficient business environment. The first instalment of the subsidy for startups, amounting to Rs 15 crore, has been released by the government, he said. Courses on innovation and entrepreneurship development will be included in the curriculum of schools and universities, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/3-4k-startups-set-up-in-state-since-2017/articleshow/80077866.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Vadodara||Gujarat prepared for vaccination drive: CM||VADODARA: Chief minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday said that the state was prepared to ensure that the Covid-19 vaccine was administered to people. He welcomed the decision by the central government to provide the vaccine for free. Rupani said that the Prime Minister had been working hard since one month to ensure that people get an early vaccine. CM was speaking at the Mehlan village of Shehra taluka in Mahisagar district where he had gone to inaugurate a series of projects. He was speaking about the vaccine and other Covid-19 issues to reporters after the event. The CM said that the trial run for vaccination had been conducted in some parts of the state and was being conducted on Saturday in some other locations. He added that he believed that the state would soon be able to start the first round of vaccination. When asked about Covid-19 cases with the mutant strain of virus being identified in the state, Rupani said that the cases had been isolated and were being treated. He added that experts were aware regarding this and were working on the cases. Rupani, however, did not reply to a poser regarding allegations by former Dahod MP Babu Katara and Congress party that Babu’s son was being framed in a murder case as Babu had changed loyalties from the BJP to Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gujarat-prepared-for-vaccination-drive-cm/articleshow/80076678.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Varanasi||Yogi greets PM Modi for mostpopular leader rating in world||Gorakhpur: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath greeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the behalf of people of Uttar Pradesh for being rated as the most popular head of state by a prestigious American research firm Morning Consult. “A recent survey of a prestigious firm Morning Consult shows Prime Minister Modi is the most popular political leader in the world and his image among the people is best. It is a matter of pride for us. I congratulate PM Modi on behalf of the citizens of Uttar Pradesh for being the most popular leader in the world,” CM Yogi said in Gorakhpur on Saturday. “PM Modi brought happiness in the lives of 15 crore Indians as he ensured the benefits of government welfare schemes reach all without discrimination. His visionary leadership during the corona pandemic was exemplary and 135 crore Indians are safe, even WHO has appreciated it. The love people shown for PM Modi in the last six years is the reason for his highest approval rating,” Yogi said. The CM said, “The popularity of PM Modi can be seen in the recent survey. The net approval rate of PM Modi is 74%, while that of Brazil’s leader is 46%, US leader’s is 41% and UK leader’s is 39%.” “PM Modi has made us proud with many prestigious awards. The Indian ambassador in US took the prestigious ‘Legion of Merit’ award for PM Modi recently, which is a matter of pride for all Indians. Besides this, he has got many prestigious awards from countries like UAE, Russia, South Korea. It has increased our country’s prestige. I along with the citizens of Uttar Pradesh congratulate him for making us proud. Now, even developed countries line up to partner with India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/yogi-greets-pm-modi-for-mostpopular-leader-rating-in-world/articleshow/80077367.cms||Arjumand Bano
January 3, 2021||Allahabad||ABAP changes tack, supports law on registration of religious places||Prayagraj: Retracting its opposition against the proposed Religious Places Registration Regulation-2020, Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) has said that all the 13 monastic orders under it would support whatever decision the state government takes in this regard. ABAP took this decision at a meeting held at Baghambari Gaddi in Prayagraj on Friday. On Wednesday, ABAP had opposed a move to bring in the Religious Places Registration and Regulation Ordinance for registration and regulation of the religious places in the state. ABAP president Narendra Giri said that all monasteries and temples in UP were safe and there was no threat to them. “If it was very important to bring an ordinance for religious places and if it was necessary to set up a separate directorate for them, then the opinion of seers should also be taken in this regard. It would not be appropriate to subject seers to the authority of the state government in any way.” ABAP also said that the state government or any other agency should not entertain any organisation if the latter applies for getting registered as an ‘akhara’. “Be it Kinnar Akhara, Pari Akhara or any other monastic order which applies for getting registered as an ‘akhara’, we demand that the government should not entertain any such claim as there cannot be any 14th akhara other that the 13 existing ones which are members of ABAP. Any organisation can merge with an existing akhara, but a separate akhara will not be accepted,” said Giri. Opposing ABAP’s stand, Mahamandeleshwar of Kinnar Akhara Laxmi Narayan Tripathi said, “In Kumbh Mela 2019, there was so much of opposition against us, but we were still given all amenities by the state government and the same would be extended to us at Haridwar Kumbh.” Several other important resolutions were also passed at the meeting. ABAP again demanded that the Uttarakhand government should extend all amenities to seers for Haridwar Kumbh 2021. “If seers’ proposal is not accepted, then ABAP will stage a protest and take its demands to Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” said Giri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/abap-changes-tack-supports-law-on-registration-of-religious-places/articleshow/80077511.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Kanpur||2nd dose of Covaxin given to first batch of volunteers||Kanpur: The second dose of indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine, known as Covaxin, was administered to 25 volunteers in Kanpur on Saturday. These 25 people are among the 1,000 volunteers who had been administered the first dose of Covaxin in December, and who are now ready for the second dose. Last year in November, Kanpur was finalised as one of the centres for conducting the Covaxin trial. For this purpose, 1,000 people from different walks of life, including doctors, had volunteered themselves. This is the third and the final phase of Covaxin trial (which includes administration of first and second dose of Covaxin) being carried out. On Saturday, the second and final dose of Covaxin was administered to a batch of 25 volunteers at Prakhar Hospital. Principal investigator for Covaxin at Prakhar hospital, Dr JS Kushwaha, told TOI, “Remaining volunteers, who had received the first shot, will also be given the second dose in the coming days.” He said that it took 17 days for administering the first dose to 1,000 people, and it would take similar amount of time for the administration of second dose. He added that all the volunteers are healthy. Meanwhile, the Subject Expert Committee of Central Drug Standard Control Organization on Saturday recommended Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin for emergency use in India. The final decision on its approval will, however, be taken by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI). Dr Kushwaha expressed his hope that Covaxin would get the final nod from DCGI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/2nd-dose-of-covaxin-given-to-first-batch-of-volunteers/articleshow/80077401.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
January 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Yet another loan app suicide in Telangana, 5th in a month||HYDERABAD: Yet another person killed himself in Hyderabad on Saturday, allegedly after being harassed by collection agents of instant loan financing apps. G Chandramohan, 36, who worked at a warehouse, was found hanging at his home in Petbasheerabad on the outskirts of the city. This is the fifth suicide in Telangana linked to instant lending apps in a little more than a month. In all cases, the victims killed themselves after they were shamed in front of friends and family for defaulting on loans. According to the police, the victims were also being forced to pay extremely high interest rates for the small loans they had taken. They were also forced to take multiple loans from other apps to replay the initial loan, creating a vicious cycle.  “Family members told us that Chandramohan last got a threatening call from the collection agents about 15 days ago,” said S Ramesh, Petbasheerabad inspector. “But he had been depressed all this while because the agents had called up some of the contacts on his phone and told them that the loan had not been repaid. He may have killed himself because he was not able to bear the ignominy.” Although family members didn’t know the amount he had taken as loan, they suspect it was between Rs 60,000 and Rs 70,000. Also, he did not leave behind a suicide note. According to the investigators, Chandramohan had taken the loan about two months ago. When he could not repay it and the collection agents started threatening him, he took a second loan from another app to repay the first loan. Police officials say that soon he found himself in a debt trap, having taken loans from multiple apps. Chandramohan had been counselled by Rachkonda police officials after family members took him to to police station to lodge a complaint some days. But this did not help and he remained depressed. On Friday night, too, his family consoled him fearing he may kill himself. However, when his family members were in another room, he hanged himself. The police have so far registered about 50 cases against companies running instant loan apps and arrested 29 persons, including three Chinese nationals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/yet-another-loan-app-suicide-in-t-5th-in-a-mnth/articleshow/80077515.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Fake marksheet gang was active for 22 years||LUCKNOW: The gang running a degree and marksheet racket unearthed by Special Task Force from Alambagh on Friday was active for the past 22 years and had given fake marksheets and degrees to hundreds of people for jobs and admissions, said officials on Saturday. As many as 342 marksheets and 115 degrees of Lucknow University, eight marksheets of Sampurnanand Sanskrit Vishwavidyalaya, 34 marksheets of MA and 50 blank marksheets of Chhatrapati Shahu Ji Maharaj University, were seized along with eight blank marksheets of Government Polytechnic in Lucknow, and marksheets of various schools and institutes. The officials said the gang charged price for marksheets as per the need of the seeker. DySP, STF, Avnishwar Chandra Srivastava, who is conducting the probe, said the interrogation of the three arrested accused, identified as Sunil Kumar Sharma, Lallan Kumar and Vishwajeet Kumar, has revealed that the gang was active since 1998. “Sunil Sharma, the gang’s mastermind is a retired government employee from Jal Nigam, Lallan worked as a private school teacher, and Vishwajeet was the printer,” said the officer. “The trio used to charge money as per the requirement. If one needed marksheet for a job then they charged from Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh depending upon the post, while for admissions they charged Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000, depending upon the course,” he said. Marsksheets with masters in science were the most sought ones, the officer said. “We are tracing some people who came in their contact and took fake marksheets,” the DySP said. They used to target candidates studying in coaching institutes of tier-two cities and those approaching offices of job consultants. They started the fraud in 1998 when there was huge demand for fake certificates, their business dipped when digitization started in 2014, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fake-marksheet-gang-was-active-for-22-yrs/articleshow/80077884.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Varanasi||UP: Four of family killed as dumper hits their scooter||KANPUR: Four members of a family, including two minors, were killed after the scooter they were riding was hit by a speeding dumper on Kanpur-Delhi highway in Auraiya district on Saturday. The deceased were identified as Raj Gautam (23), resident of Bhikhampur Dayalpur, who worked in a private firm in Gujarat, his sister Preeti (20), and cousins Vijay (10) and Chhaya (12). Raj, along with his sister and cousins, was returning from his relative’s place in Babarpur on a scooter when it was hit by a speeding dumper approaching from the opposite direction at Chiruhali overbridge on Kanpur-Delhi national highway, said police. Auraiya SP Aparna Gautam said that all four died on the spot. The dumper driver was arrested and truck was seized, she said. “The victims had gone to celebrate new year at their relative’s place in Babarpur on Friday. The incident occurred while they were returning to their home in Bhikhampur Dayalpur on Saturday morning,” added the SP. The police, on being informed, rushed to the spot and took victims to district hospital, where doctors declared them brought dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/4-of-family-killed-as-dumper-hits-their-scooter/articleshow/80077426.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Rajkot||UK returnee Rajkot businessman tests Covid-19 positive||RAJKOT: A 35-year-old businessman from Rajkot who had returned from the UK tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. Local health officials have sent his samples for testing at National Institute of Virology, Pune to ascertain if he is infected with the UK strain of Covid-19. Four family members of the businessman have also tested positive for coronavirus. According to the health officials, the businessman had returned from the UK on December 15 and thereafter under home isolation. He developed systems of Covid-19 on December 29 and later tested positive. Four of his family members also tested positive of which two children are asymptomatic. The health officials also traced three close contacts of the businessman and sent them to quarantine facility as a precaution. One of the close contacts of the businessman, who is a resident of Gondal was in Vadodara and had tested positive for coronavirus. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/uk-returnee-rajkot-businessman-tests-covid-19-positive/articleshow/80076683.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat discharged from AIIMS||DEHRADUN: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, who had been admitted at AIIMS Delhi on Monday following a mild lung infection and a fever – complications he developed a week after contracting Covid-19 – was discharged from the hospital on Saturday. The CM will spend a week in home isolation in Delhi before he returns to Dehradun, said his personal physician Dr NS Bisht. Rawat tested positive for the virus on December 18. Being asymptomatic, he was initially in home isolation. A week later, he was admitted to Government Doon Medical College (GDMC) after he developed fever and a chest scan revealed a lung infection. The next morning, he was shifted to AIIMS Delhi along with his wife and daughter, who had also tested Covid-positive along with him. “Doctors at AIIMS Delhi have informed that the CM’s condition is now completely stable and all test reports, including CT scan, chest X-Ray and blood tests are normal. The CM no longer has fever or any other symptoms,” Dr Bisht told TOI. The CM’s wife and daughter were also discharged along with him and will be in isolation for some time. After his cook and some other staffers tested positive for Covid-19, the CM underwent a test as part of contact tracing and it came out positive. In the last six months, the CM has isolated himself several times after ministers, MLAs and senior bureaucrats he came in contact with tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-rawat-discharged-from-aiims/articleshow/80076072.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Chennai||Sustainable marine plan can help catch coastal votes||Chennai: From Killiyoor bordering Kerala in Kanyakumari district to Ponneri in Thiruvallur district adjacent to Andhra Pradesh the fishing community plays a key role in deciding the political leadership in the 38 assembly segments spread across 13 districts along the Tamil Nadu’s coastline. In the past few decades the MGR factor has played a key role in determining coastal votes in the assembly elections. "He got close to our hearts by playing the role of a fisherman in ‘Padagotti’ (1964) and then in ‘Meenava Nanban’ (1977). The fishing community voted for the DMK when he was with that party and switched to the AIADMK after MGR founded the party," said N Devadas, president of Rameswaram Fishermen Cooperative Society and state advisor of Tamilaga Kadalora Meenavar Nala Sangam. The song "Tharai Mel Pirakka Vaithan" from ‘Padagotti’ is still played in the coastal areas when untoward incidents take place or when protests are organised. "Our plight was not so bad back then. But the lyrics are contemporary as the problems we faced are on the rise," said the 62-year-old. Over the years, fishing techniques have changed — from going out to find a catch close to the shore in country boats to mechanised boats that include trawlers and deep sea fishing vessels fishing for days nearly 1,000km off the TN coast, the prospects of earning have increased and with it risks and hardships. For years the clashes with the Sri Lankan Navy has been a matter of heated political debate. Though the problem still persists, a section of the community has realised their fishing practices need a revamp for a sustainable future. The nearly 4,000 trawlers that directly and indirectly support the livelihood of more than 1 lakh families are a cause of concern as their nets have damaged marine life in the region. This has also forced lakhs of smaller boats to venture deeper into the sea in search of fish. The conversion of trawlers to deep sea vessels under the Blue Revolution at 70% subsidy to preserve marine wealth and livelihood of fishermen has not picked up in a big way. While the government estimates the value of a boat at `80 lakh and gives `56 lakh subsidy, the actual cost is around `1.1 crore to `1.25 crore. The fishermen say the government needs to revise the estimate to cover the actuals.In the day-to-day business activities, fixing a minimum selling price for catch is a necessity. "Regulating the price of fish through the government is a must as middlemen enjoy a major share of profits," said P Dickson, a deep sea fisherman from Kanyakumari. The fishermen also want the government to build storage and processing facilities for value addition of products on a par with fruits and vegetables to help them sell fish for a better price. Construction of sea walls to protect coastal hamlets from sea erosion and groynes along with fishing harbours at strategic locations that protect boats from rough seas are among the other major demands.Learning from the experience of the disastrous Cyclone Ockhi in December 2017 that claimed the lives of 204 Tamil Nadu fishermen, the government has taken measures to improve safety of fishermen. To keep them informed well in advance about cyclones through distress satellite phones. These gadgets that cost `1.05 lakh are given at a 75% subsidy to multi-day deep sea fishing vessels, 25W very high frequency devices worth `18,000 are given at a 90% subsidy and 5W versions for smaller boats are distributed by the state for free. This helped fishermen reach the shores safely well ahead of subsequent cyclones, including Nivar and Burevi.Dole to fishermen during the 61-day annual fishing ban has been increased from `500 about a decade ago to `5,000 in a phased manner by the AIADMK government. But fishermen say this is insufficient to run a family and say a minimum of `20,000 is required. The community wants a similar relief during the monsoon when there are alerts to fishermen not to venture into the sea. Working with high debts for boats and fishing gear, the fishermen say every nonworking day costs them thousands. DMK fishermen wing secretary and former Colachel MLA Era Bernard said the DMK partymen are talking to local speakers to highlight the issue of unemployment among coastal youth. "During their tenure as CM K Kamaraj (Congress) and M Karunanidhi (DMK) strived hard for the upliftment of the fishing community through educational and other schemes. Karunanidhi fought to give the Most Backward Community (MBC) status, the reservation has helped many in the community to become doctors and engineers," he said.In 2016, Kanyakumari was the only district in Tamil Nadu where the AIADMK did not win in any of the six assembly segments. Four of the assembly segments have coastal voters and their votes are attributed to the victory of the Congress and DMK MLAs in the district. Cash for votes is another attraction for the economically weak community and is said to play a deciding role towards the fag end.Realising the significance of the coastal votes, parties like the PMK are taking up issues of fishermen of late and are ahead of the two major Dravidian parties in talking about their problems when it comes to attack on fishermen by the Sri Lankan Navy. MNM and NTK too are striving hard to attract coastal voters, especially by targeting the younger generation. It remains to be seen how many of them follow through on their poll promises.Email your feedback tosouthpole.toi@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sustainable-marine-plan-can-help-catch-coastal-votes/articleshow/80074259.cms||M K Ananth
January 3, 2021||Varanasi||CM: Covid-19 vaccination in state from Makar Sankranti||Lucknow: Vaccination for protection against Covid-19 will start in UP around January 14, chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced on Saturday. Speaking at a function in Gorakhpur, the CM added that after a dry run in six districts including Lucknow on January 2, further dry runs in anticipation of the vaccine would be carried out in all 75 districts of the state on January 5. “A dry run for vaccination was carried out in Lucknow on Saturday; on January 5, we will have a dry run in the entire state. Around Makar Sankranti, we will be ready with the vaccine and will be in a position to defeat the biggest pandemic of this century,” the CM said. The CM said that over the past 10 months, Covid-19 had affected everyone. The world’s most developed countries had been inundated with Covid cases. “Look at US, the world’s biggest superpower, and how bad the situation is there. In Britain, where vaccination started, a new strain has created problems and people are heading towards another lockdown. In India, and in UP, under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, we started a programme in March and I can say with confidence that we will emerge from the pandemic very soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-covid-19-vaccination-in-state-from-makar-sankranti/articleshow/80077344.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Vadodara||16th century bird dispensary in Khambhat to get modern facelift||VADODARA/ANAND: Did you know that Gujarat’s coastal town – Khambhat - had a dedicated veterinary clinic to treat birds as early as 1539? It not only served the avian species, but also drew admiration for its work. This is how Italian traveller Pietro dela Valle who had sailed from Venice to India in early 17th century described the bird hospital at Cambay (present day Khambhat). The house of this hospital is small, a little room sufficing for many birds: yet I saw if full of birds of all sorts which need tendance, as cocks, hens, pigeons, peacocks, ducks and small birds, which during their being lame, or sick, or mateless, are kept here, but being recover’d and in good plight, if they be wild they are let go at liberty: if domestick they are given to some pious person who keeps them in his house (sic). However, it’s this iconic premise that is now paving way for an ultra-modern veterinary hospital complex. “Apart from being an ancient seaport and prominent trade hub, Khambhat was also a pioneer in the field of veterinary medicine. At a time when veterinary education was in the early development era around the world, Khambhat had a veterinary clinic to treat birds in the 16th century. It is one of the oldest known veterinary hospitals in the world,” said Dr Snehal Patel, deputy director, animal husbandry department, Anand district panchayat. With the passage of years, the birds’ hospital turned into a veterinary hospital. Interestingly, nobody has a clear idea about the origins of the birds’ hospital but the Italian traveller mentions that it was maintained with “public alms”. “The veterinary hospital at the present premises has been functioning since 1910. The old building was constructed in 1926 and was handed over by Nawab of Khambhat to Gujarat government,” said Patel. Gujarat government’s Department of Animal Husbandry is constructing a new veterinary hospital complex with modern diagnostic and treatment facilities at a cost of Rs 1.20 crore. Chief minister Vijay Rupani will virtually lay the foundation stone for the complex on Sunday from Anand town hall. “The new veterinary hospital building at Khambhat will house all modern diagnostic facilities like x ray, computed radiology system, ultra sound color doppler machine, hematology analyzer, serum analyzer and treatment facilities like modern operation theater with gaseous anesthesia machine,” said Patel. “The state government has disbursed Rs 8 crore for new construction and renovation of veterinary hospitals of Anand district in the past five years,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/16th-century-bird-dispensary-in-khambhat-to-get-modern-facelift/articleshow/80076623.cms||Prashant Rupera
January 3, 2021||Nagpur||One more cub found dead in Karhandla, toll rises to 4||NAGPUR: With one more tiger cub found dead in the same area, the tiger toll in poisoning case has risen to four in Umred-Karhandla-Paoni Wildlife Sanctuary (UKPWS). On Saturday, one more six-month-old cub was found dead in Karhandla. On Friday, a tigress C3 and her two cubs were found dead in compartment number 1415 of Karhandla beat in Umred range of the sanctuary. A half-eaten cattle carcass was also found in the vicinity. Based on circumstantial evidence, accused Divakar Dattuji Nagekar, Navegaon (Sadhu) village bordering the sanctuary was taken into custody on Friday and during interrogation he had admitted that his cow was killed on December 25. During a search, Nagekar found the half-eaten cow near his agricultural field. Enraged over this, he went to Umred and brought insecticide and sprinkled it on the carcass. The carcass of the tigress and two cubs were noticed after six days causing flutter. As per the NTCA protocol, officials should ensure appropriate action to deal with livestock carcasses killed by tigers. In the case of livestock depredation by tiger/leopard, the carcass should not be removed from the site but should be allowed to be eaten in full by the carnivore to prevent a recurrence of such depredation in the area. “A mechanism for incentives to the villagers/informers, livestock graziers for cattle kill may also be developed,” says the SOP. It calls for prompt payment of compensation to the affected people and ensure unobtrusive guarding & monitoring of the kill to allow feeding of the carcass. On Saturday, the carcass of the third cub was also found in nearby bushes. The post-mortem of all the carcasses were carried out as per the NTCA SOP in presence of the field director Ravikiran Govekar, NTCA AIG Hemant Kamdi, PCCF representative Roheet Karoo, DFO Rahul Gawai and veterinary doctors team Chetan Patond, Syed Bilal, & livestock development officer (LDO) Pramod Sapate. Govekar said, “The tigress UPKF4 was a resident of the sanctuary and was about 4-5 years old while the cubs were about 5 months old. The samples were collected for toxicological and DNA tests. The carcasses were incinerated as per the SOP of NTCA. The accused who used to be an illegal grazier in the periphery of the sanctuary admitted that he sprinkled insecticide on the cow carcass out of revenge.” “All the incriminating material including insecticide etc has been seized from his possession. The accused was produced before the JMFC, Umred, who granted one-day forest custody remand (FCR) to him. ACF Ajit Sajne and RFO Ramdas Nimbekar are investigating further. PCCF (wildlife) Nitin Kakodkar also visited the spot and issued necessary instructions. In the last two years, nine tigers died due to poisoning of which six were in Umred-Karhandla sanctuary and three in Chimur range. In the last two years, 40 tigers have died in Maharashtra, which is second highest only after Madhya Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/one-more-cub-found-dead-in-karhandla-toll-rises-to-4/articleshow/80076735.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 3, 2021||Kozhikode||IUML urges SC to declare UP’s ‘love jihad’ law invalid||KOZHIKODE: Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) requested the Supreme Court to take suo motu cognizance of the law on ‘imaginary love jihad’ passed by Uttar Pradesh government and declare ‘the unconstitutional law null and void.’ A resolution adopted at the national secretariat meeting of the party here on Saturday said legal experts have opined that the new law is ‘draconian in its content and deserve to be scrapped because they are causing grave damage to the very spirit and letter of the Constitution’. The meeting appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ‘prevail upon BJP-ruled states to withdraw the law. The law passed by the UP was replicated in Madhya Pradesh and states like Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Haryana and Assam have either enacted or intend to enact such laws, the resolution said. It added that ‘in recent times, Hindutva forces have continuously made mischievous propaganda that interfaith marriages are conspiracies by Muslims to convert Hindu women with the larger goal of expansion of Islam in India’. The resolution said that Muslim youths, their parents and relatives are arrested, chargesheeted and jailed on false grounds in BJP-ruled states. Even qazis and mohalla officials are harassed and taken into custody, it said. The meeting also asked the Centre to restore statehood to Jammu and Kashmir, which was assured by the government while repealing Article 370. It also asked the governments to take strong action against those who indulge in harassment of Muslims in north Indian states. The meeting called for a joint fight by like-minded parties to preserve the genuine fiscal, executive and political autonomy of states in the federal system. It also requested the Sri Lankan government to permit the Muslim citizens to follow their religious customs while burying the bodies of Covid-19 patients. Briefing reporters after the meeting, IUML national secretary E T Muhammad Basheer said the national secretariat gave sanction to the state committee’s proposal to allow P K Kunhalikutty to resign from the MP post to contest assembly polls. Expressing solidarity with the farmers’ protest in north India, IUML will send a delegation to Delhi if the talks on January 4 failed to yield results, Basheer said. IUML state president Panakkad Syed Hyder Ali Shihab Thangal, national president K M Khader Mohideen, P V Abdul Wahab, Kunhalikutty and other leaders attended the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/iuml-urges-sc-to-declare-ups-love-jihad-law-invalid/articleshow/80076086.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Vadodara||Bengaluru taxi driver robbed of vehicle on expressway||VADODARA: A taxi driver from Bengaluru was robbed of his vehicle at the toll plaza of Vadodara-Ahmedabad expressway on Friday. Santosh Shrinivas, who was driving with two passengers, from Bengaluru was pushed out of the vehicle on the highway by the two passengers before they drove away his car. The trio had stopped after crossing the toll plaza to freshen up. According to Shrinivas, the two passengers hired him to go to Daman on December 30. After agreeing on rates, they started from Bengaluru on the morning of December 30 and reached Daman 24 hours later. After spending the day in Daman, they started driving towards Surat. Shrinivas said that the duo did not tell him where they wanted to go and so he kept driving. After crossing Surat, they stopped at a restaurant on national highway-48 for dinner. After finishing dinner, one of the passengers asked Shrinivas to rest as he had been driving for hours. Shrinivas told cops that he trusted them as they bonded well over the journey and the duo paid for his meals as well. Shrinivas stated in his complaint that he woke up around 12.30 am on Friday when the duo had an argument with the toll collector. After crossing the toll plaza, when they stopped the car, the two passengers smoked cigarettes and Shrinivas went to relieve himself in open. Suddenly, the duo pushed him away and fled with the car. Shrinivas came back to the toll plaza to inquire about the place and later went to Chhani police station to lodge a complaint of robbery, criminal breach of trust and criminal conspiracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bengaluru-taxi-driver-robbed-of-vehicle-on-expressway/articleshow/80076697.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat govt promotes 23 IAS officers||GANDHINAGAR: The state government on Saturday promoted 23 IAS officers from three batches. While effecting the promotions, the state government, however, avoided transfers, which are expected to take place after the local body elections in February. Officers of the 1996, 2008 and 2017 batches were promoted on Saturday. Among those of 1996 batch, those who have been promoted from secretary to principal secretary rank are Mona Khandhar, minister (commerce), embassy of India in Japan, T Natarajan, senior advisor to ED,IMF, Washington DC, Rajeev Topno, senior advisor to ED, World Bank, Washington, DC, Mamta Verma, secretary, tourism, civil aviation and Mukesh Kumar, municipal commissioner Ahmedabad. The government promoted 2008-batch IAS officers to selection grade. The officers promoted from this batch include Dhaval Patel, Surat collector, Udit Agrawal, municipal commissioner, Rajkot; Saidingpuii Chhakchhuak, joint secretary, finance department, Supreet Singh Gulati, collector, Patan, J B Patel, collector, Morbi, H K Koya, DDO, Surat; A M Sharma, director (ICDS), M Y Daxini, DDO, Mehsana, D S Gadhvi, DDO, Kheda-Nadiad and D P Desai, registrar, co-operative societies. 2017-batch IAS officers have been promoted to senior time scale. Those who have been promoted are Mainsh Gurwani, assistant collector, Bhuj (Kutch), Ganga Singh, assistant collector, Halvad, Swapnil Khare, assistant collector, Patan, Surabhi Gautam, assistant collector, Viramgam, Mirant Parikh, assistant collector, Kheda, Prashant Jilova, assistant collector, Danta, Gaurav Dinesh Ramesh, assistant collector, Khambhalia, Milind Bapna, under-secretary, urban development department. The government has kept the promotions of the 2005-batch of IAS officers in abeyance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-govt-promotes-23-ias-officers/articleshow/80077594.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Kochi||Kochi: Church declares interfaith marriage invalid||IDUKKI: A three-member inquiry commission under Syro Malabar major archiepiscopal tribunal has declared the interfaith marriage between a Christian and a Muslim, solemnized by the Syro Malabar Church, invalid. The marriage between an Irinjalakkuda-based Catholic woman and a Muslim man based in Kochi was held at St Joseph Church, Kadavanthara, on November 9. Mar Mathew Vaniyakizhakkel, former bishop of Satna, solemnized the marriage. The photograph of the couple with the bishop was published in a newspaper, and it drew criticism from the faithful who slammed church authorities for ‘encouraging’ mixed marriages. Subsequently, Syro Malabar Church major archbishop Mar George Alencherry ordered a probe by major archiepiscopal tribunal. A senior priest belonging to Syro Malabar Church told TOI, “The three-member inquiry commission collected details from the priests and bishops of Irinjalakkuda and Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese and submitted a report to the major archbishop. The report stated that the marriage did not follow Canon law guidelines and found that it was invalid.” The report further stated that there were serious lapses on the part of Fr Benny Maramparambil, vicar of St Joseph Church, Kadavanthara, where the marriage was solemnized, and Fr James Anthiyunthan, the priest of Kuzhikkattussery church, the bride’s parish. The report also stated that Ernakulam-Angamaly and Irinjalakkuda bishops were unaware of the marriage. The report also recommends censuring the two priests. A senior priest connected with Kerala Catholic Bishops Council (KCBC) told TOI, “As per the enquiry report, we will censure the priests whose conduct had lapses. Fr Anthiyunthan had informed the Irinjalakkuda diocese bishop about the marriage. As per the diocese law, the bride and groom should appear before the bishop for marriage permission. But they failed to appear before the bishop and so he did not issue the permission letter for marriage.” “Syro Malabar Church will issue detailed guidelines to priests on how to conduct ‘disparity of cult’ marriages. The recent mixed-marriage row largely affected the church and we will not allow repeat of such incidents. The diocese of the bride failed to adhere strictly to Canon laws,” said a Syro Malabar senior priest. “To validate the marriage, the family members of the bride should submit an application before the Church and the bishop can approve it,” the priest added. According to Canon law ‘disparity of cult’ is a diriment impediment in Roman Catholic Canon law: a reason why a marriage cannot be validly contracted without a dispensation, stemming from one person being certainly baptized, and the other certainly not baptized. Only the diocese bishop has the right to approve ‘disparity of cult’ marriages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/church-declares-interfaith-marriage-invalid/articleshow/80076087.cms||Sandeep Thomas
January 3, 2021||Chandigarh||Submit report of projects to end in March: Chandigarh to departments||CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh administration has written to the heads of different departments to submit a progress report on the projects to be completed by this financial year (2020-21) end. As there is a shortage of budget and many projects have been majorly hit, the UT wants to keep a track on all the important projects in the city and accordingly a budget estimate for the next financial year will be prepared. A senior UT official said they are in the process of preparing the budgetary estimates for the next financial year and this progress report will help them in seeking funds from the Union government. They are expected to submit budgetary estimates by this month end to the Union finance department. After the Union finance ministry’s instructions, the UT administration in this financial year, had decided to keep a check on the budgetary allocation for the projects and to carry out timely completion of important projects and prepare estimates for the next financial year’s budget. The step has been taken as there was a dip in the revenue collection and the report regarding the dip in the GST collection was even submitted in the Lok Sabha, in which Chandigarh had witnessed 29.5% dip in the GST collection in the first five months i.e. from April to August of the financial year 2020-21. The UT finance department had already made it clear to various departments that the office expenses, barring fuel charges, will not be allowed and there will be a complete ban on the LTC. Also, the travelling, dearness and medical allowances will also be released only after approval from the adviser to the Chandigarh administrator. The UT finance department had also earmarked funds for each department of the UT administration and asked them to stick to the same. The department will scrutinise the report on expenses regularly. Against the demand of Rs 5,300 crore, the Union government in February 2020 had allocated Rs 5,138.10 crore budget for the financial year 2020-21 to the Chandigarh administration. While the UT administration was expecting a good hike in the budget for 2020-21, but the Centre had given a hike of only Rs 384.98 crore in comparison to last financial year’s budget. This time, the UT administration was allocated a total of Rs 5,138.10 crore i.e. Rs 4,643.96 crore under revenue and Rs 494.14 crore under capital head, against the demand of Rs 5,300 crore for the next financial year. In the last budget, the administration was allocated a total of Rs 4,753.12 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/submit-report-of-projects-to-end-in-march-ut-to-depts/articleshow/80076094.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Chandigarh||Mohali cops fail to check wrongly parked vehicles||MOHALI: Despite the Mohali traffic police putting up ‘no parking’ banners and also giving warning of towing the wrongly parked vehicles, it seems that the rule does not imply when it comes to people of their own department. TOI team visited Punjab Police’s intelligence wing office in Sector 77, Mohali, and witnessed vehicles parked haphazardly despite the signs. This is the second site in Mohali where vehicles are parked along the divider, leaving less space for the commuters. Despite being a regular problem, which aggravates during peak hours, nothing is being done by the authorities concerned. The first such site where the Mohali police has failed to come up with any alternative is near Vikas Bhawan situated in Sector 62, where wrongly parked vehicles have caused major chaos despite the fact that there is ample space of parking in all buildings nearby. For a stretch of around 250-300 metres, vehicles are parked wrongly on the road in front of the Punjab Police intelligence wing office even though there is vacant land nearby. Harman Singh Sidhu, a resident of Sector 21, Chandigarh, and the president of ‘ArriveSAFE’ had a word with TOI. He said, “This shows the intelligence level of the planners and the users. It would be a good example for the general public if the traffic police should take a step forward and challan their brethren. Banners don’t serve the purpose.” The traffic cops claimed, on the basis of anonymity, that mostly they are busy on VIP routes. “All these cars which are parked wrongly are of the cops who visit this Intelligence office. Despite telling them time and again not to park here, they just don’t listen. Cars are parked along with the divider here and even on the opposite side of the road” said a person on the basis of anonymity. Superintendent of police (traffic) Gurjot Singh Kaler said, “Law is equal for everyone and I have informed all my traffic force that even if my vehicle is wrongly parked anywhere, they have the complete right to challan it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-cops-fail-to-check-wrongly-parked-vehicles/articleshow/80076100.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Residents unhappy as visitors to Sector 8 market cause nuisance||CHANDIGARH: City’s famous Sector 8 market known for its fast food eateries and the ‘gehri’ culture with people showing off their swanky cars, might be a hotspot for most people, but nobody thinks about the difficulties being faced by those living right in front of the market. There are a total of 10 properties in front of the market. TOI contacted some of the residents living about 50 metres away from the market and the only permanent solution they gave to reduce the traffic menace was one-way vehicular movement with permanent barricades in between. “Best solution to reduce this everyday menace is to make sure that the traffic movement is only one way with setting up of permanent barricades in between. During the night, the residents living here are so troubled with the continuous sound of honking as well as other people parking their vehicles in front of the houses. The officials should at least think of the people living here, most of them who are senior citizens” said a resident on the condition of anonymity. The market not only attracts the residents of City Beautiful, but people from the Tricity as well as from neighbouring states visit this market regularly. Starting from the issue of repeated ‘gehris’, which lead to honking as well as people throttling the engines of their swanky cars that creates noise pollution, to people consuming food inside their vehicle and littering the area, leaving a mess behind for the residents. “People in swanky cars come to this market. Most are not locals, but from outside Chandigarh who show off their vehicles. We park our vehicles outside our property. Whenever we come back, every single time some other person has parked at our spot. They then consume food and throw the waste in front of our properties. Many also consume alcohol and aren’t scared of the cops,” the resident added. The residents have been repeatedly telling the fast food joints not to serve food in vehicles parked next to the residential properties and they are free to serve them whenever they park their vehicle in the proper parking. “Waste food material and empty alcohol bottles are a very common sight for us living here in front of our properties,” added the resident. With the waste food items lying on the road, it attracts stray dogs as well, the residents alleged. Maheshinder Singh Sidhu, area councillor, said, “Setting up barricades and one-way traffic movement is the best solution here. People don’t come here to buy anything and only come for ‘gehri’. Traffic policing is also required here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/residents-unhappy-as-visitors-to-sec-8-market-cause-nuisance/articleshow/80076106.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Lucknow||CM trends on Twitter after PMAY feat||Lucknow: After UP became the best performing state in the PM Awas Yojana (Urban), Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath started trending on Twitter on Saturday. Hashtag #Yogiji_number_01 was the top trend on Twitter on Saturday. A government spokesperson said the hashtag started trending in the afternoon and by evening, thousands of supporters used it to “show their appreciation for CM Yogi Adityanath’s work”. “This was a national recognition of quick decision making, hard decisions and visionary approach of the CM who has taken the most populous state of the country to dizzying heights,” he said. “UP has become the best performing state in PM Awas Yojana (Urban). In 2016, under the previous Samajwadi Party government, the state was ranked 26th. Covid management by the Yogi Adityanath government has already won accolades nationally and internationally, including from the World Health Organisation (WHO),” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-trends-on-twitter-after-pmay-feat/articleshow/80077848.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Kochi||Kochi: PM Modi to commission gas pipeline on Tuesday||KOCHI: Giving an impetus to the use of green and cost-effective natural gas in Kerala and Karnataka, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate Kochi-Mangaluru natural gas pipeline of GAIL (India) Ltd to the nation on Tuesday. The project worth Rs 3,000 crore will ensure convenient and uninterrupted supply of affordable fuel in the form of piped natural gas to households, commercial units and compressed natural gas for transportation sector across 10 districts in different geographical areas. This 450km-long pipeline, having a transportation capacity of 12 million metric standard cubic metre per day, will carry natural gas from the liquefied natural gas regasification terminal in Kochi. The pipeline links Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod in Kerala to Mangaluru in Karnataka. The pipeline will offer clean, industrial fuel and feedstock to petrochemical, power and fertilizer sectors while providing an opportunity for multiple gas-based industries to emerge and bring socio-economic benefits to the people. This will create direct and indirect job opportunities, said GAIL director (business development) MV Iyer on Saturday. The project created over 12 lakh man-days of employment during construction, he added. “Considering the difficulties encountered and after amicably overcoming public resistance, project construction was ramped up in 2016 and the entire pipeline could be commissioned. The pipeline is a landmark example of close coordination between Government of Kerala – which brought in several legislative and administrative changes to facilitate faster execution of construction work – and Government of Karnataka that played a key supportive role. Prime Minister’s Office monitored progress and provided necessary guidance in making this pipeline a reality,” Iyer said, adding that laying a cross-country natural gas pipeline in an urbanized, densely populated state like Kerala was an engineering challenge. The 414km stretch in Kerala passes through rivers, streams, fish ponds and even wetlands and this necessitated the use of a special technique called horizontal directional drilling method at over 100 locations. Petroleum and natural gas regulatory board (PNGRB) has awarded implementation of city gas projects in Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod. The joint venture firm selected for project implementation in these districts will start works soon. PNGRB had already awarded city gas project in Ernakulam to Indian Oil Adani Gas Private Ltd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pm-to-commission-gas-pipeline-on-tuesday/articleshow/80075664.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Lucknow||Won’t take Covid vaccine, can’t trust BJP: Akhilesh Yadav||LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday announced that he would not get vaccinated for Covid-19 as he did not trust the BJP. He further added that once SP government was formed in the 2022 assembly polls, everyone would be vaccinated free of cost. Former UP CM’s statement has triggered a row with the ruling BJP lashing out at the SP chief for his comment. While deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya described Akhilesh’s statement as an insult to doctors and scientists associated with the vaccine and demanded an apology, BJP state president Swatantra Dev Singh said ‘BJP vaccines’ have worked wonders to curb corruption and crime. “Dekhiye main to nahi lagwaonga abhi vaccine … maine apni baat keh di … aur who bhi BJP lagaygi, uska bharosa karoon main … are jao bhai … are apni sarkaar ayegi sabko free vaccine lagegi … hum BJP ki vaccine nahi lagwa sakte (I will not get vaccinated as of now … I have said what I had to … I cannot trust the vaccine administered by the BJP … when our government will provide free vaccination … cannot accept BJP’s vaccine)” Akhilesh said. The reply came in response to a media query on his reaction over the dry run of vaccination and if he would ask his party workers and supporters to get vaccinated. Reacting to SP chief’s statement deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said Akhilesh does not trust the vaccine and people of Uttar Pradesh do not trust Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav. “Former UP chief minister Shri Akhilesh Yadavji, by questioning the vaccine publicly you have not only insulted the government but also the doctors and scientists of our country who worked day and night for this vaccine. I expect you to apologise for making such a statement. As a former UP chief minister, you should exercise caution while making such statements,” Maurya said. On SP chief refusing to take ‘BJP vaccine’, state BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh tweeted: “BJP vaccine has been effective in checking corruption and crime, which vaccine are you questioning?” On the dry run for vaccination that was held on Saturday in Lucknow and several other parts of the country, Akhilesh said that the ruling BJP was using the pandemic scare to target the opposition only. He said the government has used the pandemic as a tool to restrict and stop the events organised by the opposition parties in the name of compliance of protocols in place. But such restrictions were not applied for any of the ruling party events. The SP chief said people who believe that coronavirus can be stopped by clapping and beating thalis (plates) are now talking about vaccination. Akhilesh’s statements triggered sharp reactions on the social media which was flooded with reactions from common man and individuals identifying themselves as medical experts who questioned former UP CM for politicising the issue. Later, in a tweet, Akhilesh said that he had full confidence in doctors and scientists, but he didn’t trust ruling BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/wont-take-covid-vaccine-nowcant-trust-bjp-says-akhilesh/articleshow/80077905.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
January 3, 2021||Amritsar||PM should accept farmers’ demands: SAD chief Sukhbir Badal||BATHINDA: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has urged the Prime Minister Narendra Modi to listen to farmers “leaving aside the egoistic approach” and concede their demand. “The Prime Minister must also keep in mind that the farmers struggle is being led by Punjabis and they never concede defeat, which they have already shown,” said SAD chief Sukhbir Badal on Saturday at Takht Damdama Sahib at Talwandi Sabo town of Bathinda after paying tributes to farmers who had died during the protests, so far. The party leadership Prime Minister Narendra Modi terming him ‘ahankari’ (haughty) and impervious to the suffering of farmers, who were braving extreme cold weather conditions agitating peacefully. Addressing a congregation at Takht, Sukhbir said, “Prime Minister Narendra Modi is highly conceited person but he must keep in mind that the Almighty comes to the support of sufferers to break arrogance. When any person starts seeing him as the supreme, his or her end start coming near and same will happen with Modi.” The former deputy chief minister said Modi also must keep in mind that the Punjabis had always been fighting against excesses, be it during freedom struggle or Punjabi state agitation or the Emergency. “Now, again it is Punjabis leading the farmer protest in this chilly weather and over 50 have already laid down their lives. The PM should show statesman like spirit and concede the demands,” he said. Going a step further, former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal said Modi was meeting farmers from various states but had no time to meet those sitting at his doorstep for over a month. “He must come out of arrogance and speak to protesting farmers,” she said, alleging that no minister dared to speak truth before Modi. She claimed that she had “dared but nobody listen to her and she without wasting any time resigned from the council of ministers”. She attacked the political parties that were trying to “spread lies that she had signed anything related to the three agricultural Acts”. She claimed a minister had submitted in Parliament that chief minister Amarinder Singh-led government was in the committee that framed the legislations. “The Congress has not moved a privilege motion against that minister of state till now.” She said out of over 50 farmers who have died so far, 12 are from her parliamentary constituency. Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee president Bibi Jagir Kaur handed over financial assistance to the bereaved families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/sad-urges-pm-to-leave-ego-aside-listen-to-farmers/articleshow/80077603.cms||Neel Kamal
January 3, 2021||Kochi||International arrest warrant will not suffice: Kerala HC||KOCHI: An international warrant alone is not sufficient to extradite a person to UAE, the Kerala high court has held. The UAE government must make a formal request for extradition, it said. The ruling by Justice N Nagaresh came on a petition filed by Rakhul Krishnan of Nooranad, Alappuzha, seeking extradition of Sreejith Vijayan, son of former Chavara MLA Vijayan Pillai, to UAE. The petitioner contended that Sreejith was convicted for not returning a financial aid of 6 million UAE dirhams (approx Rs 11.93 crore) and was sentenced to two years’ imprisonment by a Dubai court. Subsequently, an international arrest warrant was issued by UAE government for Sreejith on May 16, 2018, he said. Alleging inaction by the Indian government in carrying out the extradition, the petitioner sought a court directive for the same. Crime branch’s Thiruvananthapuram range IG had filed a statement in court to the effect that a formal request through diplomatic channels should be sent to the central government for extradition as per Article 5 of extradition treaty. The Centre informed the court that Sreejith cannot be extradited to UAE, and if UAE makes a request his case will be submitted to the competent authority for considering local prosecution in India. “In view of the specific provisions contained in the extradition treaty…an international arrest warrant by itself will not suffice to arrest an accused and extradite him to UAE. For extradition, definitely there should be a request for extradition in writing which should be dispatched through diplomatic channels.,” the court ruled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/intl-arrest-warrant-will-not-suffice-hc/articleshow/80076096.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Court denies bail to Sola Civil doctor in graft case||AHMEDABAD: A special anti-corruption court on Saturday refused bail to Dr Upendra Patel, the in-charge RMO of Sola Civil Hospital, who was arrested by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on corruption charges along with another doctor. The Gujarat high court granted bail to Dr Shailesh Patel, who was in charge of hospital administration, and was also accused of accepting a bribe last month. The trial court has refused bail to Dr Upendra Patel even after the filing of the chargesheet after the district government pleader Praveen Trivedi submitted that he was caught red handed while accepting the bribe and his case is different from his co-accused’s. In October, the two were arrested while allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 8 lakh for sanctioning a canteen bill and for awarding catering contracts. The agency claimed that it had received a complaint from a contractor. The two allegedly demanded a 30% cut on the bill of Rs 1.18 crore, but settled for Rs 16 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-denies-bail-to-sola-civil-doctor-in-graft-case/articleshow/80077611.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Vadodara||70-year-old calls helpline before ending his life in Mahisagar||VADODARA: A 70-year-old man committed suicide in Khanpur taluka panchayat office in Bakor village in Mahisagar district claiming that he was killing himself as he was not getting government aid. The deceased Balvantsinh Charan hung himself to death from the railing of a staircase in the taluka panchayat office. His son Rajendra Charan claimed that the victim had called up the emergency helpline number 112 and said that he was taking the extreme step as he was not getting government aid. Balvantsinh has found hanging from the railing around noon and Rajendra was informed regarding the incident. Rajendra stated in his declaration before the police that after reaching the taluka panchayat office he had come to know about his father calling 112 and then ending his life. A note reportedly written by the victim states that he was a BJP supporter. He also rued the fact that he had made representations to elected representatives, but to no avail. The family of the deceased refused to accept his body demanding action against officials who were responsible for the suicide. Officers of Mahisagar police and district administration had to rush to Bakor and convince the family to accept the body. Sub-divisional magistrate Brijesh Modiya said that the family had accepted the body after the officials met them. He added that the victim had not specified what works were not completed by the administration. “We are looking into the details,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/70-yr-old-calls-helpline-before-ending-his-life-in-mahisagar/articleshow/80076731.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Chandigarh||CSCL gets 3 bidders for Manimajra water project||Chandigarh: The Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) has received three bidders for the 24X7 water supply pilot project planned for Manimajra. Following the move, the CSCL has now started technical evaluation of all the three bidders and those who fulfil the norms, will be considered for the financial bidding. “Since, we have started the technical evaluation of the received bidders, there are some clarifications. All the bidders have been given 15 days to file their reply on the clarifications. Thereafter, the evaluation and the technical committees of the CSCL will finalise the same,” said sources. According to information, since the documentation and other related payments have been made through online mode only, therefore, the employees and officials concerned of the CSCL are evaluating things accordingly. The project costs Rs 160 crore and has two components i.e. capital work and installation of water meter work. According to the records prepared by the CSCL, there are approximately 13,700 water connections for Manimajra and they all will be covered under the said project. Moreover, decreasing the non-revenue water (NRW) or reducing the water leakage from 50% to 15% in the area is one of the most crucial segments of this project. According to the tender documents, after the allotment of the said works, the successful contractor will have to finish the work in one-and-a-half years. Apart from the 24x7 water supply project and laying pipelines in the outer areas, the authority will also lay pipelines inside the houses of the residents so that water contamination can be stopped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cscl-gets-3-bidders-for-manimajra-water-project/articleshow/80076114.cms||Deepak Yadav
January 3, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: In a first, 25,000 taxpayers get ‘smart’ clearance papers||CHANDIGARH: In a first of its kind move, the Chandigarh municipal corporation has issued around 25,000 property tax clearance certificates to taxpayers of the city. All the clearance certificates are system-generated documents developed by the civic body authority. Also, from now onwards, there will be no ambiguities related to the property tax deposit. Earlier, people used to complain that even after depositing the tax amount, they were receiving notices. “Around 80,000 property taxpayers have deposited their full amount and arrears also, we have issued around 25,000 clearance certificates so far and the process is going on to issue all the certificates by the end of this month. All the clearance certificates of the current financial year are being issued to both residential property taxpayers as well as commercial property taxpayers,” said an official. The tax department of the Chandigarh municipal corporation has tied up with the postal department in this regard and thus these clearance certificates are being given through speed posts. As the certificates are being given sector-wise or area-wise, their record is also being updated regularly in the system. The manual work has stopped in order to bring transparency in the system. “Since the data of people falling in the tax ambit has been uploaded in the computerised system, it thus automatically generates the list of the people who have paid tax for the current financial year and who all are pending. Based on the data, the clearance certificates are being issued,” said sources. Earlier, loss of tax receipts, ambiguity in the tax amount and flaws in the documentation were the key issues in the manual working of the tax branch. The matter was raised multiple times during the monthly general house meetings by the municipal councillors that the MC was sending notices for payment of tax. But for people who had already paid their tax amount, but lost the receipts, had nothing to show in manual and ended up paying again. But with computer-generated documents, all these issues will be settled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-a-first-25k-taxpayers-get-smart-clearance-papers/articleshow/80076109.cms||Deepak Yadav
January 3, 2021||Nagpur||No trace of 106 flyers who landed in Nagpur from UK, other countries||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has been successful in tracing 98 out of 204 persons who landed at city’s airport from Europe, Middle East and South Africa. Of the 98 flyers, Covid tests were done on 96. Whereabouts of remaining 106 flyers (52%) are still not known. As per NMC data, two lists of 204 persons who returned from these countries were received from Bureau of Immigration on December 24 and 25. An NMC official told TOI, “The passport of these flyers mentioned Nagpur in the address. The lists had contact numbers but not complete address. Our teams called on all the numbers to find out that 131 flyers were from the city. The remaining 73 are residents of other places. We have sent their names to the respective collector offices,” he said. The NMC has not received any replies from the collector offices and not aware whether flyers were traced and tested, said the official. Of total 131 flyers from the city, tests were conducted on 96. Five of them tested positive. NMC official added, “We exempted two children, one and two years old, from tests as their mothers came negative.” Remaining 33 flyers from city are untraceable, as per NMC officials. “Their numbers are either switched off or not in use. We have written to police stations to trace these persons. They will be tested as soon as their location is known,” said the official. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B had appointed Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) which developed special ward and admitted suspected patients of new variant of Covid-19 virus which had emerged in UK. Three more residents of the city who returned from UK tested positive and have been admitted to GMCH’s special ward as suspected patients of the new virus strain which emerged from UK. But their names were not in the list received by the NMC. Names of a man, his wife and son were in the list of Janjgir in Bilaspur district. Man and son tested positive while wife came negative. Still, NMC traced them and admitted to GMCH’s special ward. One suspected patient on his own disclosed to the NMC about his travel history to UK when tested positive. The NMC with the help of GMCH and IGGMCH sent swab samples of all the positive patients to National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, for genome sequencing. Names of 24 more citizens who returned from these particular countries in last nine days were also not there in the lists sent by Bureau of Immigration. Under a system developed by Radhakrishnan, additional municipal commissioner Sanjay Nipane and medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar, an undertaking is being taken from all flyers whether they have visited these countries in the last three weeks. The 24 flyers were traced in this system and admitted to quarantine centres. As per civic body’s data, out of 24 flyers, 11 tested negative and were kept in quarantine centres for two weeks. They were discharged in last two days. Tests of remaining persons will be conducted. In case of negative report, they will be allowed to leave after one week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-trace-of-106-flyers-who-landed-in-city-from-uk-other-countries/articleshow/80076743.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 3, 2021||World||Pak arrests Lakhvi on terror-funding charges||ISLAMABAD/ NEW DELHI: Pakistan on Saturday arrested 26/11 Mumbai attacks mastermind Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi on terror-financing charges, almost six years after he got bail apparently because local authorities were economical in presenting before court evidence of his role in perpetrating the terror strikes in India. Indian authorities see his arrest as intended more to dodge global terror watchdog Financial Action Task Force's (FATF's) Black List than to bring to justice the LeT commander for the 2008 attacks that left 166 dead. While acknowledging that Islamabad had made significant progress in addressing issues related to terror-financing and money laundering, the Paris-based watchdog FATF had still retained Pakistan on its Grey, or Increased Monitoring, List, in October last year. This was mainly because of its failure to address six important items, one of which related to action against UNSC-proscribed terrorists, in its 27-point action plan to check terror-financing. Pakistan's action against Lakhvi comes ahead of the FATF review of its case next month when the agency will decide whether or not Pakistan had done enough to comply with these six items. Lakhvi's arrest comes at a time FATF wants Pakistan to demonstrate "effective implementation" of targeted financial sanctions against all UN 1267 and 1373 designated terrorists and those acting for or on their behalf. After Lakhvi was held, a spokesman for the Counter Terrorism Department of Punjab province said his arrest was linked to terrorism-financing and not to any specific attack. A case of terrorism financing was registered against him in a police station of CTD in Lahore. Lakhvi is said to have been running a medical dispensary to collect and disburse funds for militant activities, the spokesperson added. Confirming Lakhvi's arrest, Imran Gill, his lawyer, said that his case would be taken up for hearing next week. The UN Security Council sanctions committee has declared Lakhvi as LeT's chief of operations and accused him of being involved in militant activities in a number of other regions and countries, including Chechnya, Bosnia, Iraq and Afghanistan. Indian authorities had claimed that Ajmal Kasab, the lone surviving gunman in the 2008 Mumbai siege, had told interrogators before his execution that the assailants were in touch with Lakhvi. India has long called on Pakistan to bring Lakhvi to trial, but Islamabad always claimed that New Delhi has not provided concrete evidence to try the LeT member. He was first arrested in 2008 but was later released on bail. Lakhvi had been living in an undisclosed location since his release in 2015. There were reports that following his release, he used to meet the Jamaat-ud Dawa chief and mastermind of the Mumbai carnage Hafiz Saeed at headquarters of his outfit in Lahore. Saeed was convicted by a Pakistani court on charges of terrorism financing last year. He denies his involvement in Mumbai attacks. Watch Terror financing: 26/11 attack mastermind Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi arrested in Pakistan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pak-arrests-lakhvi-on-terror-funding-charges/articleshow/80078365.cms||Sachin Parashar
January 3, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Tension erupts as worker’s body found on EICL premises||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: An employee of English Indian Clay Ltd (EICL), who had been agitating for the past five months against the factory lockout, was found hanging inside the factory premises on Saturday. While police suspect it to be a case of suicide, 50-year-old Prafullakumar’s coworkers and family have raised doubts over his death and demanded a probe. According to police, the body was found hanging in the employees’ restroom. It is suspected the death happened sometime between 5pm on Friday and 6am on Saturday. Prafullakumar, from Madhavapuram, near Kochuveli, was a member of INTUC-affiliated English Indian Clay Workers’ Congress (EICWC). He was employed at the Kochuveli unit as a headload worker. Workers were rendered jobless in August last when the company announced a lockout of its Kochuveli and Thonnackal units citing scarcity of china clay. Workers had been staging an agitation in front of the factory ever since. Though the management announced it would open both units after government gave them sanction to mine 20,000 tonnes of china clay, only the Thonnackal unit was reopened. EICWC vice-president Radhakrishnan said it is highly unlikely that Prafullakumar, a father of two, would commit suicide. “A few days ago, Prafullakumar and some other workers had reported they saw the management shifting machinery from the Kochuveli unit in an ambulance. Following that we had locked two gates of the factory, leaving only the main gate open,” Radhakrishnan said, adding that a day ago they noticed one of the gates had been opened. Prafullakumar’s wife Maheswari told the media she did not believe that her husband would commit suicide. Tension prevailed at the factory after workers prevented cops from moving the body. Sub collector M S Madhavikutty reached the spot and held talks with workers following which police could move the body to a morgue. EICL management issued a statement which said that they were deeply saddened by the death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/tension-erupts-as-workers-body-found-on-eicl-premises/articleshow/80076113.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Chandigarh||Modi should not repeat mistake of Indira Gandhi: Dhindsa||Chandigarh: Urging Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led central government to give up its stubborn stance, the Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) said Modi should not repeat the mistake of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, as a result of which many innocent people were killed. SAD (Democratic) leader and Lehra MLA Parminder Singh Dhindsa has urged the government to accede to the demands of the struggling farmers and repeal the anti-farmer laws in the next meeting to be held on January 4. He added that the January 4 meeting would be treated as the last interaction between the government and the farmers. Dhindsa alleged that the sentiments of Punjab had suffered a lot when former Prime Minister Gandhi with her stubborn behaviour used ‘shameful tactics’ to suppress the people four decades ago and as a result many innocents were killed. Therefore, Dhindsa advised Modi to learn a lesson from history and stop attempting to suppress and discredit Punjab by following the footsteps of Gandhi. “For the sake of this country and the farmers, the central government should give up its stubborn and obstinate attitude; to bring an end to the ongoing impasse in the next meeting with farmers,” he added. The Lehra MLA and former finance minister of Punjab further added that it was very unfortunate that the farmers who feed our country were agitating in the severe cold, but the dictatorial central government was neither listening nor seeing the pain of the farmers. Referring to the previous meetings held between the central government and the farmers’ organisations, Dhindsa said till now the Centre had not come up with a meaningful solution to the main issues. He said farmers have full right to the minimum support price (MSP) and they should get it legally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/modi-should-not-repeat-mistake-of-indira-gandhi-dhindsa/articleshow/80077624.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Kozhikode||Sreejith’s posting as CB chief flayed||Kozhikode: Kerala Nadvathul Mujahideen (KNM) Makazudawa has condemned the appointment of S Sreejith, who allegedly tried to sabotage the Palathayi sexual abuse case, as ADGP and the head of the crime branch in the state. The state secretariat meeting of the organization asked the government to make clear as to whom it is trying to appease through the appointment. It also wanted know from the government whether it is sending the signal that LDF is ready to protect the Sangh Parivar. Markazudawa said that the appointment has validated the suspicion that police in the state are making an opportunity for Sangh Parivar to implement its agenda. The Palathayi case will remain a blot for LDF government as child rights commission and women’s commission stood mute witnesses when case was sabotaged and the accused went scot-free, the secretariat said. The meeting congratulated the ruling party and the opposition for passing a resolution expressing solidarity with famers agitating against farm laws. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/sreejiths-posting-as-cb-chief-flayed/articleshow/80076108.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 24 hours after gold heist, armed robbery at grocery store||AHMEDABAD: A day after the Rs 1.8 crore gold heist near the airport, two motorcycle-borne men on Saturday robbed a grocer at gunpoint in Krishnanagar. The robbers fired two rounds in the air from a pistol and robbed Gayatri Traders of Rs 40,000. Police said they have CCTV footage of the robbery which shows the men using handkerchiefs to cover their faces. The owner of the shop, Ramavtar Agrawal of Nikol, was counting cash when the intruders fired the shots and grabbed the money. Inspector J R Patel of Krishnanagar police said the robbers sped away towards the Nikol village road. “We have barricaded the whole area and messages have been flashed to all police stations across the city,” he said. “We have found two blank cartridges from the scene of crime.” According to police sources, the robbery occurred at about 3.30pm on Saturday. Inspector Patel added that while patrolling has been beefed up in the area, a team of forensic experts has been called in to identify the weapon. This is the second armed robbery in the city in the first two days of 2021; the start of the New Year has been embarrassing for the cops. “It is tough to identify suspects when everyone on the roads is wearing masks,” Patel said. “However, we have rounded up a few persons with criminal history from the area and are questioning them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/24-hours-after-gold-heist-armed-robbery-at-grocery-store/articleshow/80077636.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Ludhiana||BJP general secretary hits out at Punjab CM Amarinder Singh for backing farmers||LUDHIANA: BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh on Saturday alleged that Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh was playing with the state’s unity and peace by backing the farmers’ agitation against the three contentious laws. Chugh also claimed that the CM had been trying to save his post from his party juniors, including Congress state chief Sunil Jakhar, former minister Navjot Sidhu, and finance minister Manpreet Badal. Chugh was here on Saturday to participate in a BJP protest rally against Congress government, on Shingaar Cinema Road. “Congress had tied up with urban naxals like CPI and CPI (M) and are instigating farmers against the farm bills. Congress ministers and other leaders are talking about removal of corporates from Punjab. I only want to ask which corporate should go from here. Why these people want to kill industry in the state?” he said. Chugh alleged that there was “total anarchy” in Punjab and the CM had failed in providing safe environment to residents. “Several attacks have taken place on the houses of BJP leaders. BJP state president Ashwani Sharma was the first target and then the most recent attack was on BJP workers in Bathinda who were just commemorating the birth anniversary of former PM late Atal Bihari Vajpayee,” he said. Chugh said a few cops were acting on the CM’s directions. “In his greed to remain in power, the CM has instigated farmers’ protest, but it seems he forgot this fire could spread everywhere and this could spell trouble for him,” he said, adding that BJP would now stage protest rallies in all districts of the state. He added the meeting between Union ministers and farm leaders was scheduled for Sunday, and he would pray it would yield a result. Chugh attacks SAD president Sukhbir BadalBJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh attacked former deputy CM and SAD president Sukhbir Badal, saying that when Punjab was passing through black days, Sukhbir Badal was abroad as his father had sent him there, so he might be unaware of the difficulties faced by Punjabis during those days. He said they were here in Punjab and experienced everything. “BJP will never let Hindu-Sikh bond get disturbed due to a few people,” he added. House was not attacked by farmers: BJP ex-minister Former Punjab minister and BJP leader Tikshan Sud, who also participated in the protests in Ludhiana,said a few people had dumped cow dung outside his house, but there was no attack. “The farmers cannot do such acts. This was done by Dal Khalsa members. In the garb of these farm protests, a separate movement is going on in Punjab which is not good,” he added. Now, BJP to protest for FIR against Bittu BJP state president Ashwani Sharma has announced to stage a protest from January 4 unless the police do not register an FIR against Congress MP Ravneet Bittu for a statement on the farmers’ agitation. He said the protets wouldbe staged in Ludhiana and other cities of the state too. Mahila congress leaders send bangles for BJP leaders The district president of Mahila congress Leena Taparia and other leaders of female wing of Congress have sent the bangles through courier for BJP national, state and district presidents as they have failed in addressing the issues of farmers and other common public. The female leaders said BJP leaders were taking country from democracy to dictatorship where only one person has the right to do mann ki baat while nobody is concerned about public issues. They said such leadership should wear these bangles and sit at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bjp-gen-secy-hits-out-at-capt-for-backing-farmers/articleshow/80077635.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Ludhiana||184 fake emigration agents in Ludhiana police net||LUDHIANA: The Ludhiana police has launched a drive against fraudulent emigration agents, who dupe people on the pretext of sending them abroad, and booked 184 of them in as many as 83 cases. During the drive, the police found that many of the agents did not even have the licence to run an emigration consultancy. Besides, they were operating from rental accommodations, and in some cases, such agents had changed their offices after complaints were lodged against them. Ludhiana has over 300 travel agents, who also claiming to be recruitment agents, who can provide jobs abroad. But, as per the ministry of external affairs records, there are only four authorised recruitment agents in the district. The additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) – headquarters, Ashwini Gotyal, said, “People need to understand the difference between emigration consultants and recruiting agents. The booked people are consultants and many of them are without any licence for the trade, which is issued by the deputy commissioner.” The ADCP said the consultants can only inform people about the process of going abroad, whereas the recruitment agents can help an aspirant in getting visa or work permit. “During the investigation of these 83 cases, we also identified those, who do have licence, but cheat people by concealing facts or giving only half-truths. For example, one of them was taking money from a complainant to send him abroad, though IELTS qualification was a must in that case. He assured to get him a visa, which ultimately he failed to, and the person was duped,” he said. In some cases, the police discovered that travel agents have the licence in one name and are running the agency in another’s. “All such agents use rented properties and once a complaint is lodged against them, they shift their location,” the officer said. Another police official said some people are so keen on going abroad that they would give money without taking any receipts and also not ask for any documents from the agents. How to identify authorised recruitment agent The website emigrate.gov.in has the list of authorised recruitment agents both state-wise and district-wise. Anyone willing to work abroad should visit this website, which also has the address and contacts of the authorised agents. Recruitment agency vs consultancy Visa consultancies, which inform about the process of going abroad, get licence from the deputy commissioners, but to the recruitment agencies that provide work permits, the licence is issued by the protector general of emigrants, ministry of external affairs. The regional office is located in Chandigarh. Consultancies can only guide people in getting a study visa or tourist visa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/184-fake-emigration-agents-in-ludhiana-police-net/articleshow/80075700.cms||Payal Dhawan
January 3, 2021||Agra||Daily cap removed, Taj Mahal sees over 20K visitors||AGRA: Over 20,000 tourists rushed to catch a glimpse of the Taj Mahal on Saturday as the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) lifted the cap on the number of visitors to the monument introduced in the wake of the pandemic. Window ticket sales, too, started on the first New Year day. According to the figures provided by the ASI, a total of 20,190 tickets, including 15,000 of them online, were sold on the first day of 2021 on Saturday, as the monument is closed on Fridays. On December 18, the central government had removed the cap on the number of visitors to the centrally protected monuments maintained by ASI across the nation. A revised Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) mentioned the sale of physical tickets to these sites may be resumed but per day figure would be decided by the superintending archeologist concerned in concurrence with the respective district magistrate. In a joint decision, Agra circle’s superintending archeologist Vasant Swarnkar and DM Prabhu N Singh had increased the daily limit on the number of visitors to the monument to 10,000 on December 18 and further to 15,000 on December 27, but the ticket counters remained closed. Earlier, the entry of only 5,000 daily tourists was allowed when the monument was reopened for visitors on September 21, after 188 days of closure due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Citing the reason of increasing daily limit gradually, the ASI official said that they did not want anyone to return without seeing the Taj Mahal due to non-availability of online tickets. “Initially, we had doubled the number to 10,000 hoping that no one would be disappointed. But due to black marketing of tickets, tourists had to face problems,” said Swarnkar, adding that the problem was not solved even after increasing the number to 15,000. Hence, the cap was completely removed, he added. Swarnkar told TOI, “Though there would be no cap on offline tickets, the ticket windows would open once online tickets, capped at 15,000, are all sold.” Asked about Covid norms amid crowding, Swarnkar said, “We have warned the tourists guides to follow rules. If anyone is found without a mask in their group, they will be fined.” He said that the ASI staff members are continuously pointing out to visitors to follow Covid guidelines, not remove their mask and maintain social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/daily-cap-removed-taj-mahal-sees-over-20k-visitors/articleshow/80076105.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 3, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Cheaper LPG may help the fight against pandemic, says PGI study||CHANDIGARH: Linking the supply of ‘costlier’ LPG during the lockdown and the spread of coronavirus infection, a study by PGI scientists has recommended reducing the price of the clean fuel to prevent insufficient access to clean energy, especially in the rural areas, which may aggravate the Covid-19 situation. In the study, published in a high-impact journal — Environment International, the researchers have reasoned that exposure to solid biomass fuels is associated with respiratory problems, such as reduced lung function and increased prevalence of respiratory symptoms, that could lead to exacerbation of respiratory diseases. “While the exact relationship between the exposure to air pollution and Covid-19 is not known, some evidences indicate that the areas in the US with higher air pollutant levels saw higher rates of Covid infection,” said Dr Ravindra Khaiwal, corresponding author, department of community medicine and school for public health, PGI. The study mentions that in June this year, when ‘Unlock 1’ was announced, the rates of LPG cylinder were hiked nationwide after a consecutive price cut for three months. “This will likely slow down the uptake of clean fuels. While transiting to clean fuel, price hikes should not punish the poor,” said Dr Khaiwal. Even though during the economic slowdown in Covid-19, a relief package for free refilling of clean fuels was announced, considering the low financial stability of marginal households to afford clean fuels and to reduce the burden associated with air pollution, “solid biomass fuels could not be entirely replaced by clean cooking fuels by just providing aid for three months”, mentions the study and adds, “Governments can embark upon this issue by making the provision of clean cooking fuels as part of their standing emergency response plans.” Citing the instance of the Ghana government, which offered clean fuel at subsidised costs for the poorest consumers and also a 50% discount to other consumers, the researchers recommend such initiatives to address long-term challenges. “Therefore, we recommended the creation of additional, targeted subsidies for at least a year following Covid as the employment scenario and the Indian economy recover. The cost of the LPG should be reduced as inferred,” said Dr Khaiwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cheaper-lpg-may-help-the-fight-against-pandemic-says-pgi-study/articleshow/80076116.cms||Shimona Kanwar
January 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Cross-complaints filed after collision in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Vibha Desai, 43, of Sabarmati, having a travels office at Titanium Center in Prahladnagar has lodged a complaint against two persons — Charmi Sanghvi and Abhilaksh Shah of Shivam Apartment in Satellite — on Friday alleging that while she and her partner Sanjaykumar Nisad, also from Sabarmati, were travelling from Sabarmati to their office in their SUV, Sanghvi’s car crashed into backside of their SUV when they braked. Desai said she had braked their SUV as the car in front of them had suddenly stopped. The incident had happened on Chimanbhai Bridge. The complainant has alleged that despite signalling the Sanghvi to stop her car, she fled from the scene and they had to chase and stop her near Hotel Fortune Landmark. “Here, Sanghvi, opened the window of her car and abused them, and then called up her relative.”In a short while, Shah came to the spot and started beating Nisad. Nisad lost his gold chain,” said a senior police official from Vadaj police station. According to police sources, as Desai called up the police control room, a team of Vadaj police station rushed to the spot. “Sanghvi has also lodged a cross complaint against Desai and Nisad of abusing and beating Shah,” said a Vadaj police official. All four have been booked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cross-complaints-filed-after-collision/articleshow/80077667.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Salary hike: Rs 8,000 crore burden on exchequer||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s decision to hike the salaries of over 9.36 lakh employees is likely to put an additional burden of Rs 8,000 crore per annum on the state exchequer if the government agrees to give over 40% fitment to the employees. It cost Rs 6,500 crore per annum to the government in 2015 when 43% fitment was extended to nearly five lakh employees, including pensioners. Now, the CM has announced salary hike for 9.36 lakh government, contract, outsourcing and all category of employees, including pensioners. On the other hand, the government is likely to save Rs 2,000 crore to Rs 3,000 crore per annum by increasing the retirement age of employees as it would not have to pay gratuity and other retirement benefits. Though a lot would depend upon how much fitment the pay revision commission (PRC) would suggest, the report of which is likely to be submitted in a day or two, the employees are expecting the CM to be magnanimous this time too as the revision is being done after a gap of two-and-a-half-years. The PRC had recommended 29% fitment in 2015 but the CM gave 43% to the employees as a reward for their role in the Telangana statehood agitation. As per tradition, the CM holds a meeting with leaders of various employees’ unions wherein they put forward their demands including the percentage of fitment. Union leaders said they were expecting the CM to call them for a meeting in a day or two. They would also be meeting the chief secretary-led committee in the first week of January, as directed by the chief minister. Before the pandemic, the joint action committee (JAC) of all categories of employees had demanded 63% fitment in representations submitted to the PRC and also the CS. However, the employees are unlikely to insist for 63% fitment keeping in view of the financial position of the state. Telangana non-gazetted officers’ association president and JAC leader M Rajender told TOI that they understand the financial condition of the state but would definitely like to place before the government what they deserve keeping in view of the increase in prices of all essential commodities in the last two-and-a-half-years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/salary-hike-rs-8000-cr-burden-on-exchequer/articleshow/80076785.cms||Roushan Ali
January 3, 2021||Kozhikode||Kerala: Muslim League launches campaign against ‘dangers’ of Communism as anti-religion||KOZHIKODE: Cornered after the defeat of UDF in local body elections, IUML started a campaign to ‘educate the cadres and sympathizers about the dangers of Communism, which is essentially anti-religion ideology’. Though such posters were galore in social media, the move gained an official form with the publication of a series of articles on ‘Religion and Marxism’ in Chandrika daily written by IUML state secretary M K Muneer. The continuing series is intended to ‘expose the designs of the materialists to attract the believers first and convert them into atheists in course of time’. In the second part of the series, Muneer said that Communist leaders’ participation in traditional Muslim festivals in Kerala should be seen as part of the strategy. “They (Communist leaders) keep a hidden agenda while attending the recitation of Mouleeds or erecting the welcome gates for their conferences in the name of Umar Khazi and Makdoom Thangal or participating in memorial meetings of Moinkutty Vaidyar,” he said in the article. Muneer alleges that the Communist government appoints certain Muslims in bodies like Waqf boards to propagate atheism. This will ultimately result in the creation of ‘irreligious Waqf boards, khazis and mukris’. In the fourth article in the series, Muneer said that Communists are basically against Christianity. Quoting from incidents in the erstwhile Soviet Union, the IUML leader said there was a systematic move to wipe out the religion in Communist countries. It may be recalled that UDF, especially IUML, was disturbed to see the Christian community slowly shifting towards LDF as is evident in the result of elections to local bodies. Other Muslim preachers have also criticized the Marxist ideology from Islam’s point of view. Though such efforts are not directly related to the IUML project, they are being utilized for furthering the cause undertaken by the party. Salafi preacher Musthafa Thanveer has started a series on Marxism as part of his series ‘Philosophy Café’ appearing in Profound TV. “My attempt is not immediately related to any political move because it was envisaged much before Muneer’s article,” Thanveer told TOI. He said there is no doubt that Marxism as an ideology of atheism is antithetical to Islam. “A Muslim cannot be a member of the Communist party. At the same time, being part of a broad alliance will be determined by circumstances,” he said. Thanveer said Muslim organizations should be able to exert pressure on the Communist parties in deciding their policies and not vice-versa. Another Salafi preacher Sirajul Islam Balussery has come up with a video saying that Communism is not just irreligious but anti-religion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/muslim-league-launches-campaign-against-dangers-of-communism-as-anti-religion/articleshow/80076126.cms||Prashanth M P
January 3, 2021||Agra||UP: Woman found with throat, face slit at home||AGRA: A 32-year-old woman was found lying in a pool of blood with her face and throat allegedly slit by a sharp-edged weapon at her home under Shikohabad police station in Firozabad on Saturday afternoon. The accused left home after closing the main gate from outside. The deceased woman’s husband, an e-rickshaw driver, filed a complaint against a local construction labourer who often visited his home. Married 13 years ago, the couple had no child. They were living at a house in Nagla Handal locality under Shikohabad police station. On Saturday, when the woman’s husband returned home from work around 12:30pm, he found the main gate locked from outside. He claimed that he found his wife lying in a pool of blood when he entered the house. Her throat and face were slit. On getting the information, superintendent of police (rural) Rajesh Kumar, along with his team, arrived at the crime scene and collected forensic samples. Body was sent for postmortem. According to the deceased woman’s husband, a local construction labourer used to visit the couple’s home when the former went for work. He alleged that his wife was having an illicit relationship with the labourer. Last week, both the men indulged in a fight when the woman’s husband raised questions over labourer’s relationship with his wife. Based on details provided by the woman’s husband, police team raided the accused’s house but he was absconding. Shikohabad station house officer Sunil Kumar Tomar said, “Based on the complaint received from the deceased’s husband, a case has been registered against the accused under IPC section 302 (punishment for murder). He will be arrested soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/woman-found-with-throat-face-slit-at-home/articleshow/80076118.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 3, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s BKU (Ugrahan) making its presence felt in Haryana||Bathinda: Farm organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), the biggest from Punjab, has started making its presence felt in Haryana. And the farm organisation is aiming to capitalise on the bonhomie being shown by farmers from Punjab and Haryana particularly. On Saturday, it started the three-day long tractor march from Tikri to Shahjahanpur and back. The nearly 1,000 tractors in the convoy passed through 15 villages before stopping for night near Rewari toll plaza. While the 31 farm organisations after talks with the central ministers on December 30 had postponed its proposed tractor march on December 31, the BKU (Ugrahan) had announced a massive tractor march for three days from January 2. On January 1, other farm organisations also announced the tractor march on January 6 if talks with government on January 4 fails to yield positive results. The sources told TOI that the BKU (Ugrahan) is in touch with farmers from Haryana villages around Bahadurgarh, where the union activists are sitting on Rohtak road. They may also set up the units of the farm organisation. BKU (Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan said as the central government not seem serious to concede demands of farmers, they decided to go ahead with the tractor march to mobilise more people and further intensify the protest. “The tractor march got massive response as over 1,000 tractors participated in the march and residents of Haryana villages accorded warm welcome to those in the march by raising slogans with clenched fists,” he added. The photos of Bhagat Singh, his uncle Ajit Singh, deceased farm leaders Sadhu Singh Takhtupura and Pithi Singh Chak Alisher were an added attraction for Haryana residents as they evinced keen interest to know about them. The farm activists braving rain and chill continued the protest, said BKU (Ugrahan) state secretary Shingara Singh Mann.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjabs-bku-ugrahan-making-its-presence-felt-in-haryana/articleshow/80077664.cms||Neel Kamal
January 3, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Will vote against BJP-JJP alliance in case of floor test’||Chandigarh: Independent MLA from Dadri and head of Sangwan khap panchayat Sombir Singh Sangwan on Saturday said he shall vote against the BJP-JJP alliance in case the alliance was forced to face floor test on the issue of farmers agitation and three farm laws. Notably, the Congress has asked the governor to convene special session to bring no trust move against the BJP-JJP alliance. Sangwan, while addressing the media persons here, also questioned the stand of four MLAs, who had expressed solidarity with farmers last month and later they retracted from the commitment “We represent the public as well as biggest khap of the state. We had wholeheartedly supported the alliance candidate in Baroda bypoll. We do not need any office of profit as we are in politics to serve people. Hence, I gave up chairmanship of Haryana Livestock Board. Now, our focus is on supporting farmers. We shall take the fight to logical end,’’ Sangwan said while addressing media persons here. Notably, JJP MLA Jogi Ram Sihag and Sombir Sangwan, who had withdrawn support from the BJP-JJP alliance, had coordinated the meeting of independent MLAs supporting the alliance. Later the MLAs Randhir Singh Gollen, Rakesh Daultabad and Nayan Singh Rawat had expressed solidarity with the government, while expressing sympathy for agitating farmers. Notably, Sangwan also flayed the government for making a foiled attempt of creating the divide among farmers through SYL. “Farmers as well as the entire nation owe it to Punjab and our brethren. The government has tried to create a divide by bringing this issue up, As far as river water share is concerned, this is the job of the Union government. Supreme Court had initially asked the BRO to construct the canal in six months As BRO backed out, the PWD B&R was asked to do this,’’ said Sangwan, Sangwan also lauded the role of khaps in strengthening the agitation. “Whether the freedom struggle or farmer issue, khaps had been on the forefront. Even this time, though Punjab farmers had taken the lead, but now farmers from Haryana too have joined in,’’ he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/will-vote-against-bjp-jjp-alliance-in-case-of-floor-test/articleshow/80077671.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Chandigarh||Deepender visits farmers’ protest at toll plaza in Yamunanagar||Yamunanangar: Indian National Congress (INC) Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda on Saturday visited Yamunanagar, where he met the farmers sitting on protest at toll plaza near Milk Majra and Bhamboli villages on national highway (NH) 344 and expressed his solidarity with them. Deepender said the Centre government should leave its stubbornness and repeal the three agriculture-related laws with immediate effect. While talking to media, Deepender said, “The farmers never demanded any such laws and the government should not take accepting their demands as its defeat.” Later Deepender visited the houses of Congress leaders Brijpal Chhappar, former MLA Subhash Chaudhary and Radaur MLA Bishan Lal Saini. Speaking at the farmers’ protest at toll plaza, Deepender said, “We stand with the farmers and every citizen of the country should also support them. I have decided not to celebrate my birthday, which falls on January 4, until the farmers win their fight against three agriculture laws,” said Deepender. Deepender demanded that the farmers, who were martyred while protesting against the Centre’s laws, should be given the status of martyrs by the government and their kin should be given a government job and financial help. “If Haryana government fails to do so now, we will do this after forming our government in the state,” he added. According to him, Congress MLAs are demanding a no-confidence motion in Haryana. “For this, 31 MLAs had sought time to meet the governor under the leadership of Bhupender Hooda. But the governor refused to meet. The governor should not have done so. There must have been a compulsion or the pressure of the government. About the pressure only he can tell, but the governor should make time to meet these MLAs immediately. And the session of the assembly should be called, so that it can be ascertained that who is with them on the issue of farmers and who is with the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/deepender-visits-farmers-protest-at-toll-plaza-in-yamunanagar/articleshow/80077695.cms||JK Singh
January 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Take up promotion of all cadres in secretariat & districts, says Somesh||Hyderabad: Chief secretary Somesh Kumar on Saturday requested all the secretaries and heads of the departments to immediately take up promotion of all cadres in the secretariat and districts immediately and complete the exercise by the end of this month. He asked the officials to ensure that not a single promotion gets delayed. The chief secretary extended greetings to all the employees working in the state while participating in new year celebrations by cutting cake at BRKR Bhavan. He appealed to all the employees to work with more enthusiasm to achieve the goals set by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao for the welfare of people and development of the state. With just three months left for the current financial year to end, the chief secretary instructed the officials of excise, commercial taxes departments to put in more efforts and achieve greater tax realisation for the state government. Employees of commercial taxes and excise departments had called on the chief secretary to extend new year greetings at BRKR Bhavan on Saturday. Somesh Kumar congratulated officials of both the departments for working together as a cohesive, well-knit team to help secure high revenue for the state. Somesh Kumar pointed out that the state government took a historic decision by creating 131 posts in different categories and sanctioning 14 new prohibition and excise stations in the excise department. Similarly, around 161 posts were created in different categories and sanctioned 18 new commercial taxes circles in the commercial taxes department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/take-up-promotion-of-all-cadres-in-secretariat-districts-says-somesh/articleshow/80076791.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 3, 2021||Kochi||‘The virus put truth back into business’||I see 2020 as a year of opportunities. The world had seen far worse pandemic, a century ago, in the form of Spanish Flu, yet the humankind had bounced back, as if 1% of global population didn’t die. Covid, comparatively, is less fatal. Yet, I have a feeling that Covid’s impact is going to be much more than it is more lethal ancestor. Covid came at a time when fake news and post-truth were having a merry time. The virus put truth back into business. With much-discussed, mass-tested, peer-reviewed making of anti-virus vaccine, science took centre stage. In a world which was dominated by memes and other perception-altering ephemera, time-consuming journeys of vaccines through several stages, enjoined humanity with reality once again. Also, there was data. Still, there is daily wait for headline figures of infected people and deaths. Data, far from being something to be manipulated, became a matter of life and death. At the mundane level, from the drop in number of attendees at marriages and funerals to extinction of made-up bonhomie over beverages, could be transient, but online schooling and meetings seem to be here to stay. Finally, 2020 is taking a curtain-call, but the virus isn’t; that’s the sad coda of the year that went by.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/the-virus-put-truth-back-into-business/articleshow/80058689.cms||NS Madhavan
January 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||5 arrested for jewellery grab||Ahmedabad: In less than 24 hours, Meghaninagar police cracked the case for the New Year’s Eve robbery of gold jewellery worth Rs 1.78 crore and arrested five persons. Those held are Shakti Deval, 25, an employee of another courier company; his cousins Jaydeep Deval, 26, and Ravindra Vaghela, 28, of Limbodra village in Gandhinagar; Kundansinh Vaghela, 25, and Krunal Kavandar, 28, both from Meghaninagar. Police have recovered all of the booty from the house of Jaydeep and Ravindra in Limbodra. The robbery was committed at about 3.25am on January 1 while police had put up a 4,000-cop bandobast, and 27 packages containing gold jewellery was robbed from two couriers. Deputy commissioner of police (Zone 4) Rajesh Ghadhiya said Shakti Deval was the mastermind of the robbery. “He took his cousins Jaydeep and Ravindra in confidence and they roped in Kundansinh and Krunal, who also worked earlier for courier making salaries of about Rs 15,000 a month. “Shakti knew that the couriers used the route from behind the Air Force Station in Meghaninagar to deliver their parcels to the Air Cargo complex and laid watch early on Friday morning. Shakti, Krunal and Kundansinh waited at the spot with sticks and robbed Vidhyadhar Sharma, 35, and Jagdish Chaudhary. They were injured in the robbery. “Sharma was hit with a stick on his hand while Jagdish was struck on the head,” said an official of Meghaninagar police. “They were taken to Civil Hospital. Sharma runs two courier companies in partnership with one Suresh Chaudhary. Their main offices are in Rajkot but they collect parcels from Ahmedabad and deliver them across the country,” said Inspector J L Chauhan of Meghaninagar police station. Chauhan added that they have also recovered the car used by the robbers to go to Gandhinagar after the robbery. “We are now hunting for the motorcycle on which the three robbers had fled after robbing the couriers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/5-arrested-for-jewellery-grab/articleshow/80077694.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Bishop Poola Anthony to take charge today||Secunderabad: Bishop Poola Anthony will be installed as the new Metropolitan Archbishop of Hyderabad at St Mary's High School grounds in Secunderabad, on Sunday. On the occasion, a pontifical high mass will be celebrated by 12 bishops from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Bishop Poola Anthony will be received by clergy and faithful of Hyderabad as he enters into the city from Kurnool. The Holy Mass will commence at 4.30 pm. The principal element of the installation is the Eucharistic celebration. Bishop Thumma Bala will be part of the pontifical high mass. Most Rev. Thumma Bala will formally hand over the key of St. Joseph’s Cathedral to the new archbishop. Most Rev Poola Anthony will then take over the leadership of Catholic Church in the Metropolitan Archdiocese of Hyderabad as fifth archbishop. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bishop-poola-anthony-to-take-charge-today/articleshow/80076824.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Agra||17 new Covid +ve cases in Agra, district tally 10,272||Agra: At least 17 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Saturday evening, taking the district tally to 10,272. The patients included two staffers of the SN Medical College. A total of 10 people were found positive in the random testing conducted by the health department. Also, 21 Covid patients were discharged on Saturday. Out of the 10,272 cases reported in the district, 96.8% have been declared cured of the infection and discharged. The number of active Covid cases reduced to 154 on Monday. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “The sample positivity rate has reduced to 2.3%. So far, 9,948 people have recovered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/17-new-covid-ve-cases-in-agra-district-tally-10272/articleshow/80076125.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Rajkot||Three held for cheating 4,000 of Rs 60 crore in Rajkot||RAJKOT: Rajkot police on Saturday arrested three office bearers of a cooperative society accused of siphoning Rs 60 crore belonging to its 4,000-odd members. Those arrested included Sanjay Dudhagra (48), chairman of Rameshwar Sarafi Sahkari Mandli; Gopal Raiyani (74) its vice-chairman and Vipul Vasoya (34) its manager. Police said that the accused were running the cooperative society for the last six years. They used to lure small investors by promising a higher return on investment in a short time. According to police, the accused took deposits of various amounts from people by promising them higher returns. The investors were offered monthly, quarterly and yearly investment schemes. They made 4,200 members from Rajkot city, Padadhari taluka and from Kalawad and Jamjodhpur talukas of Jamnagar. A complaint against all three was registered on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-held-for-cheating-4000-of-rs-60-crore/articleshow/80076770.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Youth stabbed to death, one held in Ahmedabad's Meghaningar||AHMEDABAD: A 24-year-old youth, Ghanshyam Rajput, a resident of Defence Colony in Meghaningar, was stabbed to death on Friday, allegedly by Rinku Rahedas and his friend Chetan Rahedas, also residents of Defence Colony after a fight erupted at a local snacks stall. The incident happened on Friday. Inspector J L Chauhan of Meghaninagar police station said that they have held Rinku and are searching for Chetan. “Rinku has been sent for a pre-arrest Covid-19 test,” he added. According to the complaint lodged by deceased’s friend, Devendrakumar Rajput, 31, on Friday afternoon when and his friends were standing near Gayatri School, Ghanshyam came their and told them that Rinku and some other friends had gone to have snacks at a nearby stall. “According to the FIR, Ghanshyam and Rinku had a fight at the stall and Ghanshyam slapped Rinku three of four times and came away,” said Chauhan. “Rinku and Chetan then came to where they were standing, and without saying anything Rinku pulled out a knife and stabbed Ghanshyam in the chest and the two of them fled,” Chauhan said. Police sources said Ghanshyam was rushed to Civil Hospital for treatment where he died in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/youth-stabbed-to-death-one-held/articleshow/80077703.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Hyderabad||MoD plan likely to ease pending projects in Cantt||SECUNDERABAD: Equal value infrastructure (EVI) initiated by the Ministry of Defence (MoD), may ease Telangana government’s long pending projects proposed in the Secunderabad Cantonment. According to the MoD’s new policy decision, the local military authority (LMA) can accept equal value infrastructure proposal for armed forces in lieu of their defence land, procured by either the state government or agency concerned. Defence sources told TOI that they received official orders regarding a new amendment of equal value of infrastructure from the Director General Defence Estates (DGDE), under the MoD, recently. This new policy decision has raised hopes in LMA and the state government administration. Though a series of meetings between defence authorities and Telangana state government officials continued, till date, both parties did not come to a conclusion on the transfer of defence land. Nearly 100-acre defence land is required for two skyways--SP road-Shamirpet Rajiv Rahadari and Paradise circle-Kandlakoya and another 50-acre land for alternative roads, proposed in the wake of road closure problem. “When we urged the defence authorities to transfer their 150-acre defence land to take up two public infrastructure projects — build two skyways under SRDP and build two alternative roads, they put forth a demand to pay the equal value in lieu of transfer of the defence land. Approximately, the present market value of the 100-acre defence land is about Rs 700 crore,” a senior HMDA official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mod-plan-likely-to-ease-pending-projects-in-cantt/articleshow/80076819.cms||Sunil Mungara
January 3, 2021||Kochi||Gold theft: Cops on the lookout for culprits||KOCHI: Elamakkara police are on the lookout for the robbers who broke into a house at Puthukalavattom and decamped with gold worth over Rs 11 lakh. According to sources, police have retrieved two fingerprint impressions from the crime scene and are in the process of analysing the same. Details of history-sheeters are also being compiled. Officers said absence of CCTV cameras in and around the house has proven to be a barrier but they are confident on getting to the miscreants soon. Police said the incident must have happened early on Friday. “The house owners had gone to a relative’s place in connection with a wedding for two days. There were no signs of a break-in on Thursday evening. The house was found broken-in the next morning,” said a senior officer. Police said the accused broke open the backdoor to enter the house and then broke open the shelf. They then found the key to the locker from the shelf and opened it to find the gold. It was the neighbours who informed the police about the theft. Earlier, dog squad and forensic experts had collected evidence from the scene.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/gold-theft-cops-on-the-lookout-for-culprits/articleshow/80076124.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||SIT books six for death of boy who was sent to remand home in Shahpur||AHMEDABAD: The special investigation team (SIT) formed to investigate the death of a 17-year-old boy at the Children’s Protection Home in Shahpur on October 27, has filed an FIR against six persons, including a police constable. Those accused are constable Rudhirajsinh Zala of Isanpur police station; Jayanti Solanki, a private person from Isanpur who had allegedly assaulted the boy; the in-charge superintendent of the home, Mehul Patel; and guards of the home Azazkhan Pathan, Mansukh Gabhadiya and Alpesh Parmar. They have been charged under Sections 304, 323 and 114 of the IPC. Additional commissioner of police, Sector 2, Gautam Parmar, said the arrests will be carried out soon. According to the FIR lodged by SIT member PSI P K Gohil, the investigation showed that the teenager, a resident of Isanpur, had a fight with Jayanti Solanki on October 11, and Solanki had him with a stick on his neck. “An FIR was lodged at Isanpur police station over the altercation. The officer in charge of Isanpur police chowky summoned the teenager and produced him before the juvenile court, which sent him to the Children’s Protection Home in Shahpur,” said Parmar. According to the FIR, on October 27, the teenager’s health deteriorated and he was sent to Civil Hospital but died at 8.24pm that day. “The postmortem report stated that the teenager had prenumonia, sepsis at the back of his head and had developed septicemia. This caused his heart and breathing to fail,” said an SIT member. The FIR states Zala , on October 22, had slapped him and hit him with a stick on the soles of his feet. “When he was sent to the protection home, in-charge superintendent Mehul Patel and the three guards were negligent in their duty,” said Parmar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sit-books-six-for-death-of-boy-who-was-sent-to-remand-home/articleshow/80077712.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana MC schedules meeting for maintainance of parks||LUDHIANA: After a long gap the municipal corporation is giving a chance to the park management committees to highlight the issues being faced by them while handling the maintenance of the parks. For this purpose a meeting has been scheduled for January 3 at Guru Nanak Bhavan here. The civic body officials are sending personal invites to the park management committee members and two members from each committee have been invited for their participation. The civic body authorities claimed that it would help in removing the hurdles being faced by the park management committees and parks could be developed properly. The MC has 850 public parks in the city and over 600 parks are being handled by the park management committees. Before calling this meeting, the civic body officials also visited some of the parks and got videography done in the parks being developed beautifully. Dr SB Pandhi from Partap Colony park management committee said, “It is a good step taken by the civic body if they want to give us a chance to speak in this regard and we are also ready with our suggestions for the betterment of parks. First of all, we want to raise the issue that the civic body only constructs the boundary walls and installs the grills in the name of park development, which is not enough.” He said when they had developed a park they spent Rs 2.75 lakh on its overall development that came from residents’ contribution or from their pockets. He said the civic body should increase the amount they were getting for maintenance of these parks. He said secondly, the civic body had shortage of gardeners and they had to spend money from their pocket to pay the gardeners. “Earlier, there used to be competitions of park management committees to judge development of parks, but even those competitions were not taking place now. We will request the authorities to organise these events so as to encourage the park management committees for better results,” he said. Meanwhile, Dr APS Mann from Goodwill Park in BRS Nagar said, “The funds are a major concern for the park management committees because only a few residents who are actively participating in the development of parks contribute a little, while the rest hardly show concern for the same. Moreover, sometimes the park management committees are facing grudges of other residents when they seek permission to organise private functions in the public parks, but park management committee members deny as the MC has asked them not to allow any type of functions in the parks.” He said it was good initiative if they were given a chance to raise their issues. NP Singh from Neelimohar Park in BRS Nagar said, “Though we will take up the major issues in the meeting only, but here I can say the park management committees do not get a free hand to take decisions like last year,S the wild growth of trees was not trimmed and when we started doing that somebody from the area complained to the civic body that we were axing trees. The officials came to the park and stopped the activity immediately.” He said regular trimming of trees was also required, so the MC should take the responsibility to handle it at its level or before taking any action they should listen to the park management committees. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “We have kept this meeting to know the issues being faced by the park management committees and once we will come to know about their issues better solutions can be given. We want our public parks to be the best, so we are taking steps in this direction.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-schedules-meeting-for-maintainance-of-parks/articleshow/80075714.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
January 3, 2021||Agra||5 killed in accidents due to poor visibility||Agra/Meerut: At least five persons died in separate accidents due to poor visibility in western Uttar Pradesh since Friday night. While three were killed in Meerut, two died in Firozabad due to zero visibility. According to police, three out of five persons who were speeding in a car died when their vehicle crashed into a tree on Mawana Road in Meerut late on Friday. Police said that the victims — Hussain, Shah Alam and Salman from Inchauli in Meerut, and Aadil and Sikander from Khatauli in Muzaffarnagar — were returning home after shopping when their car crashed into a tree. Locals immediately alerted police who rushed to the spot and rescued the injured. While Adil, Sikander and Salman died on the spot, the others sustained grievous injuries and were rushed to a hospital where they are critical at present. Circle officer Poonam Sirohi said, “Going by the damage the car suffered, it is a clear case of speeding.” Similarly, in Firozabad, 35-year-old Imran Khan from Jaipur who was driving a van to Lucknow rammed his vehicle into a truck parked on the highway in Shikohabad due to almost zero visibility early on Saturday. He died on the spot. In another incident, a 28-year-old man, Monu Kumar of Shikohabad, who was heading to Etah on a bike, was mowed down by an unidentified vehicle on the highway. His damaged bike was found near the body. Shikohabad station house officer Sunil Kumar Tomar said, “The families of the victims have been informed. The accidents occurred due to poor visibility in the early hours. So far, we have not got any complaint in the matter.” According to meteorological department officials, several parts of north India are in the grip of a severe cold wave which is likely to intensify in the coming days. Near zero visibility due to dense fog has also disrupted the vehicular movement resulting in traffic at snail’s pace on key stretches like the Agra-Lucknow Expressway, Yamuna Expressway and the Agra-Delhi National Highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/5-killed-in-accidents-due-to-poor-visibility/articleshow/80076131.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 3, 2021||Rajkot||Rajkot: 3 women charred to death in blaze from car-truck collision||RAJKOT: Three women, all residents of Gondal town in Rajkot, were charred to death after the car in which they were travelling collided with a cotton-laden truck and got engulfed in flames on Saturday. The driver of the car sustained injuries and was hospitalised. The incident took place Gondal-Rajkot national highway near Biliyala village at around 6am. According to eyewitnesses, the collision took place when the car was about the enter the highway. The truck carrying raw cotton crashed into the car from behind and both the vehicles got engulfed in fire. According to the police, the deceased were identified as Rekhaba Jadeja (55), Rasikba Raijada (78) and Mukundba Raijada (45). The injured person was identified as Mahesh Raijada, who was driving the car. He is under treatment at a hospital in Gondal. Police said that Mahesh owns a milk parlour in Gondal. The deceased included his mother Rasikba and his wife Mukundba. They all were going to a village in Surendrangar to take part in a condolence meeting after the death of a relative. Police have booked the truck driver for rash driving and lodged a case against him. The truck driver is absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/3-women-charred-to-death-in-blaze-from-car-truck-collision/articleshow/80076817.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Kautilya School of Public Policy launches new programme||HYDERABAD: Gitam (deemed-to-be-university) has launched a two-year full-time master’s in public policy programme in its Kautilya School of Public Policy from the academic year 2020-21. It will be a 103 credit programme in which students will gain knowledge in policy making structures, approaches and governance. Students will also learn how to negotiate and persuade, write public speeches and Op-Ed columns and communicate in various verbal and non-verbal settings. Admissions for the July, 2021 batch have commenced with immediate effect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gitam-launches-masters-in-public-policy-prog/articleshow/80076830.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Bareilly||25 clerics asked to furnish Rs5L personal bonds over mosque dispute||Pilibhit: The city magistrate has issued notices to 25 clerics in the district on Saturday asking them to furnish personal bonds of Rs 5 lakh each over a mosque-related dispute. The move comes in the wake of the clerics nearly coming to blows at the mosque on Friday evening.According to sources, the dispute between two factions of clerics arose over the role of chief priest (Imamiyat) in the Badshah Beghum mosque situated in Bhoore Khan locality, which is over 100 years old. While both shahr mufti Maulana Masoom Raza and shahr qazi Maulana Jartab Raza Khan have staked claim to the role, the administration has given them 24 hours to settle the dispute amicably failing which they have warned of punitive action. The PAC has also been deployed at the spot to prevent any untoward incident.City magistrate Arun Kumar Singh said that the notices to clerics were issued based on a report by Pilibhit Kotwali police about apprehension of breach of peace due to the dispute. He added that both the sides have been barred from any intervention in the mosque-related affairs till the dispute is resolved. “We have deputed an Imam Kari Habib Khan from Bhikharipur village for the prayers at present.”ASP Pavitra Mohan Tripathi said that both the clerics have been given a 24-hour deadline to settle the issue.Meanwhile, devotees said that both the key clerics used to conduct prayers on alternate days and used to share cordial relations till recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/25-clerics-asked-to-furnish-rs5l-personal-bonds-over-mosque-dispute/articleshow/80076129.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 3, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Maintain transparency in allotting 2BHK houses’||Secunderabad: The Secunderabad Cantonment Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) wing urged the Telangana government on Saturday to maintain transparency in allotting 2BHK houses to all beneficiaries. The BJP leaders led by former SCB vice president, J Rama Krishna, visited Gandhi Nagar, Sreeram Nagar, Mudfort, and Silver company in Rosoolpura. A protest was held at these sites. Rama Krishna visited all these sites riding an auto rickshaw. Speaking on the occasion, J Rama Krishna said that their party leaders noticed various problems like substandard building material, inordinate delay is occurring due to lack of supervision. They also alleged that TRS leaders are involved in selling of these houses to the middlemen. “We demandi that the TRS maintain transparency while allotting to all beneficiaries”, said Rama Krishna. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maintain-transparency-in-allotting-2bhk-houses/articleshow/80076826.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Sariska Tiger Reserve likely to get new tourism zones||JAIPUR: The forest administration at Sariska Tiger Reserve (STR), which is exploring possibilities of opening new zones for tourists, has initiated an exercise to identify vehicle routes. A senior STR official said, “On December 27, chief wildlife warden ML Meena inspected Devra, Veenuk and Siliserh forest areas and buffer zones of Banaquilla where new tourist zones are proposed to be opened.” The reserve is spread across 1,281 sq-km area and is divided into six ranges. Though, tiger population has increased to 22, sightings are considerably poor. A source in forest department said, “At present, there are only three zones at STR. In December, there was no tiger sighting for 12 days.” “According to guidelines, tourism is allowed in 20% of the core areas of the reserves. In Sariska, tourism is open in less than 12 % of the area and there is vast scope to improve the zones,” the source said. Experts believe regulated tourism will not only improve tourism prospects, but also help in effective monitoring and tiger conservation. Local Advisory Committee (LAC) member Dinesh Durnai said, “Our request from the forest department is to incorporate Panidhal, Raika, Loj forest regions in tourism plan as movement of three big cats is often recorded. Tigress ST-10 and ST-12 are living with one and three cubs, respectively. Similarly, the forest area is also the territory of ST-13. The move will be beneficial for tourism as well as for conservation.” At present, there are eight females, three males, five sub-adults and five cubs. An official said, “Recently, ST-14 gave birth to cubs in the region from where Dabali village was recently relocated. In future, prospects of new zones can also be explored.” STR, infamous for poaching, has finally scripted a remarkable success story in tiger conservation, as five cubs were born in the park this year. On May 30, ST-12 was spotted with triplets for the second time. Wildlife lovers said the news had come as a respite for STR after the death of a few tigers in the park in the past two years. “Birth of five cubs within a year will give a fresh lease of life to the reserve. Sariska has tremendous potential and this would help wildlife tourism to grow at STR, which equally helps in conservation,” said a wildlife enthusiast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sariska-likely-to-get-new-tourism-zones/articleshow/80077735.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||GST collection improves, Kerala has no reason to cheer||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The GST collection in state has registered a year-on-year (YoY) increase of 8% from Dec 2019 to Dec 2020. This was announced by Union minister Nirmala Sitharaman. But, there is little to cheer for Kerala as it doesn’t signify a palpable improvement in its financial position and GST collection continues to be below the expected level. The tax collection of the state can be qualified as ‘on the positive side’ only when it comes out of the compensation bracket, which is meant exclusively for states that fail to achieve the 14% average increase in the tax collection share post introduction of GST. Even as GST collection grew to Rs 1,776 crore in Dec 2020, compared to Rs 1,651 crore received during the corresponding month in 2019, there remains a huge gap between the actual tax to be collected and realization of the same. The expected GST collection till Oct 2020 was Rs 31,321.01 crore, of which the state could collect only around Rs 9,473 crore, according to the tax collection statistics available with the government. “It’s true that there is a YoY increase in GST tax collection. But that has to be interpreted in the background of several state-specific realities, including the position of Kerala being a consumer state and the improvement in collection of arrears. We can claim significant growth in tax revenue collection only when we will be able to come out of the compensation bracket, which is meant for states that fail to achieve the 14% annual projected growth,” said sources in taxation sector. In the year 2017-18, the actual GST collection in Kerala was Rs 12,200.1 crore against the expected collection of Rs 14,302.1 crore, making the state eligible for a compensation of Rs 2,102 crore. Next year, the gap between anticipated collection and actual collection was Rs 3,532 crore and in 2019-20, the gap further widened to Rs 8,111 crore. As per the 101st Constitutional Amendment Act, compensation — on account of the implementation of GST — will be available to states for a period of five years. The compensation beyond five years would require further amendment of the Constitution. Compensation cess was introduced with a purpose to fill the gap in tax revenue collection. State governments have been persistently pressing the Centre to extend the compensation coverage period beyond five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/gst-collection-improves-state-has-no-reason-to-cheer/articleshow/80076139.cms||B S Anilkumar
January 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||2 fugitives arrested||Ahmedabad: Crime branch sleuths on Saturday arrested two fugitives. Imran Darjada, 38, a resident of Sarkhej, was caught in Jamnagar. He is wanted for several offences of shop lifting. Kishore Muchal, 58, was nabbed from his house in Shahibaug after eight years on the run. He was wanted for forging cheques. Assistant commissioner of police, crime branch D P Chudasama said the offence against Muchal was registered in 2012. “He went underground after his associate was nabbed. We learned that he had shifted to Shahibaug. Our team got information that on Saturday afternoon he had gone to Madhavpura and nabbed him,” added Chudasama. Crime branch sources said from Darjada’s interrogation it emerged that along with his associates Rizwan alias Bazigar, Rizwan alias Dani and Kadar Bajaria, he went to various districts in the state and would steal things from shops. “Darjada was on the run after offences were registered against him at Pardi in Valsad and Dungarpur in Rajasthan. We will hand over the accused to Valsad police,” said a crime branch official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2-fugitives-arrested/articleshow/80077734.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Trichy||Demand for arts & science college under Waqf board||TRICHY: The Muslim Literary Society, Trichy has demanded the state government launch a Muslim women arts and science college under Waqf board to address the educational needs of the underprivileged. The demand was submitted with chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami during his visit to the city last week. Dr M A Aleem, vice-president of the society, said that Waqf board land is available in the state and can be utilised to construct a women’s arts and science college. The literary society sought the state government to identify the district where a government college is required for the Muslim women. “The literacy rate of Muslim women has to be improved,” Dr Aleem said. The literary society has also sought a minority medical college under Waqf board in any part of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/demand-for-arts-science-college-under-waqf-board/articleshow/80077736.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Rajkot||Leopards attack two in Gir Somnath||Rajkot: In two separate incidents in Gir Somnath district on Saturday, a man was mauled to death by a leopard, while a woman received injuries.The forest department found the body of a youth Ajit Bheda (27) from a farm in Vitthalpur village of Kodinar taluka in Gir Somnath district on Saturday morning. According to villagers Ajit went outside at around 9pm on Friday, there was complete darkness and he could have been attacked at that time. After Ajit did not return home at night, the family members started to worry and began searching for him. Villagers said they found his abandoned bike early in the morning and later found his half-eaten body in a nearby farm and then informed the forest department. In the other incident, a 40-year-old woman was attacked by a leopard in Harmadiya village of Jamvalal in Gir Somnath district on Saturday. Manju Khasia received injuries on her right leg and was treated at a nearby hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/leopards-attack-two-in-gir-somnath/articleshow/80076827.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Woman accuses cop of rape in lockup||LUDHIANA: A woman has accused a cop deputed with a police post of raping her inside the lockup on December 5. The woman has also alleged that the cops did not let her undergo medical examination. The woman has lodged a complaint with the police, inquiry of which has been marked to ACP (Industrial Area-A) Simranjit Singh. The woman alleged that she was attacked by a group of people following a dispute around midnight on December 5. The accused called the police. In the absence of a female cop, policemen took her to police post, she alleged. She alleged a head constable raped her throughout the night in the lockup. In the morning, she reached the civil hospital for medical examination, but the cops were already present there, she claimed. Exercising their power, they did not let her medical examination to be done, she added. The woman also alleged that the cops forced her to reach a compromise with her assaulters. Inspector Kulwant Singh, SHO, Jamalpur police station, said the woman filed the complaint with the Ludhiana commissioner of police and its inquiry is on. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/woman-accuses-cop-of-rape-in-lockup/articleshow/80075718.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Agra||Cold wave intensifies after drizzle in parts of west UP||Agra/Meerut/Bareilly: Brief drizzle in Agra region along with overcast sky in the adjoining areas intensified the cold wave in parts of western Uttar Pradesh on Saturday.In Agra, the maximum temperature on Saturday was recorded 17.7 degree Celsius, which was five degrees less than normal. The minimum scale of the mercury level was recorded 7.6 degree Celsius.Agra was reportedly the second coldest city in the state on Friday, with zero visibility due to dense fog. Traffic also moved at a snail's pace on the Agra-Lucknow Expressway, Yamuna Expressway and the Agra-Delhi National Highway.Government offices witnessed low public turnout in Agra. UPSRTC buses operated with less number of passengers. Apart from Agra, cold waves swept across Firozabad, Mathura, Etah, Aligarh and Mainpuri. Aligarh remained colder as compared to Agra. And a meek sun failed to warm up the region and bring smiles on the face of residents. People remained indoors at night and covered in warm clothes in the morning. According to the Met department, the Agra region is likely to witness dense fog in the morning and evening hours for the next one week. Mild sunshine may occur in the afternoon. Also, with partly cloudy sky, there is a possibility of one or two spells of rainfall.In Meerut, the maximum and minimum temperatures recorded on Saturday were 18.2 degree Celsius and 5.5 degree Celsius, respectively. The maximum and minimum humidity levels recorded here were 82% and 45%, respectively.“While the maximum temperature was seven degree Celsius below normal temperature, the minimum temperature was one degree Celsius below the normal temperature,” Brij Mohan, Met in-charge of Meerut, said.In Bareilly, people woke up on the second day of the new year to biting cold and dense fog. The daytime temperature recorded here was 23 degree Celsius.Meanwhile, the Air Quality Index (AQI) in Agra on Saturday was recorded at 356 or "very poor" category, by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Particulate matter 2.5 (with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) remained a prominent pollutant in the city of Taj. The maximum level of PM 2.5 was recorded at 407 milligrams per cubic metre. According to the CPCB, AQI in the "very poor" category results in respiratory illness during prolonged exposure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cold-wave-intensifies-after-drizzle-in-parts-of-west-up/articleshow/80076144.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Jaipur||City’s Jitesh Mittal gets 100 percentile in CAT||Jaipur: City youth Jitesh Mittal has scored 100 percentile in the Common Admission Test (CAT), the results of which were announced on Saturday. He is among the nine candidates out of 1.9 lakh to have scored centum. He is the second youth from Pink City to achieve this feat – Ashish Gupta was the first to score centum in 2011. A resident of Mahesh Nagar in Gopalpura Bypass, he graduated in civil engineering from IIT-Gandhinagar last year and now plans to pursue MBA from IIM-Ahmedabad. Since he graduated in the year of a pandemic, few companies came forward for campus placements, which ultimately proved to be a blessing in disguise. “Had I got the job, I wouldn’t have given my best shot in the exam,” said elated Mittal. Jitesh studied in India International School till Class 10 before moving to Jayshree Periwal High School for Class 12. He has been a meritorious student throughout his academics with an unbeatable track record in maths and science. He has the badge of NTSE and KVPY with his name. He strongly feels the Indian economy will recover faster than developed nations due to its human resource and reforms introduced by the consecutive governments in the economy. “Other than reforms, the traditional approach of Indian society towards ‘saving and spending’ according to earning makes them the most adjustable consumer. This is the reason why the economy surpassed the worst of pandemic better than several developed countries,” said Jitesh. An avid reader, he holds the view that three farm laws, which are facing opposition by a section of farmers, are radical in nature. “Apprehension on the implementation of these farm laws are justifiable given the track record of our execution of schemes and policies. The rest I feel will have an impact,” he said. His father Yogesh Mittal is an engineer at the water resources department, mother Savita Mittal is a school teacher in a private school and his sister studies in IIS. The topper lives with his grandparents who guide him with their life experiences which he finds relevant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/citys-jitesh-mittal-gets-100-percentile-in-cat/articleshow/80077779.cms||Shoeb Khan
January 3, 2021||Trichy||Trichy corporation to buy auto road sweeper machines||TRICHY: Trichy City Corporation is planning to buy two road sweeper machines spending Rs 1.73 crore to clear solid waste and silt accumulated along the roads and medians. The machine is equipped with an automated cleaning mechanism using water and air suction devices to remove silt from the roads. Silt is getting accumulated towards the sides and the medians on all the arterial roads in the city. It worsens after every rain. Corporation sources said that manual cleaning of the silt deposit is a time-consuming process even if huge manpower is involved. Even after cleaning, silt is gathered by wind at the same place posing a danger to road users. As a solution, the corporation has sanctioned a sum of Rs 1.73 crore from the smart cities mission fund to purchase two automated road sweeping machines. The chassis (frame) for the special vehicles will be purchased by a private firm, which is yet to be identified through a tender process before January. Subsequently, the cleaning mechanism involving pneumatic and hydraulic gadgets will be fitted on the frames by complying with the design approved by the local body. The corporation will identify a firm, which will take up the operations and maintenance of the two sweeper machines for a year. “Barring NHAI-maintained roads, the sweeper machines will be deployed on all other city roads. A driver and an attender can operate the machines. Priority will be given to roads used by buses,” a senior corporation official said. The sweepers with water sprayers can clear the silt and other solid waste from roads for a width of 2 metres from the sides (left and right). The machines will be used to clean the roads after 10 pm every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-to-buy-auto-road-sweeper-machines/articleshow/80077750.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 3, 2021||Trichy||NIT’s street vacuum cleaner ‘not effective’||TRICHY: The low-cost street vacuum cleaner provided by NIT to Trichy corporation a year back is underutilised as the machine is not being used for cleaning solid waste and silt on roads. Officials claimed that the machine lacks efficiency. An official from the Ponmalai zone, that was provided with the machine mounted on a minitruck to clean the Central bus stand campus, claimed that the machine is not powerful enough to clear the silt and waste dumped on roads. “The machine lacks desired power to remove the waste at one go as we had to employ sanitary workers for manual cleaning again for a better result,” the official said. Although the machine can be upgraded to meet the requirements of the corporation, the civic body not contacted NIT management to avail technical help. “We will contact NIT for facilitating suitable upgrade,” the official added. The low-cost street vacuum cleaner was locally fabricated for Rs 90,0000 and was handed over to the corporation on September 1, 2019. A trial run was conducted the next month and the civic body even had stated plans to place orders for the machine. Supported by the NIT Trichy 1983 batch alumni, NIT students had designed the low-cost street cleaner for Trichy Corporation to keep arterial roads clean and free from litters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nits-street-vacuum-cleaner-not-effective/articleshow/80077761.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 3, 2021||Rajkot||First FIRs under new land grab act filed in Bhavnagar||RAJKOT: Bhvanagar registered the first three FIRs in the state under the new Gujarat Land Grabbing Act on Saturday. These were lodged by Bhavnagar district administration. According to a statement issued by the district administration, the first complaint was registered against Chatrapalsinh Parmar, who allegedly has constructed a hotel-like structure in 161 square meter (sqm) land in Bhavnagar market yard. In the second FIR, Hitesh Harsoara and Rajak were booked in Mahuva for selling 500sqm government land. In the third complaint, one Rajesh Khasia was booked for forcefully possessing a government land measuring 1,416sqm. According to the Act, the police has to file a charge sheet in the court within 21 days and a special court will decide the case within six months. There is a provision of 10 to 14 years’ punishment under this law and fine according to Jantri value.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/first-firs-under-new-land-grab-act-filed-in-bhavnagar/articleshow/80076834.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Jaipur||Avian flu virus tracking intensifies, administration imposes Section 144 in Jhalawar||JAIPUR: The animal husbandry department on Saturday directed its staff to check wild and domestic birds for avian flu virus in all the seven environment zones across the state. The department has asked poultry farms to report the cause of deaths in birds to the local department officers on a daily basis. Official said they had not reported any avian flu casualties in the epicentre of the outbreak in Jhalawar on Saturday. The report of the collected samples taken on Saturday would arrive from Bhopal on Monday. “We have intensified our sampling drives across the state to understand the spread of the virus in both wild and the domestic birds. Suspicious samples are being sent to laboratories in Bhopal,” said Dr Lenin Bhatt, veterinary at the department of animal husbandry and part of team visiting Jhalawar to assess the situation. He said the strain of the influenza was a reason for concern. The local administration has imposed Section 144 in the area to ensure that human intervention does not further escalate the problem. A team of experts would visit the affected areas on Sunday to study the impact of the spread. The other challenge the department was facing was its spread among poultry birds. They have alerted cities like Ajmer, Udaipur and Kota, which have a sizeable number of poultry farms, to keep a record of bird deaths. Officials said they had collected samples from poultry farms and backyards across the state. The outbreak came into limelight on December 31 following the suspicious deaths of crows in Jhalawar’s Radi area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/avian-flu-virus-tracking-intensifies-admn-imposes-sec-144-in-jhalawar/articleshow/80077800.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Gurgaon||A first in Uchana: Women take the wheel as farmers plan tractor march||JIND: For the first time, women are learning to drive tractors in Uchana town of Haryana’s Jind district. They are being trained by men to participate in the proposed tractor march in Delhi on January 26. Women are being trained to drive tractor near Khatkar toll plaza at Jind-Patiala highway. They are also being taught how to hitch trolleys and negotiate narrow streets and speed breakers. The farmers have fixed Tricolour on the tractors driven by women. This is momentous move for Bangar area, where women are generally veiled and don’t get involved in public activities.  “I am a farmer’s daughter and am therefore, taking training to drive tractors. If the Centre does not fulfil our demands till January 26, women will participate in the tractor march. Women will show their power to Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” said Saroj Devi, a resident of Khatkar village in Jind district. “Everyone will leave Haryana on January 26 to hold a march at Delhi borders. We only knew of the international borders with China and Pakistan but the Modi government has created a battle border between Jawan and Kisan at the Delhi border. We will defeat arrogant Modi this time as he has lied to every section of the society after taking votes. He should either repeal the laws or be ready to face the consequences on January 26,” said Satbir Pahalwan, a khap president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/a-first-in-uchana-women-take-the-wheel-as-farmers-plan-tractor-march/articleshow/80077751.cms||Vijender Kumar
January 3, 2021||Surat||Weavers, spinners at loggerheads over high yarn prices||SURAT: The powerloom weavers in the city have unanimously decided not to purchase yarn from the spinners due to steep rise in prices over the last fortnight. The decision was taken during a meeting of the Federation of Gujarat Weavers Association (FOGWA) on Saturday. With the Central government imposing anti-dumping duty on caprolactum — a raw material used to manufacture nylon yarn — the prices of nylon filament yarn have gone up by Rs 50 per kg in the local market, giving a tough time to the powerloom weavers. Industry sources said that the Gujarat State Fertiliser Corporation (GSFC) is the sole producer of caprolatum and supply to many domestic nylon spinners for producing nylon textile grade chips and in turn they produce nylon textile yarn. Surat is a major consumer of nylon filament yarn used in various garments and in other applications. The textile sector has a monthly consumption of 10,000 metric tonnes of nylon filaments, which accounts for about 70% of the total consumption of India. Vimal Bekawala, secretary of Nylon Weavers Association (NWA) told TOI, “The nylon fabric weavers are unable to survive due to the steep rise in the nylon yarn prices in the last nine months. At present, the weavers are facing a shortage of workers and finance due to the coronavirus pandemic.” He alleged that the nylon spinners have formed a cartel to increase the prices.” “We have unanimously taken the decision to discontinue the purchase of nylon yarn to protest against the artificial price hike,” added Bekawala. Ashok Jirawala, president of FOGWA told TOI that the consumption of nylon yarn in Surat is pegged at 10,000 metric tonnes per month, which is just 9% of the overall yarn consumption in Surat. “About 25,000 powerloom machines are manufacturing nylon yarn. Despite this, the nylon spinners are increasing the prices in the name of freight charges and short supply of nylon chips in the international market.” Industry sources, however, said that nylon fabric manufacturers are struggling to increase their fabric prices due to poor demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/weavers-spinners-at-loggerheads-over-high-yarn-prices/articleshow/80076838.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Trichy||Residents oppose party meetings on Trichy roads||TRICHY: With the climate setting in for campaigning for the state assembly election, residents and consumer welfare organisations have urged the police department not to grant permissions to host political meetings on arterial roads. Referring to a directive from the Madras high court, consumer welfare groups urged the authorities not to entertain the public meetings even on vacant spaces adjacent to the roads. As only months remain for the election and main political parties already launching their campaign, consumer service organisations said that parties may try to exploit road to host meetings. Last week, the public meeting hosted by AIADMK urban district, that saw the participation of Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, was conducted on Vellamandi road just outside the Gandhi market police station. The dais for the meeting was established on congested Vellamandi road where Madurai road and West Boulevard road intersects. “If police facilitate permission to one political party, the other parties citing the precedence will also seek permission to host public meetings. Vehicles plying for emergency needs including ambulances will suffer due to the crowd gathered at the meeting venue,” said M Sekaran, president of the federation. “In the past, Heber road, Rockfort vicinity and Woraiyur localities were used by various political parties to host the public meetings, causing inconvenience to the road users and residents. Apart from causing traffic bottlenecks, the erection of stages and supporting infrastructure for the public meeting will also damage the roads,” the federation added. The federation has submitted a plea with the city police citing a directive from the high court in March 2019 instructing the police department to only give permissions for public meetings of political parties outside the urban area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/residents-oppose-party-meetings-on-city-roads/articleshow/80077796.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Trichy||Farmers allege official apathy in arranging harvesting machines||TRICHY: As the samba paddy harvest has begun in delta districts, farmers have been appealing with authorities from the agriculture department to ensure availability of harvesting machines. Functionaries of farmers’ association have appealed to the district administrations to convene a tripartite meeting of the committee comprising district collector, farmers and harvesting machine operators to fix a reasonable rent. “Harvester operators increase the rent on their machines indiscriminately due to heavy demand during the harvesting season as gone are the days when farmers employed workers to harvest paddy. Only a few farm workers turn up for work forcing the switch to mechanisation,” farmers said. “When the harvest season is at its peak, a large number of paddy harvesting machines would come to the delta region from various parts of the districts to cash in on the demand. Usually, they would arrive from Athur, Salem, Madurai and Namakkal and some from Karnataka also. Utilizing the demand, operators increase the rent on their own,” Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association secretary Swamimalai S Vimalnathan said. “Samba harvest has already started in many parts of the delta. Farmers are rushing the process due to rain. However, harvester operators are collecting double the rent fixed by the district administration. This would leave small and marginal farmers in a fix. The district collector should convene the meeting to fix the rent and nominate officials to supervise operators,” he added. Meanwhile, some of the farmers have asked the agriculture engineering department to make arrangements to rent the machine to farmers at the rate fixed by the government. “The government keeps telling us that they have created history in paddy cultivation in the delta. However, they have not taken any steps to provide the required number of harvesters. The rent for a chain type harvester is Rs 2,000 and Rs 1,800 for tyre type harvester. Private operators are demanding Rs 4,000 and Rs 3,500 respectively,” said G Srinivasan, a farmer from Ganapathi Agraharam in Thanjavur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-allege-official-apathy-in-arranging-harvesting-machines/articleshow/80077801.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
January 3, 2021||Kochi||Thrissur: Project to boost paddy production||THRISSUR: A project worth Rs 298 crore is being launched in kole lands, which are the sub-sea level farms in Thrissur and Ponnani, to enhance paddy production. Minister for agriculture V S Sunilkumar said the project aims at augmenting productivity by improving infrastructure to ensure optimal water supply and other inputs to paddy fields. Another dimension will be to increase the area under double-crop programme. The minister said kole lands cover an area of 13,500 hectare. With a productivity of 7.5 tonne/hectare, it produces 1 lakh tonnes of paddy. The proposal aims to up productivity to 10 tonne/hectare and increase total production to 1.30 lakh tonne. The value of paddy produced from this area will go up to Rs 370 crore from the current Rs 280 crore, he added. Sunilkumar said a major issue was avoiding floods and ensuring water supply to kole fields. Pointing out that dewatering is a major requirement, he said that the age-old ‘petty-para system’ is being largely used for dewatering. The project also aims at replacing these outdated systems with energy-efficient and reliable, submersible pump systems. The proposal is to install 300 submersible pumps at an estimated cost of Rs 57 crore. Canals and water supply channels will be desilted and cleaned to ensure smooth flow of water through kole lands to ensure timely water supply, he added. The minister said only one crop is cultivated in most areas and two-crop cultivation is being undertaken in 1,000-3,000 acres only. The project aims to increase the same to 10,000 acre. He said the project will be executed in three years and CM Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the project launch on Monday. Vijayan will also dedicate development projects worth the Rs 123 crore, already undertaken in kole lands with the support of Nabard, to state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/project-to-boost-paddy-production/articleshow/80076157.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Ludhiana||Farmers continue to move towards protests in Delhi||PATIALA: A number of farmers from Sangrur, Patiala and other districts are moving towards Delhi borders despite the dip in the temperature. The farmer leaders said the fresh batch will replace those who are returning after spending weekly shifts at Delhi borders. Farmers spend a few days at the protest site before leaving and others join to keep the momentum going, said farmer leaders. An injured village sarpanch of Saphera village of Patiala district returned on Saturday from Delhi border after spending two days. He had got injured in an accident on December 15 when a truck had hit his tractor-trolley. He was travelling with five other villagers and two had lost their lives in the incident. Sarpanch Narinder Singh Jaggi, 35, said, “After bhog ceremony of the two villagers who died in the accident, I along with my relative had visited Delhi again to participate in the agitation on December 31 and returned on Saturday. I am still having pain in my back and other body parts where I had sustained injuries in the accident. A relative was among two villagers who died in recent accident. Within a week, a group of people from our village will again participate in the protest at Delhi borders to get repealed three agricultural laws passed by central government.” The farmers revealed that more trolleys were being brought to the agitation site to facilitate the stay of protesting farmers. Jaswant Singh, Patiala general secretary of BKU (Ekta Ugraha), said, “There are around 300 trolleys from Patiala district alone at Tikri border. Each day, farmers’ number is increasing even though a large number of farmers are returning too. The lists of farmers who want to join the protest are prepared at village level. Then block and district level farmer leaders coordinate the visit and return. On Friday, 2,360 farmers from 154 villages in Patiala district were present at Tikri border while on Thursday there were 2,388 protesters from 155 villages. On Wednesday, there were 2,282 protesters from 149 villages who reached here in 406 vehicles.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/farmers-continue-to-move-towards-protests-in-delhi/articleshow/80077797.cms||Bharat Khanna
January 3, 2021||Amritsar||Punjab: Farmers, also AAP activists, put BJP leaders on notice||BATHINDA: Angry over defamatory remarks against protesting farmers made by many Bharatiya Janata Party leaders, half-a-dozen Punjab farmers, who are also members of Aam Aadmi Party, have since December sent legal notices to many BJP leaders. The AAP on Saturday offered farmers-cum-political activists legal support in carrying forward their fight. Farmer Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal, from Amritsar district, was upset over assertions made by Union minister Giriraj Singh, and sent him a legal notice seeking an unconditional apology for his remarks made on December 12. Dhaliwal, who is associated with the kisan wing of AAP, told TOI said that Giriraj Singh had alleged the farmers were being misled. He had also claimed that many forces from foreign countries had entered the farmers’ movement and had also drawn a link with Khalistan. Similarly, Gurinder Singh Warring, a farmer and AAP activist from Machhri Khurd village in Fatehgarh Sahib district, sent a notice to BJP’s Gorakhpur MP Ravi Kishan. He told TOI that Ravi Kishan had falsely alleged that the farmers are getting financial support from China and Pakistan. “He tried to mislead the country and defame the protest,” said Warring. “Gujarat deputy CM Nitin Patel on December 18 had said in the name of farmers, anti-national elements and Khalistanis had sneaked into the agitation. Taking it very seriously, I have sent a legal notice to him seeking unconditional apology and withdrawal of his remarks,” said farmer Ramneek Singh Randhawa from Jalandhar. Another farmer and AAP member Mohinder Singh Sidhu from Sheron in Sunam tehsil of Sangrur, who grows chillies, said, “I have sent a legal notice to BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav for his statement that the farmer protests were being funded by Khalistanis, which is totally wrong.” Jiwanjot Kaur from Amritsar and Chetan Singh from Patiala have sent legal notices to people for their utterances against the farmers’ struggle. Jiwanjot Kaur told TOI that she had sent a legal notice to actress Kangna Ranaut for using derogatory words for farm activist Mohinder Kaur. AAP co-in-charge for Punjab Raghav Chadha said in Moga that his party will provide legal assistance to the farmers who want to move court against the BJP leaders for their defamatory remarks. “The notices have been issued to Union minister Giriraj Singh, Gujarat Deputy CM Nitin Patel and BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav and some others. The BJP leaders have at different times described the farmers as anti-nationals, goondas and dalals. The false and frivolous propaganda against the farmers was unbecoming on the part of those behind the propaganda,” Chadha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/farmers-also-aap-activists-put-bjp-leaders-on-notice/articleshow/80077776.cms||Neel Kamal
January 3, 2021||Bareilly||Teenaged boy killed as cane-laden truck hits bike, his friend critical||Pilibhit: A 16-year-old boy, Rahul of Bhagwantapur village under Puranpur kotwali, was killed after a sugarcane-laden truck allegedly hit his motorcycle near Haripur village on Dhanara Ghat road under the same police station on Friday night, while his 17-year-old friend Hari Om of the same village was shifted to the Pilibhit district government hospital, where his condition is stated to be critical. The truck driver fled the spot leaving behind his vehicle. Police registered an FIR and sent the body for autopsy. Police said both friends were on their way home around 8.30 pm after celebrating the New Year eve at Dhanara Ghat on Sharda river bank when the accident took place. Following a written complaint lodged by Rahul’s father Sita Ram, police booked the unidentified truck driver under sections 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees or over) and 304A (causing death by rash or negligent act) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and impounded the truck, said SHO SK Singh. ReplyReply to allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/teenaged-boy-killed-as-cane-laden-truck-hits-bike-his-friend-critical/articleshow/80075368.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 3, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Chancellor’s intervention sought against irregular recruitment drives in universities||Thiruvananthapuram: Save University Campaign Committee has petitioned chancellor Arif Mohammed Khan against alleged moves taking place in state universities towards regularising the appointment of scores of people working in different posts on contract/daily-wage basis. The move has got no legal standing as the state government has already issued orders leaving the appointments in non-teaching posts to Kerala Public Service Commission, said the committee. Instead of reporting vacancies to PSC, Calicut University has already decided to regularise around 40 vacancies in non-teaching categories and other universities too have started following the suit, it said. Contract or daily-wage employees work in around 3,000 non-teaching posts in universities. “It is unfortunate that vice-chancellor himself (of Calicut University) took initiative for this violation of norms since his personal casual driver is also one among them. Other universities are also planning to go ahead with regularisation of casual employees working there. The regularisation of temporary employees done by the government in the Kerala State Library Council has been stayed by the division bench of the high court,” the petition to the governor said. It was following the university assistant selection scam that the former UDF government entrusted with PSC the task of filling non-teaching vacancies in universities. Consequent to this, around 3,000 non-teaching posts in universities were filled by PSC. However, universities have not reported vacancies in 20 non-teaching posts to the PSC, despite the government approving the special rules for the same. As a result, PSC was not in a position to fill those posts though competitive tests, the petitioners said. “The intention of university authorities is blatant nepotism and corruption. The move is to regularise the posting of those who have been working on contract/daily-wage basis for last 10 years. Unless the governor, who is also the chancellor of state universities, intervenes and dissuades the universities from proceeding with the unlawful move, the Save University Campaign Committee would seek legal remedies,” committee chairman R S Sasikumar and secretary M Shajarkhan said here on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/chancellors-intervention-sought-against-irregular-recruitment-drives-in-universities/articleshow/80076182.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Jaipur||Arun Singh takes over as DIG of BSF North sector||Jaisalmer: Arun Kumar Singh took over as DIG BSF Sector North in Jaisalmer on Saturday. Earlier, he was posted as Commandant Sector BSF Sundar Bani (JK). He took charge from DIG Mukesh Kumar Singh. Arun Kumar Singh has vast experience of J&K, NE-Region and eastern and western border areas. He was selected as Assistant Commandant (Direct Entry) 14 batch in BSF on February 1991 due to his passion for joining the armed forces. After undergoing basic training at BSF Academy Tekanpur, Arun Kumar Singh joined 135 Bn BSF on permanent posting at Ferozepur under the Punjab Frontier BSF. He started his professional career in BSF as Company Commander on Punjab border when militancy was at its peak there. He scored outstanding instructional grading in various professional courses. In recognition of his outstanding performance and contributions in various fields, he got the chance to serve with SPG for many years. From 2009 to 2015, he served as Commandant in hyper militancy prone area of Kashmir valley in CI Ops (Counter-Insurgency Operations) role. He was assigned a vital role of conducting Amarnath Yatra continuously for 3-4 years while serving in J&K. For his outstanding contribution as well as safe and smooth conduct of Amarnath Yatra, he got appreciation letter from the then governor of J&K and other senior officers. He has served in various locations of BSF including New Delhi in various capacities. Arun Kumar Singh has been posted to SHQ BSF Jaisalmer (North) as Dy Inspector General from SHQ BSF Sundarbani (J&K). His ability to work smoothly even amid pressure of multiple responsibilities/assignments was proven when he was entrusted various assignments even in tough areas of Lunglei, Patiram and Srinagar. The officer has been awarded Commendation Roll by DG BSF on various occasions for his continued relentless efforts, utmost dedication to duty, professional efficiency and all-round dedication to service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/arun-singh-takes-over-as-dig-of-bsf-north-sector/articleshow/80077880.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 3, 2021||Bhopal||Day 2: Students’ attendance in pvt colleges remains dismal||Bhopal: Like schools, the presence of students in private colleges continued to be dismal even on the second day of the reopening.It was a complete absence of students in the colleges on the Day 1 of the opening of the campuses. Around 5% students reached the campus and they also went out after hardly staying on the campus for half-an-hour. The situation was the same the on Saturday as well. “Look at the government colleges where students turned up. But, it was not possible in the private colleges as the situation has been the same for the past several years,” said a professor, not wishing to be named. He claimed that the students in private colleges easily get marks in the practrical. “This is what happening in private colleges. Students know that passing marks will be given to them anyhow,” said a professor. While visiting a couple of private colleges, TOI spotted that the both students and teachers were not there on the campus. “It is just the second day of the New Year. Expecting students on a Saturday is a joke,” said an employee of a private college on condition of anonymity . “Even during normal days, students hardly attend classes, forget about attending classes on the first day of the New Year. We will decide to attend classes later,” said Neeraj Sen. Professors said that the need is to regularise students’ attendance in private colleges. The situation was no different in Barkatullah University. At several departments, neither students nor teachers were there. All government and non-government colleges have been opened in Madhya Pradesh from Friday. Classes will be held for practicals only from January 1 to 10. Classes for UG final year and PG third semester will begin on January 10. Regular classes will start from January 10, as per the government’s new guidelines. After this, a disaster management meeting of all the districts will be held on January 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/day-2-students-attendance-in-pvt-colleges-remains-dismal/articleshow/80076888.cms||Ramendra Singh
January 3, 2021||Bareilly||Pvt specialists to provide free medical consultation at Pilibhit dist hosp||Pilibhit: In a first in Pilibhit district, specialists practicing in private hospitals will provide free consultation on Saturdays and Sundays at the district hospital here under the aegis of the Indian Red Cross Society. The aim is to facilitate the poor to have access to free medical advice by specialists, especially of disciplines which are not available at the district hospital. The scheme is an initiative of district magistrate Pulkit Khare. He inaugurated the service on Saturday. Chief medical officer (CMO), Dr Seema Agarwal, obtained the consent of 30 local private doctors associated with Indian Medical Council to render the service. “Private hospitals charge around Rs 500 for a single consultation which the poor cannot afford. The newly launched free medical consultation service will enable them to do so,” said Khare. Dr Agarwal said both district hospital and district women hospital in Pilibhit do not have specialists in neurology, urology and cardiology. Now, those working at private hospitals here will provide free service to patients through the new system. In addition, private gynecologists, orthopedic surgeons, pediatricians, general surgeons, general physicians, ENT (ear nose throat) specialists and ophthalmologists will also be available for free consultation. This will pave the way for diagnosis of more patients than those being attended to by the district hospital doctors, she said. “These doctors have been provided with the duty schedule for two months to personally attend to patients on hospital campus. We are also striving to get on board some Bareilly-based doctors of departments such as gastroenterology, oncology and endocrinology,” the CMO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pvt-specialists-to-provide-free-medical-consultation-at-pilibhit-dist-hosp/articleshow/80075372.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 3, 2021||Goa||Cheer as big cats prowl Mhadei sanctuary||KERI: Increased movement of tigers is being reported within the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary this winter season, prompting the wildlife division of the Goa forest department to initiate measures to monitor the big cats’ tracks. Last January, the deaths of a tigress, a sub-adult male tiger and two cubs due to poisoning were reported at Golauli in Sattari. Officials from the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) had consequently visited the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary in Sattari and had recommended various mitigation measures aimed at conservation and protection of the felines. “Forest guards and trekkers have been assigned the task of protecting tigers and have been provided with the necessary equipment to patrol the area. Mobile phones that have pre-installed apps of the Wildlife Institute of India have also been given to them. Nature guide training programmes were fixed involving the local youths from the sanctuary and vicinity,” additional principal chief conservator of forests Santosh Kumar told TOI. After the monsoon, forest officials collected evidence of tigers’ presence in the sanctuary area through scats, pug marks and kills. Jebastin Arulraj, deputy conservator of the wildlife division, North Goa, said, “Immediately after getting information about the movement of tigers in various areas of the sanctuary, we have initiated measures to monitor it.” Babu Bodke of Surla, who has a cattle shed in Kankumbi, said a tiger entered his shed last month and ate a calf. “My son sighted the tiger during the last fortnight. It has been on the move in the border areas of Goa and Karnataka over the past few days,” he said. Prakash Salelkar, a retired range forest officer of the Mhadei Sanctuary, said that tigers generally migrate to hilly terrain during the monsoon months to avoid the trouble of blood-sucking leeches and return to the slopes after the season ends. The Anjunem dam’s water reservoir and forested areas of Surla, Satre and Codal in the Mhadei sanctuary have a good prey base. Tigers thrive here by killing bison, deer and domesticated cattle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cheer-as-big-cats-prowl-mhadei-sanctuary/articleshow/80077888.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
January 3, 2021||Chandigarh||In Kaithal, farmers break barricades to march to min’s home||Kaithal: Farmers heading towards the residence of minister of state Kamlesh Dhanda to protest against the three agricultural laws removed police barricades using a tractor on Friday. Police tried to stop the farmers by placing barricades and heavy force on the way to the residence of the MoS at Chiranjeevi Colony. However, they removed the barricades with a tractor, dragging the barricades for some distance. A protester sitting in front of the tractor kicked the barricade, which fell, forcing police personnel standing behind it to break formation and move aside. Thereafter, protesters in large numbers reached the area near the minister’s residence and raised slogans against the BJP government. Farmers were also angry over a statement made by local BJP MLA Lila Ram, who had allegedly called them Khalistanis. Farmers gheraoed his residence as well. Speaking with media persons, Hoshiyar Singh Gill, district president, Bhartiya Kisan Union, said, “The BJP MLA termed us as terrorists and we came to show him that farmers are annadata, not terrorists. We gheraoed his residence as a mark of protest and showed him our strength. Agitating farmers are just seeking their right and some leaders are trying to defame them,” he said. On Kamlesh Dhanda, he said she is not a rajya mantri but a bechari mantri. “It was unfortunate that farmers voted for her and now she is silent on farmers’ issue. We have started construction at the protest site at Delhi as was planned for a long fight and will not return until the three laws are repealed,” Gill said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-kaithal-farmers-break-barricades-to-march-to-mins-home/articleshow/80077825.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Jaipur||BJP youth wing demands para forces in South Raj||Udaipur: The BJP Yuva Morcha in Udaipur has demanded stationing of central paramilitary forces in sensitive districts of South Rajasthan. In a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah, district president of Yuva Morcha Udaipur (Rural) wrote that in recent times, some disturbing activities, which are not in the interest of social peace and harmony, have been taking place in some of the tribal-dominated patches of Mewar-Wagar belt. South Rajasthan, which comprises Udaipur, Dungarpur, Pratapgarh, Banswara, Rajsamand and Chittorgarh districts, is a confluence point of three states and shares borders with Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. Joshi said the entire strip along the borders is tribal-dominated and some naxalite and missionary agencies are active in the area. “The anarchic organisation, missionaries and religious conversion groups have become active since a couple of years which is spoiling the social and religious harmony in this area. The administration and security agencies have also confirmed such objectionable activities. The ‘Kakri Dungri’ episode is an example of this and hence in the interest of the national security, battalions of CRPF are essential,” the letter read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-youth-wing-demands-para-forces-in-south-raj/articleshow/80076914.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 3, 2021||Goa||Goa: Vishwajit Rane predicts second wave, warns of party-fuelled spike||PANAJI: Even as the New Year's parties are over and many tourists leave Goa, the state’s residents are set to bear the brunt of the mayhem this month. Health minister Vishwajit Rane warned that there’s a possibility that Goa may witness a spike in Covid-19 cases in January. Rane had made a similar prediction ahead of September’s first wave, in which hospitals were packed and those who required urgent care couldn’t receive it. September saw 16,000 new cases and 235 deaths, an average of over seven a day. This time, Rane said the “cross-mixing of tourists and locals” may result in the second wave. “Look at the people visiting the beaches, they are not wearing masks. At airports, around 60% of people do not wear masks. We will end up with a spike yet again. Tourists visiting the state must act responsibly,” he said, warning them that “Goa is not a banana republic”. The state witnessed a surge in tourist arrivals in the Christmas-New Year week, and all protocols and norms were thrown to the wind as revellers preferred to ignore the pandemic and party in packed clubs and beaches, endangering the lives of residents. TOI has repeatedly raised locals’ concerns over the lack of norms and enforcement, with two front-page reports exposing the government's negligence in protecting the lives of residents by refusing to enforce Covid-related SOPs and protocols. On Thursday, a day after the Centre issued an advisory to states to impose restrictions after assessing conditions, Rane had suggested to chief minister Pramod Sawant that Goa should impose a night curfew along the lines of Delhi and Karnataka. However, the CM shot down the suggestion. Neither did he vow to enforce government and public health norms, thus tacitly encouraging potential super-spreader events. On Saturday, Rane said, “It’s better to be cautious in the beginning than to regret later about steps we did not take.” The health minister said he speaks to the CM several times a day. “I wake him up in the morning and put him to sleep,” he said in a lighter vein. Rane’s attempts to control the late-December mayhem was also met with displeasure by the tourism industry, who said these suggestions should have been made in advance and not at the eleventh hour. Industry stakeholders claimed they were “very much in favour” of the government implementing SOPs and initiating action against those who defy them. Rane said the state’s expert committee has decided to move a file to the government to act against hotels and nightclubs that don’t ensure that SOPs are followed by guests. “We want businesses to continue, but SOPs have to be followed,” Rane said. “It is not the question of doing business alone, but the safety of the people of Goa is also important. Hotels and nightclubs conducting events should ensure that their guests wear masks and maintain social distancing. If you can’t ensure these, then don’t hold events.” Rane also criticised the prevalent trend of wearing masks improperly, whether on the chin, below the nose, or mouth. “Why do you want to put the lives of doctors and other staff at risk, who have been tirelessly working day and night for the past so many months?” he asked. "If people do not follow masks and social distancing, there will be a spike, and the spike will be uncontrollable."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rane-predicts-second-wave-warns-of-party-fuelled-spike-in-cases/articleshow/80077851.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Online rummy: Man’s debt leads to suicide||Thiruvananthapuram: Online gambling addiction has allegedly claimed a youth’s life in the district after he allegedly took his own life to escape from debts. Vineeth, 29, son of Velayudhan Pillai, Mannoorkara Village, Kuttichal under Neyyar Dam police station limits is the deceased. He was working as a contract labourer at VSSC. He allegedly died by suicide on Thursday night by hanging in a rubber plantation nearby his residence. Police said as per the statements given by his family, Vineeth, who was a bachelor, had suffered huge losses owing to his gambling addiction. He used to play rummy game online and had spent a lot of money on the game. When he ran out of money, he would borrow from his friends. “According to his brother Vineesh’s statement, Vineeth was under a debt of over Rs 4 lakh,’’ said a police officer attached to Neyyar Dam police station. Though he used to play the online game for over a year, he allegedly became addicted to it during the lockdown. Even though he started going to work again after the lockdown, he could not repay the debts. Police said that though he was under huge debts, he was not being harassed by anyone. All people who reportedly lent him money were his friends. It is suspected that it was his guilt that drove him to take the extreme step. Vineeth had been playing the game by linking his SBI bank account to the gaming app. Police would be examining his bank transaction details as part of the probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/online-rummy-mans-debt-leads-to-suicide/articleshow/80076205.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Lucknow||Calls from CMO to confirm officials’ presence in office||Lucknow: In a bid to ensure the presence of senior administrative and police officials in office during work hours, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said his office and the chief secretary’s office will make random calls to divisional commissioners, district magistrates and senior police officials on their landline connections. During a review meeting on Saturday, the CM directed all DMs, DCs and police officials to ensure they carry out official work from their respective offices, besides going out in the field and interacting with people to know their grievances.  The compliance of this order will be determined by phone calls to office landlines of the officials by the CM’s and CS’ offices, Yogi added. He said paddy and sugarcane purchase needs to be done with focus on farmers. Officials need to carry out routine inspection of purchase centres and monitor the process to ensure farmers do not face any problem. The CM said he will participate in the programmes organised in all development blocks on the launch of the Kisan Kalyan Mission from January 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/calls-from-cmo-to-confirm-officials-presence-in-office/articleshow/80077854.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Goa||Will start construction of IIT campus within a month: Director||PANAJI: Despite continuing protests by villagers at Melauli, Sattari, against the permanent campus project of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Goa, the state administration appeared to indicate a renewed commitment to ensure that the IIT campus comes up at the allotted site in Melauli. While the institute stated that chief minister Pramod Sawant has instructed completion of demarcation of land at the site by January 15, IIT Goa director B K Mishra released a statement, stating that “few hurdles and issues have been very well resolved”. It stated that the CM has also instructed establishment of a police outpost near the site of the permanent campus. The statement followed Sawant’s meeting with IIT Goa officials on Friday morning to review the status of the project. IIT Goa director stated that initial designs for the permanent campus are already ready. Releasing these designs, Mishra stated that the first phase of the campus for 1,200 students will be ready by October 2023. He stated that work on the project is expected to start within a month as soon as the construction permit is obtained. The institute stated that it has sought higher FAR for the constructions at the new campus during the meeting with the CM. It also stated that the CM had agreed to dispose of IIT Goa’s construction permit appeal. “We are respectful of the local culture and the natural landscape of the site and we will work closely with all stakeholders to help make the campus a lively place,” Mishra’s statement read. “I am extremely happy to share that we are heading towards the development of our permanent campus on 10 lakh sq m of land given to us by the Goa government at Melauli village in Sattari taluka of North Goa district on the foothills of the Western Ghats. The master planner and architectural consultant to develop a lush green vibrant campus of the IIT Goa has been appointed,” Mishra stated. The construction of the fully residential campus has been planned in three phases. “Phase-I will be for 1,200 students, Phase-II for 1,300 students and Phase-III will accommodate 2,500 students. The campus will have facilities and amenities required to make it an ideal township for the faculties/staff and their families, students as well as visitors. The Phase-I shall be completed by October 2023,” Mishra stated. The 10 lakh sqm land for the new campus has already been handed over by the state government to the IIT. However, since July 2020, the site is mired in controversy, with the villagers opposed to the IIT project. Locals have been camping at site from November to keep away surveyors. Since the IIT became operational in Goa in 2016, it has been functioning from its temporary campus within the Goa Engineering College premises at Farmagudi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-start-construction-of-iit-campus-within-a-month-dir/articleshow/80077855.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
January 3, 2021||Bhopal||< 800 new Corona cases again in MP, positivity too below 3%||Bhopal: For the second consecutive day, less than 800 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the state on Saturday. Friday was the first time after 47 days that less than 800 cases were reported in the state. On Saturday, a total 731 people tested positive for Covid-19, taking the count of positive patients in the state to 2,43,302. And even the positivity rate continued to be below 3 per cent for the second day on Saturday. Overall, a total 26,144 samples were tested on Saturday, of which 731 were found positive—thus the positivity rate which is the number of people found positive out of every 100 samples tested for Saturday was 2.7 per cent. And the number of people recovering from Covid-19 in a single day outnumbered the number of people testing positive on Saturday. Against 731 fresh cases reported on Saturday, a total 855 people recovered from the infection. With these new recoveries, the total number of people who have recovered from the disease so far reached 2,30,586. The overall recovery rate of Covid-19 in the state also reached 94.7 per cent on January 2. Nine casualties were reported in the state on Saturday. With these new casualties, the death toll due to Covid-19 in the state reached 3,627. Fresh cases were reported from 44 of the 52 districts of the state on Saturday. Districts where no new cases were reported include Khandwa, Anuppur, Sidhi, Tikamgarh, Umaria, Mandla, Ashok Nagar and Burhanpur districts. Cases were reported in double figures from 19 districts. The highest number of cases were reported from Indore where 183 people tested positive, followed by Bhopal where 173 people tested positive, Rewa where 27 people tested positive and Jabalpur where 26 people tested positive. As on January 2, there were a total of 9,089 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/lt-800-new-corona-cases-again-in-mp-positivity-too-below-3/articleshow/80076911.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Bareilly||Father-son duo electrocuted by faulty submersible water motor in UP's Budaun||BAREILLY: A 45-year-old man and his 22-year-old son, a college student, were electrocuted after coming in contact with a faulty submersible water motor in Noorpur village in Budaun district on Friday night. Arvind was trying to switch on the motor when he got electrocuted. In a bid to rescue his son, Nekpal, too, was electrocuted. Both were rushed to a city hospital, where doctors referred them to a higher medical facility in Bareilly, but they succumbed to their injuries on their way to Bareilly. Police sent the bodies for autopsy. Kotwali SHO Ajeet Singh said, “It was an accident. We have handed over the bodies to the family after autopsy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/father-son-duo-electrocuted-by-faulty-submersible-water-motor-in-budaun/articleshow/80075398.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 3, 2021||Goa||Goa proposes 200 towers to give a boost to connectivity||PANAJI: The state government has proposed the installation of 200 mobile towers across the state in two phases to improve internet connectivity and mobile network. The move comes even as TOI has continuously highlighted Goa’s bad connectivity, especially in the context of remote learning and work-from-home setups. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that in the first phase, mobile towers will be erected at 62 locations, and in the second, 138 more will come up. “This will greatly improve connectivity and benefit all sections of the society, including students, IT professionals, tech startups, etc.” The state government has received more than 250 applications to install mobile towers. In some places, the public has opposed and stopped these units, fearing that the radiation could cause serious health issues. TOI, in a series of reports, reported how students have to walk kilometres in search of connectivity for online classes. In August, the state cabinet approved the Goa Telecom Infrastructure Policy 2020, which provides for a singlewindow clearance by PWD to install towers in government and private properties. Local bodies to get ?50k one-time grant Sawant had said that mobile towers will be set up in government-owned land on priority. Only an NOC from the property owner will be needed to permit mobile tower installation in private property. The salient feature is that areas have been divided into urban, semi-urban and rural and no permission from local bodies will be required to install mobile towers. The scheme will be under the IT department, but the PWD will be the implementing agency. A one-time grant of Rs 50,000 will be given to local bodies. For urban areas, Rs 50,000 will be the monthly rent for operators of mobile service. In rural areas, Rs 25,000 will be the rent. The PWD and other departments will issue the permissions to set up towers and cables without any delay. The policy is to streamline the process to grant permissions to set up the towers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-proposes-200-towers-to-boost-connectivity-in-state/articleshow/80077894.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Goa||Danish comedy to open 51st international film festival on January 16||PANAJI: Danish film ‘Another Round’ will open the 51st International Film Festival of India (Iffi), to be held in Goa from January 16. The closing film, on January 24, will be the Japanese historical drama ‘Wife of a Spy’. Iffi was rescheduled this year due to the pandemic. It is annually hosted by Goa, its permanent venue, from November 20 to 28. The festival will now be held in a hybrid format — screenings and other events will be held both in physical and online mode. This opening film, by Thomas Vinterberg, has Cannes film festival’s best actor award winner Mads Mikkelsen in a leading role. The movie is also Denmark’s official entry to the Oscars. The film is a comedy drama about four teachers who, troubled by unmotivated students, enter a drinking game, with unexpected consequences. The closing film, by Kiyoshi Kurosawa, bagged the Silver Lion for best director at the Venice International Film Festival. Iffi's 51st edition will see a total of 224 films from across the globe being screened. These films will include 21 non-feature films and 26 features to be screened under the Indian panorama section. The festival will also witness the world premiere of the film ‘Mehrunisa’ by Sandeep Kumar. Starring formidable actor Farrukh Jaffar, the movie will be the mid-festival film at Iffi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/danish-comedy-to-open-51st-intl-film-festival-on-jan-16/articleshow/80077878.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Govt sanctions 721 teaching posts in aided colleges||Thiruvananthapuram: Consequent to the revision of workload of college teachers, the state government has sanctioned 721 new teaching posts in aided arts and science colleges run by community organizations and minority groups. The government has sanctioned several new programmes in aided arts and science colleges prior to 2016-17. However, corresponding teaching faculty were not sanctioned in many colleges. Besides, the required number of faculty were not sanctioned in 10 new arts and science colleges in the state, a government order issued on December 30 said. Following several rounds of discussions, the government has fixed the minimum teaching workload for faculty in colleges and universities in line with the UGC regulations. According to the government decision, which ignited widespread protests from teachers’ unions with allegiance to the parties in government and opposition, workload of 16 hours of teaching per week, excluding PG weightage, was made mandatory for assistant professors. Following protests, the government further clarified that the faculty whose appointments have been approved prior to June 2020, in posts with lessor workload, would continue for the time being, but would cease to exist on retirement, resignation, transfer or arising of vacancy in any other manner. “Managers (of aided colleges) shall fill all teaching posts in their colleges, including the newly-created ones, strictly in accordance with the government orders,” the order said. While pro-CPM teachers’ organizations in aided colleges welcomed the government decision, pro-Congress organizations accused the government for debilitating the sector by adopting new workload formula, which according to them did cost around 3,000 teaching posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-sanctions-721-teaching-posts-in-aided-colleges/articleshow/80076219.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 3, 2021||Bhopal||Listed goon’s property demolished in the city||Bhopal: In the ongoing drive against mafias and criminals, a joint team of police, district administration and Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday demolished the illegally built house of a listed criminal of Hanumanganj area. The accused Ahmed Shah alias Bobby, whose house was demolished, is a notorious thief; he has committed several burglaries in Bhopal, Chhindwara and other states. He also ran an organised gang in association with Haryana-based criminals and lifted luggage of the passengers in moving trains. When the joint team went to demolish Ahmed’s house in Hanumanganj, around half a dozen women including his wife, sister-in-law and other relatives attacked BMC workers. Hanumanganj police detained the accused women and registered a case on charges of obstructing public servants from discharging their duty. The team demolished Ahmed’s property worth around Rs 2 crore in five hours. SHO Hanumanganj Mahendra Singh Thakur said, accused Ahmed Shah alias Bobby had illegally built his house in Laxmi Talkies area. He is a listed criminal of the area and has 35 cases registered against him at various police stations in Bhopal, GRP Bhopal and Chhindwara. The accused was externed from the district and has also been absconding in two extortion cases. A reward has been declared on his arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/listed-goons-property-demolished-in-the-city/articleshow/80076919.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Neelamperoor Madusoodanan Nair dies at 84||T’puram: Poet Neelamperoor Madhusoodanan Nair died at a private hospital here on Saturday. He was 84. Born on March 25, 1936, as the son of P N Madhava Pillai and G Parvathy Amma in Neelamperoor village in Kuttanadu, he graduated in mathematics from S B College, Changanassery, and did his PG in statistics at Government Victoria College, Palakkad. Nair won the first Kanakasree award instituted by Kerala Sahitya academy in 1991 for his collection of poems titled ‘Mausalaparvam’. His work ‘Pazhkinar’ won the Muloor Award in 1998. He also received State Institute of Childrens’ Literature award in 1998 for the book ‘Kiliyum Mozhiyum’ and Kerala Sahitya Akademi award in 2000 for the work ‘Chamatha’. He was a market analyst with department of industries and retired as joint director in 1991. He authored 27 works, including eight books under children’s literature category, and 14 poetry collections. He leaves behind by his wife K L Rugmini Devi, son M Deepu Kumar and daughter M Indulekha. The cremation will be at Santhi Kavadom on Tuesday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/neelamperoor-madusoodanan-nair-dies-at-84/articleshow/80076203.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Student from city on life support after accident in Oz||HYDERABAD: A 20-year-old student, Rakshitha Mallepally, from the city is on life support after she met with an accident in Sydney, Australia, where she went for studies.  According to initial information, she was said to be driving a two-wheeler when the accident took place. “Unfortunately, her condition is irreversible and is currently on life support. The moment doctors decide to remove life support, she will be no more,” Sahithi Gattu, a relative of the victim, said. A Telugu organisation in Australia said Rakshitha went for her bachelor’s degree in information technology at IIBIT College, Sydney. Sahithi said Rakshitha had met with an accident at Pendle Hill near Seven Eleven on December 31. Rakshitha’s father Venkat Reddy Mallepally works for a defence organisation, after having retired from the army. He hails from Dindichintapally village of Wanguru mandal in Nagarkurnool district and resides at Meerpet in the city. Rakshitha reportedly went to Australia for her studies last year. In an online appeal for people to come to the aid of the family at this time of crisis, Sahithi said Rakshitha’s father Venkat Reddy had borrowed money from multiple sources to fund her studies with the hope that she would eventually earn and pay it off. “It is a miserable situation for anyone to lose a loved one, but it is much more devastating for parents to lose a grown-up child. While the family may never forget this loss for their life, I humbly request you all to help me in raising this financial support for them and relieve them of this additional burden,” Sahithi, who identified Rakshitha as her cousin’s daughter, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/student-from-city-on-life-support-after-accident-in-oz/articleshow/80076917.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 3, 2021||Jaipur||ACB trapped 4 persons on avg/mth in ’20||Jodhpur: The Jodhpur range of the ACB trapped an average of four persons accepting bribes in Pali, Sirohi, Barmer, Jalore and Jaislamer districts apart from Jodhpur last year. This swas six times more than the traps laid down in 2019. Besides these red-handed tapes, the ACB registered three cases against government employees for misusing their posts and two cases for the income/asset disproportionate to income. DIG (ACB-Jodhpur Range) Vishnu Kant said a total 45 trap cases were registered last year in which a total bribe amount of Rs 1,44,6500 was recovered by the ACB. He said Rs 1,04,3100 was recovered from 36 traps in 2019. Interestingly, incidents of demands for bribes have increased both in terms of number and amount despite the three month lockdown and restrictions even during the unlock period. Kant attributed the rise in number of traps to increased awareness drives by the department to motivate people to report incidents of bribe demands to the ACB. It may be noted that the department, in its drive to encourage victims of bribe to register their complaints, has launched toll free helpline number 1064 and whatsapp number 9413502834 besides the landline number of its office. Kant said the ACB had been working with the principle of zero tolerance against corruption and has been regularly been holding interactive and awareness programmes with people from different sections for a shout-out against corruption. Of these 45 traps, the ACB caught 4 gazetted officers which included additional chief engineer (IGNP), Jaisalmer, Manoj Kumar Bairwa, assistant director (Social Justice & Empowerment) Barmer, Mukhram, conservation officer (Botany) Phalodi Pawan Kumar and principal of Jawahar Navodyay Vidyalaya (Tilwasni, Jodhpur) Dharmendra Kumar Jain. Kant informed that during this period, the ACB filed 28 charge-sheets and 16 final reports in court, while it succeeded in getting three accused convicted by the ACB court, which also included a public representative, chairperson of Aburoad Municipal Council Geeta Devi. The two others included a technical assistant Jodhpur discom Bhajanlal and an ANM from a PHC in Sirohi Rosamma Mathew.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acb-trapped-4-persons-on-avg/mth-in-20/articleshow/80077915.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 3, 2021||Jaipur||Accused in Rs 21L cheating case arrested from K’taka||Jaisalmer: An absconding culprit in a case of cheating of Rs 21 lakh in Barmer was arrested from Belgaon in Karnataka. Barmer SP Anand Sharma said that on October 24, 2020, complainant Bagaram, a resident of Peeploon, had lodged a case at Siwana police station that he has business of imitation jewellery in Mumbai. He had come to Peeploon in April 2020 due to the pandemic. Nizamuddin Abdul Hussain, a resident of Mumbai, who was Bagaram's friend, called him up and said that a large number of Maruti vehicles in new condition were lying in Panvel godown in Goa and offered to sell them on 50% discount. So, Bagaram agreed to buy 74 vehicles and gave Hussain Rs 21 lakh as advance. But, Hussain did not give delivery of vehicles. Thereafter, Bagaram lodged a case at Siwana police station under sections 420, 409, 406,384 and 120B. SP Anand Sharma said that a police team was formed and they succeeded in arresting the culprit from Belgaon. During the inquiry, Hussain has accepted cheating Bagaram of Rs 21 lakh. The culprit was produced in the court from where he was sent to police remand till January 2. The culprit is being inquired to recover the amount and involvement of other culprits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/accused-in-rs-21l-cheating-case-arrested-from-ktaka/articleshow/80077903.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 3, 2021||Trichy||Breach in irrigation tank in Pudukottai||PUDUKOTTAI: A 500-acre irrigation tank in Pudukottai district near Vallathiraikottai breached around the sluice on Saturday. Due to the breach on the bund of the Vallanadu tank, a large quantity of water has gone waste, creating concern among the farmers. Farmers from Vanthakottai, Maniampallam, Vallathirakottai and Poovarasukudi have been cultivating crops in around 5,000 acres. After a period of five years, water has attained to its brim this year thanks to the desilting work, farmers said. However, though we had appealed several times, the officials concerned have not repaired the sluice located on the east side of the tank, farmers alleged. Vallanadu tank irrigates hundreds of acres of land. Though officials spent Rs 63 lakh for the work, they had not completed the work properly, they further said. Meanwhile, officials from the PWD and revenue department inspected the breach. Work on plugging the breach using sandbags was started. The officials expressed hope that they could complete the work in a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/breach-in-irrigation-tank-in-pudukottai/articleshow/80077904.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Incentives pushed instant app staff to meet ‘targets’?||HYDERABAD: Lucrative incentives offered by Chinese employers, operating the controversial instant financing loan apps, reportedly pushed tele-callers to achieve ‘targets’ even at times harassing defaulters by various shaming methods. When Hyderabad police were probing the instant loan apps case in which Chinese national Zhu Wei alias Lambo and his 15 employees were arrested, the investigators found the tele-callers were given a user ID and password by their promoters in China. The user ID was the tele-callers’ telephone number. In Gurugram call centre alone, there were over 2,000 tele-callers and hundreds at four call centres in other parts of the country . Each tele-caller gets details of defaulters from prime accused Yuan Yuan alias Sissi alias Jennifer on using their internal software tools from abroad, reportedly China. “Everyday, these tele-callers will be given targets to at least recover 60% of the task (loan amount) given. To meet their supervisors’ expectations, which will decide their apprisal, the tele-callers used to go to any extent to harass and defame defaulters. They were also trained how to speak and harass defaulters,’’ sources part of the investigation told TOI. Apart from the salary, the tele-callers, who meet the basic target, were given an incentive of 7% of the recovered money. The company used to decide on their incentive on weekly basis. Officials said the disbursement of loans was reportedly done from China, where they have the actual set-up including the software tools. In India, they had only set up call-centres for recovery of the loan money from loanees. To supervise these call centres, Jennifer had appointed her compatriot, Lambo. Police have identified 208 bank accounts belonging to four different companies associated with Jennifer in the country and it was through these bank accounts Rs 21,000 crore of transactions were done. Till now, at least five persons had committed suicide in the state due to the harassment of different instant loan apps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/incentives-pushed-instant-app-staff-to-meet-targets/articleshow/80076913.cms||Srinath Vudali
January 3, 2021||Pune||Swargate underpass repairs spark snarls at Jedhe Chowk||PUNE: Ongoing repairs to the vehicular underpass connecting Shankarsheth Road and Sarasbaug Chowk are causing traffic snarls at the busy Jedhe Chowk in Swargate. The Maharashtra Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) is concreting one lane of the underpass to improve the condition of the road and prevent water seepage, which had become a major problem in the underpass. This has forced vehicles onto the other lane, causing a build-up of traffic, especially during peak hours. MSRDC officials said they would concrete the other lane soon — the entire project is expected to take two months to complete. The traffic police have deployed additional personnel at key spots to ease the flow of traffic. Police have also started cracking down on vehicles halting illegally on this stretch. Earlier this week, 24 autorickshaw drivers were booked for obstructing the traffic this way. “We are concentrating on the evening rush hours between 5pm and 8pm, when the traffic coming from Hadapsar increases significantly. The junction is among the busiest in the city,” Atul Navgire, an officer from the Swargate traffic division, said. Navgire said they have instructed autorickshaw drivers to halt only at authorized stands. Smaller vehicles are being allowed through the underpass to cross Jedhe Chowk, while larger vehicles take the main thoroughfare to cross the junction. Given the limited width of the main road, this has worsened the congestion. Mahesh Shinde, a regular traveller, said most of the traffic chaos is caused by the fact that the underpass entrance and the exit of the Swargate MSRTC depot are in proximity to each other. “The buses leaving the depot hamper traffic movement,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/swargate-underpass-repairs-spark-snarls-at-jedhe-chowk/articleshow/80076932.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Bhopal||On surprise visit, Sarang takes stock of facilities at Hamidia||Bhopal: Prescription slips issued should indicate doctors, signature, seal and mobile number, said state medical education minister Vishwas Sarang here on Saturday. Sarang was on a surprise inspection of Gandhi Medical College (GMC)-associated Hamidia hospital. The hospital has been under scanner after a power outage last month. OPD registration, blood and medicine availability should be transparent and streamlined, he said. Sarang also said that prescription should also be in Hindi, so that patients can have a better idea of the line of treatment. He asked the doctors to write pattern of medicine –intake (timing and frequency) clearly in Hindi on prescription as most patients do not understand OD (once a day) and BD (twice a day). Doctors should write morning, afternoon and evening to clarify the timing of medicine-intake to patients, he added. Sarang also inspected the pharmacy, where the inability of the pharmacist to provide immediate feedback on stock availability led to the intervention of senior officials. Sarang also instructed to withhold the payment to the private agency after he was not satisfied with sanitation in some sections on the hospital premises. All the HoDs are supposed to ensure proper sanitation, the minister added. Sarang also took a stock of fire safety measures and directed the officials to repair leakage of the overhead water tank. He expressed disappointment over parking at blood bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/on-surprise-visit-sarang-takes-stock-of-facilities-at-hamidia/articleshow/80076934.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Pune||Covid-19: After dry run, Pune prepares for shots||PUNE: Proper planning, preparations and cooperation among various stakeholders paved the way for smooth execution of the Covid-19 vaccine dry run in the district on Saturday, with the primary health centre in Maan, around 20km from the city, setting the tone for the drive in the rural parts. District health officials, however, said there was a need for taluka-level vaccination sites to plug possible cellphone connectivity issues in the remote parts of the district. At Jijamata Hospital in Pimpri Chinchwad and Aundh District Hospital in Pune, healthcare workers started queuing up for the dry run from 8am itself. Five designated vaccination officers, including one vaccinator, were appointed at each centre for the dry run. As many as 25 shortlisted beneficiaries were called up a day before and informed about their vaccination time slots. The dry run teams comprised a mobiliser, a guard, a verifier, a vaccinator and an observer at each centre. The mock drill began with the verification of the beneficiaries, their mock vaccination and monitoring for next 30 minutes at the waiting room for any side-effects. The whole process was completed by 12.30pm. Health department officials said two beneficiaries at Maan PHC could not get their text confirmation messages due to wrong cellphone numbers they had provided. At Jijamata Hospital, one of the beneficiaries refused to take the mock vaccine during the dry run, an official said. The Aundh District Hospital did not encounter any such trouble, but faced communication issues with poor cellphone network. Top-level officials, including district collector Rajesh Deshmukh, Pune ZP CEO Ayush Prasad, district health officer Bhagwan Pawar and PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar, inspected the dry run preparedness. Deshmukh said, “There were no technical issues encountered in the Saturday’s dry run. We have ample trained workforce. During the actual vaccination drive, there will not be any issue.” Hardikar said it was an overall good experience for the staff of the Jijamata Hospital. “We have noted down all the stages of the vaccination, how much time it takes and whether any improvement is required,” he said. On one of the beneficiaries refusing the vaccine, Hardikar said, “If an individual does not wish to be vaccinated, it is his/her choice. All we have to focus on is information, communication and education of the general public.” DHO Pawar said there were some areas in the district, which required better internet connectivity for the smooth execution of the vaccination process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/proper-planning-ensures-smooth-vaccine-dry-run/articleshow/80076930.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 3, 2021||Delhi||No Match: Many girls opt out of Delhi University||NEW DELHI: After admissions closed on January 1, Delhi University found that 528 students whose names were approved for sports admissions hadn’t paid their fees to confirm their admissions. When DU contacted the students, most of whom were from outside Delhi, many cited the lack of hostel facilities as a major reason why they had decided not to follow up on their applications. The DU Sports Council has now requested the university administration to issue a 'special' third list by January 4 to fill the spots vacated. Pankaj Sinha, chairperson, DU Sports Council, detailed in his letter to the DU administration that before closing the admissions under the second sports list, as approved by college principals on or before December 31, the applicants had been given time till January 1 midnight to pay the college fees. “We found that of the 528 applicants who did not pay the fees, 292 were girls,” Sinha told TOI. “These are applicants, who despite the approvals given by the principals and college admission committees after the allocation of courses and institutions did not confirm their admissions by paying the fees. So, these seats are now vacant and need to be filled.” On why so many students hadn’t taken their admission forward, Sinha disclosed, “When we spoke to some of these students and their parents, we were told that they weren’t keen after they found accommodation in Delhi a major concern since there weren’t hostel facilities available for them.” In the letter to the DU administration, Sinha said the vacancies that had arisen would “attract greater scrutiny by the government agencies, the public and the media if we do not take necessary action to fill these seats at the earliest”. Sinha requested special permission to bring out a third admissions list on January 4. Sinha added that the proposed third list would not be applicable for those whose names were present in the first and the second lists. The latter, he said, hadn’t confirmed their admission despite their qualifying under the two lists. “We will issue a new list with a fresh set of students,” said Sinha. “Currently I am asking colleges to send me their seat matrix to see how many vacancies there are. We will allot seats in colleges to students as per their preference.” The Sports Council chairman emphasised that the whole process would be carried out “without human intervention” with software allotting students their colleges and courses based on their preferences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-match-many-girls-opt-out-of-du/articleshow/80076937.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
January 3, 2021||Goa||After ZP debacle, Goa Cong may see organisational rejig||Panaji: An overhaul within the state Congress unit appears to be on the cards with party president Girish Chodankar and opposition leader Digambar Kamat flying to Delhi to meet the party high command on Saturday. Congress officials said that the entire Pradesh Congress Committee may be dissolved in a bid to revamp the functioning of the party, which hit its lowest point in the recently-held zilla panchayat elections. Several party office-bearers suggested that a new party president is likely to be appointed to replace Chodankar, who put in his papers after the ZP debacle. Opposition leader Digambar Kamat or former state Congress president Luizinho Faleiro could be called upon to succeed Chodankar. “The party high command has called both of them to Delhi for a meeting regarding the party’s functioning and to take a decision about the president’s post,” a senior party functionary said. Goa desk in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao is also expected to head to Delhi on January 5 to meet with AICC officials and a formal decision about the state party president will be made after Rao submits his formal report, party insiders said. AICC officials reached out to some of the office-bearers in Goa to grasp the extent of the party’s lethargy and many block level workers and district level workers have called for an organisational shake-up if the party is to stand a chance at the 2022 state assembly elections. “Chodankar took things too lightly and the high command will accept his resignation,” said an office bearer. Rao, who was in Goa on December 22 to review the party’s performance in the ZP elections, met party office-bearers individually who called for an urgent overhaul within the party’s ranks. Congress’ drubbing, coming amid widespread anger against the ruling side, indicates that the grand old party has failed to project itself as a credible opposition, said political watchers. Days after the election results, Chodankar took responsibility for the party’s poor showing and shot off his resignation letter to interim Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Several party office bearers suggested that a new party president is likely to be appointed to replace Chodankar, who put in his papers after the ZP debacle. Opposition leader Digambar Kamat or former state president Luizinho Faleiro could be called upon to succeed Chodankar, they said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-zp-debacle-goa-cong-may-see-organisational-rejig/articleshow/80077925.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 3, 2021||Pune||Pune: Mock drill lessons for medical officer||PUNE: For Balaji Lakade, medical officer, Maan primary health centre, Saturday’s dry run for administering Covid vaccine came as a surprise because he came to know about it just a day before. The staffers prepared a list of beneficiaries and generated their login IDs earlier on Friday evening. The rural health centre, which usually witnesses the hustle-bustle after 8am, was busy preparing the waiting room, vaccination room and the observation room from 7am on Saturday. The highlight of the drive was distribution of cold box of vaccine carrier to the staff early from the cold storage at the primary health centre (PHC) and everybody getting comfortable with their assigned task. Lakade said that the primary task was ensuring identification of beneficiaries and verifying the details. “The five vaccination officers we had assigned did not have any issues with the preliminary verification of beneficiaries. What will be the response in case a beneficiary develops an allergy was also demonstrated on Saturday,” he said. Lakade said despite all the preparations, two beneficiaries out of 25 did not receive the confirmation text messages, which confirm that the vaccine had been administered successfully and when the next dosage is due. “Of course, this was a dry run and a report will be sent to the higher authorities,” Lakade added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mock-drill-lessons-for-medical-officer/articleshow/80076941.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 3, 2021||Nagpur||Vid leaders to gain from state legislative secretariat’s new office, says Thackeray||Nagpur: After the opening of the Maharashtra Legislative secretariat’s permanent office at Vidhan Bhavan on Monday, dignitaries said that it would usher in a new era of democratic reforms in Vidarbha and strengthen the democratic system across the state. The new office, inaugurated by legislative council chairman Ramraje Nimbalkar, speaker Nana Patole, deputy speaker Narhari Zirwal and deputy chairman Neelam Gorhe, would function throughout the year from the second floor of Vidhan Bhavan with a 16-member staff. While the speaker and his deputy were present, Nimbalkar and Gorhe joined them online. A plethora of dignitaries also attended the event online, including chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, deputy CM Ajit Pawar and home minister Anil Deshmukh. Parliamentary affairs minister Anil Parab, guardian minister Nitin Raut and animal husbandry minister Sunil Kedar shared the dais with Patole and Zirwad. Local BJP MLAs and MLCs were conspicuous by their absence. Dignitaries lauded the efforts of former MLC Prakash Gajbhiye for demanding such an office in the city and following it up rigorously. Thackeray said his government wouldn’t allow any injustice against Vidarbha. “The office would function throughout the year and would immensely benefit legislators from the region. Former and current members of the assembly could get references and suggestions at the new office and also submit their queries and calling attention motions for the session. Earlier, they used to come to Mumbai office all the way for such works. For the 62 MLAs, 9 MLCs and MPs from the region, this would be their own office,” said Thackeray. Terming the event as ‘historic’, Patole said efforts were being made for setting up a similar facility in Pune for the benefit of leaders and citizens from that region. “We will have a good library which could be accessed by students of Vidarbha,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-leaders-to-gain-from-state-legislative-secretariats-new-office-says-thackeray/articleshow/80099371.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 3, 2021||Pune||Theme-based cafés create a niche, find unique clientele||PUNE: If a lot can happen over a cup of coffee, a lot more can happen with cafes evolving over time to offer customers unique and customised experiences based on various themes. Central to their offering is a concept-based ambience, with beverages, food and décor complementing the overall experience. Incidentally, coffee is just a part of the whole thing. There are now cafes of every conceivable variety in the city offering a plethora of options to customers. There are art cafes, book cafes, pet-friendly cafes, co-working cafes, a café devoted to comics and board games, a music café and even an anti-café, the newest entrant in town. Anti-cafes are so called because their focus is more on the time spent and use of space than on coffee, said Vandana Purohit, founder, Mauji Anti-café. From just being a brick-and-mortar business, cafes have evolved to encompass a variety of elements. Anti-café is one example. "At Mauji anti-café, there is a studio space which can be used to conduct interviews, broadcast or product shoots and also a dedicated area for members. Then there is a screening space, where one can watch a movie or have a small get-together. There is a makers’ space for start-ups. We also have a store for showcasing products from individuals and artists," said Purohit. Book cafes also charge by the hour, but their concept is different. "At cafés like ours, book is the glue that binds people together. We have created communities around books through book reading sessions and book clubs. We also started selling books," said Vishal Pipraiya, partner, Pagdandi Bookstore Cafe. Over the years, Pagdandi has gone beyond books to offer a platform to budding artists, writers and photographers to exhibit their work. "We have hosted music sessions as well. We have a gallery wall where artists and photographers have displayed and even sold their works," added Paipraiya. Increasingly, cafes are trying out ways to help customers find identity in a place that complements their personality. "People can go to a café and pursue something they are interested in. For example, one can come to our café and read up on a whole range of comics or play board games. Places like these lead to a great deal of social interaction among like-minded people. Especially after the lockdown, people are looking for places where they can go and have a great deal of fun," said Piyush Athawale, owner, Comics and Brics Café, which boasts of around 7,000 comics as well as 150 board games. "Initially cafes were started with the objective of serving food and beverages. Now cafes have come up with various themes. At our Music Café, the theme is music, and café comes along with it," said Anand Kolharkar, partner. Here one can choose to listen to music from a variety of specially curated menu, such as anger control, positivity, relaxation etc, designed to create a therapeutic effect on the listener. The food and beverage complement the music chosen.  Sunil Kirpalani, owner, Fat Cat’s Café, a pet-friendly café in the city, sums up the whole scenario. "What's happening is that in order to differentiate themselves, newer cafes are coming up with different offerings like a USP. Also, with the industry widening, more and more cafes have metamorphosed into full-fledged restaurants, offering complete meals throughout the day," he said. All said and done, there’s nothing like chilling in a cafe "Cafés are deeply tied to the human need to connect with each other. Ever since digital devices have taken over our lives, subconsciously, we have also craved for human connection. Cafes offer a platform to people to connect with each other," said Pipraiya of Pagdandi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/theme-based-cafs-create-a-niche-find-unique-clientele/articleshow/80076942.cms||Avijit Chatterjee
January 3, 2021||Pune||Webinar for cops on animal welfare||Pune: The Centre for Police Research (CPR), Pune, recently organized a webinar on animal welfare laws for all police units in Maharashtra. “We plan to organize more such sessions as there is a need to update the personnel on the changes in animal welfare rules and laws. Senior officers across the state attended the webinar, which discussed the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960,” Smita Wasnik, inspector, CPR, told TOI. Vineeta Tandon, managing head, People for Animals (PFA), Pune, who was the speaker at the webinar, also distributed her book, ‘Sankalan’, among the officials. She said the copy could be used as reference material while dealing with animal cruelty cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/webinar-for-cops-on-animal-welfare/articleshow/80076935.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Row over move to hold IFFK in different zones||Thiruvananthapuram: The state government’s decision to hold the 25th edition of the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) in four phases and four different regions across the state has kicked up a row. Local politicians, festival followers and people associated with cinema alleged that the decision was part of a plan to take the IFFK away from Thiruvananthapuram. In a Facebook post, K S Sabarinathan MLA termed the proposed to conduct the film festival in four regions across the state “unfortunate”. “The decision would topple the brand Thiruvananthapuram, which was built over the past 25 years in the world of international cinema. This would make IFFK irrelevant in future. The government should revise the decision,” said Sabarinathan. Shashi Tharoor MP tweeted that Thiruvananthapuram offers IFFK not just a great venue, but tradition, facilities and above all, a passionate population of knowledgeable cinephiles. Thiruvananthapuram Vikasana Munnetam (TVM) slammed the decision as a sneaky move to shift the permanent venue of IFFK from the city. “The justification given for conducting IFFK in four locations is not satisfactory. Many government offices have been shifted out of Thiruvananthapuram in a similar manner in the past. The government has failed to keep its promise of making a permanent venue for IFFK in Thiruvananthapuram,” said Raghuchandran Nair, president, TVM. Meanwhile, minister Kadakampally Surendran said such apprehensions were misplaced. “In the coming years, IFFK will continue to be held in Thiruvananthapuram. The present decision is only part of Covid vigil. The controversy is needless and they are trying to ruin IFFK. Film lovers should identify their real motives,” said Surendran. IFFK organizers are learnt to have obtained an exception from the International Federation of Film Producers Associations for conducting IFFK across four locations this year. Having a permanent, solo venue is one of the conditions for accreditation of a film festival by the producers’ federation. The academy has cited the present situation due to Covid-19 to avail an exception for this clause.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/row-over-move-to-hold-iffk-in-different-zones/articleshow/80076233.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Pune||Zilla parishad hires 942 vaccinators||Pune: The Pune Zilla Parishad has appointed 942 vaccinators to complete the first Covid vaccination drive in its jurisdiction. They will work at 97 primary health centres (PHCs) across 13 tehsils of rural Pune. As per the ZP’s estimation, it will need 70,111 doses of vaccines. In the first exercise, a total of 32,078 health staffers will receive the doses. Ayush Prasad, the chief executive officer of the ZP, told TOI on Saturday, “We have chalked out a comprehensive plan of the first vaccination programme. Our endeavour would be to complete it in 24 hours only.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zilla-parishad-hires-942-vaccinators/articleshow/80076936.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Dehradun||Now, constables can also wear police monogram: DGP Kumar||Dehradun: Uttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar on Saturday approved wearing of state police monogram by all police personnel, including those serving in the capacities of inspectors and constables. Earlier, only inspectors and sub-inspector-level officers were allowed to use the monogram on the left side of their shirt. The DGP said that “As it is the insignia of Uttarakhand Police, every policeman can wear it. This will also bring uniformity in the police force.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/now-constables-can-also-wear-police-monogram-dgp-kumar/articleshow/80075800.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 3, 2021||Kozhikode||Bid to smuggle gold as dates seeds foiled||Kozhikode: Customs officials at Kozhikode International Airport foiled a bid by a passenger to smuggle gold by concealing it inside dates in the shape of seeds and inside chocolates as nuts on Saturday. The officials of the air intelligence unit of customs seized 90 grams of gold compound valued at Rs 4 lakh inside dates and chocolate packets from the checked in baggage of Muhammed Basheer, 34, hailing from Periya in Wayanad. He arrived from Dubai on Indigo flight 6E 89 in the morning. Customs officials said that the original seeds inside dates were removed and was replaced by gold compound. “The concealment inside chocolates was even more elaborate as the gold compound was shaped in the form of nuts. It is the first time that we are seeing concealment inside dates in the form of seeds. Since there were only around 25 seeds inside the packet, we think it was a trial run,” a customs official said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/bid-to-smuggle-gold-as-dates-seeds-foiled/articleshow/80076231.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Delhi||3-year-old gold smuggling racket busted at Delhi's IGI Airport||NEW DELHI: Customs at Indira Gandhi International Airport has busted a nearly three-year-old gold smuggling racket and arrested three men — the carrier, the collector and the supplier — all in the past two weeks. The officials said they were alerted about the racket when the carrier was arrested on December 15. Using a new modus operandi to evade the cops, the accused had painted the gold plate silver and stuck it to the side of the trolley. To make the plate blend in further, stickers, which are commonly used on trolleys, were pasted on top of the plate. Officials said the man was crucial in busting the racket, as he helped to find the gold and nab the other men. An official said, on the day of the arrest, the man appeared to be walking suspiciously and was seen putting something in his trolley. “Upon inspection, one side of the trolley appeared to be new, while the trolley looked old. The plate had been freshly painted, and when the surface was scrapped, it was found to be 1.5kg gold, worth Rs 74.8 lakh,” said the official. A senior official said investigation into the case did not stop there. “The man who was supposed to collect the gold from the carrier at Delhi airport was arrested on December 24,” said the official, adding that the person who had handed over the gold at Dubai and bought the plane tickets was arrested on January 1, after he landed in India from Dubai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-yr-old-gold-smuggling-racket-busted-at-igi/articleshow/80076956.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
January 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Netizens help fill GHMC coffers||Hyderabad: It’s not just officials who are helping fill coffers of GHMC by collecting property tax, even Twitterati have generated around Rs 1 crore revenue for the civic body. Denizens tweeted irregularities like illegal advertisement elements, defacement by pasting stickers on public places and debris lying on roads were the most common offences reported to the civic body’s enforcement wing and it collected penalties.  While a mall was penalished Rs 16 .5 lakh for raising illegal advertisement element, a broadband service provider paid Rs 17.4 lakh as penalty for pasting stickers at pubic places. Denizens urged authorities to respond to grievances raised on social media platforms. “I request every department of the civic body to respond to the apathy of people raised even on social media platforms. Even if it is not resolved, officials responding to complaints instills confidence in people,” Sai Teja, a techie who reported several civic irregularities, including illegal advertisements elements, told TOI. Denizens had clicked pictures of the offence, tweeted it and tagged GHMC’s central enforcement cell, GHMC (@CEC_EVDM) following which an e-challan was generated in 24 hours and a challan was tweeted by the cell. “The idea is not to penalise, through enforcement we want to bring in deterrence and convey a message that there is a body monitoring organisations/individuals littering public places and flouting civic norms duly ensuring people’s participation,” GHMC’s EVDM director Vishwajit Kampati said. “We thank all the netizens for supporting us in our endeavours,” he added. As per the new advertisement policy rolled out in September , if the height of an unauthorised advertisement hoarding exceeds 15 feet, a penalty of Rs 1 lakh would be imposed per day. B Sridhar a techie, said flashy advertisement elements were a distraction. “The flashy advertisements by malls and standalone stores, especially LED screens which play videos, are a distraction for drivers. Finally, they are being removed after years in Kukatpally,” he added. Based on complaints by people, GHMC’s enforcement vigilance and disaster management (EVDM) had penalised commercial establishments, especially malls||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/netizens-help-fill-ghmc-coffers/articleshow/80076949.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 3, 2021||Pune||Pune: Think-tank writes to Centre for notifying helmet rule||PUNE: The city-based NGO and think-tank, Parisar, has written to the ministry of road transport and highways to notify Section 129 of the amended Motor Vehicles Act, which makes wearing a helmet mandatory for two-wheeler riders across the country. In the letter to Amit Vardaan, the ministry’s joint secretary, Parisar stated that the amended rule could save many lives if implemented in law and spirit. “It is disappointing that such an important section, which can save lives of road users, has not yet been notified despite receiving President’s assent on August 9, 2019,” the letter stated. The section concerned makes it mandatory for the drivers and the pillion riders to wear a helmet conforming to the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS). The amended law removes the power of the states to provide any exemption to the use of helmets. Parisar noted that as per the World Health Organisation, the use of helmets could reduce fatalities and head injuries due to road accident by 40% and 70%, respectively. The think-tank put forward the statistics of two-wheeler fatalities in 2019 — wherein nearly 80% of all casualties involving two-wheeler accidents were of those without helmets — to underscore the importance of a binding helmet rule. “As per the 2019 report published by the ministry, there was an uptick in the number of two-wheeler users who died in accidents in 2019. Out of 56,136 two-wheeler riders involved in fatal crashes, as many as 44,666 were found without helmets. This is a matter of continuous concern,” the letter added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/letter-to-centre-for-notifying-helmet-rule/articleshow/80076944.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Man steals valuables from employer, held||Hyderabad: A caregiver who allegedly cheated his employer, who is a physically challenged person, was arrested by Kachiguda police on Saturday. Cops recovered 65 tolas of gold, 55 tolas of silver and Rs 1.20 lakh cash from the accused. Hyderabad police said that N Kusaraju created fake documents and joined as a care taker. By gaining the victim’s confidence, he accessed the keys of the main door and almirah. He then prepared duplicate keys of the house. When the victim and his wife went to a hospital, the accused gained entry using the duplicate keys and stole valuables kept in an almirah. On returning home, they found some valuables missing.They suspected Kusaraju and lodged a police complaint immediately. Police intercepted him and recovered the stolen valuables intact.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-steals-valuables-from-employer-held/articleshow/80076943.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Internet glitches hit rehearsals at few remote sites||PUNE: Vaccination dry runs at remote sites on Saturday were largely problem-free except for one prominent hitch: spotty internet connectivity. A critical component of Covid-19 vaccination is the Co-Win application, onto which details of beneficiaries and dosages have to be uploaded. The system needs a steady internet connection. In hilly Nandurbar, the district administration said it has now sought permission for “offline vaccinations”. Authorities in Pune said they have asked for more infrastructure to improve their link. Three sites in four districts — Pune, Jalna, Nandurbar and Nagpur — were picked for the mock vaccinations, involving 25 ‘practice’ beneficiaries invited via SMS. The Nandurbar and Nagpur sites each had one person not turning up. The Jalna centre saw full participation. Nandurbar collector Rajendra Bharud said, “The dry run here went off as planned. But when drives open up for the general public, we’ll have to look at transportation solutions to bring people to the vaccine sites. We are considering corporate funding. At the same time, we may opt for offline vaccination.”  In Jalna, hometown of state health minister Rajesh Tope, 75 beneficiaries across the three sites had televisions in the observation rooms, where they had to wait for 30 minutes after “the jab”. According to guidelines, vaccination centres will need at least three rooms: one for waiting, the second for administering the vaccine and a third for observation where beneficiaries will be monitored for any reactions. Jalna district civil surgeon Archana Bhosale said the televisions were kept to keep “minds calm and engaged”. During an address before the dry runs, Tope said the state was fully prepared for the real vaccination drives. In Nagpur, deputy director of health services Sanjay Jaiswal said the dry run gave them the confidence that 25 people can be vaccinated at one centre within two hours. The drills, he said, also brought up a few technical glitches such as errors in phone numbers and a missing option to change time slots if a person is unable to make it to a vaccination site. Jaiswal said, “But a major achievement was that vaccinators were trained properly to deal with beneficiaries. Required medicines, systems and equipment were in place. There were a few gaps in supportive services, such as no separate washrooms for men and women. The sites have been directed to provide them. We will submit a report to the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/internet-glitches-hit-rehearsals-at-few-remote-sites/articleshow/80076948.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Coimbatore||AIADMK woman cadre beaten up at DMK-organised grama sabha||COIMBATORE: An AIADMK woman functionary and a man accompanying her were beaten up by DMK cadres at the gram sabha meeting venue in Devarayapuram village panchayat on Saturday. DMK chief Stalin was addressing party cadres, when V Poongodi, 40, district deputy president of AIADMK’s women wing, stood up and said she wanted to ask a question. When Stalin asked her where she was from, Poongodi said she hailed from Sugunapuram near Kuniyamuthur. Stalin asked her if the place is in Devarayapuram village panchayat. “How can you conduct a meeting in Coimbatore when you have no idea about the place?” she retorted. Stalin said that minister S P Velumani had sent Poongodi to create nuisance and asked her to leave the venue. When the woman raised slogans in support of Velumani and against DMK, Stalin said that if Velumani had sent people to create nuisance, DMK could also send cadres to AIADMK meetings. “If incidents like this happen again, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and Velumani will not be able to conduct meetings,” Stalin said. After a police team removed Poongodi from the venue, DMK cadres attacked her and K Rajan, 37, of Vadivelampalayam near Pooluvapatti, who had accompanied her. Rajan is an AIADMK member working as a salesman at a Tasmac outlet in Alandurai, police sources said. Poongodi left for the Thondamuthur police station, where AIADMK members staged a road blockade condemning DMK for the attack. DMK cadres also staged a road roko at Thondamuthur. Meanwhile, AIADMK men contacted minister Velumani, who spoke to Poongodi. Poongodi and Rajan were later admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital. Superintendent of police Ara Arularasu said a case would be registered after Poongodi lodges a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/aiadmk-woman-functionary-beaten-up/articleshow/80076952.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Vadodara||Lunawada executive magistrate, driver killed in road accident||VADODARA: Lunawada executive magistrate and his driver were killed in a road accident near Khalaspur village in Panchmahal district in the early hours on Saturday. According to sources, the mamlatdar Rakesh Damor and the driver of his official car Vijayraj Pagi died when their official car was hit by a speeding private bus. The car was badly mangled and a part of it was thrown away far from the road. Top brass of the Mahisagar district administration and police rushed to the spot in wake of the incident. An offence was registered against the bus driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/lunawada-executive-magistrate-driver-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/80076939.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Coimbatore||DMK govt will investigate Jaya’s death, says Stalin||Coimbatore: DMK’s manifesto for the upcoming assembly election will promise a fresh investigation into the death of late chief minister J Jayalalithaa, party president M K Stalin said here on Saturday.“The AIADMK government will bite the dust after four months. We are sensitizing people about AIADMK’s corruption. The state government tried to stop us. However, people are much aware about the government’s corruption,” Stalin told supporters at the gram sabha meeting conducted at Devarayapuram village.Intelligence officers of the state police are recording his phone calls, the DMK leader said. “The state government should conduct gram sabha thrice a year. After coming to power, AIADMK did not conduct even one gram sabha meeting. So, DMK decided to do so to solve problems faced by people. The government did not allow us to conduct the meeting. So, the name was changed to people’s gram sabha. But the state government has been attempting to stop the meeting.”DMK has ample evidence to prove that corruption prevails in local bodies and the highways department, Stalin said. “The project to replace sodium vapour lamps with LED lights was mired in corruption. We gave the governor all evidence. If the governor fails to take action, DMK will take action against the AIADMK leaders involved after coming to power.”Responding to municipal administration minister S P Velumani's challenge to prove the corruption charges levelled against him or quit politics, Stalin said, “I have evidence to prove the corruption charges against the minister. If I proved the charges, Velumani should quit politics. DMK will make sure that corrupt AIADMK politicians are punished,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-govt-will-investigate-jayas-death-says-stalin/articleshow/80076959.cms||A Subburaj
January 3, 2021||Pune||Vaccine transportation problems unlikely in Maharashtra, say experts||PUNE: State immunisation officer Dr DN Patil and state National Health Mission commissioner Dr Ramaswami N on Saturday said Maharashtra was unlikely to face any problems in transporting the Covid-19 vaccine. Dr Ramaswami said, “We have handled vaccinations of around three crore children during the measles rubella campaign in the past with 4,000 cold-chain points at our disposal. We are in the process of getting six additional walk-in coolers and two walk-in freezers at the divisional headquarters for bulk storage. We may add ice-lined refrigerators (ILRs) as per requirement. Also, all cold-chain vans are already with us for transporting the vaccine doses. These vehicles will be enough to handle the upcoming phases. Our cold-chain infrastructure has the capacity to handle/transport up to three crore vaccine doses.” Dr Patil said that three state-level refrigerated vans were there to transport the vaccine doses, besides nine at regional-level and 34 such vans for 34 districts. “The vaccine stocks are likely to be received at the Centre’s Government Medical Store Depot in Mumbai, from where they would be sent to Arogya Bhawan in Pune, followed by dispatch to the nine regional vaccine stores in Pune, Kolhapur, Thane, Mumbai, Nashik, Aurangabad, Latur, Nagpur and Akola via refrigerated vans. From regional centres, the stocks would go to the respective districts and corporations within the regions. From there, the cold-chain van at the disposal of each district would transport the doses to primary health centres (PHCs),” Dr Patil said, adding that the PHCs had enough ILRs to store the vaccine. Dr Patil said the state had transported three crore vaccine doses during the measles rubella campaign, and the Covid vaccine stocks might be less than that as the stocks would be dispatched in lots. “The general protocol is as and when the initial lot is utilised, more is dispatched to the state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vax-transportation-problems-unlikely-in-state-say-experts/articleshow/80076962.cms||Neha Madaan
January 3, 2021||Bareilly||UP: ‘Love jihad’ case against 3 Muslim men dropped within 24 hours after ‘charges turn out to be false’||BAREILLY: In a major twist to a 'love jihad' case in Uttar Pradesh, a day after three Muslim men - all relatives and in their mid-20s - were booked under the new anti-conversion law for "stalking and sexually harassing a 22-year-old married woman and forcing her to convert and marry one of them", police in Bareilly have expunged the FIR after finding the complaint "fake" and the suspects being "incorrectly framed". Police said the woman complainant had made the serious allegations against the three men referring to a particular incident on December 1. However, the police found her charges to be false as the three men were not present in Bareilly at the time. It is evident after investigation that all the three accused were incorrectly framed and the case has been expunged, Bareilly SSP Rohit Singh Sajwan said on Saturday. Now, a report under IPC section 182 (false information with intent to cause a public servant to use his lawful power to the injury of another person) will be submitted against the complainant, the SSP added. The woman, who is a nursing college student in Bareilly, was in a relationship with one of the men for over a year and had eloped with him last September, according to police. Her uncle had registered a missing complaint. She was reportedly traced and recovered after nine days and married off to another man from her community last month. Her "friend", who works as a driver and belongs to the same neighbourhood, has been released along with the other two on Saturday after brief questioning. In her complaint, which has now turned out to be "false", the woman had said that she was stalked by the main suspect even after her marriage. On December 1, her "friend" allegedly stopped her at gunpoint in Bareilly, and asked her to convert and re-marry him. Thereafter, his two cousins threatened to kill members of her family. She further claimed that she may kill herself. On Friday night, an FIR was registered at Faridpur police station under sections 354 (attempt to outrage the modesty of a woman) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC along with sections 3/5 of the UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, on her complaint. The FIR was, however, expunged on Saturday, police said. “After checking the mobile surveillance report, it was evident that the men were not in the village on the day of the incident mentioned in the FIR. We have not found any evidence against them," Faridpur SHO Surinder Singh Pachauri told TOI. "On the other hand, the facts mentioned in the woman's statement were found incorrect and she even said that she doesn’t use a mobile phone. We are now trying to find out if she had registered the complaint under someone's direction,” the SHO added. It was a huge relief for the suspects' family. "Our children were being framed in this case. We request police to ensure an impartial probe," one of the members said. TOI tried to contact the woman and her family, but they refused to speak on the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/love-jihad-case-against-3-muslim-men-dropped-within-24-hours-after-charges-turn-out-to-be-false/articleshow/80075792.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 3, 2021||Goa||Xaxtikars will show their trust in BJP: CM||Margao: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday exuded confidence of winning over the trust of the people of Salcete in the forthcoming municipal polls as well as in the 2022 assembly elections. “Our party workers are working hard; they have thus been able to secure people’s trust on the party and the government. The people of Salcete, in particular, will show their trust in BJP this time,” Sawant said while addressing reporters on the sidelines of the karyakarta training camp for Margao constituency. He further said that the two-day camps across all constituencies were a part of BJP’s preparation plan for the assembly elections. “It’s our endeavour that the party and the government are able to reach out to the grassroots level through these camps ahead of the assembly and the municipal elections. We will definitely gain success in both these polls,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/xaxtikars-will-show-their-trust-in-bjp-cm/articleshow/80077949.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Pune||Pune: For 4 months, Covid fatality rate in rural areas stays at 2.6%||PUNE: The rural parts of the district have seen a significant drop in active caseload over the past two months, but the case fatality rate (CFR) has been steady at 2.6% from September last year. The data was part of a report tabled before deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar during a weekly review meeting on Friday. Rural Pune includes 13 tehsils and 14 municipal councils, of which Bhor (3.8%), Purandar (3.4%), Junnar (3.4%), Maval (3.1%) and Shirur (3%) had the highest mortality rate, the report revealed. As per an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) benchmark, the fatality rate should be less than 1%. Zilla parishad officials said no tehsils or municipal council in rural Pune so far has reported such a low CFR. Pune ZP chief executive officer Ayush Prasad said more than 50% of those patients who succumbed to the contagion had underlying health conditions. “The infection worsened their condition,” Prasad said, adding that this was a factor in the high fatality in these areas, “despite a huge drop in overall positive cases”. A senior ZP health official said delayed hospital admissions were also to blame for the high CFR. Interestingly, the death rate in Haveli and Khed tehsils, which continue to record the highest Covid cases in Pune rural areas, is 1.9% and 2.4%, respectively. “We carried out an extensive survey in these two tehsils and therefore could detect patients at an early stage,” the official said. The rural parts have so far reported 62,496 Covid-19 cases since the pandemic started in the first quarter of 2020. Of them, 60,010 people have recovered and 1,550 succumbed, while 936 patients are still being treated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/for-4-months-fatality-rate-in-rural-areas-stays-at-2-6/articleshow/80076955.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 3, 2021||Pune||MPSC limits exam attempts, cuts a deep divide||PUNE: Aspirants are undecided about the Maharashtra Public Service Commission’s decision to limit the number of attempts allowed for each candidate. The notification on Wednesday said MPSC is limiting the number of attempts for open category students to six and other backward classes to nine. Kiran Nimbhore, one of the founders of MPSC Students’ Rights group, said it should have been six attempts for all categories without a difference. “Students are wasting more than 10 years hoping to get a government job. The problem is that though students start out seriously, not everyone is able to keep this momentum. Some just keep giving exams year after year. Putting a limit on this will at least force them to make the attempts count. However, the MPSC must ensure that they are able to work in a time-bound manner,” he added. Kalpesh Yadav, president of the MNS’s youth wing in Pune, said, “If MPSC is following UPSC, then it should do so on all counts. UPSC has a fixed timetable and ensures that the exams are conducted and the results declared within one year. In the state, the time from the release of advertisement to the result declaration is long and unpredictable. We want MPSC to follow the strict work ethics of UPSC.” Meanwhile, Maratha students are not happy about the timing of the announcement. Anup Deshmukh, who has already attempted the examination thrice, said the MPSC should have waited for the Supreme Court’s final judgment on Maratha reservation. “Now, students in the community do not know whether they get six opportunities or nine. Even with EWS quota there is no clarity, as many say it comes under the open category and not the reserved ones. Hence, the timing of this change is wrong.” Kuldeep Ambekar, a student activist, said there should be no limit to how many times a student attempts the examination. “Already, Covid-19 has led to massive job losses. Most students from rural areas pin their hopes on government jobs and they try hard for these exams. They come from poor backgrounds and appear for them many times to get a hang of the pattern. Many don’t have the preparation in the first attempt. Hence, by limiting the number of options, the MPSC is doing a disservice,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mpsc-limits-exam-attempts-cuts-a-deep-divide/articleshow/80076954.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 3, 2021||Pune||Association demands additional CAP round||PUNE: The Association of Management of Non-Aided Institutes in Rural Area has demanded that the technical education department conduct one round of the centralized admission process (CAP) for students clearing the repeat examination for Std X and XII. The association president Ramdas Zol, who has also written to the technical education minister regarding the same, said the students passing repeat examination must be given a fair chance too. The re-examinations, generally held in July, were delayed last year because of Covid-19 and held in November. Eventually, the results were declared on December 23 instead of August. “The education department conducted special rounds for such students, who passed the Std X re-examination, for their admission to Std XI and the dates were extended for ITI admissions to incorporate such students. The problem is for polytechnic admissions. The two CAP rounds for admissions were completed by the time results were announced for the re-examination. Hence, the students were unable to apply for polytechnic diploma courses,” said Zol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/association-demands-additional-cap-round/articleshow/80076960.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 3, 2021||Coimbatore||823 vaccination centres identified in Nilgiris district||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The dry run to check the best way to administer Covid-19 vaccine and address loopholes in logistics and training was held at three hospitals - Ooty Medical College Hospital, Coonoor Government Hospital and Nilakottai primary health centre in Gudalur taluk - in the Nilgiris on Saturday. While inaugurating the drive at the Sait hospital, the maternity wing at the Ooty Medical College Hospital, collector J Innocent Divya said the vaccine would be administered on the health workers in the district in the first phase. “Their names have already been registered on the COVID-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network (CoWIN) app. People aged above 50 years and those with comorbidities will also be included in the first phase.” There are about 5,732 health workers, including doctors and nurses, attached to 43 government medical facilities and 292 with the private medical facilities in the hill district. During the dry run on the day, 25 ‘dummy’ vaccines were given to health workers in each of the three centres. According to the collector, 823 vaccination centres have been identified and 1,232 staff have been trained to administer the vaccine in the district. Each centre will have a team of five vaccinators. The Nilgiris recorded 12 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the tally to 7,968, of which 115 are active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/823-vaccination-centres-identified-in-nilgiris-district/articleshow/80076965.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Jaipur||Meeting to address public problems held||Jaipur. The state government will listen to the grievances of people at the village, block and district levels and provide relief to them. Water and energy minister B K Kalla held a meeting of the cabinet committee on Saturday at the Secretariat and suggested to make public hearings effective from village to district level. Members of the committee including minority affairs minister Saleh Mohammed, minister of state for education (independent charge) Govind Singh Dotasra, minister of state for women and child development Mamta Bhupesh and minister of state for technical education Subhash Garg will decide on the modalities of public hearings. Minister Saleh Mohammed attended the meeting via virtual conferencing. Principal secretary of public grievance redressal department Ashwini Bhagat and other officers were present in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/meeting-to-address-public-problems-held/articleshow/80076968.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Pune||Pune: Traffic diversions for Metro work on Bund Garden Road||PUNE: The traffic police have imposed traffic diversions to facilitate Metro work on a half-kilometre stretch of Bund Garden Road. This stretch is on the Vanaz-Ramwadi Metro corridor. The diversions, which came into effect on Saturday, will be in place from 10pm to 5am for a few weeks. Police said they will review these diversions in a few days. “Traffic plying between Shriman Chowk and Ambedkar Setu on one side of Bund Garden road has been diverted through alternative routes to facilitate Metro work,” deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Rahul Shrirame said on Saturday. “We have deployed a sufficient number of policemen/wardens from the Koregaon Park traffic police to ensure there are no major traffic disruptions,” Shrirame added. “MahaMetro will be using heavy cranes and other heavy vehicles to load and unload construction material. The cranes will block most of Bund Garden Road, so we took the call to close the road and divert traffic to prevent accidents and traffic congestion,” inspector P M Gade from the Koregaon park traffic branch said. Police said MahaMetro had initially wanted to carry out the work during the day. “But we held a meeting with them and directed them to work at night so that there is no traffic disruption. Traffic diversions have been planned so that motorists are not unduly inconvenienced,” DCP Shrirame said. “The 05.km stretch had to be closed, even though the night curfew is in place, to deter motorists — particularly those who new to the city — from plying on the road,” he added. Inspector Gade said they have tried to ensure the diversions were as smooth as possible. “We have taken all possible measures, like installing barricades, diversion boards, blinkers and red flags,” Gade said. Yogesh Pingle, president of a residents’ forum, suggested that emergency vehicles be allowed on the closed-off stretch. “This stretch should be reopened at the earliest as it connects to KP, Kalyaninagar, Yerawada and other key areas,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/traffic-diversions-for-metro-work-on-bund-garden-road/articleshow/80076971.cms||Asseem Shaikh
January 3, 2021||Coimbatore||Miscreants damage 8 vehicles||Coimbatore: Unidentified people have damaged eight vehicles that were parked along road at Kavundampalayam on Friday night. While the vehicle owners have brought the incident to the attention of police, they haven’t lodged a formal complaint.Police said they were trying to identify the people who were roaming the area at night and hold inquiry with them.A police inspector said the damaged vehicles - five cars and three load autos – were parked along a street at Sakthi Nagar in Kavundampalayam.“The miscreants have damaged side mirrors and window shields of the vehicles. The vehicle owners were local residents, who didn’t have parking space at their residences. Since the damages are negligible they have not filed a complaint.”Pointing out that there wasn’t any CCTV camera in the area, the officer said they were, hence, trying to find out the people, who were seen roaming the area on Friday night. Police are also trying to ascertain the role of some youngsters, who celebrated the New Year on the day, in the incident. “The residents said they hadn’t heard any unusual sound at night.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/miscreants-damage-8-vehicles/articleshow/80076963.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Pune||Covid-19: Recoveries at 735 in Pune metropolitan region, 12 more succumb to coronavirus||PUNE: The active Covid-19 caseload dropped to 5,788 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Saturday, following higher recoveries and fewer infections since October last year. The active caseload had reduced below 7,000 in PMR on December 28 last year. It dropped by 1,000 in the last five days. Since the beginning of December, the region’s active caseload has reduced by over 5,500. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, on Saturday stated that the PMC limits had 3,046 active patients, which were highest in the region. The report stated that the daily recoveries continued to remain on top against the new positive cases in the region on Saturday. As many as 735 patients were discharged as against additions of 492 new cases, taking the total discharges and cases to 3.49 lakh and 3.64 lakh, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/recoveries-at-735-in-pmr-12-more-succumb-to-coronavirus/articleshow/80076967.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 3, 2021||Jaipur||Buta Singh who served under 4 prime ministers passes away||JAIPUR: Former Union home minister Buta Singh, who represented Punjab’s Moga and Ropar as well as Rajasthan’s Jalore Lok Sabha constituencies for eight terms between 1962 and 2004, died at the AIIMS, New Delhi, on Saturday. He was 86 and is survived by a daughter and two sons. The senior Congress leader was in a coma since October last year after he suffered a brain hemorrhage. Singh remained in public service for a long time and served under four prime ministers—Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi, PV Narasimha Rao and Manmohan Singh. He also served as the governor of Bihar. Leaders across political parties in the country expressed grief at Singh’s demise. Governor Kalraj Mishra, speaker CP Joshi, chief minister Ashok Gehlot, PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra, former chief minister Vasundhara Raje and former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot remembered Singh for his contributions in the public life. Independent MLA and former Congressman Sanyam Lodha organised a condolence meeting at Sirohi where people from the Lok Sabha constituency paid homage to Singh. "Singh will always remain in the hearts of people of Jalore-Sirohi," Lodha later tweeted. Born in Punjab's Jalandhar district on March 21, 1934, Singh was first elected from Punjab’s Moga Lok Sabha constituency, which was reserved for the Scheduled Castes (SC), as an Akali Dal candidate in 1962. He later joined Congress and in 1967 got elected from Punjab’s Ropar, the seat he represented until 1984 when he got elected from Jalore in Rajasthan. In 1998, he won as an independent candidate but later returned to Congress to be last elected from Jalore in 1999. He lost the seat as Congress candidate in 2004 and then as independent candidate in 2009 and 2014. A prominent Dalit leader, Singh was involved in choosing the Congress's new poll symbol "hand" after the party split in 1978. He was closely associated with the then prime minister Indira Gandhi during the Operation Blue Star and as a minister, oversaw the reconstruction of the Golden Temple in Punjab's Amritsar following the Army operation. In 1986, he became the Union home minister in the Rajiv Gandhi cabinet. Under PV Narasimha Rao, Singh was the Union minister of civil supplies, consumer affairs and public distribution from 1995 to 1996. He was appointed the chairman of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes by Manmohan Singh in 2007. He held that post till 2010. Singh was instrumental in building and re-building many gurdwaras in the country and abroad, especially the Sri Akaal Takht, after Operation Blue Star in 1984. He was involved in the reconstruction of many gurdwaras in Delhi after the anti-Sikh riots of November 1984. He courted controversies too. In 1998, as the communications minister, he was indicted in the JMM bribery case and had to resign. As the Bihar governor in 2005, his decision to recommend dissolution of the state assembly was criticised by the Supreme Court and he later resigned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/buta-singh-who-served-under-4-prime-ministers-passes-away/articleshow/80076974.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Coimbatore||Lowest number of Covid cases recorded in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: The district recorded the lowest number of cases since June-mid on Saturday, when it saw 78 people test positive, taking the total number of cases to 52,496. The day also saw 97 people getting discharged, leaving the number of active cases at 779. Recovery rate stood at an all-time high of 99.7%. It is also the second in a row that the district has gone without recording a death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lowest-number-of-cases-recorded/articleshow/80076977.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Coimbatore||Kovai Vizha begins with honouring health workers on ESI hospital premises||COIMBATORE: Health minister C Vijayabaskar on Saturday said the AIADMK government has succeeded in controlling the spread of Covid-19 in the state and termed it a remarkable achievement. Speaking at the inaugural function of the 13th edition of Kovai Vizha at the ESI Hospital in the city, he said, “At a time when London and other European countries are in lockdown, we are relaxing. The state government has achieved what the well-developed nations are struggling to achieve.” The curtains went up for the nine-day carnival with a helicopter showering flower petals on health workers on the hospital premises. Themed around hope and gratitude, the Vizha would feature more than 100 events, most of which would be conducted virtually because of the pandemic situation. Pointing out that working people needed appreciation to continue working tirelessly, the minister said the district administration, state government and others who had worked untiringly during the pandemic also deserved appreciation. “I salute the fraternity.” Municipal administration minister S P Velumani also thanked the health workers and other officials, who have made the city safe today. “They worked as a team during the pandemic to control the spread.” A Nirmala, ESI Hospital dean, expressed gratitude to the government for providing an opportunity to serve people during the pandemic and the Vizha team for honouring health workers. She said, “The government had set up a real time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) lab at the hospital for Covid-19 testing and its capacity was increased later. We have tested about 1.71 lakh samples at the lab. Similarly, the government had provided us an additional CT scan machine when the patient flow increased. It helped us identify lung infection in 6,418 of the 9,109 patients that we treated.” Aishwarya Arjun, former chair of Young Indians (YI), which organizes the Vizha with other organizations, said true to its theme hope and gratitude, the event got underway with expressing gratitude to the frontline workers, who had been working relentlessly during the pandemic. “Their dedication, commitment and courage deserve our deepest gratitude and admiration.” The Vizha would feature events like marathon, cyclathon, heritage tour, virtual art streets, drop a device, ‘Memories of Coimbatore’, ‘Agriculture and Beyond’ (agriculture related webinars) and ‘Mind Your Mind’ (mental health awareness programme).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kovai-vizha-begins-with-honouring-health-workers-on-esi-hosp-premises/articleshow/80076972.cms||Nivedha Selvam
January 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Elections to 7 ULBs only after Sankranti||HYDERABAD: Elections to seven municipal bodies of Greater Warangal, Khammam, Atchampet, Siddipet, Nakrekal, Jadcherla and Kothur will be held only after Sankranti as the officials need time to complete delimitation and reservation of wards exercise once the government gives its nod. Political analysts said it is important to see whether the chief minister would opt to go for polls to the ULBs before the by-election to Nagarjuna Sagar assembly constituency or take the risk of waiting for the outcome of Sagar bypoll result and then go for the elections. While the term of elected bodies in the last three local bodies (gram panchayats upgraded as municipalities) expired in December 2020, that of Greater Warangal, Khammam and Atchampet will expire in March followed by Siddipet in April. As per the new Municipalities Act of 2019, it is mandatory that the State  Commission has to fix the poll schedule in consultation with the state government as the exercise involves providing massive police security and thousands of employees on election duty among other works by the government to the election commission. The elections to ULBs are important not only for the TRS, Congress and BJP but also for the two main Left parties of CPI and CPM. While the ruling TRS wants to show BJP its place by inflicting a humiliating defeat on it, the saffron party wants to continue its good show to assert its position as an alternative to the ruling TRS. On the other hand, Congress wants to prove that it is still a force to reckon with and is still the main opposition party in Telangana. The two left parties have considerable presence and cadre in Khammam and Greater Warangal municipal corporations. “CPI and CPM won four seats in Khammam municipal body in 2016. This time, we are expecting to romp home with more seats. There is anti-incumbency against the ruling TRS and our cadre has been going to the door steps of the voters from the last six months,” said a CPM leader. In Greater Warangal too, the CPM had managed to win one seat in 2016 polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/elections-to-7-ulbs-only-after-sankranti/articleshow/80076976.cms||Roushan Ali
January 3, 2021||Nagpur||Dismayed over sanitization cost, schools wary of reopening||Nagpur: Citing safety concerns due to prevailing Covid situation, key stakeholders in school education in Nagpur district have come together to protest against reopening from January 4. Principals, school trustees and public representatives say grant-in-aid schools do not have the finances to cover sanitization costs due to which health of students will be at risk. Under the banner of Nagpur District Secondary and Higher Secondary Schools Coordination Committee, the stakeholders have written to state’s education director about the need for sanitization costs to be either paid up in advance or the entire operation to be outsourced. Led by Nago Ganar, MLC from teachers constituency, Headmasters Association (Nagpur district) and Maharashtra Rajya Shikshan Sanstha Mahamandal (MRSSM) have upped the ante in their protest. Ravindra Fadnavis, who represents MRSSM, said, “We will definitely reopen schools because that’s what the government has ordered us to do. But we are making it absolutely clear that if any untoward incident happens, then it will be the responsibility of the state government.” MLC Ganar has asked the state to use funds available courtesy central government schemes. “There are funds available for this purpose under the 15th Finance Commission and the state must use that to help schools,” said Ganar. Their demands are not without valid reason, because schools in rural areas were supplied safety equipments. Fadnavis said, “Zilla parishad supplied sanitizers, oxymeters etc to schools under their jurisdiction. Now, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) too must follow suit.” Zafar Khan, president of School Headmasters Charitable Association (SHCA) said that meeting with education officer on Wednesday did not yield any result. “We had an online meet, but there was no commitment about supplying our grant-in-aid schools with sanitizers,” said Khan. Education officials, however, cite their inability to initiate anything. Chintaman Vanjari, district education officer, said, “For rural schools, ZP had provided us with the sanitization material and that’s why were able to supply the same to schools. Education department itself does not have these material.” He added that as of now, there was no commitment made by NMC to supply sanitization material for city schools. Fadnavis said, “All decisions are being taken unilaterally by the government. The least they could do was to consult us. Reopening of schools without sanitization is going to be impossible.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dismayed-over-sanitization-cost-schools-wary-of-reopening/articleshow/80083932.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
January 3, 2021||Kolkata||‘I felt privileged as this is a drill for a vaccine to end pandemic’||KOLKATA: I have been part of routine immunisation programmes for two-and-a-half decades now. But never have I been as excited as I was on Saturday. I knew this was for a greater cause, a drill for the Covid-19 vaccination, the outcome of which everyone is watching. I was told in advance that I was one of the dummy beneficiaries for the dry run. The procedure was scheduled to begin at 9.30am but I ensured I reached the health centre by 9am as my name was on the top of the list of 25 beneficiaries. On Friday itself, we were briefed about the dry run in details and how important it was to be on time. When my name was the first one to be called inside the waiting room, I felt privileged because this is not a drill like any other. It is a trial run for a vaccine that we all have been praying will bring an end to this pandemic. When the pandemic had broken out, as a frontline worker, my team and I had been paying door-to-door visit in our municipality area in search of Covid-19 suspected patients, help them get the tests done and assist them with hospital admission if they tested positive and their condition turned worse. Therefore, I know how traumatising and agonising it is for infected patients and their families, many of whom have lost their lives. I myself had gone through the agony when I got infected about five months ago. My daughter, too, contracted the virus from me. Luckily we survived. I do not want more families ruined by this virus. I am lucky to be part of this dry run, which went off smoothly. (Kalyani Das a 54-year-old honorary health worker (field), who was the first dummy beneficiary for the dry run at Madhyamgram Urban Primary Health Centre, spoke to Kamalendu Bhadra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/i-felt-privileged-as-this-is-a-drill-for-a-vaccine-to-end-pandemic/articleshow/80076978.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Coimbatore||Release grant to Avinashilingam University soon, MP tells govt||COIMBATORE: MP P R Natarajan has shot off a letter to the Union government, demanding immediate release of grant to the Avinashilingam Institute of Home Science for Women, which he said had been withholding a certain percentage of the salary and pension of its employees because of fund shortage. In his recent letter, the MP said ever since the institution became a deemed university in 1988, it had retained its status of public funded university with the University Grants Commission (UGC)/Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) releasing the plan and non-plan grants. He said the UGC had withheld the grant for two months in 2015 after the university management failed to comply with some regulations. “However, the issue was sorted out immediately.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/release-grant-to-avinashilingam-university-soon-mp-tells-govt/articleshow/80076973.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Coimbatore||Focus on US market, apparel exporters told||COIMBATORE: The Indian Texpreneurs Federation (ITF) has decided to focus on the US market for apparel exports. “The Indian textile sector achieved a status of biggest gainer of volumes in the US market during the first 10 months in 2020. Now, it is time for us to export our apparel products in the US market. Because, we share a level-playing field with our competitors unlike in the European Union where our competitors like Vietnam have a free trade agreement (FTA). We have to intensify our efforts and focus at all levels to grab our share in apparel section in the US market,” said Prabhu Dhamodharan, convenor of the federation. It is time for the textile and apparel sector to invest at various stages of the value chain with main focus on value addition so as to increase revenue by 20% per product, Dhamodharan said. “The industries should turn the easy liquidity and low-interest regime during the time of robust demand due to post Covid opportunities to their advantage. All manufacturing units should invest in technology adoption and take digital initiatives to achieve global benchmark in terms of production and efficiency to build long-term competitiveness.” Following the Covid-19 pandemic, the sector has bounced back and is confident of achieving much-needed growth this year, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/focus-on-us-market-apparel-exporters-told/articleshow/80076969.cms||---
January 3, 2021||India||Buta Singh was Cong's man for all seasons||NEW DELHI: When Buta Singh last hit the headlines for his controversial 2005 decision to dismiss the shaky Bihar assembly, there was a familiar ring to his action. In the twilight of his long and eventful political career, Congress's man for all seasons was still doing what he did best. Over his six-decade long political innings, Singh, a Dalit sikh, rose from humble beginnings in an impoverished family to occupy the vaunted Union home ministry and also the position of a feared Congress insider under Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi. He did break from Congress in the late nineties to become an independent MP and briefly served as minister under Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, but Congress's doors were always open to him and he returned to later serve as Bihar governor and then as chairman of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes. That was practically the last chapter of his politics. Singh is best remembered for featuring in two watershed moments in modern Indian history - Ayodhya Shilanyas and Operation Bluestar. As a Sikh, Singh rather boldly stood up against separatist terror in Punjab and also backed Operation Bluestar which became a big provocation for many of the tragic events that followed. For his role, Singh was excommunicated by the Akal Takht and the pictures of him cleaning shoes as punishment in the Golden Temple are etched in public memory. Singh was a villain for the hard-liners and a rather unlikely hero for the Indian mainstream. Watch Senior Congress leader Buta Singh passes away at 86||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/buta-singh-was-congs-man-for-all-seasons/articleshow/80078517.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
January 3, 2021||Goa||Cong criticises municipal ordinance, calls for withdrawal||Panaji: Congress on Saturday said the Goa Municipalities (Amendment) Ordinance will push Goans out from stores at the municipal markets and open the door for corruption, even as it called for a discussion on the issue at the forthcoming assembly session. Congress media cell convenor Trajano D’Mello said that many Goan families who took shops on lease at markets operated by municipal councils will no longer be able to run the stores for more than 10 years as per the ordinance, which was notified a few days earlier. Section 88D of the ordinance specifies the procedure for regularisation of unauthorised transfer of shops and stores, but this will encourage corrupt practices, D’Mello said. “There is more confusion than clarity in this ordinance. It has used terms like ‘holder’ and ‘family’ instead of the earlier term ‘blood relations’,” he said. Congress also questioned the government’s haste in coming out with an ordinance just days before the assembly session. “We demand recall of the ordinance till a debate on the advantages and disadvantages of the same is held in the forthcoming assembly session,” D’Mello said. The new norms will allow non-Goans to take over most of the businesses. This in turn will lead to higher prices for the common man as the shopkeepers will try to recover their investments from customers, he said. “With this, our Goans will be deprived of businesses which their grandfathers used to run, and it would go to non-Goans. I have a fear that the government is trying to pull the businesses away from Goans,” D’Mello said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-criticises-municipal-ordinance-calls-for-withdrawal/articleshow/80076983.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 3, 2021||Delhi||How are NCR wetlands doing? survey starts waterbird count||NEW DELHI: Asian Waterbird Census started on Saturday in seven wetlands of Delhi-NCR to record the status of important wetlands and population of waterbirds. It will continue till January 18. Waterbirds are one of the key indicators of a wetland’s health, say experts. Wetlands provide feeding, resting, roosting and foraging habitats for these species. The wetlands, which are being covered in Delhi-NCR, include the Yamuna, Sanjay Lake in Trilokpuri, Najafgarh Jheel, Surajpur and Dhanauri wetlands, Okhla Bird Sanctuary and National Zoological Park. “The annual census will help in finding the population and diversity of waterbirds during the non-breeding period for most species (January). It will also help in creating awareness among citizens on waterbirds and wetlands,” said T K Roy, AWC state coordinator. Volunteers can get themselves registered for participating in the event, Roy added. According to AWC, the last census, conducted last January, showed that the number of species and population of birds had decreased in comparison with 2019 at three places — Yamuna, Surajpur and Okhla Bird Sanctuary. On the 20km stretch of Yamuna from Wazirabad Barrage to Nizamuddin Bridge, the number of birds decreased from 1,267 in 2019 to 1,051 in 2020. However, Najafgarh Jheel reported an increase in species and population of waterbirds. AWC said 54 species of waterbirds were recorded at Najafgarh Jheel with a population of 9,453 in 2020 as against 31 species and 1,679 birds in 2019. AWC is coordinated by Wetlands International South Asia and is carried out in 27 countries across the continent and Australasia every January. The census witnesses the participation of thousands of volunteers according to the international protocol and methodology to record the status of important wetlands and waterbirds’ diversity with population estimates. This citizen-science programme supports global conservation of wetland and waterbirds. The report of census is shared with other national and international organisations for creating a global policy for conservation of wetlands and waterbirds, said an AWC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-are-ncr-wetlands-doing-survey-starts-waterbird-count/articleshow/80076992.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Jaipur||Elderly woman, two girls burnt alive in Bikaner||JAIPUR: A woman and two girl children were charred to death when fire broke out at a house in Surnana village under Lunkaransar village in Bikaner district during early hours on Saturday. According to the police, the incident took place at the house of one Hans Raj. "During early hours, fire broke out in a tin shade room of the house in which 75-year-old Dhai Devi and her grandchildren were sleeping. Hans Raj and his wife kept pouring water and mud on the house but Dhai Devi and the children including Anita (10) and Monika (8) sustained grave burn injuries," Ishwar Prasad Jangid of Lunkaransar police station told TOI. He added that the old woman and two girls succumbed to the injuries in the hospital. Preliminary information suggested that fire broke out due to a stove which was left burning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/elderly-woman-two-girls-burnt-alive-in-bikaner/articleshow/80076982.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Coronavirus vaccination dry run in district successful||COIMBATORE: The dry run for the Covid-19 vaccine administration was completed at all the five centres in the district on Saturday. While the dry run was completed in four centres by noon, at the ESI Hospital, which was the fifth centre, it was completed in the evening as there was a delay in inaugurating the same by health minister Dr C Vijayabaskaran. Health department officials said the process was smooth and they hadn’t faced any glitches in using the CoWIN app. While inaugurating the dry run, the health minister said the state was likely to receive two crore doses of the vaccine and they would be administered at 47,200 camps across the state. “Six lakh healthcare workers will be vaccinated in the first phase. We have trained 21,200 staff to administer the vaccine so far.” The dry run was done at the PSG Hospitals, ESI Hospital, Sulur government hospital, SLM home urban primary health centre and Bouluvampatti community health centre. “The dry run went smoothly. We were able to vaccinate 25 patients in two hours and entering the data onto the app was not problematic,” said S Raja, city health officer, and Dr A Murali, Covid-19 nodal officer at the PSG Hospitals. Raja said the entire process was videographed for reference. Officials said there was unlikely to be any issues, as the vaccination was done only on selected beneficiaries, who had already registered. “Challenges, if any, might occur only when we start vaccinating the public by entering their details on the spot. The entire process might take some time,” the city health officer said. He said while they were experienced in mass immunization like polio and MMR, among others, this was the first time they would be working with an app and software to key in every beneficiary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/coronavirus-vaccination-dry-run-in-district-successful/articleshow/80076984.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Hyderabad||CM calls up Sangareddy farmer||Hyderabad: A farmer of Sangareddy district got a call from CM K Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday enquiring about the potato crop that he was cultivating. KCR asked several questions to Nalla Nageshwara Reddy of Rajole village in Zaheerabad. The farmer was in his agricultural land when he got the call. KCR said he would invite him for a meeting and the farmer said he would take a few others along. Potato cultivation is spread over Zaheerabad district. Rao wanted to know what yield and price the farmer was getting. Reddy said the yield was different from red soil to black and there was a variation in the price. The conversation went on for more than four minutes as the CM sought more details. “I know about it,” KCR said as he mentioned what the variety of seed was called in Zaheerabad area. he CM was informed that only this variety had given a good yield.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-calls-up-sangareddy-farmer/articleshow/80076981.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 3, 2021||Vijayawada||Vij saw 30% improvement in disposal of UI cases in ’20||Vijayawada: Disposal of under-investigation (UI) under Vijayawada commissionerate limits cases saw a 30% improvement in 2020 compared to 2019 but 2020 also saw an 11% rise in cases pending trial compared to the year before. Police officials said that a large chunk of cases get disposed at Mega Lok Adalats while those cases that don’t get cleared at the Lok Adalats are tagged as ‘under-investigation’. Districts like Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram, and the Godavari region have fewer UI cases compared to major cities. Meanwhile, reluctance of witnesses to depose in court is cited to be the main reason behind cases pending trial. This also has an adverse affect on the conviction rate. Police officials pointed out that when it comes to pending trials, it is the state prosecution department’s duty to get them disposed. Police said they were focussing on UI cases which had been piling up over the years. They said that a shortage of staff within the police department was a key factor behind the piling up of cases. “No grave cases are pending investigation. Most of them are civil litigations, cheating and forgery cases which take time to reach the court,” a senior police official said. Cheating cases followed by theft make up most of the pending UI cases. In 2020, 804 cases of violation of Covid-19 norms have also been classified under UI along with cases registered through police enforcement under special and local laws (SLL). Cheating, ordinary thefts, cases under SLL, non-fatal accidents, and violation of Covid-19 norms made up 60% of overall UI cases in December. The Vijayawada commissionerate’s rate of filing of charge sheets stands at 43% with investigation completed in 2,464 cases. The city also saw improvement in conviction rate, which now stands at 55%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vij-saw-30-improvement-in-disposal-of-ui-cases-in-20/articleshow/80076351.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
January 3, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Two girls from Andhra leave for US to study agriculture||Visakhapatnam: Two girls, from Srikakulam and Vizianagaram, are flying to the US to study agriculture. The two students flew to Delhi on Saturday and are scheduled to take two different flights to Chicago and Florida. Behera Mounika and Sopeti Hema Sree are second-year students of BSc Zoology at SGCSR College run by GMR Varalakshmi Foundation at Rajam in Srikakulam district. The two girls were among 200 others participating in an essay-writing competition hosted by their college. 50 persons were shortlisted for interview, four of whom were then selected for a final round in Bhubaneswar where the two girls emerged as winners. The US state department, which selected them, is slated to spend Rs 30 lakh each to take these two students through the Community College Initiative (CCI). Speaking to TOI, Mounika, whose father Tavitiraju is a fisherman in Srikakulam, said, “My dream is to pursue MSc in agriculture and become a scientist. I am going to Chicago to pursue environmental horticulture at College of DuPage in Illinois.” Hema Sree, whose father is a tailor in Vizianagaram said, “I will study a course on sustainable agriculture at Valencia College. My dream is to pursue masters in agriculture. I did my inter at St Ann’s College for Women in Visakhapatnam.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/two-girls-from-andhra-leave-for-us-to-study-agriculture/articleshow/80076389.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
January 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: KSRTC fails to explore non-fare revenue sources||BENGALURU: While Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation is reeling under financial crisis, it is yet to explore non-ticketing revenue to reduce losses. In August last year, KSRTC finalised a tender to operate a courier service using its network of bus services, including NWKRTC and NEKRTC. It also selected Hyderabad-based Netxcell Limited as a software solution provider and Bengaluru-based Strategic Outsourcing India Pvt Ltd as a business facilitator, but the service is yet to see the light of day. KSRTC records show it suffered a loss of Rs 134 crore in 2018-19 compared to a profit of Rs 4.5 crore in 2017-18. It’s unlikely to see pre-Covid levels of ridership any time soon due to work from home and virus scare, which means it has to focus on non-fare box revenue for survival. Sources said KSRTC has not come up with any innovative schemes after the government transferred its then MD Rajender Kumar Kataria in 2017. The present MD Shivayogi Kalasad was unavailable for comments. A senior KSRTC official said the parcel and courier service will be launched in two months. “It was delayed due to various reasons, including Covid-19. The firms suggested Namma Cargo as the name for the project, but it has not been finalised yet. We will think about other initiatives once this is launched. It will have a potential to generate around Rs 100 crore a year, but we will get a clearer picture only after trials,” he said. Other states take leadOther state-run bus corporations are taking the lead in generating non-fare box revenue. Parcel, courier and cargo services launched by Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation and Telangana State Road Transport Corporation are a hit. In 2018-19 alone, APSRTC earned Rs 72 crore from cargo services. Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation has also started a venture — bus-trucks — for transportation of vegetables, fruits and essential commodities. According to MSRTC, 3,000 ageing buses from its fleet of 18,000 will be converted into trucks and cold-storage vans. MSRTC has also signed an MoU with Indian Oil Corporation to set up 30 fuel outlets on its land across the state. Kerala State Road Transport Corporation recently started a parcel service named KSRTC logistics. It has converted two deluxe buses into sleepers, with 16 berths each and stationed at Munnar depot for tourists. Kerala RTC uses junked buses to sell veggiesKerala RTC is using its scrapped buses to sell essentials like vegetables, fish and meat under the ‘shops on wheels’ drive. It is also inviting entrepreneurs to sell items and open restaurants/food trucks on these discarded buses. It is giving its double-decker buses for celebrations and pre-wedding photoshoots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ksrtc-fails-to-explore-non-fare-revenue-sources/articleshow/80076527.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
January 3, 2021||Chennai||Back in office, back in shape||CHENNAI: Cycling for 25km and eating healthy have been Arudhra Hariharan’s way of getting back into his fitness regime, following months of staying at home due to Covid-19. "A week ago, I began eating according to my dietician’s advice. I want to lose the weight I gained during the lockdown," says the 22-year-old from Saligramam. The BBA graduate, who will soon be leaving India to pursue his masters says, "I did not realize how much weight I had gained as I hardly left my couch or wore formal clothes." With his heart set on losing 7kg in the next few months, Hariharan is following a balanced Indian meal plan instead of fad diets. After binge eating through the months of lockdown, city-based nutritionists say people are now dieting with a vengeance to get back into shape for when their workplaces and colleges reopen. For Ananya P, who has tried out several diets in the past two months, the results have been instant, but exhausting. The 35-year-old, who began going to work two months ago, found she could not fit into her kurtas, after months of working from home and eating on the bed with her laptop. "Intermittent fasting and Keto are my go-to-diets. Though I managed to reduce about 8kg in one month, getting back to regular meals immediately impacts my results," sighs the advertising professional from Velachery. Nihath Tazeen, dietician and quality check official at Qua Nutrition, Alwarpet, says clients who want to follow fad diets lose weight instantly. However, the outcome would not be consistent or healthy. Since the lockdown began, Tazeen has had a surge in clients who want to lose weight fast. "We encourage a gradual and consistent process which involves a change in lifestyle," she says adding that before fixing a diet, it is important to understand every individual’s metabolism, body type, food culture, palate, and other needs. "There is no one diet that fits all." Tazeen says increased stress levels during the pandemic have induced a higher cortisol level in the body, which causes increased deposition of fat. "It takes about 50 days for an adult to lose 1.5% to 2% fat," she says. According to Sherene G, a city-based clinical dietician, taking up diets without proper research, with just the panic of gaining of few kilograms can be harmful. "Binge-eating is not just about food intake. This situation also brings to light the mental well-being of individuals," she says. Many focus on fancy diets with exotic fruits, meats, and vegetables. "In this process, we forget to stick to local ingredients which have equal goodness," she says. Clinical psychologist Khushali Manikandan has seen a 20% rise in the number of her patients binge eating, almost as a stress-buster. It helped many deal with the pandemic related boredom, stress, and depression, she says. "Getting back in shape can be a tedious process for many, especially the ones who are battling with mental health issues," she says, adding that it could cause irritability, stress, guilt, and low confidence. "However being consistent and patient can help you reach your weight and health goal."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/back-in-office-back-in-shape/articleshow/80076257.cms||Harshitha Kumayaa
January 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: BBMP plans to build 200 public toilets||BENGALURU: Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) as decided to build 200 public toilets across the city; work is expected to begin this month. The city has 550 public toilets at present, but the Palike feels it needs 1,400 and officials said they will build another 650 in phases. Of 200 toilets, at least 120-150 can be built this year and the rest in 2022 at an average expenditure of Rs 8 lakh. Further, nearly 80 washrooms that are not being used will be renovated at a cost of Rs 2 lakh. This means, by mid-2020, close to 300 more washrooms could be used in addition to the existing 550, officials said. D Randeep, special commissioner (solid waste management) said: “In toilets with more than five seats, a provision could be considered for transgender users,” adding the new toilets will function more efficiently with focus on cleanliness. More signagesBBMP will increase the number of signages leading towards the toilets and ask its marshals to fine those urinating at public places. It plans to instal more mobile toilets and ask petrol bunks to make their washrooms accessible to the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-plans-to-build-200-public-toilets/articleshow/80076541.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Goa||Goa govt may increase wards in five municipal areas||PANAJI: The state government is likely to increase nine wards in Bicholim, Curchorem, Canacona, Quepem and Cuncolim municipal areas ahead of elections to these bodies which are scheduled in February. It is likely to amend the municipal act to facilitate the increase in wards. The directorate of municipal administration has received a proposal to increase the wards based on increase in population in those municipalities, urban development minister Milind Naik said. “The state government has not taken any decision yet,” he added. The local urban bodies in the state include 13 municipal councils and one corporation. A senior government officer said that once the state government takes a decision to increase the wards, the file would be moved to the State Election Commission for delimitation of wards. The officer said that if the government opts for increase in wards, there is a possibility that the municipal elections may get delayed. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that the SEC may hold elections to all the municipal councils along with the Corporation of City of Panaji (CCP) in March. The government is also contemplating holding municipal elections on party lines. State BJP president Sadanand Tanavade said that BJP is ready to face any elections, whether on party lines or without it. After the success of zilla panchayat elections, some BJP MLAs and ministers have said that municipal elections should be held on party lines. The SEC in August postponed the municipal polls scheduled for October by three months due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-may-increase-wards-in-five-municipal-areas/articleshow/80076986.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Police want to question Chinese man arrested by Hyderabad cops in loan app case||BENGALURU: City police probing the alleged extortion and blackmail by firms owning instant loan apps say they want to question Chinese national Zhu Wei alias Lambo, 27, who was arrested by Hyderabad police ina similar case. Soon after police in Bengaluru and Hyderabad cracked down on such firms, Wei, a resident of Hyderabad, became elusive. But a special team of Hyderabad police apprehended him on December 30 when he arrived at the Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi. Wei, from Jiangxi in China, owns four firms that dealt in instant loan apps in Hyderabad. “Three firms in Bengaluru, owned by the Chinese, seem to have had links with Wei. He played a vital role in establishing and running the call centre that communicated with those who availed loans in Bengaluru as well as Hyderabad,” a city police officer said. He added that two more persons, Yi Bai and Zixia Zhang, both Chinese nationals, are suspected to be involved in the fraud. The trio had set up firms offering instant loans through apps in many cities, including Hyderabad and Bengaluru, police said. Last week, police had raided four companies in Bengaluru — Mad Elephant Technologies, Borayanxy Technologies, Profitise Technologies and Wizzpro Solutions — and arrested five people, including a chief financial officer and a human resource manager. Alerted by CID about the seriousness of the scam, officials from Intelligence Bureau (IB) too questioned the two arrested accused. In all, seven cases have been registered against such firms in Bengaluru so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/police-want-to-question-chinese-man-arrested-by-hyd-cops-in-loan-app-case/articleshow/80076532.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
January 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Small traders not enthused; hotels welcome 24/7 move||BENGALURU: Small traders say the move to allow retailers to keep their establishments open 24/7 will at best benefit only big retailers, malls and the likes. And even if bigger retailers open round the clock and buyers shop in the middle of the night, small traders feel it will be at their expense. Bhoopalam Srinath, president of Bangalore Traders’ Association, which has 200 members, said the additional cost that owners of small shops will have to incur to enhance manpower, facilitate transportation and so on will not make it feasible for them to keep their establishments open. “Even before Covid-19, when the government announced this move in 2019, we could not do it, and now it is even more difficult. This may help only big players,” he said. Suhail Yusuf, secretary of Brigade Shops and Establishments Association, said small traders will suffer if they decide to stay open all night. “The move is not welcome unless they further simplify some of the rules that enable small shops to remain open, but that seems unlikely. It doesn’t make sense economically for us to stay open,” he said. Srinath said there are law and order and security issues to be considered too. Yusuf too said the city is not equipped to deal with all-night businesses. But Bruhat Bengaluru Hotels Association president PC Rao welcomed the move. “I think in the long run, this will create more employment. While we may not be able to keep all hotels open 24/7 since there may be no customers, we’ll meet to decide how to implement this given that it is voluntary.” Govindraj Hegde, secretary, Federation of Wine Merchants’ Association, an umbrella body of associations that operate bars and restaurants, said the move has no impact on them. Though they register under the Shops & Establishments Act, which enables them to obtain a licence to serve food, they are primarily guided by Excise Act, which does not allow 24/7 operations. “This means when the daily time under Excise Act ends, we must close even the restaurant,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/small-traders-not-enthusedhotels-welcome-24/7-move/articleshow/80076566.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Trichy||Man, 64, dies as wall of hut collapses on him in Trichy||TRICHY: A 64-year-old man died on the spot after the wall of his hut collapsed on him near Samayapuram in the district during the wee hours on Saturday. According to the police, the deceased has been identified as M Govindan, a daily wager and resident of Maruthur near Samayapuram. He is survived by his wife G Papa and a daughter. Their daughter was born only a few years back. Around 5.30am on Saturday, when Papa had gone out to attend nature's call, and Govindan was fast asleep mud house covered with an asbestos roof, one of the walls collapsed. Govindan was stuck under the debris leaving him dead on the spot. Papa raised an alarm and with the help of neighbours got her husband’s out from the debris. Samayapuram police rushed to the spot and conducted an inquiry. They also sent the body to the government hospital for post mortem. Further inquiries are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-64-dies-as-wall-of-hut-collapses-on-him-in-trichy/articleshow/80077977.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 3, 2021||Goa||2020: A year that witnessed increased cyclone intensity||PANAJI: A rise in catastrophic extreme weather events has already proved that global warming and climate change is for real. With a record eight cyclones ripping through India in 2019, weather experts realised the dimension of future doom. The year 2020 only underlined this danger in the future. If 2019 spawned a record chain of eight cyclones — five in the earlier quiet Arabian Sea and three in the usually tempestuous Bay of Bengal — the year 2020 produced five. Two of them, Gati and Nivar, were very severe cyclonic storms and one, Amphan was even more intense, a super cyclone. Only Burevi was of lesser intensity. It was a cyclonic storm that died down within a few days. In 2019, out of eight, only five were very severe cyclonic storms. This means the intensity of cyclones has increased sharply to 80% in 2020, as compared to 62.5% in 2019. “It is interesting to note that several cyclones have rapidly intensified during the recent years. This is an alarming trend, which would be attributed to the rapid warming of the Indian Ocean. This in turn helps in cyclogenesis at a much faster rate than usual,” said M R Ramesh Kumar, meteorologist and chief scientist (retired) of the physical oceanography division of National Institute of Oceanography (NIO). If 2019 came to be known as the year of cyclones, 2020 could well earn the sobriquet ‘the year of very severe cyclones’. The increase in frequency of cyclonic events and their intensity, and the way they have tagged themselves close to each other during the last two years is itself something to ponder. The fearsome convective systems in the Arabian Sea delivered twins, Kyarr and Maha, in 2019. One followed the other. Last year, in the chain of powerful windstorms, three of them Gati (November 21-24), Nivar (Nov 23-27) and Burevi (November 30-December 5) formed within a fortnight, sweeping through largely the same regions, triggering intense precipitation. Cyclones usually form during monsoon, and phases before and after. But in 2019, cyclone Vayu formed beyond this phase. Meteorologists expect atmospheric heating up of the Arabian Sea, otherwise a region which hardly saw any major convective systems, and western equatorial Indian Ocean. A study by four scientists from NIO and published in the Climate Dynamics journal delved into this aspect. Scientist, India meteorological department (IMD), Panaji, Shambu Ravindren said that there are studies which indicate an increase in frequency and intensity of cyclones over the Arabian Sea over the past few years. A couple of very severe cyclonic storms, Nisarga and Nivar in 2020 hit the coastal communities disastrously, flooding their homes, crops and property. “Most of the cyclones forming in the Arabian Sea either move westwards or northwestwards, away from the Goa coast. Among them, Nisarga in 2020 and Kyar and Vayu in 2019 came closer to the coast, ” Ravindren said. La Nina, the massive cooling of ocean surface temperatures in the Pacific near Peru in South America is impacting weather parameters and spurring cyclogenesis. The North Indian Ocean last recorded 10 cyclones in 1893, 1926, 1930 and 1976, the former NIO scientist stated. After 1976, nearly four and half decades later, eight have been recorded in 2019. But though only five formed in 2020, the percentage of very severe cyclonic storms was more than in 2019. “El Nino and La Nina and El Nino Modoki and La Nina Modoli are major, naturally occurring drivers of the Earth’s climate system. These naturally occurring climate events are affecting the cyclones in the North Indian Ocean,” the former NIO scientist said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/2020-a-year-that-witnessed-increased-cyclone-intensity/articleshow/80077978.cms||Paul Fernandes
January 3, 2021||Coimbatore||Nilgiris logs 12 new Covid cases||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Nilgiris recorded 12 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the tally to 7,968, of which 115 are active cases. A health department official said the new cases were spread across the district and there wasn’t any cluster formation. The number of recovered patients, meanwhile, rose to 7,807 on the day with 13 patients getting discharged from treatment facilities. The recovery rate in the hill district presently stands at 97.9%. Of the 115 active cases, 30 patients are undergoing treatment at the government and private hospitals in Coimbatore, 14 are in home quarantine and the remaining cases are admitted to the government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-logs-12-new-covid-cases/articleshow/80076994.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Chennai||Two Chinese held in loan app case, Rs 300 crore under lens||CHENNAI: The Chennai police have arrested four people, including two Chinese nationals, and unearthed an extensive network of illegal micro-financing apps offering instant loans at interest rates as high as 36%. According to police sources, more than two dozen illegal apps which could have cumulatively disbursed Rs 300 crore in sums ranging from Rs 5,000 to Rs 50,000 to more than one lakh people across the country have been unearthed. “The source of the money and to whom and how was the principal and interest credited back is not known and is being probed,” an official said. Two bank accounts with Rs 48 lakh and Rs 1.96 crore balance in ICICI Bank and RBL Bank branches in Bengaluru have been frozen by police. While two Chinese nationals Xia Ya Mau, 38, and Yuvan Lun, 28, have been arrested, two others, Hong and Wandish, managed to escape to Singapore. Two others from Karnataka S Pramoda of Doopanahalli and C R Pavan of Chikkanahally too were arrested and remanded in judicial custody in Chennai. “Though the Karnataka duo were cited as ‘directors’ of many of these lending companies, they were paid Rs 20,000 as monthly salary, while the Chinese took full possession of cheque leaves, ATM debit cards and the company’s internet banking access credentials,” said a senior official of Central Crime Branch. A CCB team worked on the racket for 20 days and camped in Bengaluru for about a week to nab the suspects. The Chennai breakthrough has come after the suicide of at least four men in Telangana and one in Bengaluru owing to shaming and humiliation meted out to them by recovery agents engaged by these loan app firms. Over 100 hired at ₹8K/month to harass loan defaultersAt least five more Chinese nationals have been arrested in different parts of the country, including Delhi, in recent weeks. Commending the CCB team, Chennai city commissioner of police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal said: “We are looking into the flow of money to the company -- True Kindle Technologies Solutions Private Limited -- floated by the Chinese. The two arrested Chinese nationals have been staying even after the expiry of their visa period.” Another officer said they would engage a translator to interrogate the suspects and obtain more information about their apps after taking them into police custody. The laptops and mobiles seized from them will be scruitinized. The officer said CCB has sent requests to Google Play Store to suspend 25 mobile applications as they are illegal and existed against the investment as well as lending norms in the country. Pramoda and Pavan told the CCB sleuths that they came across an online advertisement posted by the Chinese requiring them to set up a call centre in Bengaluru. “Their role was to register a company and recruit tele-callers, while the money part was taken care of by the Chinese. More than 100 telecallers were recruited at Rs 8,000 as monthly salary and they were given a target of at least 10 loan referrals every day. “Their job was to make abusive phone calls to defaulting customers, access the contact list of the defaulters and shame them by sending messages to all their contacts. The concept of micro-lending apps became popular only after the Covid-19 lockdown came into effect in March 2020,” said a CCB official. After three of the customers caught in the debt trap committed suicide in a single month, Hyderabad police have arrested a Chinese national and 15 others and registered 27 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/2-chinese-held-in-loan-app-case-rs-300cr-under-lens/articleshow/80077000.cms||A Selvaraj
January 3, 2021||Nagpur||Recovery rate nearing 95%; below 300 patients in 5 districts||Nagpur: Except Nagpur and Amravati, all other districts in Vidarbha reported less than 50 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday. With 739 new cases and 664 recoveries, Vidarbha’s total caseload reached 2.53 lakh while 2.4 lakh of them have already recovered. The region reported 16 deaths on Saturday, which took the toll to 6,589. Despite more cases and fewer recoveries for the second day in a row in the New Year, Vidarbha’s recovery rate improved to 94.66% which is exactly equal to the state average but less than the national average (96.12%). Of the 16 deaths reported, 11 were from Nagpur district that recorded more than 10 deaths for the first time in the last 22 days. Nagpur’s 11 deaths included five from the city, and 3 each from Nagpur rural and other states/districts. Apart from Nagpur, Amravati reported 2 deaths, while Bhandara, Chandrapur and Yavatmal reported 1 death each. Vidarbha’s case fatality rate remained at 2.59% which is slightly higher than state’s 2.56% but way higher than national average of 1.45%. Number of under treatment patients in Vidarbha region further went down under the 7,000-mark. With 6,952 patients, only 2.74% of the total cases reported till date are under treatment. More than 60% of these patients are under home isolation. Except Nagpur, all other districts in Vidarbha have less than 500 patients under treatment. Five of them have less than 300 patients. Chandrapur: Covid figures dipped to a low of 22, while a solitary death was registered in the district. The day also witnessed the recovery of 36 patients. The total has now climbed to 22,356, while total recoveries amount to 21,585. Death toll in the district has risen to 368. Wardha: 45 more patients tested positive taking the caseload to 9,158. Meanwhile, 58 patients were discharged and recoveries reached 8,589. Total 299 Covid patients are active in the district. The cases were reported from Wardha (36), Hinganghat (7), Karanja and Samudrapur (1 each). No death was reported as the toll remained at 273. Yavatmal: The district witnessed the death of a 70-year-old woman from the city taking the toll to 405. Of the 454 test reports received on Saturday, 42 were found. Currently, 355 are active positive patients undergoing treatment in various Covid-19 care centres. Of the 12,766 cases in the district, 12,009 including 29 of Saturday have recovered so far. Amravati: Two deaths after a gap of five days took the district’s toll to 398 on Saturday. The day also saw 73 new cases and 79 recoveries that took the caseload to 19,841 and recoveries to 19,100 (96.27%). This leaves 343 active cases under treatment. Akola: Of more than 450 tests conducted in the last 24 hours, 28 tested positive while 40 patients recovered. No death was reported. Now, the district has 10,534 cases, 9,799 recoveries and 323 deaths. Total 512 patients are under treatment. Washim: With 21 more recoveries, Washim’s number of recovered patients reached 6,409. Only 17 new patients were reported which took the total number of cases to 6,689. Now, Washim has only 131 patients under treatment, which is lowest in Vidarbha. Buldhana: The district received reported of 911 tests of which 30 tested positive taking the total caseload to 12,610. On the other hand, 38 patients recovered taking the number of recoveries to 12,215. Death toll of Buldhana remained at 152 as no death was. Total 243 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: The district reported 11 new cases while 16 patients recoveredAs no death was reported, the toll remained at 102. With 8,771 patients of the total 9,073 cases recovering from the district, 200 patients are under treatment. Gondia: While 41 new cases were reported, 52 patients recovered from Gondia. No death was reported. Now, of the 13,699 cases, 13,247 have recovered and 274 patients are under treatment. Bhandara: The district reported 1 death after 3 days. This took the death toll to 292. Total 46 new cases were detected and 31 recovered in a day. This took the total cases to 12,442 and recoveries to 11,773. Total 377 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/recovery-rate-nearing-95-below-300-patients-in-5-districts/articleshow/80083958.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 3, 2021||Pune||Maskless man cuffed for abusing sub-inspector in Pune||PUNE: The Vishrantwadi police on Friday arrested a pillion rider on the charge of abusing and threatening a sub-inspector after he was intercepted for not wearing a face mask in Dhanorie on the night of December 31. Sub-inspector Sopan Narale and his team, as part of a nakabandi operation, intercepted a high-end motorcycle when they spotted that the suspect, Pradeep Bhosale (31), was not wearing a mask. Initially, he was asked to pay a fine. Senior inspector Ajay Chandkhede, in-charge of the Vishrantwadi police, said, “Bhosale picked up a dispute with Narale claiming that their vehicle was being targeted for taking action, while others were allowed to pass. Bhosale challenged Narale to fine him for not wearing a mask and threatened to shoot a video of the same.” Chandkhede said, “Bhosale abused Narale and did not allow the him to check the motorcycle. He misbehaved and created hurdles for Narale, who was just doing his duty.” The pillion rider was arrested on an FIR registered by Narale under the relevant section of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maskless-man-cuffed-for-abusing-sub-inspector/articleshow/80076993.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Pune||Pune: One booked for outraging modesty of 48-year-old||PUNE: Police filed a case against a man from Aurangabad for defaming and outraging the modesty of a 48-year-old woman by distributing and pasting posters with objectionable text and photographs of her in Pimpri area on Friday evening. The woman lodged a complaint against the man at the Pimpri police station on Friday night. Police are searching for him. According to the FIR, the woman, a resident of Pimpri, had been living separately from her husband for the past two-and-half years. The man came down to Pune last week and visited the woman. On Wednesday and Thursday, the man assaulted and hurled abuses at her. Police said, “The woman had asked him to leave her home. The man left her home in a fit of rage on Thursday evening”. “However, the man printed posters with photographs and phone number of the woman. The posters contained objectionable text. The man distributed and pasted them in the Pimpri area. Following this, the woman received a few objectionable calls from unknown numbers”, police said. Police have registered an offence under various sections of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-booked-for-outraging-modesty-of-48-year-old/articleshow/80076995.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Pune||Businessman arrested on charge of kidnapping, raping woman in Pune||PUNE: A 24-year-old businessman was arrested on Saturday on the charge of kidnapping and raping a call centre employee at an isolated location in Kharadi in the wee hours of Thursday. The Khadki cantonment court has remanded the businessman to police custody till January 7. Deputy commissioner of police (Zone IV) Pankaj Deshmukh told TOI, “During investigations, we collected CCTV footage showing the businessman abusing and thrashing the woman. He had also forced her to sit on his motorcycle. We collected footage showing that the suspect had withdrawn money from an ATM at Gunjan chowk. We then established his identity, worked on certain clues and took him into custody from Hinjewadi.” “The suspect runs two mobile shops at Hinjewadi and Kharadi. During questioning he admitted to his involvement in the crime,” he added. Sub-inspector Shubhangi Magdum from Vishrantwadi police station said, “The suspect is involved in a serious crime. His custodial interrogation was essential to identify the routes he used before and after committing the crime, recover the motorcycle used in the crime and conduct his medical examination.” Senior inspector Ajay Chandkhede in-charge of the Vishrantwadi police said, “We immediately registered the FIR after the rape survivor approached us with a complaint. We investigated the case on a priority basis and arrested the man in the shortest possible time. We are questioning him to get more information about the incident, among other details.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bizman-arrested-on-charge-of-kidnapping-raping-woman/articleshow/80076998.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Coimbatore||Woman arrested for stealing gold ring in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: The city police arrested a 40-year-old woman on Friday for stealing a six-gram gold ring from a jewellery shop on Oppanakara Street on December 6. She was identified as Pandimeena from Karaikudi, who is facing two cases for stealing gold jewellery, police sources said. She was caught after she visited a jewellery shop in Pollachi. Staff there identified her from earlier CCTV footage. She was remanded in judicial custody and was lodged in the special prison for women inside the Coimbatore Central Jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/woman-arrested-for-stealing-gold-ring/articleshow/80076997.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man brandishes gun outside cafe, nabbed||HYDERABAD: Mild tension prevailed in Dabeerpura area of Old City after an alleged offender from Nalgonda district brandished a country made weapon against his opponent. However the locals and the victim caught him and was handed over to the police. “A case has been registered against the suspect and investigation is underway,” said a senior officer of south zone police.  On Saturday evening, Dawood Zaker, aka Sharma a native Nalgonda district who is allegedly involved in few dacoity and robbery cases came near a café under Dabeerpura police station and called one Ayub Khan of the same area, under the pretext of asking for money. As per the preliminary investigation, Dawood Zaker reportedly sold his land to Ayub Khan located in Vanasthalipuram. On January 2, he called the victim to a cafe and asked him to pay money. During the conversation, Dawood allegedly got agitated when the latter sought time to pay the money. The former took out a country made weapon and tried to open fire. Khan and the local public overpowered him. This created a commotion in the area. Later Dawood was handed over to the Dabeerpura police and taken into custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-brandishes-gun-outside-cafe-nabbed/articleshow/80077002.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: For 33 days, ammonia in raw water above treatable limits||NEW DELHI: The extent of the problem of untreated industrial pollutants in Delhi’s water supply from the Yamuna can be gauged from the fact that on 33 days in 2020, the ammonia level in the water was above the maximum treatable limit. Data from Delhi Jal Board’s water quality assessment department shows that the city suffered 20 episodes of ammonia levels breaching the normal limits in the last two years, with the recent one being as high as seven times the maximum limit. DJB has the capacity to treat up to 0.9 ppm (parts per million) of ammonia in raw water. Worse may be in the offing because January is historically the worst month for unsafe ammonia in untreated water, causing disruption of supply for prolonged periods. In 2020, 12 days in January saw ammonia levels reaching 2.7 ppm. The problem was so acute it became a political issue just before the assembly elections of February. Spikes in ammonia were also witnessed on February 24-25, March 10-12, July 27, October 29-31 and November 27-30. In December, there were three disruptions. DJB has repeatedly blamed Haryana for releasing industrial waste into the Yamuna, leading to water contamination. An official of the water utility said new ozonation plants will be set up in the coming 12 months, and these are expected to raise DJB’s capacity to treat ammonia levels up to 4ppm. The water board also wants the Central Pollution Control Board and Haryana government’s irrigation department to crack down on industrial units releasing untreated industrial effluent into the river near Panipat and the DD-8 drain near Sonipat. A Jal Board official claimed the new ozonation units will help deal with 90-95% of ammonia level spikes. Of the 935 million gallons per day of Delhi’s water supply, over 230 MGD come from Chandrawal and Wazirabad treatment plants, both of which draw water from the Wazirabad pond fed by river Yamuna. DJB’s numerous letters to the state pollution control boards to crack down on sources of pollution have not led to any desired results. “Panipat Drain 1 and Drain 2 are key sources of pollutants from the dye industries. Also, DD-8 and DD-6 drains are vulnerable points because fresh water and industrial waste run parallel in these drains, separated only by a few inches of a muddy wall,” said the official. DJB has, in the past, demanded reinforcement of that wall, but nothing has happened after disputes on who would fund the project. The Haryana Pollution Control Board and the state’s irrigation department have also repeatedly denied that untreated industrial waste flows in the drains. DJB has recognised that boosting the ammonia treatment capacity is crucial for uninterrupted water supply in the capital. But, as it has pointed often enough, it is equally important to tackle the sources of water contamination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/for-33-days-ammonia-in-raw-water-above-treatable-limits/articleshow/80077017.cms||Paras Singh
January 3, 2021||Pune||PhD, MPhil scholars get additional time to submit thesis||PUNE: Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has extended the date for research scholars to submit their theses by six months, considering the pandemic situation. The University Grants Commission had issued guidelines in view of the situation arising due to the Covid-19 pandemic and in the larger interest of research scholars. Earlier, the UGC had given a six-month extension to MPhil and PhD students, who were yet to submit their dissertation or thesis due to the pandemic. Now, the deadline has been extended further. According to the guidelines, MPhil/PhD students, who were to submit their theses by December 31, had been granted an extension until June 30, said the notification issued by the deputy registrar of university for PG admissions. SPPU has conveyed to students that the six-month extension has been granted to submit evidence of publication and presentation at two conferences, which is mandatory for research scholars to complete their degree. However, the university has made it clear that the tenure of the MPhil/PhD fellowship will remain the same as five years. NS Umarani, SPPU pro-vice-chancellor said, “Since everything is online now, even the conferences that PhD students are supposed to present can be done online. Most part of the fieldwork has also gone online wherever it is possible, without affecting the quality of work. As for the fellowship tenure, whatever stipend students were getting as part of their PhD or MPhil degree, that duration remains the same as it was at the time of joining. The extension is only given in the time period of thesis submission, not in the time period in which they would get a stipend.” The university has directed all departments and recognized Research Centers to implement the changes for the MPhil/PhD programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/phd-mphil-scholars-get-additional-time-to-submit-thesis/articleshow/80077001.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 3, 2021||Pune||Passenger traffic shoots up at Pune airport in December||PUNE: The city airport’s passenger traffic grew by almost 1,500% in December compared to that in May last year, when the domestic flight operations resumed after the Covid-induced lockdown. According to the figures provided by the Airports Authority of India (AAI), while the passenger traffic in May stood at 17,295, the same in December was 2,70,462. The airport saw the highest passenger traffic last month since May. Airport officials said that passenger traffic has grown by an average of 30,000 to 40,000 per month since July. “Growth in the number of passengers and flights is always good for civil aviation,” Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh told TOI. Apart from the number of passengers, the number of flights has also grown since the domestic aviation services resumed. “Over the past few months, airlines have started flights to new destinations like Patna and Chandigarh. Currently, the percentage of flight operations is 45 when compared to the pre-Covid figures,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/passenger-traffic-shoots-up-at-pune-airport-in-december/articleshow/80077004.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 3, 2021||Trichy||Thanjavur: Boy, 2 others come under wheels of tractor trailer||THANJAVUR: Three people including a minor boy and a sexagenarian woman died on the spot after the motorbike on which they were travelling came under the wheels of a sugarcane-laden tractor-trailer truck near Thiruvaiyaru in Thanjavur district on Saturday. Police said the deceased were S Manikandan, 32, a lab technician, P Akilesh, 12, a resident of East Punavasal, and J Sakkubhai, 70, a native of Melavattam near Thiruvaiyaru. P Bharaneesh, 10, younger brother of Akilesh, who was also on the bike, escaped with injuries. All four who were travelling on the bike were relatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/boy-2-others-come-under-wheels-of-tractor-trailer/articleshow/80077980.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19: Positivity rate in AP at seven-month low||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 238 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,82,850. The toll increased to 7,111 as three more people succumbed to the novel coronavirus. As many as 279 patients were declared cured. There are currently 3,194 active cases with 8,72,545 cumulative recoveries and 7,111 deaths. Chittoor reported 59 new infections, while the remaining 12 districts posted less than 50 new cases each. Nellore, Prakasam, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram registered single-digit case numbers. Active cases are as few as 37 cases in Vizianagaram, but above 500 in Krishna and Guntur districts. Andhra Pradesh tested 48,518 Covid-19 samples to detect 238 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of less than 0.5%. This is the lowest single-day case positivity rate in the last seven months. The state has so far conducted 1.19 crore tests with an overall positivity rate of 7.4%. The mortality rate remains stable at 0.8%. With declining cases, the health department has denotified about 160 Covid-19 hospitals in the last three months from the peak of 252 hospitals. Even at the remaining 88 Covid-19 hospitals, more than 95% beds remained vacant as of Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/positivity-rate-in-ap-at-seven-month-low/articleshow/80075852.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Pune||Three vehicles torched in Kothrud||PUNE: Tension prevailed in Kothrud after a group of six persons set three vehicles and a shop’s shutter ablaze, besides breaking the rear glass of a parked car on Friday. The police on Saturday arrested two men and detained two minors. The other two were on the run, police said. “Sahil Halande — a history-sheeter — and five aides, armed with sickles and kerosene, came to lane number three of Shiv Shaktinagar in the early hours of Friday, damaged four vehicles and set a shop’s shutter on fire,” senior inspector Sunil Tambe of the Kothrud police said. The group fled the area after the incident. “Halande was also wanted in connection with planning a dacoity. A police team has been deployed to arrest the two suspects on the run. We have registered an FIR under the IPC, the Arms Act, the Maharashtra Police Act and the Criminal Law Amendment,” he said. Sanket Katwal (26), an accountant whose bike was damaged in the incident, said, “I came home on Thursday night, parked my bike and went to sleep. Around 5am, when I stepped out of house to buy milk when I saw my bike had been set on fire.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-vehicles-torched-in-kothrud/articleshow/80077005.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Chennai||2021: The year of change||CHENNAI: In 2020, there were hardly any industries that weren’t hit by the pandemic. From struggling with a sudden lack of takers to the need to revolutionalise the business strategy to stay afloat, the market saw retail, hospitality, fitness, fashion, and travel brands rapidly adapt to the changing times. In 2021, as cities open up and the engines start running again, many of these changes are here to stay, transforming the way we consume and spend. We take a look at some of these trends Shopping: Return to the retailDuring the festive season of November, as NRIs postponed plans to visit the country, things looked bleak. But then, the government gave a green signal for malls to open, and retailers were in for a pleasant surprise. For starters, the shopping season of November was just 13% short of last year’s sales, found a Retail Association of India (RAI) survey. "A promising sign of things to come," says Kumar Rajagopalan, CEO of RAI. "You could say that retailers are moving towards 2021 with cautious optimism. However, the industry is hopeful of achieving about 85% of pre-pandemic levels of business in the next six months," says Rajagopalan. Their research showed that while footfalls at malls were only 40% of what they were last year, the ticket size – the amount spent by a customer – was 75% of what it was last year. "We will have to look at 2021 in terms of pre-vaccination and post-vaccination trends. Once the vaccine is here, there will be resurgence in retail." Retail in India, which is sized around $854 billion, continues to be one of the country’s largest industries that makes up for more than 10% of the GDP. Travel and tourism:The roads are calling  Steve Borgia, chairman and managing director of INDeco Leisure Hotels, believes that 2021 will see the continuation of the trend of travellers going as far as their car takes them. "I see more people travelling to open-air, countryside destinations, avoiding crowded cities or places they would have to take a flight or train to," says Borgia. "People will start discovering their backyards so to speak, whether for spiritual or leisure tourism," he says. The motor home may become a means of travel for the family which wants to stay safe together, he predicts. But things are picking up in the travel industry. According to a year-end travel index by hospitality chain OYO, while January 2020 was the most travelled month, April witnessed the most cancellations across the country owing to the lockdown. And yet, December, following the unlocking of cities, saw a resurgence of travellers, witnessing the most demand around the holiday season. K Pandian of the Indian Association of Tour Operators, says that domestic tourism is looking up in states like Kerala and Karnataka. "You can’t find a room in Munnar today. Coorg is sold out. The same can happen in Tamil Nadu. All we need is a word from the government that tourists are welcome. Unfortunately, that has not happened yet. If that does happen, domestic tourism will see a definite rise." Hospitality: Dine in, party outThe pandemic has changed the way we live, travel and entertain, and many of these changes are here to stay. "Cleanliness will be the new marketing peg for hotels and resorts. And though corporate travel will still be sluggish in 2021 and business hotels will repurpose their services, leisure travel destinations will see a surge in ‘revenge tourism’ as soon as restrictions are lifted," says Vikram Cotah, COO of GRT Hotels and Resorts. "People will dine in and spend more time in their rooms, and outdoor venues will be preferred for weddings and larger gatherings," says Cotah. Most events will move online and banquet halls will be repurposed. Another trend will be the use of technology and digital transformation in hotels. "QR codes for menus, keyless room entry, contactless check-in, robot housekeeping, and room automation are some of the tech adopted in hotels," he says. Popularity of takeaways and dining-in will continue to be high in 2021, says Zubin Songadwala, GM, ITC Grand Chola & area manager ITC Hotels, South. "Virtual weddings and home celebrations will see a rise with curated experiences. DIY kits comprising signature chef-crafted meal kits, delivered home and prepped for the customers’ convenience are gaining popularity as well," says Songadwala. Fashion: Restyle and reduce In the world of fashion, a major shift towards sustainable designs, conscious clothing and comfortable loungewear doubling up as workwear, are predicted during this coming year. Online fashion shopping, virtual showrooms, high quality functional fashion and minimalistic designs are trends designer labels are heading towards. The pandemic has pushed everyone to focus on garments that could help in reducing our carbon footprint, believes Chaitanya Rao, city-based celebrity stylist and fashion designer. "Most Indian designs are headed in that direction," says Rao, "as the pandemic has thrown a light on the importance of preserving our environment as we grow our businesses." 2021 is expected to be a year of positivity and change as we adapt to new ways of life. "From weddings focussing more on bridal outfits than the grandeur of celebrations, to virtual shows that give everyone an opportunity to grab a first row seat, fashion has positively adapted," he says. Rao, the first designer from South India to host a virtual fashion show in September, is looking forward to host many such shows this year. "We have opened a new space in fashion and this would be a boom in the industry," he adds. Fitness: Wellness redefinedMonths of being confined inside homes will definitely impact the kind of workout regimen adopted by people in the coming year, say fitness professionals. Many women will take to lifting weights in 2021, says Basu Shanker, former India cricketer-trainer. "Following months of incessant office and house work during the lockdown, I have received several calls from women who have shown a renewed interest in fitness, specifically towards lifting weights," says the founder and director of Primal Patterns. The demand for body weight training has seen about a 70% rise in the last few months. Fitness professionals predict this will continue in the coming year. Easily available virtual training and the ease of doing workouts without equipment has made this popular in the last few months. "Exercises such as HIIT, Zumba and cross-fit will have a great number of takers. These exercises can be done with just one’s body weight with minimal contact with equipment,"says Maheshwaran S, senior manager, O2 Health Studio, Chennai. He added that in 2021 fitness will not be just about fitness, but also about hygiene and health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/the-year-of-change/articleshow/80076289.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Goa||Goa-UK flights grounded till Centre reviews scenario||PANAJI: Though the Union ministry of civil aviation has permitted flights between India and UK to resume from January 6, Goa International Airport is not among the airports permitted to handle British flights. Goa airport director Gagan Malik said that flights between Goa and UK remain cancelled till the Union ministry of civil aviation reviews the situation, which is likely to be after January 23.  India suspended all passenger flights connecting the two countries from December 23 to January 6 after a new strain of the novel coronavirus was discovered in the UK. Indian public health authorities have already detected the new strain in the country. International flights between UK and Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad will resume from January 8 onwards with 30 flights permitted to operate per week. Passengers aboard these flights will be subjected to RT-PCR tests. Meanwhile, international relief flights continued at Goa International Airport with the 85th flight leaving for Sharjah on Saturday with 133 passengers. A flight from Sharjah had arrived earlier with 109 passengers and all the passengers were subjected to health screening and tests. Though international flights remain grounded, flights between the gulf region and Goa have continued under the air bubble arrangement. Cargo operations at Goa International Airport continue to be on the upswing with 503 tonnes of essential and perishable items being moved in November. Passenger footfalls have also shown a steady rise with more than 22,000 passengers flying in and out of the airport on a daily basis. Goa airport is also handling 142 flight operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-uk-flights-grounded-till-centre-reviews-scenario/articleshow/80077006.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Pune||Pune: Robber in net, search on for three others||PUNE: The Hadapsar and the Chatushrungi police arrested a robbery suspect after chasing him into Ramtekdi jungle on Sunday afternoon. The suspect was carrying a small sharp weapon. Police said the man was among the four men who robbed valuables from the flats in Shailesh Tower society in Aundh on December 28 after beating up the watchman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/robber-in-net-search-on-for-three-others/articleshow/80077011.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Vijayawada||Govt extends spl officers’ term for local bodies||Vijayawada: The state government issued orders on Friday, extending the term of the special officers for local bodies in the state by another six months. Principal secretary for panchayat raj Gopala Krishna Dwivedi issued orders extending the term of the zilla parishads for six months from January 5, 2021. He also extended the term of the special officers and the persons in charge for mandal parishads for six months starting from January 4, 2021. The orders for extension of the special officers and the persons in charge come in the wake of the state government holding talks with the State Election Commission (SEC) as directed by the high court. The SEC, which had postponed the local body elections midway in the second week of March 2020 citing the Covid 19 pandemic, had already issued a circular to resume the election process in February 2021. Though the state had challenged the SEC’s decision citing a possible second wave of Covid-19, it was forced to either hold elections or hold consultations with the SEC. The state government is not prepared to hold the local body elections till April, before the next budget session begins. The government has claimed that its machinery is completely engaged in handling Covid-19 cases and preparation for vaccine distribution, as directed by the Centre. It is in this backdrop that the government had issued two GOs separately extending the term of special officers for zilla parishads and mandal parishads for six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-extends-spl-officers-term-for-local-bodies/articleshow/80075858.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu farmer ends life over crop loss||TUTICORIN: Distressed over the damage caused to his crops by disease, a 58-year-old farmer in Tuticorin district ended his life by hanging from a tree close to his land on Saturday. “Forgive me Mithra,” farmer Narayasamy of Pillayarnatham village near Kovilpatti wrote on a wall with clay in Tamil in his last message to three-year-old granddaughter. Narayasamy lived with his wife Mahalakshmi, daughter Abirami and granddaughter Mithra. After quitting his job at a mill in Rajapalayam a few years ago he started farming on his five acres at Pillayarnatham. After a bountiful harvest last year, he grew maize and urad bean this year. However, inadequate rains resulted in army worms attacking the crop and yellow wilt affecting urad. Realising his helplessness in saving the crops, he was found depressed over the last few days. On Saturday morning, he informed his family that he will return after having a look at the crops. Later, he was found hanging from a tree close to his land from a piece of cloth. Nalattinputhur police retrieved his body and sent it to Kovilpatti government hospital for post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-farmer-ends-life-over-crop-loss/articleshow/80077010.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Pune||Pune: Senior ex-staffer of fashion firm held in cheating case||PUNE: Former Asia Pacific head of a prominent multinational fashion company was arrested from his Delhi home on Friday night in a cheating case registered with the Pimpri police in 2018. Manchak Ipper, the deputy commissioner of police of the Pimpri Chinchwad police commissionerate, told TOI, “We arrested the former Asia Pacific head (55) of the fashion company after locating him in Delhi. We were trying to nab him since the case was registered.” The suspect quit the fashion firm in 2019. On Saturday, the arrested man was produced before a court in Pimpri. He was remanded in police custody till Sunday. Ipper said, “In 2017-18, a Pimpri-based businessman (45) had approached the arrested man, then Asia Pacific head of the fashion company, for setting up an outlet of the firm. The businessman had paid Rs48 lakh to the former Asia Pacific head of the fashion firm in 2017-18 after the latter promised agency/outlet of the company to the victim.” The police said the arrested man and the businessman had met through a common contact and then the deal was struck. “The arrested man did not allot the Pimpri businessman the agency of the company even months after the payment was made. He also stopped answering the calls of the victim,” Ipper said. The Pimpri police said they had approached the company’s office in Delhi seeking details about the arrested man, but its officials told them that the firm had not entered into any agreement with him. The police said the arrested man had kept all the money with him instead of submitting it to the company. Ipper said, “A case of cheating and criminal breach of trust was registered against the former Asia Pacific head of company. The police searched for him in various cities in India before finally arresting him on Friday night from his house in Delhi. Further probe is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/senior-ex-staffer-of-fashion-firm-held-in-cheating-case/articleshow/80077013.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Goa||Rights of Kumeri farmers will be settled in 6 months: Kavlekar||Poinguinim: Deputy chief minister Chandrakant ‘Babu’ Kavlekar has assured the Kumeri cultivators in Gaondongrim, Canacona, that he will get their pending forest rights issues resolved within a period of six months. At the meeting chaired by Kavlekar, the forest dwellers alleged that forest department officials have been erecting poles in their Kumeri land plots to demarcate land area. The forest dwellers said they have been promoting seasonal agriculture and cashew cultivation for ages and that they had submitted representations to various authorities to claim their rights on the Kumeri plots, but no authority has responded to their issues.  The residents claimed that they had submitted their cases to the mamlatdar and other forest authorities in 1997, but have received no reply to date. Deputy speaker and Canacona MLA Isidore Fernandes said that two decades ago he had personally brought the concerned ministers, forest officers and surveyors to Canacona to get the issue resolved, but the cases remained unattended in the following years. Fernandes said he would raise the issue in the upcoming assembly session once again. Canacona range forest officer Anant Velip, who recently took over the charge, said that applicants could still submit their claims and assured to forward their claims to the government. He said that no final notification in this regard has been issued. Velip defended the forest department’s action by stating that the government had issued a notification in 1989 and had appointed an officer to receive claims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rights-of-kumeri-farmers-will-be-settled-in-6-months-kavlekar/articleshow/80078000.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Pune||Manufacturing in district sees marginal increase||PUNE: The latest monthly survey by Maratha Chamber of Commerce, Industry, and Agriculture (MCCIA) found a marginal increase in manufacturing in the district. As per the results — compiled using responses from nearly 200 companies — production went up by one percentage point to 79% in December compared to the previous month, while workforce deployed remained stable at 82%. The survey — the ninth consecutive by MCCIA — also found that the hospitality sector would need time to recover, despite a year-end surge in demand. MCCIA said 70% of the respondents were micro, small, and medium-scale enterprises (MSMEs). The survey shows a slight uptick in the number of units that are back at pre-Covid levels of productivity, as well as those who expect to return to these levels in three to six months. “The numbers may show only a marginal growth in productivity, but there are more organizations responding to the survey now, and we are getting more granular data — MSME units have ramped up production to 80%, while larger companies have upped theirs to 85-95%. There is also more optimism about recovery to pre-Covid levels,” Prashant Girbane, MCCIA director-general, said. For some MSME units, high commodity prices — especially of metals and alloys — are obstacles on the road to recovery, MCCIA said. “We hear that MSMEs face some acute challenges — one of them being the escalating raw material prices, especially those of iron, steel, aluminium and even plastic,” MCCIA president Sudhir Mehta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/manufacturing-in-district-sees-marginal-increase/articleshow/80077009.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
January 3, 2021||Ghaziabad||71-year-old farmer found hanging at UP Gate site||GHAZIABAD: A 71-year-old farmer, who was part of the UP Gate agitation since it began over a month ago, was found hanging in a makeshift toilet at the protest site on Saturday. A three-page note purportedly written by Kashmir Singh was found nearby. The note, scribbled in Gurmukhi, said Singh wanted to be cremated at the protest site itself. The septuagenarian, who was from Bilaspur in Ramopur district, ran a community kitchen to feed the protesters at UP Gate. He was found hanging after a Khoda municipality worker, who had come to clean the toilets, knocked on the door repeatedly but did not get any response. He alerted other farmers, pointing out that the toilet door was locked for long. “It must be around 7am. The cleaner told the farmers that the door was locked from inside but nobody responded to the knocks. When we broke open the door, Kashmir Singh was found hanging with a nylon rope,” said Manjeet Singh Atwal, a protesting farmer. “This led to a hue and cry at the protest site. The three-page note that was found nearby said he was sacrificing himself for the farmers’ cause and his body should be cremated at UP Gate itself,” he added. Kashmir Singh’s body was, however, handed over to his son Ladi, who, too, was at the protest site with him. Ladi consulted the elders and took the body to their native village. Anshu Jain, the circle officer of Indirapuram range, ruled out any foul play. “Prima facie, it looks like a case of suicide. We have found a note and the contents are being examined. His family and other farmer leaders declined to get an autopsy done” the officer said. Shamsher Rana, the national media coordinator of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), said, “Singh’s son told us his father would ask how long they would have to wait at the protest site in this cold?” BKU leader Rakesh Tikait dubbed Kashmir Singh’s death “unfortunate”. “We hope the government will accept our demands on January 4, when the next round of talks takes place. If that fails, we will have to march to Delhi on January 26,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/farmer-found-hanging-at-up-gate/articleshow/80078215.cms||Abhijay Jha
January 3, 2021||Trichy||Vivekananda museum promised at Kumbakonam a non-starter||THANJAVUR: It has been more than three years since former railway minister Suresh Prabhu announced that a museum will be established at Kumbakonam railway station to commemorate Swami Vivekananda's visit in 1897, but no step has been taken so far to fulfil the promise. The railway users’ organization and the swami’s followers have urged the railway ministry to initiate the process to add attraction to the age-old railway station in the Trichy division. Kumbakonam station was opened for passenger service on February 15, 1877 when the then South Indian Railway commenced rail traffic between Thanjavur and Mayiladuthurai (then Mayavaram) for a distance of 70.4 km. Swami Vivekananda, on a yatra from Rameswaram, alighted at Kumbakonam station on February 3, 1897. It was on that day at Kumbakonam that he made his clarion call “Arise, awake, stop not till the goal is reached,” to spur the people of the nation. A plaque installed by railways at the station proclaims the importance of the event. It was to commemorate this event that Suresh Prabhu, then railway minister, announced establishment of a museum on Vivekananda at Kumbakonam station during his visit there in March 2017. Swami Ramakrishna Paramahamsa's followers and rail users have urged railways to establish the same as early as possible so that Swami Vivekananda's preachings enlighten the youth. At the 28th annual convention of Swami Ramakrishna Paramahamsa and Mother Sarada Devi conducted at Kumbakonam for three days online, Swami Sathya Gnanantha Maharaj, president of Tamil Nadu Bhava Prachar Parishath, appealed to the railway ministry to begin the work immediately. Srimath Swami Gouthamanantha Maharaj, vice-president of Ramakrishna mutt, inaugurated the event virtually a few days ago. The online convention was witnessed by thousands of Swami Ramakrishna Paramahamsa’s followers virtually. Swami Sathya Gnanantha Maharaj also urged the central government to include Kumbakonam in the list of notified heritage towns since it fulfils all required parameters for the announcement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/vivekananda-museum-promised-at-kumbakonam-a-non-starter/articleshow/80077983.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
January 3, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Govt set to install security equipment in fishing boats||Visakhapatnam: The state government is preparing to implement schemes relating to the safety, security and hygiene of marine fishing boats over the next five years under the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampad Yojana (PMMSY). As per the budget outlay, the government will provide subsidy to install bio-toilets and transponders in all 2,300 mechanised boats. Transponders would be also be fitted in all 25,000-odd motorised boats in the state. “Normally, we have seen welfare schemes under PMMSY. But, recently the state government has announced the outlay of different projects to be undertaken under PMMSY in the next five years. It’s good to see that two projects pertaining to safety, security and hygiene of fishermen have also been included,” Arijili Dasu, a fishermen activist from Andhra Pradesh told STOI. A survey conducted after the lockdown was eased revealed that all marine fishing boats in the state should be fitted with bio-toilets. Meanwhile, the Union fisheries ministry is keen to install transponders in all marine fishing boats in the country following instances of fishing boats crossing Indian marine limits and drifting into foreign waters. In October 2019, a boat from Visakhapatnam entered Bangladesh water and its eight crew members were arrested and spent four months in Bangladesh jail. In a similar incident in November 2019, two fishing boats from Gujarat had entered Pakistan’s waters and the 17 crew members on board—all from Andhra Pradesh—were lodged in a jail in Karachi till January 2020. “BSNL would fit these transponders through which fishermen onboard would be in constant touch with marine forces, port officials, associations and owners back on land. A trial for these transponders was conducted in August 2020 in Visakhapatnam and it was successful,” a senior fisheries official told STOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/govt-set-to-install-security-equipment-in-fishing-boats/articleshow/80075866.cms||Arpit Basu
January 3, 2021||Goa||Active Covid tally at 920, 95 new cases||Panaji: Goa reported 95 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 104 recoveries, taking the tally of active cases to 920 on Saturday. For the second day in a row, the state reported nil mortalities. Health minister Vishwajit Rane, after a meeting of the expert committee, said that 20% of patients who have died due to Covid so far were rushed to hospital only after their condition worsened. As many as 740 people have died due to Covid. Rane also said the home isolation outreach in the state has been greater than 99% and that Goa is the only state that provides free Covid medication.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/active-covid-tally-at-920-95-new-cases/articleshow/80077021.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 3, 2021||Madurai||Financial burden of Pongal gift hamper on people: MLA||Madurai: The money for giving Pongal gift of Rs 2,500 to the people is being obtained through a loan and the people of Tamil Nadu will be burdened by its interest, alleged Madurai Central DMK MLA P T R Palanivel Thiagarajan. Addressing ``Makkal sabhai’’ at Mandhai thiddal in Arapalayam, he said as a member of the accounting committee for the past five years, he had been reviewing the activities of all departments, based on audit committee reports. He said the AIADMK government has emptied the coffers and had insufficient funds to fill up vacancies which come up to 35%. The government’s debt was Rs 1 lakh crore in 2011, each person burdened with an amount of Rs 14,000 and the interest per person was Rs 1,200. In the last 10 years, it has increased so much that the per capita debt has gone up to Rs 62,500 and the government is paying a per capita interest of Rs 5,000. This year alone government was paying an interest of Rs 40,000 crore. At the same time, per capita investment was about Rs 27000 crore, making it lesser than the interest. This is money that could have been used for developmental activities, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/financial-burden-of-pongal-gift-hamper-on-people-mla/articleshow/80077981.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Madurai||NY celebrations in Madurai peaceful||Madurai:The New Year celebration in the entire district remained peaceful without any untoward incidents or road accidents due to government restrictions on public celebrations, police said.A police officer from the rural police unit said that there was extensive police deployment at various parts of the district to increase visible policing in order to prevent gatherings during the New Year celebration following the state government order. “There was no untoward incident or road accident death due to new year revelry this year. Gatherings and celebrations were banned on the New Year eve. But, there were a couple of road accidents, however, there was no loss of lives,” he said.An old person died in a road accident on the New Year eve, but police said that it was not connected to the revelry. P Usilaimayathevar from Pallakaruppukovil near Usilampatti was hit by an auto rickshaw, when he was walking in Echamapatti. He was rushed to the Usilampatti government hospital. As his condition worsened, he was referred to Government Rajaji Hospital, where he died on Friday. The auto rickshaw driver stated that he hit the pedestrian since he did not see him due to poor lighting. Police officers from Madurai city said that a large number of cases relating to traffic violations were registered to deter the bikers from involving in revelry in public places on the eve of the New Year and on Friday. There was no fatal accident in the city, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ny-celebrations-in-madurai-peaceful/articleshow/80077982.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana gears up for vaccine rollout in 7-10 days||HYDERABAD: State health authorities are expecting the rollout of Covid vaccine in less than a fortnight, even as a dry run of the vaccination drive was held at seven locations in Hyderabad and Mahbubnagar on Saturday. Health authorities have also indicated that five lakh doses are likely to be allocated to the state soon. During the dry run, the entire process — transport of vaccines in vaccine boxes, verification of beneficiaries, vaccination and post vaccination observation in ICU — was done. Though the mock drill was meant to prepare the entire machinery, including manpower and infrastructure for the vaccine rollout, health authorities were able to identify minor gaps. “We have assessed the software functioning (CoWIN) and preparedness. There were small gaps like not having specific waiting area. At some places, we may require bigger space for observation room. We are trying to rectify these issues. With the dry run, we will be able to choose the ideal site for carrying out the vaccination drive,” director of public health Dr G Srinivasa Rao said. In first phase, government facilities and private ones with over 100 staff will be vaccination sites. “Rollout is now expected within seven to 10 days,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-may-get-5l-covid-vaccine-doses-in-first-phase/articleshow/80078009.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 3, 2021||Goa||Revellers galore, but only 3,000 tourists fined for no masks||Panaji: Goa police have fined over 3,000 tourists for not wearing face masks in the coastal belt of North Goa. Lakhs of domestic tourists had flocked to the state on December 30 and 31. TOI had published photos highlighting tourists violating standard operating procedures (SOP) such as social distancing and wearing face masks. Police had deployed around 200 personnel on major junctions to penalise people not wearing masks. When questioned the reason behind the low number of fines, North Goa SP Utkrisht Prasoon said that wherever police have found tourists not wearing face masks, they have fined these persons. Chief minister Pramod Sawant had urged tourists who had arrived in Goa to usher in the New Year to wear face masks and maintain social distancing. TOI on Saturday reported how tourists have flouted the state government’s advisory. The inaction of the state government was evident after photos and videos of packed clubs went viral online. TOI had also reported how police did not check for drunken driving on December 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/revellers-galore-but-only-3000-tourists-fined-for-no-masks/articleshow/80077019.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Chennai||Vaccine for vulnerable in Tamil Nadu by May: Officials||CHENNAI: A Covid-19 vaccine for the vulnerable in Tamil Nadu the elderly and those with co-morbidities could be available by early May if everything goes well, estimate public health officials. On Saturday, at the end of the dry run for the first stage vaccination, officials said it would take nearly a month to complete the process for the group as per Union health ministry protocol. The first phase is likely to be slow as adverse reactions and other technical glitches during vaccination will be closely monitored. “After this we will vaccinate frontline workers, including police and uniformed service personnel. By the time we reach the vulnerable population, which forms the large chunk of people in this phase, we will have adequate experience to speed up the process,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. Dry run goes smooth but for internet issuesThe Union health ministry-approved vaccine will be centrally procured and distributed to states as per demand. Health minister C Vijayabaskar, who was in Coimbatore, said it will be administered to 1.60 crore people across the state in the first phase from 47,200 centres. The recipient list includes six lakh health workers like doctors, nurses in 2,881 government hospitals and 35,403 private hospitals. The Centre is yet to roll out the schedule, but has told states 30 crore people including healthcare workers, frontline workers and vulnerable people will be covered in the first phase. It has not permitted use of the vaccine for others as of now. TN public health officials are working on protocols that will allow them to offer the vaccine to multiple groups, Vijayabaskar said. The state can store 2.5crore vials of vaccine in cold storage units and has trained more than 21,000 health workers, said officials, adding that each centre will vaccinate not more than 100 people a day. On Saturday, the dry run was done at 17 sites across the districts of Chennai, the Nilgiris, Tirunelveli, Coimbatore and Tiruvallur using at least 2,000 health workers. Each centre had five vaccinators, a doctor, supervisory health officials and 30 volunteers. Officials checked multiple steps of the process, efficiency of the exclusive vaccination network (CoWIN), internet connectivity and facilities in the observation room. “There were some issues with internet connectivity in districts such as The Nilgiris, but overall we were able to complete it successfully,” said director of public health Dr TS Selvavinayagam. Volunteers took separate exit and entry, wore masks and maintained social distancing norms. At entry, vaccinator 1 verified the identity and vaccinator 2 entered it in the CoWIN app before sending him/her in. No vaccine was given, but the nurse or health worker clicked the ‘yes’ button on the CoWIN app, allowing updation of details on the centralised portal before text messages can be sent to the volunteer. The text message said the process was completed successfully along with a date and time for the booster shot. The volunteer was asked to wait in the observation room for half-an-hour. First aid kits and medicines were stocked in the room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/officials-vax-for-vulnerable-in-tn-by-may/articleshow/80077039.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Madurai||M K Alagiri to discuss next political move today||MADURAI: M K Alagiri, the former Union minister and elder brother of DMK president M K Stalin, has scheduled a meeting on Sunday with supporters from across the state, to discuss the launch of a new political party. Senior DMK leaders, however, say they are not perturbed by the move. The meeting is scheduled between 4 pm and 7 pm at a marriage hall in Madurai. Alagiri supporter Isakkimuthu said what supporters of Alagiri really wanted was for the DMK to reconsider his inclusion in the party. “We as a team have proved our might in elections, not just once but many times, and we can be the driving force in the southern districts,” he said. M L Raj, another supporter said if the decision was taken to launch a new party then the announcement for it would be made on ‘Annan’s’ birthday on January 30. Said a DMK leader seeking anonymity, “Alagiri is a shrewd politician. He will not take the plunge without knowing his strength.” Senior DMK leader T K S Elangovan said even if Alagiri started a new party, it would have no impact on the DMK and its prospects in the forthcoming assembly election. “Being the son of the leader of the party, he (Alagiri) had some supporters. After he was removed from the party, however, the cadres returned to the party. Except for a handful, he has no cadre following and he would have no impact on the DMK,” said Elangovan. With inputs from J Shanmughasundaram||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/alagiri-to-discuss-next-political-move-today/articleshow/80077984.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Goa||Two RT-PCR units to boost Covid testing||Panaji: Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Friday said that the ministry has decided to enhance the testing facility for Covid-19 and two more RT-PCR testing machines will be procured, one each for South and North Goa. Rane spoke to reporters after the review meeting of the health expert committee. With two more machines, each district will be able to conduct 500 more RT-PCR tests each, bringing the total RT-PCR testing up to 3,500. “The government of India insists that more than 75% of the tests have to be RT-PCR and the rest, antigen tests. It should not be more antigen tests and less RT-PCR tests,” he said. The antigen tests are used to get faster results. The health services department is also ensuring all formalities are in place at the earliest to buy the two additional machines. The purchase committee of the department will be soon deciding on the best machines to be procured and will also review variable costs for conducting the tests. The department prefers buying open-ended machines so that any kind of cartridges can be used for testing and are not restricted to using cartridges of only one particular company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-rt-pcr-units-to-boost-covid-testing/articleshow/80077044.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Delhi||Any violation to be dealt with strictly: North corpn||NEW DELHI: The factory where the fire incident took place was in a conforming area, said a North Delhi Municipal Corporation official. The agency is, however, ascertaining whether it was following all norms. Standing committee chairman Chhail Bihari Goswami said that “a factory or restaurant licence is issued only after verifying the fire NOC.” “Since in this case, the fire department has denied issuing NOC after 2018 (when the fire licence expired), we are doubtful that the corporation would have issued it licence. I have asked the department to look into it by Monday. In case of any lapses, necessary action would be taken ,” he said. Goswami added that “the Delhi Master Plan 2021 allows use of plots in industrial areas for commercial purposes also, provided the occupant submits conversion charges and fulfils all norms.” “Commercial activities can take place on different floors of the same building, provided the plot area is above 1,000 sq metres and located on a road more than 80 ft wide. The occupant, however, has to pay the conversion charges, parking fees besides obtaining health, fire NOC, etc,” said a north corporation official. “In this case, the plot is located on a wide road in a conforming area and we have been told by officials that the owner has paid conversion and parking charges. But regarding other dated documents, we have to wait till Monday,” said mayor Jai Prakash. However, when TOI visited the site on Saturday, the size of the road was narrow at the end where the factory was located and its width didn’t appear to be 80ft wide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/any-violation-to-be-dealt-with-strictly-north-corpn/articleshow/80077049.cms||Vibha Sharma
January 3, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Schools may be asked to reopen at short notice||KOLKATA: The state education department has asked schools to be prepared to open at short notice, at least for senior school students, particularly those appearing for Class-X and Class-XII board examinations. Though a final decision will be taken only at the state secretariat, the department has asked schools to prepare for such an eventuality. Dates for CBSE and state boards’ Class-X and Class-XII examinations have already been announced and schools need to reopen for students to attend practical classes and clear doubts before the boards. Schools have already opened in three states — Kerala, Karnataka and Assam — and Bihar is set to follow suit soon. A senior official said the Bengal government may make an announcement within the next few days. “Government schools have been told to keep their facilities ready and sanitize their campuses so that in-person, laboratory classes can begin once the government allows reopening campuses for physical attendance of students,” the official said. Both CBSE and West Bengal Council for Higher Secondary Education have decided to hold practical examinations in March. “We started preparations before the beginning of winter vacation. Classrooms have been sanitized. We are also installing glass partitions to separate one student from the other in the lab,” said a school head. St James School principal T H Ireland said schools were keenly following government announcements. “Though the CISCE is yet to publish dates for ICSE and ISC examinations, we have decided that those appearing for board exams will be the first to return to the campus,” Ireland said, adding 25 students will be allowed to conduct experiments in the lab at a time instead of 50. “We may ask parents to commit that they will not send their kids to school with symptoms,” said a principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-may-be-asked-to-reopen-at-short-notice/articleshow/80077078.cms||Somdatta Basu
January 3, 2021||Hyderabad||T in lead position in race for global AI hub||Hyderabad: Telangana has taken a lead in harnessing the power of emerging technologies to position itself as a global hub for Artificial Intelligence, Telangana IT & industries minister KT Rama Rao said on Saturday. “We commemorated 2020 as Telangana’s ‘Year of AI’ last year on January 2, 2020. Exactly one year later, I am elated to share the success of the programme, which did not just survive the pandemic, but also thrived in it. The initiative has been a catalyst, which has today catapulted Telangana to the forefront of the AI race to excellence,” Rama Rao said while unveiling a report ‘Telangana’s Year of AI – 2020 and Beyond’. The report highlights Telangana’s AI Framework, which outlines the six-pronged strategy adopted to achieve the vision of positioning the state as a global hub for AI and foster social innovation. The Telangana government has already set up T-AIM (Telangana AI Mission) to drive the implementation of the AI Framework. The report talks about the initiatives and activities taken up by partners such as Intel, International Institute of Information Technology Hyderabad (IIIT-H) and Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-in-lead-position-in-race-for-global-ai-hub/articleshow/80077076.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Goa||Tourist feared drowned at Amthane dam||Bicholim: Jitu Kumar Jadhav, 25, a tourist from Rajasthan, is feared drowned in the waters of Amthane dam. Bicholim police said Jadhav and four of his friends, had gone to the Amthane dam to celebrate New Year. Police said the waters from where he went missing are deep and inhabited by crocodiles. Three from the group had ventured into the water for a swim but only two returned. When they were unable to find Jadhav, they reported the matter to the Bicholim police. A team of fire services personnel from Bicholim under the guidance of SFO Shripad Gawas consequently launched a search operation. On Saturday, a joint search operation was conducted by a team of Bicholim fire brigade personnel and the Navy. The body of the missing tourist was not found until late evening.Bicholim police who conducted the panchanama said the search operation will continue till the body is traced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tourist-feared-drowned-at-amthane-dam/articleshow/80078011.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Under pressure, DMK cancels invite to Asaduddin Owaisi||CHENNAI/HYDERABAD: A day after calling All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) leader Asaduddin Owaisi to its minority wing conference scheduled in Chennai on Wednesday, the DMK withdrew the invitation following pressure from its Muslim allies and some other religious groups. The AIMIM leader, a source said, was upset over the DMK’s flip-flop, especially since he had cancelled another meeting in Uttar Pradesh to attend the DMK conference. When contacted, Owaisi refused to comment, but said, “I don’t speak bad about people who come to me as guests.” AIMIM sources said the meeting between Owaisi and DMK minority wing secretary Masthan at the former’s Hyderabad residence lasted 10 minutes on Friday. AIMIM Tamil Nadu president Vakeel Ahmed was also present at the meeting. As DMK’s allies IUML and Manithaneya Makkal Katchi (MMK) protested, Masthan denied having met Owaisi. This, even as a video – in TOI’s possession – showed Mastan and two leaders having a conversation with the AIMIM chief over a cup of tea. The DMK kept silent over the video circulated on social media. A source told TOI that the DMK deputed one of its senior leaders to explain to Owaisi the circumstances that forced the party to withdraw the invitation. “It was an embarrassment,” said the source. “Channels of communication for a possible electoral alliance between the two parties, however, remain open,” the source added. Muslim groups in TN feel AIMIM’s inclusion in the DMK-led front would eat into their seat share. “Owaisi has no base in Tamil Nadu. Neither him nor his state unit has voiced for the cause of Tamils,” said an MMK leader seeking anonymity. In the 2016 assembly election, the AIMIM contested in two seats – Vaniyambadi and Krishnagiri – in Tamil Nadu and got 10,289 votes. An AIMIM source said the party has plans to contest in more seats if the alliance with the DMK does not work out. A Majlis leader from Tamil Nadu said they are planning to contest 25-30 seats. “Krishnagiri, Vellore, Madurai and Tirupattur are some of the constituencies where we are strong,” he said. It may be recalled the party had entered the fray from Vaniyambadi assembly segment in the last election. Meanwhile, party leaders denied reports of the AIMIM joining hands with actor-turned-politician Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam. “But we cannot rule out any possibilities,” a party leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/under-pressure-dmk-cancels-invite-to-owaisi/articleshow/80077068.cms||Julie Mariappan
January 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Spike in Covid-19 cases recorded in Telangana's Suryapet||HYDERABAD: Following a sudden spike in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in Suryapet, officials are on alert. On Saturday, as many as 25 cases were detected out of 1,574 tests that were conducted. Twenty people tested positive in two gated communities in the town after attending a funeral a couple of days ago. On Saturday, 100 tests were done in the same colonies and two more positive cases were detected. Out of 860 tests done on Friday, five tested positive and as many as 54 people tested positive out of 1,418 tests conducted on the last day of 2020. On December 30, out of 1,418 tests done, 28 had tested positive. DMHO K Harshavardhan, who visited the affected areas, spoke to the families to ascertain if any of them had any other illnesses and needed additional medical care. He asked those who tested positive to approach health staff so that necessary medical help could be provided. Municipal commissioner P Ramanjula Redddy and staff visited the colonies where the cases were reported and disinfected the area. The disinfection was carried out in neighbouring colonies too. During the early months of the pandemic, Suryapet was in the red zone as several positive cases were reported from there. Officials said the number of cases were coming down as seen from the figures. In October, 16% of those tested were positive and in November, it came down to 10%. In December, 1.83% people tested positive in the district. Meanwhile, the DMHO urged people to follow Covid-19 norms and maintain social distancing if they have to attend any gatherings but suggested that it would be best if they avoided being at any crowded place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/spike-in-covid-19-cases-recorded-in-suryapet/articleshow/80078010.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: New secretariat building will last 150 years, says minister||HYDERABAD: Roads and buildings minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy on Saturday said the new secretariat complex is being constructed with the objective of standing structurally fit for 150 years. Services of experts from IITs, structural engineers and architects have been hired to ensure that the new secretariat building is able to withstand earthquakes. It will stand on at least 200 footings and would be fully vastu-compliant with world-class facilities. The minister inspected the ongoing works on the construction of the new secretariat, a prestigious project of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. He was accompanied by vastu expert Sudhakar Teja to ensure that the new secretariat is vastu-compliant in tune with the directions of KCR who is vastu-savvy. Later, the minister held a reviewed meeting at the construction site with R&B officials and also representatives of Shapoorji Pallonji construction company which has won the secretariat construction project tender. “The digging for laying foundations for the main building of the secretariat complex has begun. The works are going in full swing under the supervision of R&B engineers and we are hopeful of completing it in 12 months as sought by the CM,” the minister said in a statement. A red-mix concrete plant has been set up at the construction site in the secretariat compound to save time by bringing it from outside. Every day 300 cubic metres of concrete using 2,500 bags of cement is being prepared for the construction of the secretariat building. A workers’ colony has been set up within the secretariat premises compound for 2,500 workers and labourers to stay put. The minister enquired with the workers their work schedule and went around the construction site and made some suggestions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-sectt-bldg-will-last-150-yrs-min/articleshow/80077087.cms||Roushan Ali
January 3, 2021||Goa||Vishwajit Rane bats for own facility to detect new Covid strain||PANAJI: In a bid to reduce reliance on laboratories outside the state, the government is exploring the possibility of setting up an internal facility to test for the new Covid-19 strain detected in UK “The joint purchase committee has been asked to conduct a meeting to find out if a testing facility for the new strain could be set-up here, so that we don’t need to send samples outside the state,” health minister Vishwajit Rane told reporters after a meeting of the expert committee on Saturday. Stating that prior experience has taught them that reliance on laboratories outside Goa could lead to delays in receiving results, he said, “We need to be self-sufficient.” Presently, Goa sends samples to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, for genomic study. So far, test results of 12 people who have returned from the UK have come back negative for the new Covid strain, while some results are awaited, Rane said. He said that out of the 976 UK returnees who landed in Goa this month, and were subjected to an RT-PCR test, 38 tested positive. All 38 of them, as well as 28 people they came in contact with, have been placed in quarantine at the ESI-Margao hospital.  They will be kept there for 17 days till they complete the stipulated quarantine period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rane-bats-for-own-facility-to-detect-new-covid-strain/articleshow/80077079.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Jaipur||Transport dept unable to meet target revenue due to lockdown||editedJaipur: The state transport department is finding it difficult to to meet the revenue target which was decided in the beginning of the financial year. The department had set a target of approximately Rs 6,000 crore but till now it has managed to earn around Rs 2,000 crore. The lockdown has affected the earnings of the department but officials claim that they are hopeful of meeting the target in the next three months. "At the beginning of the financial year, we had set a target of Rs 6,000 crore but due to the pandemic and the lockdown which followed, the department has till now earned around Rs 2,300 crore. We would be even writing to the government to lower the target," said an official of the transport department. According to the officials, as the sale of automobiles has been low this year, a lot of revenue which used to be earned from it has gone down. Elaborating further, the official said, "a major source of income for the department came from the taxes which were charged from the buyers of the vehicles but since this year, people have not bought that many vehicles, we have not been able to earn through taxes.".As the maintenance of the buses was going on even during the lockdown, it has added to the expenditure of the department. However, officials are hopeful that they might earn some revenue from January to March."We are hoping that as the restrictions have been eased, people will start travelling more in the roadways buses as well as start purchasing vehicles because of which we might earn Rs 2,000 crore due to which the loss sustained by the department can be minimised to a certain extent and perhaps we can increase the targeted revenue for the next financial year," added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/transport-dept-unable-to-meet-target-revenue-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/80076317.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Jaipur||State reports lowest cases in six months||JAIPUR: The state reported its lowest daily new infections in six months as 467 persons tested positive for Covid on Saturday taking the overall tally to 3,09,319. On July 3, the state had reported 390 infections followed by 480 cases the next day. Since then, cases continuously increased and after six months the state reported 467 cases, the lowest in 182 days. In the last 10 days, the state reported 7,611 cases. A health department official said, “Preparations for the vaccine has started in the state. As of now, active cases have gone below 9,000.”He said the health department has issued directions to intensify surveillance to find out if the Covid strain had mutated. A nodal officer, who has been deployed in the state, will collect samples of Covid patients, its packaging and transportation for genome sequencing. In the last 24 hours, five persons died taking the overall casualty count to 2,705. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (82), Kota (49), Jodhpur (44), Bhilwara (32), Nagaur (28), Rajsamand (23), Churu (21), Udaipur (19), Ajmer (18), Bundi (18), Pali (17), Baran (12), Jhalawar (11), Chittorgarh (8), Dungarpur (8), Alwar (8), Tonk (7), Jaisalmer (6), Bikaner (6), Sirohi (6), Sikar (5), Sriganganagar (5), Banswara (5), Dausa (5), Bharatpur (4), Sawai Madhopur (4), Barmer (3), Dholpur (3), Jhunjhunu (3), Karauli (3), Jalore (2) and Pratapgarh (2). Jaipur reported its 503rd Covid-19 death, Jodhpur 291st, Udaipur 111th, Nagaur 91st, and Churu reported its 41st Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-reports-lowest-cases-in-six-months/articleshow/80076318.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Goa||State successfully conducts dry run of vaccine drive||Panaji: On Saturday, the directorate of health services successfully conducted an inoculation dry run for Covid-19 vaccination and reviewed the state’s preparedness for the massive exercise.The dry run was conducted at four centres including a private hospital wherein 25 health workers drawn from each centre and registered on the CoWin portal were considered as dummy beneficiaries.Health secretary Amit Satija said the dry run was held at the urban health centre, Panaji, primary health centre, Aldona, primary health centre Corlim and Healthway hospital, Old Goa.In accordance with the Centre’s guidelines, three rooms were identified at each session site as a waiting room, vaccination room and observation room, Satija said.In room one, each beneficiary was verified by the vaccination officer for his photo ID and reflection of the registration message on his mobile phone.In room two, the vaccination officer authenticated the registration status of the beneficiary and guided him/her to the vaccinator for administration of the vaccine.All infection prevention and control measures were followed in addition to the Covid norms of wearing masks, washing hands and social distancing at all sessions sites.The vaccinator informed the beneficiaries the key messages about the type of vaccine, due date for the next dose and their stay for 30 minutes at the observation room.The whole session was monitored on a real-time basis on CoWIN. The dry run was monitored by the state-level senior officials under the aegis of the directorate of health services. The health secretary clarified that the state has adequate storage facilities for vaccines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-successfully-conducts-dry-run-of-vaccine-drive/articleshow/80077089.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Jaipur||Database of sanitation workers for free vaccine||Jaipur: The directorate of local bodies (DLB) is compiling the database of sanitation workers who will get free Covid vaccines in the first phase. As per the central government directions, a deadline of January 5 has been made to upload the database. Sources said initially the sanitation workers (permanent and contracted) deployed in 44 civic bodies including 10 municipal corporations and 34 municipal councils will be vaccinated. An official said, “We have been asked to create a ‘database of beneficiaries’ that will ‘subsequently be uploaded on the Covid-19 Vaccine Beneficiary Management System (CVBMS) for individualised tracking’ of all recipients. Nodal officers have been appointed for the same.” The DLB has appointed seven regional deputy directors and commissioners of municipal corporations to upload the data. The commissioners will upload the information of the corporations, while the deputy directors will upload information about the workers of municipal councils and municipalities under him on the portal. The data will comprise all sanitation workers including garbage collecters and sweepers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/database-of-sanitation-workers-for-free-vaccine/articleshow/80077081.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Jaipur||Footfall at Jaipur airport plunges during holiday season||JAIPUR: The Jaipur International Airport saw a fall in footfall this holiday season as 60% flights are currently in operation. During the tourist season, usually close to 15,000 passengers travel from the airport daily. This time during the New Year, the footfall reduced to around 3,000 passengers each way. “On New Year day, we had 3,138 passengers who came to the airport while 3,028 who travelled out. This number is quite low as compared to last year and now on a routine basis, we have around 7,000 passengers a day,” said an official of Jaipur airport. When domestic flight operations were resumed, the city airport received merely 500 to 1,000 passengers in July which increased to 2,000 passengers in August. In September, 3,000-4,000 passengers travelled from here while in October the number was between 3,500 and 4,500 though it dipped on the eve of New Year as well as on January 1, 2021. “We are hoping that as the restrictions are eased, more flights will be operational and at present we have reached 55% of the total passengers as compared to the previous year. Also, two flights were diverted from Kishangarh and Delhi due to bad weather,” added the official. The luggage of the passengers is sanitized before entry into the departure lounge and for a few destinations they are also given PPE kits to wear. The privatisation process of the Jaipur airport by the Adani group is also likely to start this month. As the Union Cabinet approved the right to operate, develop and maintain Jaipur airport for the next 50 years, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) has been released a letter of award to Adani group. The letter of award was followed by an agreement through which the group would deposit the required security deposit of nearly Rs 1,000 crore for the lease. Apart from ATC, CNS, the security would be handled by Central Industrial Security Force (CISF). Other than that, the group would be able to run its commercial activities like developing restaurants and other facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/footfall-at-jaipur-airport-plunges-during-holiday-season/articleshow/80076323.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
January 3, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM asks doctors to study post-Covid complications||JAIPUR: Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said the state government will get a thorough study and analysis on the ill-effects on the health of patients post Covid. He asked doctors from across the state to do research by preparing special teams and effective protocols to avoid post-Covid complications. Gehlot was holding a review of Covid situation in the state through a video conference on Saturday. He said that in patients recovering from Covid, many physical and mental effects are being observed, which is a matter of concern. He said special emphasis should be given on post-Covid care. The CM said that the state government has set up post-Covid clinics, but due to lack of awareness people are not able to take full advantage of it. He instructed the authorities to give publicity to the same. He said that due to decisions like night curfew and excellent management, the corona situation in the state is now largely under control. Keeping in view the positive results of these decisions, he directed to continue with night curfews for the next few days. Health minister Raghu Sharma said due to low number of corona positive patients in various hospitals, the number of reserved beds has been reduced. He said the ESI Hospital in Jaipur has been declared non-Covid. Secretary, health, Siddharth Mahajan said the number of active cases in the state now stands at 9,223, which is equal to the number of cases in the last week of July 2020. Currently, only 101 patients are admitted to the 1,200-bed RUHS hospital. Doctors present in the meeting suggested the continuation of night curfew and restrictions in view of the presence of a ‘new strain’ spreading in the cold weather.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/special-study-will-be-done-on-post-covid-complications-cm/articleshow/80076329.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Jaipur||Jaisalmer: Rafale to showcase power in India-France wargame||JAISALMER: For the first time after its induction into the Indian Air Force, Rafale will land at the Pokhran field firing range in Jaisalmer to take part in a major wargame between India and France. The joint exercise, SKYROS, is aimed at increasing coordination between the air forces of India and France in the strategic sector. The exercise is scheduled between January 19 and 25. This war exercise, which comes in the backdrop of India-China tensions, will showcase the expertise of both the countries. IAF will fly in its Rafale and Sukhoi jet fighters while France will bring in its Rafale fighters too. SKYROS will be different from Garud, which takes place between the two countries on regular intervals. Indian pilots will demonstrate their capacity in flying Rafale. Sources said France will send four Rafale jets for the exercise. Also, Indian pilots can learn some skills from French pilots who have been flying Rafale for years. A defence spokesperson said, French Rafales will be accompanied by Airbus A330 multi-role tanker transport aircraft for aerial refuelling support. Notably, it was in 2014 Garud exercise in Jodhpur that Rafale had participated for the first time and the then Air Chief Marshal Arup Raha had flown a sortie. This laid the foundation for the multi-billion dollar Rafale deal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rafale-to-showcase-power-in-india-france-wargame/articleshow/80077090.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka shops with 10+ staff can do business 24x7 from today||BENGALURU: Starting Sunday, shops and establishments in Karnataka can function 24x7 on all days for a period of three years. The state government on Saturday notified that all shops, registered under the Karnataka Shops and Establishments Act, 1962, with ten or more employees can remain open round-the-clock. With the notification, the state government is making an attempt to create more jobs, generate some additional revenue and lend a helping hand to the retail industry that has been reeling under the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. The rule elevates Karnataka to the league of states like Maharashtra, Gujarat, Haryana and Tamil Nadu that allows shops and establishments to do business day and night. Since several companies, especially in the IT sector, are functioning 24x7, there has been a demand from the retailers to keep shops and establishments open even at night. “The decision also forms a part of the ease-of-doing-business initiative of the Karnataka government. There was a demand from traders to extend business hours, especially after the pandemic-induced lockdown,” said state labour commissioner Akram Pasha. Though the government had come out with a similar order in 2019, it was put on hold after the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. Staff shouldn’t be made to work for over 10 hoursThe government is hoping that relaxation of business hours will bring in some revenue. Most of the state’s revenue-earning departments like commercial tax, excise, transport and stamps and registration, are struggling to meet the set target for financial year 2020-2021. As far as safety issues are concerned, especially for those working at night, Pasha said all measures have been taken to maintain law and order. “We have issued safety guidelines to be adhered to by all shops. There will also be police patrolling all through the night,” he added. The notification directs shop owners to hire additional staff if they plan to stay open for business round the clock. Every employee should get one-day leave in a week, and should not be made to work for over 10 hours, including overtime of two hours. Women employees cannot work beyond 8pm on any day in normal circumstances, says the notification. “If at all the situation demands, the employer should obtain written consent from the employee to work between 8pm and 6am, subject to providing adequate protection to her dignity, honour and safety,” the order said. Transport arrangements should be made for women employees who work in shifts. The employees should also be provided with restrooms, washrooms, safety lockers and other basic amenities. Labour department officials claimed after relaxing the rule, Maharashtra and Gujarat witnessed employment in the retail sector, growing one-sixth of the total number of jobs generated. “Consumers, especially in Bengaluru, will be happier with the flexibility of shopping at will,” they added. However, they admitted the positive impact of the move will mostly be location-dependent. For instance, retail shops in CBD and establishments in areas with high presence of IT/ITeS employees will possibly benefit a lot more than other localities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-shops-with-10-staff-can-do-biz-24x7-from-today/articleshow/80076778.cms||Anil Gejji
January 3, 2021||Ajmer||Night curfew in 13 Rajasthan districts extended till January 15||JAIPUR: Night curfew from 8pm to 6am will continue to be in force up to January 15 within the urban limits of 13 districts. The districts include Kota, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Udaipur, Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Nagore, Pali, Tonk, Sikar and Ganganagar, stated an order issued by the home department on Saturday. The Covid guidelines for surveillance, containment and caution, for the period January 1 to 15, issued by principal secretary, home, Abhay Kumar also stated that lockdown shall remain in force in the containment zones till January 15. The state government has also decided that schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will remain closed for students and regular classes till January 15. It also stated that cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, entertainment parks, and similar places will remain closed for the same period. Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious functions and other large congregations will also not be permitted till January 15, it added. “All markets, work places and commercial complexes shall remain closed during night curfew. These places should be closed by 7pm so that the staff and others reach home by 8pm, unless special permission is obtained from the officer authorised by the district collector in this regard,” the order stated. “Rajasthan is at a critical juncture in its fight against Covid. The need of the hour is to keep on maintaining the same vigilance against the spread of virus. Every citizen should maintain due caution and strictly follow prescribed strategy, focused on surveillance, containment and strict observance of the guidelines,” it also stated. “Ministry of home affairs (MHA), Government of India, has extended the guidelines issued on November 25, 2020, for surveillance, containment and caution for the month of January. Accordingly, after taking into account the prevailing outbreak scenario in the state, and the fresh surge in cases globally, particularly the emergence of a new variant of the virus in the UK, the guidelines are being issued for maintaining caution and strict surveillance in the state,” it further stated. In all work places (government/autonomous/private offices etc.) located in the municipal limits of 13 cities and having more than 100 employees, 75% of employees shall come to attend the offices and 25% shall continue to work from home only. For marriage-related gatherings, number of guests permitted shall not be more than 100 and not more than 20 for funerals/last rites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/night-curfew-extended-till-jan-15/articleshow/80078625.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Udaipur||Night curfew in 13 Rajasthan districts extended till January 15||JAIPUR: Night curfew from 8pm to 6am will continue to be in force up to January 15 within the urban limits of 13 districts. The districts include Kota, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Udaipur, Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Nagore, Pali, Tonk, Sikar and Ganganagar, stated an order issued by the home department on Saturday. The Covid guidelines for surveillance, containment and caution, for the period January 1 to 15, issued by principal secretary, home, Abhay Kumar also stated that lockdown shall remain in force in the containment zones till January 15. The state government has also decided that schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will remain closed for students and regular classes till January 15. It also stated that cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, entertainment parks, and similar places will remain closed for the same period. Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious functions and other large congregations will also not be permitted till January 15, it added. “All markets, work places and commercial complexes shall remain closed during night curfew. These places should be closed by 7pm so that the staff and others reach home by 8pm, unless special permission is obtained from the officer authorised by the district collector in this regard,” the order stated. “Rajasthan is at a critical juncture in its fight against Covid. The need of the hour is to keep on maintaining the same vigilance against the spread of virus. Every citizen should maintain due caution and strictly follow prescribed strategy, focused on surveillance, containment and strict observance of the guidelines,” it also stated. “Ministry of home affairs (MHA), Government of India, has extended the guidelines issued on November 25, 2020, for surveillance, containment and caution for the month of January. Accordingly, after taking into account the prevailing outbreak scenario in the state, and the fresh surge in cases globally, particularly the emergence of a new variant of the virus in the UK, the guidelines are being issued for maintaining caution and strict surveillance in the state,” it further stated. In all work places (government/autonomous/private offices etc.) located in the municipal limits of 13 cities and having more than 100 employees, 75% of employees shall come to attend the offices and 25% shall continue to work from home only. For marriage-related gatherings, number of guests permitted shall not be more than 100 and not more than 20 for funerals/last rites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/night-curfew-extended-till-jan-15/articleshow/80078623.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Goa||50 UK returnees, contacts admitted to ESI hospital||Panaji: A total of 50 UK returnees and their contacts are currently undergoing treatment at ESI hospital in Margao. Two more positive patients were admitted on Saturday. All the patients - the UK travellers and their contacts - are said to be asymptomatic positive and none are reported to be serious. The patients are discharged for home isolation for 17 days only after a negative report for genome sequencing is received from National Institute of Virology, Pune. Only the UK travellers and their contacts who tested positive - suspects of the new strain of the virus - are isolated at the ESI hospital. They are currently being accommodated on two floors of the hospital. The hospital began admitting the UK returnees on December 25. Prior to that, it had stopped fresh admissions of Covid patients. All other — non-UK returnees — persons who test positive are admitted at the South Goa district hospital. Critical patients are admitted at GMC. Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Saturday told presspersons that of the 976 UK returnees, 12 passengers are not carrying the variant. The minister said that the government is planning to introduce testing facilities for the new strain so that the samples don’t have to be sent to Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/50-uk-returnees-contacts-admitted-to-esi-hospital/articleshow/80077092.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 3, 2021||Jodhpur||Night curfew in 13 Rajasthan districts extended till January 15||JAIPUR: Night curfew from 8pm to 6am will continue to be in force up to January 15 within the urban limits of 13 districts. The districts include Kota, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Udaipur, Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Nagore, Pali, Tonk, Sikar and Ganganagar, stated an order issued by the home department on Saturday. The Covid guidelines for surveillance, containment and caution, for the period January 1 to 15, issued by principal secretary, home, Abhay Kumar also stated that lockdown shall remain in force in the containment zones till January 15. The state government has also decided that schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will remain closed for students and regular classes till January 15. It also stated that cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, entertainment parks, and similar places will remain closed for the same period. Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious functions and other large congregations will also not be permitted till January 15, it added. “All markets, work places and commercial complexes shall remain closed during night curfew. These places should be closed by 7pm so that the staff and others reach home by 8pm, unless special permission is obtained from the officer authorised by the district collector in this regard,” the order stated. “Rajasthan is at a critical juncture in its fight against Covid. The need of the hour is to keep on maintaining the same vigilance against the spread of virus. Every citizen should maintain due caution and strictly follow prescribed strategy, focused on surveillance, containment and strict observance of the guidelines,” it also stated. “Ministry of home affairs (MHA), Government of India, has extended the guidelines issued on November 25, 2020, for surveillance, containment and caution for the month of January. Accordingly, after taking into account the prevailing outbreak scenario in the state, and the fresh surge in cases globally, particularly the emergence of a new variant of the virus in the UK, the guidelines are being issued for maintaining caution and strict surveillance in the state,” it further stated. In all work places (government/autonomous/private offices etc.) located in the municipal limits of 13 cities and having more than 100 employees, 75% of employees shall come to attend the offices and 25% shall continue to work from home only. For marriage-related gatherings, number of guests permitted shall not be more than 100 and not more than 20 for funerals/last rites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/night-curfew-extended-till-jan-15/articleshow/80078624.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Jaipur||Night curfew in 13 Rajasthan districts extended till January 15||JAIPUR: Night curfew from 8pm to 6am will continue to be in force up to January 15 within the urban limits of 13 districts. The districts include Kota, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Udaipur, Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Nagore, Pali, Tonk, Sikar and Ganganagar, stated an order issued by the home department on Saturday. The Covid guidelines for surveillance, containment and caution, for the period January 1 to 15, issued by principal secretary, home, Abhay Kumar also stated that lockdown shall remain in force in the containment zones till January 15. The state government has also decided that schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will remain closed for students and regular classes till January 15. It also stated that cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, entertainment parks, and similar places will remain closed for the same period. Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious functions and other large congregations will also not be permitted till January 15, it added. “All markets, work places and commercial complexes shall remain closed during night curfew. These places should be closed by 7pm so that the staff and others reach home by 8pm, unless special permission is obtained from the officer authorised by the district collector in this regard,” the order stated. “Rajasthan is at a critical juncture in its fight against Covid. The need of the hour is to keep on maintaining the same vigilance against the spread of virus. Every citizen should maintain due caution and strictly follow prescribed strategy, focused on surveillance, containment and strict observance of the guidelines,” it also stated. “Ministry of home affairs (MHA), Government of India, has extended the guidelines issued on November 25, 2020, for surveillance, containment and caution for the month of January. Accordingly, after taking into account the prevailing outbreak scenario in the state, and the fresh surge in cases globally, particularly the emergence of a new variant of the virus in the UK, the guidelines are being issued for maintaining caution and strict surveillance in the state,” it further stated. In all work places (government/autonomous/private offices etc.) located in the municipal limits of 13 cities and having more than 100 employees, 75% of employees shall come to attend the offices and 25% shall continue to work from home only. For marriage-related gatherings, number of guests permitted shall not be more than 100 and not more than 20 for funerals/last rites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/night-curfew-extended-till-jan-15/articleshow/80076331.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Goa||Do not be arrogant about wearing a mask: Health minister||PANAJI: Health minister Vishwajit Rane, who said on Saturday that the state could soon see a second Covid wave after the New Year’’s Eve misadventures, asked residents to double-down on safety measures and be extra careful. "Don't be arrogant about wearing a mask," he said. "I see people in Miramar and Dona Paula without masks. What are they trying to prove? It is not fashionable to wear a mask below the nose. If you have Covid, you'll give it to ten other people." While criticising clubs that don't enforce mask-use and social distancing norms, Rane also came down heavily on house parties. "If there are 10 people who gather and don't do social distancing and don't wear masks, you don't know where those ten are coming from," he said. "And you don't know who's working in their houses." Rane also requested the public to ask their maids to wear masks in the house, since many of them come from small hutments and small slums. The health minister once again implored residents to immediately report symptoms to the state health services and not wait for things to deteriorate. "Our analysis has shown that of those presenting at the last minute, 20% have died," he said. "That is a very high number. This has to come down. (When you present so late), you're not even giving the health setup a chance to treat you." He also said that the people of Goa must respect the health community. People must “self-realise” and not put strain on the health infrastructure. “If citizens do not cooperate, then there will be no use of SOPs,” the health minister said. Even as many locals partied through the Christmas-New Year week as if safe from Covid, Rane warned that the disease can pull down anybody. "We have seen in Goa that the most prominent and wealthy people have also lost their lives to Covid," he said. "Members of the assembly, businessmen, the poorest of the poor — all got Covid. Covid doesn't know your religion or your income or anything. It can attack anybody and consume anybody."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/do-not-be-arrogant-about-wearing-a-mask-health-min/articleshow/80077097.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Jaipur||Two students from Rajasthan score perfect 100 in CAT||JAIPUR: Two students from the state have scored 100 percentile in CAT — Jitesh Mittal from Jaipur and Aaryan Kapoor, a native of Punjab studying engineering from BITS-Pilani. They are among the nine who aced the exam. Mittal is an IITian from Gandhinagar while Kapoor is a final year student of electrical and instrumentation at BITS-Pilani. Kapoor, who comes from business-cum-academic family background and chose to complete his graduation in engineering, always wanted to do something in finance. “I have taken up finance along with my engineering,” said Kapoor, who believe that the lockdown and the comfort of his home gave him the luxury to ace the test. At BITS, he joined an initiative titled Nirman by teaching children of underprivileged families in Baas villAge. “I would like to work towards making education accessible to all,” said Kapoor, who is eyeing to study MBA from either IIM-Ahmedabad or Calcutta. Two other students from Jaipur missed the top score by a few decimal points. Gaurav Sharma scored 99.95 percentile and Kaivalyn Shah 99.93 percentile score in the exam. Around 20 students have scored in the elite bracket of 99 percentile and above which can fetch a berth in IIMs. Kapil Dixit, an expert in CAT exam, said Jaipur students have performed well despite getting less time to prepare for the exam due to the pandemic. “Now, students who have qualified sectional cut-offs and overall cut-offs will wait for IIMs to release list for interviews based on academic profile that includes X, XII and graduation percentage,” said Dixit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-students-from-state-score-perfect-100-in-cat/articleshow/80077108.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Madurai||Minister urges people to contribute effectively to garbage disposal||MADURAI: Minister for cooperation Sellur K Raju urged the residents of Madurai to help the corporation to make the city cleaner by disposing garbage only in the designated places. He was speaking at an event where on behalf of Madurai corporation he received 200 cycle carts worth Rs 55 lakh for waste collection, donated by Tamilnad Mercantile Bank(TMB).  The bank has also committed to construct two public toilets at the cost of Rs 70 lakh and taking up its maintenance for three years. Sellur K Raju said that the toilets will come up on the premises of Jansi Rani Park and the Meenakshi Amman Temple. Sellur Raju said that residents should segregate degradable and non-biodegradable waste and help in waste management. “When people from our country visit other countries they are very responsible. They throw garbage in the dustbins. They should follow the same in their locality as well,” he said. Madurai corporation has 154 cycle carts already and the new carts will help the corporation in door to door garbage collection, he said. Sellur Raju said that various development projects are taking shape in Madurai city including construction of a 22 km retention wall for the Vaigai river and development of parks on both its banks. A sewage water treatment plant to prevent mixing of sewage water in Vaigai river is also nearing completion. He applauded TMB for making the generous donation. Former chairman of TMB, S Annamalai, vice chairman A Chidambaranathan and general manager D Inbamani were present at the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/min-urges-people-to-contribute-effectively-to-garbage-disposal/articleshow/80078030.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Jaipur||Gang of robbers busted in Jaipur||The special team of Jaipur police on Saturday busted a gang involved in snatching mobile phones and stealing batteries of e-rickshaws. Police have arrested five persons and have also seized two motorbikes, three mobile phones and batteries of e-rickshaws. Police stated that they got inclined towards theft since they are addicts of drugs like smack and used money from stolen items to buy these narcotics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gang-of-robbers-busted-in-jaipur/articleshow/80077112.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Madurai||7 teams to monitor movement of jumbos in Theni||THENI: The forest department has formed seven special teams to monitor the movement of nearly 30 to 40 elephants in four herds in Meghamalai wildlife division in Theni district. This follows the two human deaths due to trampling by jumbos in Manalar and Upper Manalar last month, wildlife warden for the division Sachin Bhosale told TOI. The teams are monitoring movement of the herds in the seven habitations of Megamalai, Highways, Manalar, Upper Manalar, Vanniyar, Maharaja Mettu and Iruvangalar. The teams have forest department personnel in the ranks of watcher or guard, tea estate workers and volunteers from the habitations. “These teams monitor jumbo movement and on noticing them stray out of the forest, alert the department and the villagers,” the warden said. Human life loss due to jumbos is not frequent in these habitations and the deaths in December happened after nearly 10 years. In December first week, a 58-year-old tea estate worker was collecting wood about 200 metres from the forest boundary at Manalar when he was trampled to death. In the second incident on December 24, a jumbo entered the colony for tea estate workers at Upper Manalar. Hearing the commotion, a man opened his front door and turned on the light, when the pachyderm got agitated and charged at him. Villagers and department personnel suspect that the same lone sub adult could have been involved in the two incidents. While the loner could not be spotted since then, the teams are keeping a close watch to prevent further casualty. The estate workers have provided accommodation for department personnel engaged in the monitoring at Manalar and Upper Manalar. Department personnel said this is the migratory season for jumbos as they travel from Kerala to Tamil Nadu due to disturbances in the Sabarimala season. This results in increased movement of herds in Meghamalai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/7-teams-to-monitor-movement-of-jumbos/articleshow/80078029.cms||M K Ananth
January 3, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata civic body unable to trace 27 UK flyers||KOLKATA: One more flyer who returned to Bengal recently from overseas has tested positive for Covid-19. This takes the number of Covid patients under the scanner for possibly carrying the UK strain to three. Till now, the strain of the novel coronavirus has been found in only one returnee, who travelled from the UK. But there is concern over KMC’s inability to trace 20 people who arrived by the same flight as the one with the new, more infectious strain. Also, seven others have left their addresses in Kolkata and gone somewhere else. The man who tested positive for Covid and was admitted to the dedicated isolation facility at the Infections Diseases and Beliaghata General (ID&BG) Hospital on Saturday had returned from Germany, unlike the others. Two others admitted to ID&BG Hospital on Friday had returned from the UK. Their samples have been sent to the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics (NIBG) in Kalyani for genome analysis to see whether the infection is caused by the UK variant of the novel coronavirus. Samples from the latest patient will also be sent there for analysis. “The latest Covid patient was under institutional quarantine at Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute’s facility at New Town that the government has acquired for Covid patients. His swab samples tested positive late on Friday. He was taken to ID Hospital on Saturday,” a health department official said. Contact tracing of foreign returnees was stepped up after the UK strain was identified in the sample of the 38-year-old professional. But concerns emerged on Saturday after KMC board of administrators chairman Firhad Hakim said 27 of the man’s co-flyers could not be traced. The health department had entrusted KMC with the names of 57 people who were either seated close to him on the nine-hour flight or were with him during the 6-hour wait for RT-PCR reports at the terminal. Hakim said the KMC team could not contact 20 people, while seven left Kolkata. Of the remaining 30, one was quarantined after testing positive and a watch is maintained on the other 29, he said. Doctors at ID&BG said none of the patients under institutional isolation displayed any severe symptom and that they were under conventional treatment. “All three are clinically stable so far, with none requiring any specialised treatment, including oxygen support. Their genome sequencing report is awaited,” said infectious diseases specialist Yogiraj Ray, a core member of the Covid team at ID. The person carrying the UK strain is admitted to Medical College Hospital and is doing fine as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-unable-to-trace-27-uk-flyers/articleshow/80077119.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 3, 2021||Madurai||Tuticorin: 3 arrested for killing friend in brawl||TUTICORIN: Three men were arrested on Saturday on charges of murdering their friend in a drunken brawl while celebrating New Year on Friday night.  The victim has been identified as A Clinton, 25, a fisherman from Poobalarayerpuram on the outskirts of Tuticorin. The arrested persons have been identified as A Antony Raj, 22, of the same village, M Daniel Raj, 20, of Samuel Puram and J Santhanaraj, 40, of Matha Kovil Street. The four friends were consuming alcohol while celebrating New Yeat at Mottai Gopuram near Siluvaipatti. An altercation broke out during the celebration and the trio stabbed Clinton with broken remains of a liquor bottle. The trio fled the scene after Clinton died on the spot. Thalamuthunagar police retrieved the body and sent it to the Thoothukudi medical college hospital for autopsy. One of the accused allegedly informed the police about the murder after which the police arrested the trio and lodged them in jail under judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/3-arrested-for-killing-friend-in-brawl/articleshow/80078032.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Nashik||Nashik police seize 78 nylon manja spools worth Rs 35,800; 2 sellers booked||NASHIK: The city police on Saturday booked two people and seized 78 spools of banned nylon manja, worth Rs 35,800, from the Bhadrakali and Panchavati areas. A team of crime branch unit-1 personnel, under the guidance of PI Ananda Wagh and API Mahesh Kulkarni, started checking for shops selling the nylon manja. They found two kite sellers selling the illegal manja and seized their stocks. Ananda Wagh said the team seized 65 spools of nylon manja from a shop in Phule Nagar, Peth Road area of Panchavati, and booked owner Prashant Laxman Dinde. The manja seized was worth Rs 29,300. Another 13 spools, worth Rs 6,500, were seized from a shop in the Multanpura area of Bhadrakali and the seller — 20-year-old Danish Attar of Multanpura — was booked and handed over to the Bhadrakali police. PI Wagh said action against nylon manja sellers has been taken up under the guidance of police commissioner Deepak Pandey, DCP (crime) Sangramsinh Nishandar and ACP Mohan Thakur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-police-seize-78-nylon-manja-spools-worth-rs-35800-2-sellers-booked/articleshow/80075928.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 3, 2021||Jaipur||Many fail to buy wheat under NFSA due to Covid, old age||Jaipur: The food and civil supplies department on Saturday conducted an inspection in the state to find out the reasons for not purchasing wheat under public distribution system (PDS) by some listed NFSA beneficiaries in the past one year (2020). In Jaipur district, it was observed that while some beneficiaries shifted to other places, few others left for their villages with the outbreak of Covid-19 in the state and haven’t returned yet. “In some cases, it was seen that the beneficiary’s OTP was not generated and the person stopped coming. Also, due to old age, some stopped going to fair price shop (FPS). There were also cases where they stopped purchasing wheat as their children got good jobs. There is no uniform reason for not purchasing wheat,” said K C Yadav, district supplies officer (DSO), Jaipur.The officials randomly visited families of 10 NFSA beneficiaries in each district to find out the reason behind not having purchased wheat at a subsidized rate from the fair price shops. This would help the department in removing non-existent beneficiaries from the NFSA list and finalise the exact figure of NFSA beneficiaries in the state. Secretary, food and civil supplies, Naveen Jain has asked the district supplies officers (DSOs) to submit a report by Monday after conducting the inspection. “This will help us understand whether these beneficiaries are self-sufficient, whether they are unavailable or these are bogus names. We will also get to know the reasons for not purchasing wheat (from fair price shops),” said Jain.Meanwhile, as a part of One Nation, One Ration card system, so far Aadhaar seeding of 93 per cent NFSA beneficiaries has been completed to ensure transparency in the process. Of 4.5 crore beneficiaries in the state, Aadhaar seeding of 4.2 core beneficiaries has already been completed. Nearly 50 lakh names were removed from the NFSA (national food security) list last year (2020) in which cases of duplication of names were observed or if the beneficiary was not a resident of the state anymore or case of deaths. In the past two months, around 25 lakh such names have been removed from the state’s NFSA list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/many-fail-to-buy-wheat-under-nfsa-due-to-covid-old-age/articleshow/80077135.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Guv visits PHC, boosts morale of staff||Hyderabad: To boost the morale of healthcare workers and beneficiaries, governor Dr Tamilisai Soundararajan visited the Covid-19 vaccination dry run centre at Primary Health Centre, Tilaknagar on Saturday, along with her husband Dr P Soundararajan. The governor called for no hesitancy to get vaccinated and stressed that it is safe. She called 2021 as the ‘Year of Protection’. “The vaccine is safe. People all over the world are taking the vaccine. There is not even a single incident of fatality due to the vaccination till now. People should not be afraid to take the vaccine. I am concerned that some surveys indicated 40% of health care workers have shown vaccine-hesitancy,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/guv-visits-phc-boosts-morale-of-staff/articleshow/80078036.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Kolkata||Mentally unstable man pushes dad to death in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A 69-year-old retired government employee, Subhomoy Banerjee, died after allegedly being pushed by his 31-year-old son, who is reportedly mentally unstable, on the concrete passage of their Jadavpur home in January 1. The son, Arpan, has been arrested and a murder case started. Police are yet to find out why Arpan had turned violent. “The rear part of Subhomoy’s head was smashed. It was enough to kill him instantly,” said an officer. Arpan’s relatives claimed he was on medication. “Arpan depended on his parents’ pension,” said a relative. Police said both Arpan and his mother suffered from mental illness. “We took him to Bangur Institute of Neurology’s psychiatric ward, where the HoD recommended admission to Pavlov Hospital,” said an officer. “We may admit his mother to a hospital, too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mentally-unstable-man-pushes-dad-to-death/articleshow/80077157.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 3, 2021||Madurai||Stalin dreams of capturing power via short-cuts: Tamil Nadu CM||MADURAI: DMK president M K Stalin was under the impression that he would capture power in the state through short-cuts after the demise of late chief minister J Jayalalithaa but we proved him wrong, said chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. Campaigning at Paramakudi in Ramanathapuram on Saturday, he said Stalin did not believe in working hard and coming to power. “Only hard work can help people to reach higher levels, and we are working hard. Stalin’s dream of capturing power in Tamil Nadu will always remain a dream,’’ he said. Ramanathapuram district is a drought-prone region, the reason why the AIADMK government is to implement the Rs 14,000crore Cauvery-Gundaru scheme in the district in a phased manner. He said tenders had been floated for the first two phases and the foundation stone would be laid soon. The long-term demand of seven sub-sects to be called Devendrakula Vellalar would soon become a reality due to the action taken by his government to fulfil the demand, said the chief minister. “I constituted a committee headed by IAS officer Hansraj Varma in 2019 and the committee recommended that the seven sub-sects could be called Devandrakula Vellalar and the same has been forwarded to the central government for approval,’’ he said. The CM said he had also urged the Centre to expedite the process and it would become a reality soon. “I am a farmer who knows agriculture well, my father used to always say that I can get people to work well in the fields only if I knew the job well. Hence I know what to cultivate in a season and how to tackle pests that attack crops,’’ he said adding that agriculture was something that made it important for farmers to toil through sunny and rainy days. This government is doing its best for farmers, he said. Tamil Nadu leads in terms of the most number of students pursuing higher education. “The people are with us and any attempt to break the AIADMK will fail. They cannot touch a single AIADMK cadre,” he said. This government always works with the people’s welfare in mind, so we have announced the Rs 2,500 Pongal gift. “Celebrate Pongal, vote for AIADMK and reinstate us,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/stalins-dream-of-capturing-power-via-short-cuts-wont-materialize-cm/articleshow/80078035.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Madurai||Accident deaths dip by 35% in Dindigul district in 2020||MADURAI: Police officials said that road accident deaths have come down by 35 percent in Dindigul district in 2020 compared to its previous year. While 398 people died in 1,743 road accidents in 2019, only 257 people died in 1,479 road accidents in 2020. Various efforts taken by the police department jointly with other departments like transport, national highways and state highways has helped in bringing down the number of accidents. Sensitisation, stringent booking of traffic violation cases and improvement in road safety measures have helped, said police officials from Dindigul district. Dindigul range deputy inspector general of police, M S Muthusamy, said that murder incidents too have come down in 2020. While 69 murders took place in 2019, only 52 murders took place in 2020. As many as 141 people involved in the murder cases were arrested in 2020. He said that 95 people were detained under Goondas act in 2020, an increase by 16 when compared to its previous year. It includes seven sexual offence accused, 23 ganja smugglers and 9 sand smugglers. He said, of the 259 theft, robbery and looting incidents reported in 2020, 151 cases were solved and accused were arrested. Properties worth Rs 1.5 crore were recovered. A whopping 692 kgs of ganja worth Rs 69.2 lakh was seized by the police and people involved in the illegal activity were arrested. A total 178 cases were registered. Muthusamy said that effective measures were taken to prevent illegal sand mining and smuggling. 194 cases were registered and 284 people behind the illegal activity were arrested. 237 vehicles used in the cases were seized. In 2019, only 124 cases were registered and 122 were arrested for such offences, he added. Muthusamy also said that old files were segregated from police stations, armed reserve units and special branch offices and 26,770 kgs of waste paper was discarded. He said that Facetagr, a mobile application used to detect anti-social elements using their facial features by matching with the police records, was effectively implemented in Dindigul. 217 police officers have been trained to use the app. He said that the police will work better in 2021 to prevent crime incidents and road fatalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/accident-deaths-dip-by-35-in-dindigul-dist-in-year-gone-by/articleshow/80078033.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Jaipur||140 exotic pigeons stolen from house in Sikar||JAIPUR: A 65-year-old man has lodged an FIR at Udyog Nagar police station, stating that unknown burglars have decamped with 140 colourful pigeons he used to keep as pets in cages. Police initiated an investigation on Saturday. According to police, the victim, identified as Mohammad Salim Ali, had approached the police station on Friday and said that a few burglars struck at the terrace of his double-storey house situated at Shekhawati colony of Sikar and stole his pigeons. “We have lodged a case and have initiated investigation. The pigeons were kept in cages on the terrace and the burglars must have opened the cages and decamped with the pigeons,” said a senior police officer. When contacted, Salim Ali, talking to TOI, said, “My brother heard some sound during the early hours. By the time he reached the terrace, he found 140 pigeons missing. The burglars have also decamped with Rs 50,000 which were kept in an almirah in one of the rooms on the terrace,” said Salim Ali while talking to TOI. The police are puzzled as to how the burglars could steal so many pigeons without making much noise. “I had bought 10 pigeons almost 10 years ago and gradually, the number of pigeons increased to 143. The burglars have left three pigeons in the cages and 140 have been stolen. Presently, the cost of one pigeon is nearly Rs 4,000 as they are all very beautiful and colourful,” Ali added.  “Initially, police were not cooperating and ridiculed my claim of theft stating that the pigeons must have flown away. But now they have initiated investigation,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/140-exotic-pigeons-stolen-from-house-in-sikar/articleshow/80077145.cms||Ashish Mehta
January 3, 2021||Nashik||Nashik city schools told to follow govt Covid guidelines||NASHIK: The education department of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has issued letters to all the schools within the NMC limits, which would be operating classes for students of classes IX to XII. Sunita Dhangar, the NMC education officer, said: “There are 216 schools that run classes from standards IX to XII. Since the schools are reopening on Monday, we have instructed the schools to ensure that the government guidelines are followed thoroughly in the interest of the school students and the staff.” Consent of parents is also important for the same. Therefore, how many schools reopen would be clear only on Monday. Instructions issued to the schools highlight the need to make arrangements for washing hands, use of thermometers, thermal scanners/guns, pulse oximeters, disinfectants, soaps, etc. Teachers who have tested positive should come to the school only after being certified by a doctor, seating arrangements in the classrooms and staff rooms should be as per physical distance rules, there should be only one student in each bench and there should be arrows marked along the corridors for entry to and exit from the classroom. Moreover, parental consent is compulsory as it is not mandatory for the children to attend school. The school managements have been instructed to clean the premises and dispose all litter regularly and sanitize all surfaces (inside and outside the classrooms) that the students and staff are likely to come in contact with. Toilets should also be sanitized regularly. Thermal scanning of students, teachers and staff should be done on a daily basis, the number of students should be divided into two and called on alternate days and no one other than students, teachers and school employees should be allowed inside the premises. Dhangar said that only maths, science and English periods would be conducted from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-city-schools-told-to-follow-govt-covid-guidelines/articleshow/80075926.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 3, 2021||Indore||Junior docs strike work after patient’s kin thrash colleague||Indore: Junior doctors of MY Hospital had stopped working for around three hours on Saturday after the police and administration have failed to take action against attendants of a patient for allegedly misbehaving and beating the on-duty doctor. MGM JDA’s joint president Ran Singh Tanwar said, “An elderly woman was brought in critical condition to MY casualty on Friday after she took poison. The junior doctors examined her and referred her to MICU.” She died while being referred to MICU from casualty ward. Irked over her death, the woman’s relatives misbehaved and beaten up the doctors, said Tanwar. “We have requested the hospital administration for lodging an FIR against the accused. But, even after 24 hours, it was not done. So, we were left with no other option but to strike the work”, said Tanwar. After protest, the hospital administration lodged the FIR and the doctors resumed work. Dr PS Thakur, hospital superintendent MY hospital said, “The protest was resolved within three hours after a formal application was sent to police for lodging the FIR.” The police lodged the FIR and will act according to law, added Dr Thakur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/junior-docs-strike-work-after-patients-kin-thrash-colleague/articleshow/80077153.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 3, 2021||Jaipur||Bail plea of ex-collector of Baran rejected||Kota: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) court rejected the bail application of former Baran collector Inder Singh Rao in Kota on Saturday. The court pointed out that the accused, despite being a top government servant, violated state government’s zero tolerance policy against corruption and if he is granted bail, the possibility of harassment with the witnesses in the case and of manipulation with the evidences cannot be ruled out. Rejecting bail application moved by Rao’s counsellor Sunil Hatila, special judge of ACB court, Kota, Pramod Kumar Malik observed that chief minister Ashok Gehlot in an ACB appraisal meeting held in Jaipur on September 29, 2020 mentioned about the state government’s zero tolerance policy on corruption. “The accused, despite being a top positioned government servant, violated the zero tolerance policy against corruption. If the accused, who was positioned on the dignified post of collector at the time of action by the ACB is granted bail, he is most likely to harass the witnesses in the case. Manipulation with the evidences also cannot be ruled out,” Hatila observed. Rao was allegedly involved in Rs 1.40 lakh bribery case along with his PA Maveer Nagar who was arrested by ACB, Kota on December 9, 2020 from his office in Baran and following verification of facts and evidences, ACB booked Rao under various sections of PC Act and eventually arrested him from state capital Jaipur on December 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bail-plea-of-ex-collector-of-baran-rejected/articleshow/80078038.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 3, 2021||Jaipur||Each police station in Rajasthan to have database of criminals soon||JAIPUR: In a move to control crime in a better way, the commissioner of police has issued orders to the in-charges of various police stations across the state to have a criminal database. The officials have also been asked to give a copy of the list to the staff deployed on the PCR vans. The commissioner has categorised the criminals from A to K category and has asked the station in-charges to remain updated on the criminals active in their area. This will help police inspectors remain more informed about the crime in their areas and the active criminals. In a letter written to circle inspectors on Friday, Anand Srivastav, commissioner of police, also maintained that he would have surprise visits of police stations to check whether these criminal database registers are maintained properly and the inspectors are aware of the criminals and their presence in the area. TOI on Saturday got the copy of the letter which was sent to the inspectors of various police stations. As per the letter, A category would have list of proclaimed offenders, B would have standing warrantees, C would be the list of those who are charge-sheeted, D would have arrested warrantees, E category would have the list of history-sheeters, F would be a list of top 10 criminals of the police station, G would be having the list of wanted criminals, I would have list of those involved in theft, burglary, vehicle lifting, ATM thefts, loot and dacoity and J would have the list of those involved in possession illegal weapons and selling them and K would be having the list of drug peddlers. “Such database would always facilitate police stations in better crime control. They will have to prepare the list and update it in the first week of every month and if needed I will visit police stations to check the same,” Srivastav told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/each-police-station-to-have-database-of-criminals-soon/articleshow/80077152.cms||Ashish Mehta
January 3, 2021||Madurai||Lack of clarity on syllabus cut worries Class X, XII students||MADURAI: Teachers and students from both government and private schools are yet to get any clarity regarding the reduction of 40% of the state board syllabus even as half of the academic year has passed. Students and teachers of classes X and XII are especially worried as the schedule of board exams is yet to be announced. “For CBSE schools, the reduced syllabus was announced long back and now even the schedule of board exams has also been announced giving them time for proper planning and preparation. But the TN school education department has kept us waiting for months. Most schools have almost completed the whole syllabus for Class X and XII,” said the principal of a private matriculation school. Students are also unable to plan the preparation for exams. A Class X student at a private school, S Keerthana, said that there is no point in announcing the reduction in syllabus so late.  “With online classes, it has already been difficult to keep up, especially for subjects like maths and science. At least if the reduced syllabus is given, it will lessen the burden of covering vast topics,” she said. Some students have also already turned to attending offline or online tuitions to complete the whole syllabus. With no announcement yet on reopening of schools, students and teachers are hoping that at least clarity on reduced syllabus and board exam schedule can help them plan and prepare. “Without offline classes, it will of course be impossible to write the board exams for students. But at least if the portions for the 40% reduced syllabus is announced, teachers can plan better and students can also have better focus. Especially for late bloomers, if they know the reduced syllabus, it would be easier to make them focus on the few topics in which they can score well,” said S Shanthi, a Class XII physics teacher. Teachers hope to at least have three months of offline classes before board exams. “For government school students especially, there must be some clarity on how things are going to be in the coming months. Video lessons are not effective and is not reaching all students,” said the headmaster of a government higher secondary school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lack-of-clarity-on-syllabus-cut-worries-class-x-xii-students/articleshow/80078042.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
January 3, 2021||Jaipur||Covid vaccine dry run held in 19 sites across Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Sugat Wankhede, a resident of Vidyadhar Nagar who got Covid vaccine (not in real) while taking part in a dry run, said the process was smooth and he did not feel any inconvenience at the private hospital where the drive was carried out. Wankhede followed the entire process of getting the vaccine in the dry run, which will be followed when the real vaccination drive will be launched in the state. The person who administered the vaccine cleaned her hands with a sanitiser and took out a syringe and pretended as if she had administered the shot to him and asked him to go and sit in the observation room. He remained in the observation room for 30 minutes where his health was continuously monitored by a healthcare staff for any adverse event followed by immunization. Archana Singh, an employee of the private hospital who took part in the dry run, said she took part voluntarily. Across the state, 424 volunteers from different walks of life, mostly healthcare workers who are employed in hospitals, took part in the drive. The private hospital’s director, Ranjan Thakur said, “We have executed the dry run according to the guidelines laid by the state government.” The dry run as conducted at 19 centres in 7 districts. Health minister Dr Raghu Sharma said the drive was conducted with complete caution and scientific protocol in the seven districts. The health department is planning to conduct the dry run in other districts as well. “Later, dry runs will be conducted in the entire state in the phased manner,” said Sharma. The dry run played an instrumental role in spreading awareness among the healthcare workers for the vaccination. Health secretary Siddhartha Mahajan and Sawai Man Singh Medical College principal Dr Sudhir Bhandari kept a close watch on the drive. It was conducted at the local level in the presence of district medical and the concerned officers. In the city, dry run was conducted at JK Lon Hospital, Manipal Hospital, rural PHC Achrol and urban mother and child welfare centre in Bani Park. Apart from these hospitals, dry run was conducted at two centres each at Bikaner, Jodhpur, Bharatpur, Karauli and Ajmer, and four centres each in Jaipur and Banswara. First of all, models of the vaccination room and monitoring room were made for the beneficiary and rehearsal of administering the vaccine was done. The vaccination officer verified the identity documents and gave entry to the beneficiary. The beneficiary was sent to the vaccination room after certifying on Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-Win) software, where the vaccinator officer completed the vaccination process (demo) and made entry on Co-Win software about administering vaccine to the beneficiary. He said the beneficiary was kept at the monitoring room for 30 minutes under the observation of the vaccination officer. During the process of dry run, time taken to vaccinate a beneficiary and on making entry on COVIN software was assessed and the process of running the software was checked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-vaccine-dry-run-held-in-19-sites-across-state/articleshow/80076360.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Nashik||SP instructs landlords to keep record of tenants||Nashik: Superintendent of police Sachin Patil has told landlords who rent out their properties to tourists to ensure that they keep a record of the tenants and show the same when sought by the police.Police patils across the rural districts have been instructed to keep an eye on landlords renting properties to tourists. Patil said of late, may tourists are choosing to book houses on rent in the rural areas than booking rooms in hotels. However, this trend can also be used by the anti-social elements.The aim is to ensure the anti-social elements do not reside in such properties to hide from the police. Hence, we have alerted all the police patils to keep a check on such properties in their respective villages and inform the police if found suspicious, said the SP.The landlords should ensure they check the authentic identity card of the guests renting their property. Their name, address, cellphone number, etc should be taken by the landlords. Further, the landlords should set up CCTV cameras on such properties and keep the footages for at least 30 days.Many people in Igatpuri, Ghoti, Wadivarhe, etc have farms in scenic locations. At the same time, the landlords have also set up tents with all the necessary facilities to attract customers.The police have decided to take action against landlords who do not keep a record of their guests as these places should not serve as safe space for criminals, said Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sp-instructs-landlords-to-keep-record-of-tenants/articleshow/80075937.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 3, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Thief caught as he pulls down mask||KOLKATA: The act of pulling his mask down to scratch his face landed a thief in police net. Zinzira Bazar resident Ratan Bhattacharya alias Bapi, who had lost his job of a security guard, had taken to theft at malls in the city, hiding behind his mask. But on Christmas Day, he pulled his mask down for a moment inside a mall at Kidderpore and that very image of his uncovered face caught on a CCTV camera was enough for the police to identity him and round him up from his home. Police said Anish Arshad Junaid, along with his wife, had to the Kidderpore Mall and she carried Rs 99,300 in her purse, besides 700 Euros and 10 US dollars. As the woman got distracted, Bhattacharya reportedly picked up the purse from her trolley but while fleeing, he pulled his mask down, police said. Bhattacharya was arrested from his home on New Year Day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/thief-caught-as-he-pulls-down-mask/articleshow/80077162.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 3, 2021||Jaipur||Mercury takes upward swing in Raj||Jaipur: Active western disturbances led to cloudy and misty conditions in the state on Saturday when mercury took an upward swing.Mild showers were witnessed at many places, however, a rise of almost 8°C on an average was reported at various places in the state. Mount Abu in hills and Sriganganagar in plains remained coldest in the state where a minimum temperature of 4°C and 4.6 °C, respectively, the Met reports said.Attributing the sudden increase in the temperatures and mild showers especially in the eastern Rajasthan, Jaipur Met office said that from Monday onwards the temperatures will further dip in the state with the vanishing of western disturbances.People in Jaipur woke up amidst foggy and mist morning when a few places in its outskirts also witnessed showers. A minimum temperature of 12.4°C was recorded in the city. It was followed by a cloudy afternoon when a maximum temperature of 20.8°C was recorded. Fog and mist during early morning hours also affected rail, air and road traffic. At least three early morning flights got delayed, while at least four early morning trains arrived late at Jaipur railway station. Likewise, the traffic on the highways connecting Jaipur to Agra, Jaipur to Bharatpur and Jaipur to Churu was chaotic when vehicles were moving in slower pace due to poor visibility. In this season so far Jaipur had its coldest morning on December 31, 2020 when a minimum temperature of 4.6°C was recorded.Sriganganagar was followed by Jaisalmer where a minimum temperature of 7°C was recorded, Phalodi 7.4°C, Churu 9°C, Bikaner 10°C, Kota 10.3°C, Udaipur 10.4°C, Pilani 10.6°C, Jaipur 12.4°C, Ajmer 12.6°C and Bhilwara 13.4°C.In its forecast, Jaipur Met office stated that mild to moderate showers will occur at many places in the eastern Rajasthan, while weather would be mainly dry in rest of the state. There is also a possibility of hailstorm at Alwar, Bharatpur, Sawai Madhopur and some parts of Dausa in the next 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mercury-takes-upward-swing-in-raj/articleshow/80076378.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand recorded more recoveries than Covid-19 cases last week||Dehradun: With 263 new cases of Covid-19 reported across the state on Saturday, the coronavirus tally reached 91,544 in Uttarakhand. Also, seven more coronavirus-related fatalities in the state pushed the toll of the virus to 1,522. In some good news, the state recorded more cases of recovery than those of new infections last week. On Saturday, as many as 463 patients recovered from Covid-19 infection. With this, the state's recovery rate shot up to 92.2%. Meanwhile, among the infections recorded on Saturday, the maximum of 73 were found in Dehradun, followed by 65 in Nainital, 27 in Haridwar, 23 in Udham Singh Nagar, 14 in Pithoragarh, 13 in Pauri, 11 in Uttarkashi, nine each in Tehri and Chamoli, six in Bageshwar, five in Rudraprayag, and four cases each in Almora and Champawat districts. “On Saturday, three patients died at Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani, and one death each was recorded in AIIMS Rishikesh, Government Doon Medical College and Hospital in Dehradun, District Hospital in Uttarkashi, and Gautam Hospital in Rudrapur,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-recorded-more-recoveries-than-covid-19-cases-last-week/articleshow/80075939.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 3, 2021||Goa||Kavlem temple reopens, but only locals allowed||Ponda: The famed Shree Shantadurga temple at Kavlem, Ponda, has reopened its doors from Saturday, but this time around, it is limited only to its mahajans and local devotees. The temple has specified that no ‘out-of-Goa’ visitors will be allowed, with an exception to be made for temple mahajans settled outside Goa. Such mahajans will, however, have to produce an identity card. The temple was closed for all public except a priest since November 27, 2020, after five of its staff members, including some priests, tested positive for Covid-19. Manoj Hede, attorney of the temple, said even though mahajans and local devotees are being allowed inside the temple from Saturday, there are fixed timings set for entry, from 8am to 12.30pm and 2.30pm to 6.30pm. He said sanitisers have been kept at entry points for visitors to disinfect their hands before they are let in. The temple has devotees have scattered across India and the globe, who make visits to the temple. Hede said such mahajans coming from outside the state and country will have to prove their identity with the help of Aadhaar cards or driving licences before they are allowed in. The temple was opened for public from July 6, 2020, after the lockdown and had to close again from November 27 due its staff members getting infected with Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kavlem-temple-reopens-but-only-locals-allowed/articleshow/80078051.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
January 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Vaccine dry run conducted in Mahbubnagar successfully||HYDERABAD: A dry run for administering Covid-19 vaccine was successfully conducted at three centres in Mahbubnagar district on Saturday. Collector S Venkat Rao said no issues cropped up at the three centres where the dummy vaccine was administered in the dry run. He said 25 health workers administered the dummy vaccine at the district government hospital, Neha Sunshine Hospital and the primary healthcare centre at Janampet. “The dry run was successful,” he added. As per the procedures laid down, the names of the persons who were to be administered the dummy vaccine were entered online in advance. At each of the centres where the vaccine was to be administered, there was a room for registration of the persons, another room where the vaccine was administered and another observation room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vaccine-dry-run-conducted-in-mahbubnagar-successfully/articleshow/80078049.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 3, 2021||Nashik||Nashik: Cases of harassment of women by husbands reduce||NASHIK: The city police have reported fewer cases of husbands (or in-laws) subjecting women to cruelty — as per Section 498A of the Indian Penal Code — in 2020 when compared to the previous year. In 2019, the police had registered 230 cases under section 498A. In 2020, the number dropped to 194. Police officials have attributed this to the Covid-related lockdown as women could perhaps not reach the police stations to lodge complaints. Sangita Nikam, the assistant police inspector of the women’s safety cell of the city police, said: “Harassment of women has not reduced. We can only conclude that women were unable to reach out to the police.” Moreover, the women’s safety cell received more cases for counselling, which indicates that disputes between couples have increased as they were confined within their homes. There was more tension in the house due to financial hardships too, Nikam said. Nikam said in 2020, they had received around 750 applications, for which the couples were called to the women’s safety cell and counselled. In around 50 of the cases, the couples could reach a compromise. The women, who had lodged the complaints, went back to stay with their husbands in those cases. While some cases are still pending, others have been sent to the court for necessary action apart from the counselling. In 2020, the cell had received 976 applications for counselling. As per the police records, in April 2020, the city police registered two cases of husbands (or their relatives) subjecting women to cruelty. In May, four such cases were reported. The number of cases increased in the following months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cases-of-harassment-of-women-by-husbands-reduce/articleshow/80075950.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 3, 2021||Nagpur||A Bollywood cinematographer’s tryst with vada pav in Orange City||NAGPUR: Mahesh Acharya, who loved to zoom in to capture actors’ expressions as a cinematographer in Mumbai, today feels as euphoric seeing the faces of customers light up after munching vada pav from his outlet at Gokulpeth main market road. The fingers which once smoothly operated camera buttons today chop palak and pudina with almost the same finesse, for which he used to strive as a perfectionist. His toil with the leafy vegetables is aimed at capturing the authentic flavour of the chutney, which he feels is indispensable to bring that exact Mumbai taste to his 12 varieties of vada pav, that him and his son Suyash — also a cinematographer — have created to match the name of their shop ‘The Vada Pav Experiment’. The father-son duo joined hands to open the outlet, which also offers sandwiches, around half a month ago, deviating from their regular camera work for a change. It was a post-lockdown decision to generate additional income for the family in the hard times. “The idea took roots while filming chef Sanjeev Kapoor in one of his culinary shows. Seeing him prepare food with such style induced the thought in me that cooking could also be very fascinating as an art. And after a few years, I am now in the market with my own versions of vada pav,” said Acharya, who was a part of actor Sachin Pilgaonkar’s camera team in reality show ‘Eka Peksha Ek’. “I love Mumbai but had got fed up with the traffic chaos,” added Acharya, who stayed in Goregaon West before shifting to live with his wife in Shivaji Nagar. It was after more than three decades of working with lights, camera and angles, that Acharya, a true Mumbaikar by heart, decided to shift to his wife Kiran’s city Nagpur for a calmer and peaceful life away from the din and rush of the glamour capital of India. His wife, who teaches fashion designing, had already shifted back to her native city around eight years ago with their only son Suyash, who also completed his graduation in commercial arts from Nagpur. Suyash kept on visiting Mumbai in between his studies to pursue his passion for cinematography. Like his father, he too got associated with several projects, including shooting music videos for T-Series, short films and some Marathi web series too. Acharya, who was assistant cinematographer in the Jackie Shroff-Madhuri Dixit starrer ‘100 Days’, gave credit to his son Suyash for altering his original plan of going with sandwiches and rolls, and switching to vada pavs instead. “We decided that if we sell vada pav, it must be the one which makes people feel like they are in Mumbai if they close their eyes,” said Acharya, who was also behind the camera in several episodes of the Indian Premier League (IPL)’s ‘Extraaa Innings’, apart from television series like ‘Dance India Dance’ and ‘Sa Re Ga Ma Pa’. Acharya believes in perfecting the taste of his vada pav, keeping it as close to the authentic Mumbai style as possible. “We prepare the lahsun-narial (garlic-coconut) grounded mix dry chutney, along with the famous green one of palak and pudina, for which the vegetables are freshly cut and prepared every day,” he said. “We go completely without soda to give our vadas a fluffy look. Nothing is kept in the fridge as we believe in preparing limited vada pav which would be sold out. In case the potato masala mix is left over, we consume it in our meals,” said Acharya. “We get pavs from Dighori and don’t use sweet buns as most outlets do in the city,” he added with a chuckle. Suyash said the taste of their vada pav is “unique” as they have created a fusion of the local taste with foreign flavours like ‘Mexican’, ‘peri peri cheese’ and so on. “One must visit our outlet at least once to know the authentic Mumbai style,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/a-bollywood-cinematographers-tryst-with-vada-pav-in-orange-city/articleshow/80077172.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 3, 2021||Jaipur||1,059 culprits nabbed by Chittor cops last yr||Udaipur: Despite a setback due to pandemic and three months of lockdown in 2020, Chittorgarh police met success to a great extent in curbing crime in the district as the cops arrested 1,059 culprits under various Acts including NDPS, Excise, Arms and illegal sand mining. “Two constables were terminated from service for conniving with the opium smugglers, while two were suspended and three others transferred for their association with the drug peddlers and sand mafia. No one is above law, not even the cops themselves and we wanted to set an example for others,” Chittorgarh SP Deepak Bhargava said while briefing about the achievements of his team in the previous year. The officer said in 2020 the major focus of the department was to arrest drug peddling and prevent the illegal sand mining prevalent at massive scale in the region. “Of 161 cases registered under the NDPS Act, 226 persons were arrested and we seized 116 kilogram of opium and 20 tonne of doda chura, 307 kilogram of ganja, 421 cannabis plants, smack etc from seizures made at different police stations,” Bhargava said. Additional SP Sarita Singh said the police teams dealt with the sand mafias bravely and registered 70 cases of illegal sand transportation. In 60 of the cases police presented challans against the accused while only 10 are pending for investigation. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1059-culprits-nabbed-by-chittor-cops-last-yr/articleshow/80078050.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 3, 2021||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Stock in Marathwada dams to last till monsoon||AURANGABAD: Despite major dams in Marathwada releasing water for rabi crops, 11 reservoirs in the region still have 165 TMC water — more than twice the average cumulative storage in five years. As per official data, 11 major irrigation projects in the region have 91% live storage whereas 75 medium projects are 82% full. There are 752 minor irrigation projects in Marathwada, which have 48% live storage. Jaising Hire, assistant superintendent engineer with Command Area Development Authority (CADA) of Godavari Irrigation Development Corporation (GMIDC), said the collective water storage in the reservoirs in Marathwada was adequate enough to meet the needs of the region for different purposes till next monsoon. “Even the dams from drought-prone Osmanabad, Latur and Beed districts were filled to the brim during the last rainy season. The water reservation in dams is planned in such a way that there is adequate stock till at least the next monsoon,” said Hire. As far as Jayakwadi dam is concerned, which is the lifeline of Aurangabad and many other areas in the region, it was scheduled to release 22 TMC water for irrigation purposes during the rabi season, benefiting 1.46 lakh hectare of land under cultivation in Marathwada. Besides rabi, Jayakwadi dam will also have a planned release of nearly 19 TMC water for summer, which will be carried out from March, that will benefit around 53,000 hectare land in Aurangabad and other parts of Marathwada under cultivation. As per official data, the major dams in the region have been witnessing evaporation losses to the tune of 2.5 mcum per day, which is expected to increase further as skies become more bright and clear post second half of winter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/stock-in-mwada-dams-to-last-till-monsoon/articleshow/80077168.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Nashik||More farmers leave for Delhi via Dhule & Nagpur||NASHIK: More farmers from the Nashik district and adjoining areas left for New Delhi on Saturday to extend support to the agitating farmers seeking the withdrawal of the new three agriculture laws introduced by the Centre. Enroute, they will halt at Dhule and Nagpur. The farmers from Nashik, Palghar and Ahmednagar districts gathered under the banner of the All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) and began their journey to Dhule on Saturday. They will then leave for Nagpur and join the second fleet of ‘Maharashtra Vehicle Jattha’ and finally leave for Delhi on Monday. “After the first batch of farmers left Nashik on December 20, this is the second batch leaving from the district (and the state),” said Raju Desle of the AIKS. The Maharashtra Vehicle Jattha, that started its journey on December 20 from Nashik, has asked farmers in the state and the country to join the farmers from Punjab and Haryana who are braving the winter chill in New Delhi. The farmers coming from the various talukas of Nashik district — including Kalwan, Surgana and Peth region — where the CPM has a stronghold, and those coming from the Palghar district are in large numbers. “The government is fooling us under the name of development of farmers and agriculture. It is, in fact, laying the red carpet for the investors in agriculture. This will only lead to automation and mechanisation in the sector and throw out the farmers and agricultural workers from the sector,” said Shivaji Gangurde, one of the farmers who joined the morcha. The jattha that started from Nashik on Saturday is expected to reach Dhule late in the night. On Sunday, farmers will hold a rally in the town and start their journey towards Nagpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/more-farmers-leave-for-delhi-via-dhule-nagpur/articleshow/80075954.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Nashik||24,000 households in Nashik city opt for piped natural gas||Nashik: More than 24,000 households in the city have opted for piped natural gas (PNG) for cooking purposes. The state-owned Maharashtra Natural Gas Limited (MNGL) is laying underground pipelines to supply PNG to households. It is also raising the infrastructure to supply compressed natural gas (CNG) to vehicles. Sandeep Srivastava, head of MNGL’s Nashik division, told TOI that the company’s initiative to set up a robust PNG customer base in Nashik city was receiving an overwhelming response. “So far, we have 24,000 confirmed customers spread over Nashik Road, Indiranagar, Gangapur Road, Sharanpur Road, etc who want to get PNG supply. The number will gradually swell as the company is undertaking an aggressive awareness drive in various parts of the city. We shall start PNG supply to our customers by the end of this financial year,” said Srivastava. “We have also started raising the infrastructure in the residential societies to provide green fuel to the households which have registered to get PNG supply,” added Srivastava. The MNGL is a joint venture between GAIL and BPCL and has its headquarters in Pune. The company was mandated by the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board for the supply of green fuel both for vehicles and domestic cooking purposes. The company is working to create a facility at the Pathardi Phata area of the city to process liquefied natural gas (LNG) into CNG and PNG. The MNGL has already started CNG supply for vehicles at Sinnar and Igatpuri in the rural areas of Nashik district. It has planned few more such outlets in the district in near future. The company will also be supplying CNG to the new buses that the Nashik Municipal Corporation will be rolling out later this month as part of its city bus project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/24000-households-in-nashik-city-opt-for-piped-natural-gas/articleshow/80075958.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
January 3, 2021||Goa||With an average 17 daily calls, 2020 was a busy year for fire personnel||Panaji: With 17 calls on a daily average, the bygone year was a busy period for the directorate of fire and emergency services. The department collectively attended 2,317 fire calls and 3,839 emergency calls, wherein 96 people and 585 animals were saved, while property worth Rs 24.4 crore was salvaged. Director of fire and emergency services Ashok Menon said that the department attended to various cases that included chemicals gas leakages, liquefied gas leakages, electrical fires, flood rescues, animal rescues, chemical spillages, road accidents, dry grass fires and urban fires. When cyclone Nisarga made landfall in northern Maharashtra between June 1 and 5, it left a trail of destruction in Goa owing gusty winds of around 80-100 kmph. Heavy rainfall damaged trees and homes across the state. Fire fighters worked tirelessly to ensure that citizens received timely assistance, Menon said. During the cyclone, the department attended 201 emergency calls, wherein property of Rs 34 lakh was saved, and 13 animals were rescued. In view of the Covid outbreak, the department’s 15 fire stations also undertook sanitisation drives at bus stands and bus stops, community halls, market places, panchayat offices, temple and church premises, government offices, secretariat complex, Covid wards at Goa Medical College, Goa Dental College, health centres, ferry boats, taxi stands, electricity department offices, police stations, checkpost areas, sports complex, banks, Goa Dairy, Ravindra Bhavans, etc. “3,864 places were sanitised by fire personnel. Around 75 personnel contracted the virus, and all of them recovered and rejoined duty,” Menon said. On the occasion of Goa Statehood Day on May 30 last year, chief minister Pramod Sawant felicitated 97 fire personnel with commendation certificates for their meritorious and dedicated work. On Liberation Day last month, 3 fire personnel - Ashok Parab (sub-officer), Deepak Shetgaonkar (leading fire fighter) and Sitaram Kamat (watch room operator) were awarded the Chief Minister’s Fire Service Medal for meritorious service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-an-average-17-daily-calls-2020-was-a-busy-year-for-fire-personnel/articleshow/80078060.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 3, 2021||Nashik||Man dies of suffocation in Nashik||NASHIK: A 27-year-old man died of suffocation after gas leaked from a geyser in the Cidco area of the city on Friday afternoon. The deceased, identified as Gaurav Samadhan Patil, is a resident of Vrindavan apartment, Bhadrapad sector,. Shantaram Shelke, the assistant police sub-inspector of the Ambad police station, said Patil went to the bathroom after returning home to freshen up. The police deduced that the gas geyser was overheated leading to gas leakage from geyser. Patil suffocated and fell. A 5-year-old heard a noise and called the neighbours, after which they broke the door and took the victim to Nashik civil hospital where he was declared dead on arrival, said Shelke. There was no fire. The doctors have prima facie said he died from suffocation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-dies-of-suffocation-in-nashik/articleshow/80075964.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Delhi||Shot in the arm: 75 health workers ‘test’ vaccine run in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The dry run for Covid-19 vaccination was held in Delhi on Saturday in three centres, Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital in east Delhi, Venkateshwar Hospital in Dwarka and an urban primary health centre in Daryaganj in central Delhi. The beneficiaries in the mock exercise were healthcare workers, who will be the first to get the Covid jabs when the actual vaccination programme begins. Dr Suneela Garg, who is leading Delhi’s vaccination programme, said 25 health workers for each centre were intimated about the trial. “They came to the vaccination centre at the time mentioned in the text message sent to them with their identity cards,” said Garg. “There were verified by the volunteers after which their vital parameters were noted before the vaccination. We also observed the beneficiaries for adverse reaction and had the necessary medical help at hand.” Garg added that the same protocol would be followed when the actual vaccination starts. Two Covid-19 vaccines — Covaxin and Covishield — have been approved by India’s drug regulator for emergency use. An atmosphere of hope and curiosity marked Saturday’s participants, both those who were getting the mock vaccine and those administering it. “I am happy to be a part of this trial. Hopefully, we will soon receive the vaccine in real,” smiled a staff nurse at GTB Hospital. This is likely to begin within a fortnight, according to sources, with the inoculation of healthcare workers and frontline workers. A doctor said, “Vaccinating health and frontline workers isn’t going to be challenging. It’s rather an opportunity to prepare ourselves to vaccinate the public. We need a responsible campaign to bust all myths about the vaccination and encourage people to opt for it.” Union health minister Harsh Vardhan visited the vaccination centres at GTB Hospital and the Daryaganj primary health centre to review the dry run. He said, “The entire vaccination exercise is being operationalised systematically, including training personnel to administer the vaccine. Detailed guidelines have been issued to all stakeholders after extensive and minute deliberations.” The minister added that digital platform Co-WIN would provide real-time information on vaccine stocks and tracking of the vaccinated individuals. “This unique platform will assist the programme managers on pre-registered beneficiaries, their verification and generation of a digital certificate upon successful completion of the vaccine schedule. More than 75 lakh citizens have been registered on Co-WIN till now,” Vardhan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/shot-in-the-arm-75-health-workers-test-vaccine-run/articleshow/80077166.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
January 3, 2021||Nashik||Nandurbar dist admin to seek approval for offline vaccination||NASHIK: The district administration of Nandurbar has decided to seek guidelines for offline vaccination programme for beneficiaries in the district, when the campaign would opens up for senior citizens and public. “The dry run carried out for the vaccination in the different locations on Saturday went off as planned and without any hitch. However, we are concerned about vaccination for the general public, for which, we will have to transport people to vaccination centres on large scale,” collector Rajendra Bharud said. Nandurbar is the tribal-dominated district and is sparsely populated. Most villagers live in ‘padas’ or hamlets located deep in jungles. Most of these areas, often, have neither road nor telecommunication network because of the hilly terrain. While all the 60 primary healthcare centres (PHC)s are connected with road, power and internet connectivity — of these are required for the running of the Co-Win application. The application will monitor the exercise when the actual vaccination is carried out. The administration is concerned about the possible problem of arranging transportation of people from the remotely-located villages to the vaccination centre. Officials said that either these people will be brought to the spot nearest to the PHCs for vaccination or the teams can move to these locations – which seldom have internet connectivity to carry out vaccination programme. “There will be transportation involved and we are considering the help of corporate funding and at the same time, opting to carry out ‘offline’ vaccination,” Bharud said. If permitted, the administration and health department plan to set up vaccination camps at places which have road connectivity – keeping in mind the requirement for immediate shifting of a person to bigger hospital in case of some adverse effects during the programme, by an ambulance. “Maintaining cold chain will not be a major problem as the infrastructure developed will be put into use in long run in the district that has population of about 19 lakh. But the ‘offline’ vaccination will, besides cutting the transportation costs, help in greater awareness among the masses about the programme and also in quashing the misgivings about the vaccination,” Bharud added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nandurbar-dist-admin-to-seek-approval-for-offline-vaccination/articleshow/80077169.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Behind the conservation story of IIM-Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: At the core of a recent controversy about razing down most of the dormitories at the campus of Indian Institute of Management – Ahmedabad (IIM-A), designed by well-known architect Louis Kahn seemed to lie a recent restoration project that was being handled by Mumbai-based firm Somaya and Kalappa (SNK) Consultants. A recent letter by the board of governors (BoG) for IIM-A announced their decision to withdraw the proposal for pulling down the buildings. The letter, among others, states that Dormitory 15 was restored successfully but an independent structural engineer, whose name is not shared, opined that the restored dorm is not safe. The decision by IIM-A to demolish these structures faced national and international outcry last month. Back in 2018, Brinda Somaya, principal architect of SNK Consultants wrote in an article in a journal ‘Louis I. Kahn – The Permanence’ published by Docomomo International, that the holistic approach towards conservation of IIM-A campus buildings by the board and IIM-A director would set precedent for twentieth-century buildings in the country like Corbusier’s buildings in Chandigarh. It explains in detail the methodology followed for restoration of dorms and library, and what tests and techniques were carried out for restoration purpose. The paper states that the approval of IIM-A management was taken at various stages. The firm was appointed as the conservation architects for the project of preservation, restoration and upgrade of the Indian Institute of Management – Ahmedabad in 2014. From 2014 to 2015, detailed condition-mapping of the school building and 18 dormitories were carried out by SNK to understand the extent of deterioration in the external and internal built fabric. Non-destructive tests were carried out to analyze the state of the building materials such as brick, concrete, cement mortar, reinforcement bars, condition of structural members, and the soil, it said. TOI has reviewed a copy of the paper. The restoration of the library, for which it won an Unesco award, was completed after restoration of Dorm 15. “The main causes of deterioration of these buildings were the techniques used for construction and localized repair carried thereafter. It was found that cover blocks used during the reinforced cement concrete construction were either absent or inadequately sized leading to the carbonation of the slab to its full depth,” the paper stated. Bricks used at IIM-A were found to be second-class bricks as per the IS 3102-1971 with average compressive strength of 4.98 N/sqmm and with inbuilt efflorescence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/behind-the-conservation-story-of-iim-a/articleshow/80077201.cms||Maulik Pathak
January 3, 2021||Nagpur||A few colleges ask ATKT students to appear in offline exams only||NAGPUR: Even as the Nagpur University has offered offline/online and blended mode for failure (ATKT) students to appear in their backlog examinations due to Covid-19 pandemic, a few colleges have made it mandatory to appear for papers from their respective premises. It includes the prestigious National Fire Service College (NFSC) and a couple of pharmacy colleges in Hingna and Kamptee among others. The NU had conducted final year exams in online, but now the administration has entrusted colleges concerned to hold papers of backlog students in multiple choice questions (MCQ) format as per the students convenience. Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable clarified that NU hasn’t instructed colleges to conduct offline exams only. “We have given them option of conducting papers in offline/online or in blended mode as per everyone’s convenience due to the pandemic,” he told TOI and added that NU hasn’t received any complaint from students in this regard. Sable pointed out that the Maharashtra government, while extending the lockdown till January 31, hasn’t granted permission to colleges to resume physical classes. The NFSC students told TOI how they were being made to “forcibly appear” in the offline exams amid pandemic. The papers would start from January 7 and they have been directed to report to the college, at least a day before, but with a negative RT-PCR test report, the students said. “A majority of us are from outside the city and states. The college has declared timetable this week only and is forcing us to arrive in Nagpur within a week. Some of us are from places like Delhi where the transportation is badly hit due to farmers’ stir. We can’t afford flight tickets which have sky rocketed. Can the college take a guarantee that we would be safe from Covid-19 on their premises?” said students. Defending the decision, NFSC consultant G Natrajan stated that instructions were issued by their newly-appointed director Ramesh Kumar. “Since, we are a fully residential college, the director is of the view that papers should be held only in offline mode. He had taken permission from the Union home ministry which is running the institution. You must have observed the mess created due to NU’s online exam that lacked monitoring.” The veteran teacher further refuted allegations by students that they weren’t intimated about the exams in advance. “We had informed them in December itself, only the timetable was released recently. They have also filled up exam forms about one and half months back. A majority of them had arrived in the city with their parents for admissions in November when the pandemic was at peak. We have clearly told them to adhere to our directives and find their own way,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/a-few-colleges-ask-atkt-students-to-appear-in-offline-exams-only/articleshow/80077178.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 3, 2021||Aurangabad||TVs keep Jalna beneficiaries taking vaccine shots engaged||AURANGABAD: Beneficiaries in Jalna, who participated in the vaccination dry run on Saturday, waited in a room fitted with a TV for half an hour. The idea behind installing the TV is to offer some relaxation to the beneficiaries who will receive the Covid-19 vaccine and are expected to wait for half and hour, before being allowed to go home. All 75 beneficiaries, who were registered, attended the dry run on Saturday after receiving intimation through SMSes. Jalna district civil surgeon Archana Bhosale said that it is important to keep the beneficiaries’ mind calm and engaged after receiving the shot. “We ran educational programmes on public health on TV in observation rooms. The measure will be followed in future too during the actual vaccination drive at identified centres,” she said. District civil hospital at Jalna, sub-district hospital at Ambad and Primary Health Centre at Shelgaon in Bandapur taluka were places where dry-run for Covid 19 vaccination was conducted in Jalna, which is the home-town of Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope. Speaking at the outset of the dry-run, Tope said the dry-run was important to identify any roadblocks in executing the actual vaccination drive. “As per protocol issues by the Centre, vaccination centres would be set up on the line of polling booths. Each vaccination booth will have three compartments. While identification of the beneficiary will be carried out in one compartment, the second compartment will be used for actual vaccination, and the third will be used as an observation room to monitor health of beneficiary after getting shot of the vaccine,” he said. Stating that the state government was fully prepared for a mass vaccination drive, Tope said the drive would be executed across the state once the Centre gives clearance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/tvs-keep-jalna-beneficiaries-taking-vaccine-shots-engaged/articleshow/80077179.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||CAT: 10 from Ahmedabad in 99 bracket||AHMEDABAD: The result of common admission test (CAT) for the Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs), conducted on November 29, was declared on Saturday evening. Sources with the coaching classes said that around 10 students are in the scoring range that put them above 99 percentiles. Manish Shah, a city-based coaching classes official, said that Covid-19 changed the examination pattern – from usual three hours, the last exam was conducted in two hours and sectional time also got reduced from 60 minutes to 40 minutes accordingly. “But learn, practice and test remained the three pillars of preparation. This year, interviews will also be conducted online which will be a challenge for the students,” he said. The CAT was conducted by IIM Indore (IIM-I). According to online sources, 2.27 lakh students had appeared for the entrance exam, a dip in number compared to the previous CAT exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cat-10-from-city-in-99-bracket/articleshow/80077181.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Visakhapatnam||AP: Mechanised fishing boats to get bio-toilets||VISAKHAPATNAM: Mechanised fishing boats in Andhra Pradesh are set to be fitted with bio-toilets under the central government sponsored Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY). A Hyderabad-based agency is currently visiting Visakhapatnam to study mechanised boats. Once the scheme works successfully here, the fisheries department will extend it to all fishing harbours across state in a phased manner. K Phani Prakash, joint director (fisheries), Visakhapatnam, said, “The team will visit the harbour on Monday. We have been sanctioned a total of 100 bio-toilet units for the fishing harbour which houses nearly 750 mechanised boats.” Each toilet would cost between Rs 30,000 and Rs 50,000, Phani Prakash said, adding that once the project starts, the government may take the project to harbours at Kakinada and Machilipatnam. Presently, there are nearly 20,000 fishermen running 2,100 mechanised boats for deep sea fishing. Currently, none of the boats have toilets, and fishermen are forced to relieve themselves in the open, said Arjili Dasu, executive secretary of Visakhapatnam Fishermen Youth Welfare Association. In the absence of toilets, many fishermen do not relieve themselves for 10–14 days on stretch, which results in health problems, Dasu said. The PMMSY was launched in May 2019 to usher in the Blue Revolution through sustainable and responsible development of fisheries. The scheme has an estimated investment of Rs 20,050crore. Construction of bio-toilets is part of the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/mechanised-fishing-boats-to-get-bio-toilets/articleshow/80075977.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
January 3, 2021||Aurangabad||Hand grenade found in Latur||AURANGABAD: A hand grenade has been found at a Mahadevwadi percolation tank situated in Ahmedpur tehsil of Latur district, about 274 km from Aurangabad. One of the villagers spotted the suspected hand grenade around 11 am and immediately alerted Shirur Tajband police, following which police teams rushed to the spot. A team of bomb detection and disposal squad (BDDS) had also reached the spot. Different reports about the source of the suspected hand grenade made its way to social media. Taking cognizance of contradictory reports reaching the masses, Nikhil Pingale, superintendent of police, Latur, told TOI, “The seized article appears to be a hand grenade. We are not sure if it is a used one, or how old it is. The experts have been roped in to help us find more about it.” The officer said the BDDS squads have been asked to examine it before it is diffused and sent to ballistic experts at the forensic lab. Police authorities, who visited the spot, said the area does not have any police or public residing nearby, making it important to ascertain the source of this hand grenade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hand-grenade-found-in-latur/articleshow/80077182.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Students oppose accommodation below Covid ward||Ahmedabad: The super specialty students who have joined the cancer hospital on the Civil Hospital campus protested against the authority’s decision to give them accommodation in the new building of the Cancer Research Institute, where a Covid-19 ward is operational. Sources said that the authorities have given accommodation to 14 female students in the old building, where cancer patients are treated. But 16 male students have been asked to stay on the fourth floor of the new building, in which the Covid ward is still operational on the fifth floor. This arrangement annoyed the students. They protested on Saturday against the accommodation arrangement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/students-oppose-accommodation-below-covid-ward/articleshow/80077188.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Nagpur||BR Andhare, whose research brought Nagpur’s forgotten history to fore, dies||NAGPUR: Bhalachandra Ramchandra Andhare, a well known historian of Maharashtra, whose research on Nagpur’s Bhonsala history brought many unknowns aspects of the city and its Bhonsala lineage into the mainstream, died on Saturday at his Bharat Nagar residence, where he started his personal museum. He was 86. Andhare is survived by his wife and two sons — Mukund and Chaitanya. A historian of repute, Andhare retired as professor and head of the history department from Vasantrao Naik Institute of Arts and Sciences better known as Morris College. In 1982, through sheer perseverance and hard work, he opened ‘Itihas & Sanskrit Sanshodhan Kendra’, a place well equipped with important books, related publications and research work for needy students of history in quest of knowledge. An avid traveller, Andhare started acquiring rare objects with aesthetic and historical value. Apart from antiques, Andhare also possessed original hand written letters of some of the famous historians of the Bhonsala dynasty. Mudhoji Raje Bhonsale, the head of Nagpur’s royal family told TOI that Andhare’s death is great loss for the city. “Andhare’s PhD and D Litt research was based on Bhonsala history. It was his study that brought to the fore many forgotten facts about Nagpur’s glorious history. Our family and this city will always remain indebted to him for this effort,” said Mudhoji Raje. The comprehensive collection of Andhare’s research was published as ‘Nagpur Che Bhonsle (Bhonsles of Nagpur) which is the most authentic documentation of the history of the Bhonsala dynasty. Andhare was known for his personal Meera Andhare Cultural Museum which has more than 2,000 pieces collected from all over India and abroad. The special features of the museum include a nut cutter, a brass glass of Lokmanya Tilak, clothes, magic rice and a silver walking stick. In his career spanning over six decades, Andhare won several state and national awards for his research in history.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/br-andhare-whose-research-brought-nagpurs-forgotten-history-to-fore-dies/articleshow/80077185.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 3, 2021||Hyderabad||293 Covid cases, 2 deaths in state||Hyderabad: Telangana on Friday recorded 293 new cases of Covid-19 and two deaths, taking the total number of cases of 2,87,108 and the death toll to 1,546. The number of active cases dropped to 5,571.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/293-covid-cases-2-deaths-in-state/articleshow/80078059.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Nagpur||Akola cops adopt ‘Nelson system’ to step up efficiency in probe||NAGPUR: To spruce up the investigation pattern, reduce pendency and improve quality, Akola police have introduced ‘Nelson system’, on the lines of a US-based theory. Implemented from November 1, the district police under SP G Shreedhar is being lauded by state home minister Anil Deshmukh too through social media for their innovative efforts. The concept, introduced by the erstwhile IG Milind Bharambhe in Aurangabad range a couple of years ago, was earlier implemented by Shreedhar while serving as SP Beed. The system is aimed at qualitative improvement of investigation by the constabulary between the ranks of police naik constables and assistant sub-inspector. The pattern revolves around the ‘1-1-1 (one-one-one) system’ meaning every investigation officer of a police station would get at least one case every month on a rotational basis. SP Shreedhar said the objective of the ‘Nelson system’ is to break the monopoly of the beat officers in the investigation of cases of his locality or ‘beat’. “At present, the system is to hand over the cases to the beat officers who are already dealing with a handful of cases. In the new system, the norm would be to hand over the case to the investigation officer if it is his or her turn to get a probe,” said Shreedhar. “Cases of part VI (mostly non-serious ones) are classified for the system and handed over to the cops on a rotation basis,” he said. “We will also train our workforce to ensure that the cops who are weak in probing or have come from units like the state reserve police force (SRPF) are acquainted with the best investigation techniques,” said the SP. Police stations have been asked to make a list of the constabulary, right from the ranks of NPC to ASI, along with their details and contact numbers. They would be given cases in turns. According to the system, a cop will not get back-to-back investigation cases. Sub-divisional police officers and officers of Addl SP rank would ensure there is strict supervision at the police station level to ensure that the system is followed diligently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/akola-cops-adopt-nelson-system-to-step-up-efficiency-in-probe/articleshow/80077186.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 3, 2021||Goa||3 months on, seamen yet to get pension||Panaji: Despite receiving an assurance three months ago from chief minister Pramod Sawant that their pension under the Goa Welfare Pension Scheme for Seafarers would be released, the retired seafarers continue to wait. A delegation of seafarers had submitted a memorandum to Sawant in October for the release of funds to more than 3,000 retired seafarers and widows under the scheme. They had earlier petitioned him in April and were assured that disbursements would begin in May. President of the Goa Seamen’s Association of India, Frank Viegas, says the pension has been pending since October 2019. “The NRI department has already sent the file to the home department for approval. After the home department vets it, it requires to be cleared by the finance department,” Viegas told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/3-months-on-seamen-yet-to-get-pension/articleshow/80078061.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Vijayawada||ATM thief ends life in Anantapur||VIJAYAWADA: Fearing arrest, a person accused of ATM theft ended his life by hanging himself at his residence in Mukkidipeta village under Anantapur district on Saturday. The deceased, Manoj Kumar, was found dead in the morning by Hindupuram police who said that he was wanted in an ATM theft case. Police said that Manoj had attempted to steal money from an ATM in Kodigenahalli village under Parigi mandal. After a series of failed attempts, a frustrated Manoj is said to have doused the machine in petrol and set it ablaze. Police added that in his frustration, Manoj forgot his mobile phone at the crime scene which made it easy for them to track him down. Realising that he was about to get arrested soon, Manoj decided to take the extreme step and end his life. A case was booked under CrPC section 174 (unnatural death). Police also pointed out that Manoj was not a habitual offender and that the ATM theft attempt was his first.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/atm-thief-ends-life-in-anantapur/articleshow/80075979.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Nagpur||25 ‘vaccinated’ in 2 hours during dry run in 3 district centres||Nagpur: Deputy director of health services Dr Sanjay Jaiswal has said that the dry run of the Covid-19 vaccination programme has given confidence that 25 persons can be given the shot at one centre in a span of two hours. Jaiswal also claimed that Co-WIN app has worked well and that it would play a very importance role when the vaccine is rolled out. “The app is for registration, schedule and time taken for every beneficiary. Officials and staff too got first hand experience of the programme,” Jaiswal told TOI. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B too expressed satisfaction after the success of the dry run at the KT Nagar urban primary health centre (UPHC). “All guidelines were followed. A comprehensive report will be submitted to the government,” he said. The dry run started around 9am on Saturday. Dr Grishma Dhingra was in charge of the centre which had five vaccinators. “The 25 dummy beneficiaries, all NMC’s health care workers, were registered on Co-WIN on Friday. They got a message regarding the date and schedule. They came in groups of six in 30-minute intervals. They also received messages after simulation of vaccination,” said additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi. “While the 24 beneficiaries were from KT Nagar UPHC itself, the remaining one was from another centre. They were ASHA workers, nurses, technicians and pharmacists. One of them did not turn up as he was out of station,” said sources. “After the dry run, the NMC has decided to make arrangements for a fourth room with two beds. It will help in case any beneficiary develops health issues. He can rest till the ambulance arrives,” added Joshi. Additional civil surgeon Dr Madhuri Thorat, who conducted the dry run at Daga Hospital, said, “We started at 9.30am and the entire exercise was successful. Twenty-five health care workers of the hospital registered as dummy beneficiaries,” she said. In Nagpur rural, the dry run was held at the Sub District Hospital (SDH), Kamptee. It started at 8am and ended at 11.30am. SDH medical superintendent Dr Naina Dhumale, tehsil health officer Dr Sanjay Mane and medical officer Dr Shabnam Khanooni were in charge. Collector Ravindra Thakre was also present. After visiting the three centres, Dr Jaiswal said, “The big achievement was that the vaccinators were sensitized when dealing with beneficiaries just in case they happened to develop any health issues. Medicines and equipment were in place. There were a few glitches in supportive services like no separate wash room for men and women. Arrangements will be made for the washrooms. We will inform the government if there are any technical issues.” The government is yet to issue directives regarding more dry runs. Nagpur district was selected for the programmed on Thursday. In one day, the NMC, Daga Hospital and SDH readied the three centres with the required number of staff, three rooms (waiting, vaccination and observation) and all the systems in place. ISSUES THAT CROPPED UP* Uncovered cold chain management, conveyance of vaccine from storage centre to vaccination centre * Time slot of each beneficiary not set in CoWIN and groups of six called to centres * Number of medical officer registered instead of beneficiaries for post-vaccination message * OTP needed in case beneficiary turns up with Aadhaar card instead of PAN card which was submitted during registration in CoWIN * OTP will be sent to number given during Aadhaar registration and not on number given during registration for vaccine * No provision for change in schedule in CoWIN if any beneficiary does not turn up at given time and date||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/25-vaccinated-in-2-hours-during-dry-run-in-3-district-centres/articleshow/80080765.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 3, 2021||Nagpur||Lauki juice can now last 6 months as Vidarbha scientist gets patent||NAGPUR: Doctors may have different opinions on the use of bottle gourd or lauki or dudhi to keep the heart healthy, but there are thousands of patients who have the juice daily. They believe that lauki’s antioxidant properties protect cells. Lauki juice starts losing its properties and turns toxic after 30 minutes and becomes completely useless after one and a half hours. Many have suffered food poisoning after consuming the juice preserved for more than 90 minutes. But all that is set to change because of a research done by a Vidarbha scientist. Now, the whole fruit is converted into microspheres and can be used for six months or more. Dr Sameer Kulkarni, a researcher originally from Buldhana district and presently working in an R&D department of a leading pharma company in Hyderabad, has developed a stable microsphere formulation that has maintained the antioxidant efficacy of bottle guard for at least six months. The Indian Patent Office has taken note of this work and has approved the patent for microspheres with stable antioxidant performance to Dr Kulkarni. “We have been working on this project since year 2002. We had applied for the patent in 2012. Recently, we got the process patent of the bottle guard extract into microspheres and also product patent for producing it into cream format,” said Dr Kulkarni who has done his PhD on the same subject. The origin of this research in from Nagpur. Hruday Mitra Mandal, an organization promoting bottle gourd juice, had approached Dr Kulkarni. “The then president of our group, well known scientist Dr Avinash Dorle, approached Dr Kulkarni and asked him to work on this issue. Dr Kulkarni accepted the challenge and carried out research at the R&D laboratory of Birla Institute of Technology, Ranchi,” said Arvind Bhaskarwar of Hruday Mitra Mandal. “Dr Kulkarni put in efforts into R&D to invent the present microsphere formulation that would show antioxidant activity of bottle gourd for a long period of at least 6 months,” he added. Dr Kulkarni is an M.Pharm. (pharmaceutics, first rank holder) and recipient of AICTE fellowship, Ph.D. (pharmaceutics), Birla Institute of Technology. He has several national and international research publications in his name. Unfortunately, Dr Dorle could not see his wish come true as he died in a road accident five years ago. “However, Hriday Mitra Mandal highly appreciates the efforts taken by Dr Sameer Kulkarni and the success he has achieved,” said Bhaskarwar. ALL ABOUT MICROSPHERES * Microspheres are small spherical particles with diameters in micrometre range * Researchers (Dr Kulkarni and Dr Dorle) contributed a new technique/technology in which microspheres from extract of bottle guard were developed with increased antioxidant efficiency * Stable microsphere formulation can maintain antioxidant efficacy for at least six months * Can be dissolved in water and consumed like fresh juice * Next step is to develop cream form for easy consumption * City’s Hruday Mitra Mandal played pivotal role in initiating research||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lauki-juice-can-now-last-6-months-as-vidarbha-scientist-gets-patent/articleshow/80077206.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 3, 2021||Dehradun||Sisodia to visit Doon on Jan 4; repeats challenge to debate with minister over development work done by BJP govt in U’khand||Dehradun: Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia has now written a letter to Uttarakhand urban development minister Madan Kaushik and invited him for a debate on Kejriwal’s ‘Delhi model’ versus Trivendra Singh Rawat’s ‘Uttarakhand model’ on January 4, when the senior AAP leader will be in Dehradun. During his two recent visits to Uttarakhand, Sisodia had challenged CM Rawat to list five developmental works undertaken by his government for the welfare of the people of Uttarakhand. Sisodia also mentioned that he would invite CM Rawat to Delhi after the debate to show him the works undertaken under Kejriwal's ‘Delhi model’. Responding to the challenge, urban development minister Madan Kaushik said, “We will go to Delhi and tell Sisodia about the Uttarakhand model and the works being done in the state by the BJP government. If Sisodia wants, he can come to Uttarakhand but he should focus on his work. As for the debate, we will go to Delhi to tell him about our performance.” In the letter to Kaushik, Sisodia wrote, “Nothing can be better for Uttarakhand than to see their present and future leaders openly debating on hospitals, schools, electricity, water and other issues and execute their voting rights based on the same. I have come to know that the Trivendra Singh Rawat government has not done any work for the people of Uttarakhand in the last four years and people refer to him as ‘zero work’ CM.” Sisodia further said, “You are again requested to come to the IRDT Auditorium on January 4 at 11am, so that we can openly discuss the Trivendra Rawat model versus Kejriwal model,” he wrote. In August last year, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal had announced that AAP would contest the 2022 Uttarakhand assembly elections on all 70 seats. In December, Sisodia visited Uttarakhand twice — one visit each in Kumaon and Garhwal regions. In his last visit to Dehradun on December 19, Sisodia had projected Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP as the “most suited alternative” to the BJP and the Congress – which have formed governments in Uttarakhand in the last two decades. Sisodia in a no holds barred attack said, “The present government is a mix bag of ministers — who are from the Congress — and a CM who can also be called a zero work CM.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sisodia-to-visit-doon-on-jan-4-repeats-challenge-to-debate-with-minister-over-development-work-done-by-bjp-govt-in-ukhand/articleshow/80075982.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 3, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad police to have IOs from among constables||AURANGABAD: Considering the surge in crime rate of the city, Aurangabad police have decided to have more investigation officers (IO), especially from among the constabulary. As a part of the initiative, a five-day workshop has been lined up for training the constables. This will be followed by attaching them with existing investigation officers, who would mentor them in the first few petty offences given to them for investigation. Commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta told TOI, “Our investigation officers are overburdened with cases, which in turn is taking a toll on the quality of investigation. The move will help improve the police conviction rate in serious as well as petty offences.”The conviction rate of Aurangabad city was 42% in 2020 against 34% in 2019. The constabulary is divided into investigation officers and general duty staff. Constables who are not comfortable with paperwork or documentation opt for general duty. Those having a flair for detection and who are good at evidence collection opt to become investigation officers. As per the arrangements within the department, the policemen who are part of the general duties are assigned with beat marshal duty, accused liasoning party, fixed point duty, nakabandi, tapal duty, bandobast, VIP movement and general patrolling. Investigation officers are not assigned any other task unless it is an emergency situation. Authorities said that as a policy matter, efforts were made to keep the investigation officers free of other duties so that they are able to focus on the cases they are investigating. However, this is proving to be less effective as each investigation officer handles atleast half a dozen cases at any given time. Around 7,000 criminal cases were registered at the 17 police stations in the city in Aurangabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-police-to-have-ios-from-among-constables/articleshow/80077192.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 3, 2021||Kolhapur||Wife among three held for jawan’s murder in Maharashtra's Satara||KOLHAPUR: Satara police have arrested three people, including the wife of an army soldier, for allegedly killing the soldier when he came to his native village on leave. The deceased has been identified as Sandip Pawar (39). Among those who have been arrested are his wife Chetana Sandip Pawar (35), his sister-in-law Sushama Rahul Pawar (38) and Chetana’s brother-in-law Somnath Bharat Ambawale. The trio have been remanded in police custody for four days. Chetana claimed Sandip was beaten up by some unidentified people at their residence in Saidapur in Satara tehsil. Sandip was admitted to a hospital in Pune in serious condition by his family members. He succumbed to the multiple injuries he had sustained. Chetana lodged a complaint against unidentified people with Pune police. The case was transferred to Satara police, who started investigating the case. The needle of suspicion turned to the trio when the post mortem report revealed that Sandip’s death was unnatural. Police became all the more suspicious of the trio when they were giving contradictory statements during inquiry. After inquiring from relatives and neighbours, police arrested his wife and two others. During interrogation, they revealed that they took the extreme step as Sandip harassed them under the influence of alcohol ever since he came home on leave. On December 27, they beat up Sandip with a wood as a result of which he sustained grievous injuries and eventually died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/wife-among-three-held-for-jawans-murder-in-satara/articleshow/80077204.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||CDSCO recommends nod for Zydus Cadila’s phase-3 vaccine trials||AHMEDABAD: The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO)’s subject expert committee has recommended that permission be granted to Cadila Healthcare Ltd to conduct phase-3 clinical trials of its vaccine candidate for Covid-19. The panel made this recommendation to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) after its meeting on January 1 and 2. According to a press information bureau release, the committee recommended, “Grant of permission for conduct of phase-III clinical trial protocol to Cadila Healthcare Ltd, Ahmedabad.” A few days ago, Cadila Healthcare, the flagship company of the Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila Group had sought the DCGI approval to commence the third phase of clinical trial of its plasmid DNA vaccine-- ZyCoV-D--to prevent Covid-19. Zydus plans to initiate phase-III clinical trial in around 30,000 volunteers upon receiving necessary approvals. “After establishing safety in phase-I clinical trial, ZyCoV-D has now completed phase-II clinical trials and the vaccine has been found to be safe and immunogenic. We are optimistic of phase-III clinical trial outcomes as well,” Zydus Cadila Group chairman Pankaj Patel had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cdsco-recommends-nod-for-zydus-cadilas-phase-3-vaccine-trials/articleshow/80077209.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘We are ready for the vaccine rollout’||Ahmedabad: Nitin Patel, Gujarat deputy chief minister and health minister, said on Saturday that the state has completed all preparations for Covid-19 vaccine rollout. Patel was interacting with reporters after inauguration of multiple projects at Civil Hospital in the city. “About 10 crore doses are ready with the country-based manufacturers. After its approval, Gujarat will also be getting its share. We are ready for the rollout of vaccine in coordination with health and other departments,” said Patel. Answering a question on whether the vaccines would be provided to all free of cost as announced by the central government, Patel said that the government will bear the expenses as far as possible and the burden will not be transferred to the citizens. “Mock drills (for the vaccine) are over, the training of medical staff including doctors, nurses, paramedics is over and we have the list of the recipients,” said Patel. “As soon as the vaccine arrives, the vaccination will begin based on the priority list.” Gujarat was part of the national dry run for the vaccination where centres in Rajkot and Gandhinagar had carried out the drill. Later, four other districts had also conducted the entire process — from procurement of vaccines from central store to follow-up with recipients — on Friday. So far, 16,000 persons were trained for vaccination duty and at its peak about 16 lakh could be given the vaccination daily, said the state health department officials — with each designated centre vaccinating 100 persons. The vaccine will be given in two phases after registration of the beneficiaries on a centralized software and following up with them. In the initial phase, 4.31 lakh health workers and 6.3 lakh frontline workers have been identified for vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/we-are-ready-for-the-vaccine-rollout/articleshow/80077208.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Hyderabad||UK coronavirus strain is not as potent as it was perceived, reveals study||Hyderabad: The variant of concern (VoC) or the UK variant appears to be just yet another strain of the novel coronavirus with no extra sting, if the latest data of the UK government is any indication. The latest data, updated over the earlier finding a month ago, reveals that the UK variant does not cause any significant change in reinfection, infection or mortality. This means there’s not much to worry about the new variant unless it changes its track through new mutations. The UK variant has been reported from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Even as the UK government’s finding comes as a major relief, Indian scientists particularly at the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, have successfully isolated and sequenced the UK strain. India is the first country to achieve this feat. According to Public Health England, an executive agency of the department of health and social care in United Kingdom, “Preliminary results from the cohort study found no statistically significant difference in hospitalisation and 28-day case fatality between cases with the variant (UK strain) and wild type comparator (original strain) cases. There was also no significant difference in the likelihood of reinfection between variant cases and the comparator group”. The study conducted over 28-day case fatality had assessed variant cases in comparison with those of wild strain cases. “Analysis was restricted to 2,700 cases with a full 28 days elapsed since the specimen date. Among variant cases, 12 of 1,340 (0.89%) variant cases died within 28 days of their specimen date compared with 10 of 1,360 (0.73%) wild type comparator cases. This difference was not significant,” it added. There was not much difference in the average age of infection between the UK variant and the wild strain. As many as 1,769 variant cases with specimen dates between September 20 and December 15, 2020 were matched with similar number of wild-type strain cases. The median age of variant cases was 36 years as compared to 35 of the wild-type cases. In both types, 51.4% of the cases were women. The UK variant may not cause much damage in India as the study found that only 10.1% of Asians had tested for UK variant as against 75.2% for White ethnicity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uk-coronavirus-strain-is-not-as-potent-as-it-was-perceived-reveals-study/articleshow/80078064.cms||Syed Akbar
January 3, 2021||Kolkata||With colleges staying shut, hostels, PGs across Kolkata run out of business||KOLKATA: Hostels and paying guest accommodations across Kolkata, which thrived on thousands of students from the districts and neighbouring states enrolling in city colleges and coaching institutes before the pandemic, are witnessing huge losses and many are even contemplating shutting business. Almost all students returned to home soon after the lockdown in March resulting in a mass exodus from these students’ accommodation located near clusters of colleges and other institutes of higher education. There is no hope of students returning to the city anytime soon with the government making it clear that on-campus classes are unlikely to resume anytime soon. With several students from the districts, the north-eastern region and other eastern states taking admission in Kolkata colleges or coaching centres, many owners had invested heavily in furnishing their hostels and PG accommodations adding facilities like air-conditioning, Wi-Fi, recreational areas and even furnished kitchens. “I have not had a single student staying in the hostel since the lockdown in March. Almost all of them have informed that they will not be returning at least till middle of 2021 which smashes hopes of a revival. I had invested lakhs to furnish the place in 2018, but I don’t know what to do now because I cannot even let it out as a showroom or an apartment,” said Sushil Gupta, who converted two floors of his house in Chakraberia North into a hostel for almost 16 students. “I continue to pay the EMIs for the facilities that I had installed,” he added. These hostels and PG accommodations stand to lose rental income for almost the entire academic session and beyond. Demand for hostel and PG accommodation starts around April-May when the admission in colleges and coaching centres begin. But since education institutions have switched to online teaching, there has been no demand for the rooms. Hostel and PG accommodation would cost anything between Rs 5,000 and Rs 15,000 per month depending on the neighbourhood, amenities and connectivity. “Till March 2020, I was earning around Rs 1.8 lakh from 22 students staying in my facility. However, since April, I have not earned even Rs 1,000 because students are attending online classes from home,” said the owner of a hostel in Rajarhat, who converted a three-storied building into a students’ accommodation. Most hostels and PG accommodations are situated around the clusters of educational institutes in Jadavpur, Bikramgarh, Bhowanipore, Hazra and Kyd Street in south Kolkata, Girish Park, Maniktala and Bowbazar in north Kolkata, Salt Lake and New Town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-colleges-staying-shut-hostels-pgs-run-out-of-biz/articleshow/80076515.cms||Zeeshan Javed
January 3, 2021||Dehradun||Caught smoking hookah inside roadways bus, office, drivers, conductor suspended||Dehradun: Two drivers and a bus conductor of Uttarakhand Transport Corporation (UTC) were terminated after they were spotted smoking hookah inside a roadways office (after hours) and a stationary bus stranded at Kotdwar bus depot. The trio said they were smoking in order to keep their throats clear so as not to contract Covid-19; a village elder had given them the advice. According to managing director of UTC Deepak Jain, after a video and some photos of the three persons smoking went viral some days ago, the transport department set up an enquiry and notices were sent to the drivers and the conductor, seeking an explanation for their behaviour. “The errant employees include two special category drivers (hired on a contractual basis by the UTC) and a conductor. They were immediately let go (after their conduct came to light). Smoking or drinking at public places is an offence and if employees do it on Roadways offices and buses, it paints a very bad picture for passengers. It was important to send out a strong message that such acts will not be tolerated,” Jain said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/caught-smoking-hookah-inside-roadways-bus-office-drivers-conductor-suspended/articleshow/80076002.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 3, 2021||Nagpur||Maoists not opposing panchayat polls, trying to plant candidates instead||NAGPUR: The Maoists, known for their calls to ban elections at any level, surprisingly, have so far not issued any boycott appeal against the forthcoming gram panchayat polls scheduled for January 15 and 20. Gadchiroli district is set to have elections in 362 gram panchayats. After their baffling silence during the ongoing poll preparations, the security forces have now received serious inputs that the Maoists are trying to plant their candidates in at least one-third of the seats, especially in their strongholds like Etapalli and Bhamragarh in south Gadchiroli. They plan to ensure they can control the key gram panchayats in sensitive locations. State home minister Anil Deshmukh, at a press conference in city last week, had assured security forces shall ensure there was no fear or threat during the polling process. “We would keep the developments under watch and allow no one to exert any kind of undue pressure on the election machinery or the masses,” he had said. Sources claimed the decision of the Maoists to allow the elections and ensure their candidates are planted in gram panchayats stemmed from the fact that these cash-rich local bodies have crores of rupees at stake in the form of tendu collection, bamboo cutting and other works under the Panchayats Act. It’s learnt works worth Rs15 crores are channelized through each gram panchayat in five years along with additional Rs5 crores for other state and central government works related to development and infrastructure. In the past, Maoists used to resort to violence and threats to ensure the nominations were either not filed or withdrawn. They had also forced mass resignation of the gram panchayat and zilla parishad members in the district a few years back. Sources said that the Maoists were severely hit by demonetization, when most of their cash dumps became redundant. They are now trying to make up for the losses by capturing the gram panchayats and influence the gram sabhas with candidates they would control from behind the curtains. DIG, Naxal range, Sandip Patil said security forces would ensure the elections would be held in free and fair conditions without allowing the Maoists to assert themselves or exert pressure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maoists-not-opposing-panchayat-polls-trying-to-plant-candidates-instead/articleshow/80077222.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 3, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Now, biometric token system at Vizag railway station||VISAKHAPATNAM: The railways on Saturday introduced a biometric token system (BTS) and a surveillance system with drones at Visakhapatnam railway station. The systems are aimed at regulating passenger flow and boosting security at the station. The Visakhapatnam railway station is the first in the state to get such systems. Speaking at the launch of the biometric token machine and the drone system, divisional railway manager (DRM) Chetan Kumar Shrivastava said that the systems will be able to prevent chaos at the station, particularly during festival seasons when passenger flow is high. Senior divisional security commissioner of RPF, Jitendra Shrivastava, said that the new system (BTS) will regulate crowds in general compartments. Passengers will have to scan their fingerprints to generate tokens while boarding unreserved tickets. The system will ensure seat allotment on a first-come-first-serve basis. Passengers will be able to get the token in advance and board the general compartment in peace as per the allotted number on the token, said Jitendra Shrivastava. He added that RPF staff will verify the token serial numbers and allow passengers to board coaches in an orderly manner. On the other hand, the drone surveillance system will help patrol the yard, vital installations, railway tracks and accident sites. The drones will help save on manpower and assist in controlling crime. As many as 10 Railway Police Force (RPF) personnel have undergone drone pilot training in Visakhapatnam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/now-biometric-token-system-at-vizag-rly-stn/articleshow/80076000.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Just 4% drop in Indian students in US univs, pandemic delayed plans||HYDERABAD: There was a 16 per cent drop in foreign students enrolled in US universities in the fall of 2020 as compared to the same period last year, data from the Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) report shows. The report – based on a survey of 700 US institutions, published last month – reveals how the pandemic has shaped higher education plans of students. On the Indian front, US State department’s Open Doors 2020 recorded a fall of slightly over four per cent of students applying to institutions in the US. However, the drop, experts say, only reflects a delay in plans as the US continues to remain Indians’ first priority. The QS survey of students too reflects this argument with only six per cent of international students, as of November, saying they no longer wished to study overseas, while 55 per cent deferring their entry to next year. Experts confirmed a similar trend in the city too. “There has been a 20 per cent to 25 per cent drop in students applying this year, but that is mostly because of visa restrictions,” said Nissar Ahmed Khan from People’s Career for Overseas Education, a consultancy firm. He added most students were doing the ground work while waiting for the situation to normalise. “They are expected to start applying soon,” Khan said. Despite students deferring plans, some Telugu students were fortunate to study abroad in 2020. Speaking to TOI, Silver Oaks International School principal, Seetha Murthy, said, “Our students went to various countries such as the US, UK, Switzerland and Germany for their studies. While some students did defer their plans due to the pandemic, most went ahead and are attending classes in person.” Pursuing his bachelor’s in physics at New York University (NYU), Aashay Pai, a former student from Glendale International had to attend online classes. He said, “I could not attend the fall semester in person since my visa appointment got cancelled due to restrictions by the US government. I had to attend my classes online, which given the time difference, did affect my schedule. For instance, I had to take my exams at 1am at night but now my visa has been processed and I will be leaving soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/just-4-drop-in-indian-students-in-us-univs-pandemic-delayed-plans/articleshow/80078082.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||MoU inked: Civil Hospital to have Gujarat’s first skin bank||AHMEDABAD: Nitin Patel, Gujarat deputy chief minister and health minister, presided over an MoU between Civil Hospital and Rotary Club on Saturday to establish Gujarat’s first skin bank at Trauma Centre in the Civil Hospital campus. Officials associated with the project said that the bank will be constructed at the cost of Rs 2 crore for which about 3,600 square feet area is earmarked on the fourth floor of Trauma Centre. The bank will be a boon for patients coming with severe burn, accident and injuries. Officials said that the bank intends to provide the services not only to Ahmedabad but other centres of Gujarat. Patel also inaugurated 12 operation theatres (OTs) at the Trauma Centre including eight for orthopedic department, nine for surgery department, and two each for ENT department and plastic surgery department, said officials. The state government had allocated Rs 14.7 crore for the project. Officials said that all the OTs are equipped with best equipment. Another project inaugurated on Saturday was centralized sterilization services department at the hospital which was revamped in the light of the pandemic. The new equipment will be used to rapidly disinfect medical equipment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mou-inked-civil-hospital-to-have-gujarats-first-skin-bank/articleshow/80077211.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Surat||Surat CP’s police station visit in tracksuit surprises cops||SURAT: A man in a tracksuit with a muffler round his neck, woollen cap on the head and a face mask enters Katargam police station on Friday night at around 10 pm. He looks like a common citizen wanting to register his complaint. He goes to one of the rooms where a cop is busy file a missing person’s report. The man in tracksuit goes to another room where a woman was complaining about her missing husband and head constable Shailesh Chaudhary was inquiring about her residence. Chaudhary asked the woman to go to the police chowki near her home and file her complaint. Listening carefully, the man in tracksuit questions Chaudhary why he was not assisting the woman. Chaudhary asks the man ‘Who are you?’ and then asks the woman if he was with her. This is when the man in the tracksuit reveals “I am the police commissioner of Surat”. Chaudhary who could not hear it clearly realised that he was talking to Surat police commissioner Ajay Tomar only after he removed his mask. Tomar instructed Chaudhary to register the woman’s missing report and not ask her to go to police chowki. It has become a daily routine for Tomar to make surprise visits to police stations and examine the operations. Mostly he goes in uniform but on Friday he went in a tracksuit and parked his official car at a distance. He also asked his commando to stay with the car and walked alone into the police station. “This is to ensure that people are getting the best services of the police. We are doing good work but I am trying to improve it further,” Tomar told TOI. “I have never seen a police commissioner sir personally hence I could not recognize him. I was shocked when he introduced himself,” said Chaudhary. The woman complainant Asmita Mer said, “I was worried about my kids and self as my husband is missing. Due to the senior officer’s intervention, the police started immediate actions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-cps-police-station-visit-in-tracksuit-surprises-cops/articleshow/80076535.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
January 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Watch on fliers who sat near UK-strain positive patients||AHMEDABAD: A vigil on all air passengers who were seated three rows to the front and three to the back of those who tested positive for the UK Covid virus strain — VUI-202012/01 — has been initiated by the municipal health officials. Though the identities of these passengers were not revealed, health officials claim that these passenger are among the 55 being monitored by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) health teams. “Two samples from each of these 55 passengers have been taken for any sign of the Covid strain. Some passengers who were seated close to the passengers who tested positive for the strain belong to other districts. The respective districts have been informed and necessary follow-ups are being carried out,” said the senior municipal health official. Two days ago, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), New Delhi, designated 10 regional labs, including the one at BJ Medical college to genetically sequence all positive samples — via RT-PCR method — that have had a cycle threshold (CT) value of 30 or less. The CT value is the number of cycles an RT-PCR device has had to run to detect and amplify a particular viral RNA to achieve detectable levels. “The CT value data is mainly to pinpoint superspreader events and outbreaks — people with high viral load (low CT value) spread infection to more people,” said the municipal official. Scientist Raman Gangakhedkar, ICMR's former epidemiology and communicable diseases wing head, explained why the focus is on high viral loads. “The RT-PCR results will be analysed for genome sequencing. A CT value of 30 or less indicates, moderate to high viral load in the infected person. A few days ago the national central surveillance unit (CSU) had asked each state, including Gujarat, to provide samples that tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/watch-on-fliers-who-sat-near-uk-strain-ve-patients/articleshow/80077272.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Vizag cops to book bike racers under IPC||VISAKHAPATNAM: In a bid to halt the menace of bike racing which has led to several accidents and has become a major inconvenience to locals, city police has decided to take stringent action against such bikers. Traffic cops have started to book racers under IPC sections instead of the Motor Vehicle (MV) Act. “We are now registering offenders under section 336 (endangering life or personal safety of others) and section 279 (rash driving). Till date, fines between Rs 5,000 and Rs 15,000 have been imposed in 404 cases. This has led to a decrease in number of cases,” said North ACP R Ravisankar Reddy who is in charge of curbing bike racing in the city. The ACP added that special drives have been taken up to raise awareness. While city police are counselling riders, parents and guardians too have been asked to keep vigil. In total, traffic and law & order officials booked 45,483 cases under the MV Act in 2020 and imposed a total fine of over Rs 2 crore in incidents of rash driving and speeding. In 2019, close to 35,000 cases were booked and fines of Rs 1.6 crore were imposed on errant riders. According to police, youth — especially in the 18 to 25 age bracket — were found moving in groups at night and taking part in races which are being organised through social media. They said there four to five racing clubs that organise races at night on Beach Road between RK Beach and Bheemili beach along with the IT Hills area. City police commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha said that though there are around 200 racers in the city, at least 100 are actively involved in bike racing. “We have come to know that many racers are using Power 99 fuel which boosts the speed of their bikes. The only outlet selling this fuel is at Siripuram junction. We have gathered details of racers and are keeping a watch,” the commissioner said. Police have also planned to carry out surprise checks at identified places where such races take place. This, besides taking up awareness drives in educational institutions regarding the consequences of such activities as well as their legal aspects. “We have planned to circulate short videos and also show live road accidents through various social media groups and at awareness programs. Hoardings will be placed at important junctions and also at colleges,” ACP Ravi Shankar Reddy said. Police have urged locals to report incidents of bike racing to their number, 9493336633, Dial 100 or control room 0891-2565454. Cases are being registered under section 336 (endangering life or personal safety of others) and section 279 (rash driving) of the IPC instead of the Motor Vehicle Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-cops-to-book-bike-racers-under-ipc/articleshow/80076007.cms||Siva G
January 3, 2021||Meerut||UP: Five killed in accidents due to poor visibility||AGRA/MEERUT: At least five persons died in separate accidents due to poor visibility in western Uttar Pradesh since Friday night. While three were killed in Meerut, two died in Firozabad due to zero visibility. According to police, three out of five persons who were speeding in a car died when their vehicle crashed into a tree on Mawana Road in Meerut late on Friday. Police said that the victims — Hussain, Shah Alam and Salman from Inchauli in Meerut, and Aadil and Sikander from Khatauli in Muzaffarnagar — were returning home after shopping when their car crashed into a tree. Locals immediately alerted police who rushed to the spot and rescued the injured. While Adil, Sikander and Salman died on the spot, the others sustained grievous injuries and were rushed to a hospital where they are critical at present. Circle officer Poonam Sirohi said, “Going by the damage the car suffered, it is a clear case of speeding.” Similarly, in Firozabad, 35-year-old Imran Khan from Jaipur who was driving a van to Lucknow rammed his vehicle into a truck parked on the highway in Shikohabad due to almost zero visibility early on Saturday. He died on the spot. In another incident, a 28-year-old man, Monu Kumar of Shikohabad, who was heading to Etah on a bike, was mowed down by an unidentified vehicle on the highway. His damaged bike was found near the body. Shikohabad station house officer Sunil Kumar Tomar said, “The families of the victims have been informed. The accidents occurred due to poor visibility in the early hours. So far, we have not got any complaint in the matter.” According to meteorological department officials, several parts of north India are in the grip of a severe cold wave which is likely to intensify in the coming days. Near zero visibility due to dense fog has also disrupted the vehicular movement resulting in traffic at snail’s pace on key stretches like the Agra-Lucknow Expressway, Yamuna Expressway and the Agra-Delhi National Highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/5-killed-in-accidents-due-to-poor-visibility/articleshow/80076009.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: ‘Enhanced virulence’ not seen||AHMEDABAD: As the first four cases of the ‘UK strain’ were registered in Ahmedabad on Saturday, the buzz spiked about Covid 2.0. Discussions began on what the impact of the strains — including those found in South Africa and elsewhere — will be on the ongoing pandemic. Experts in Ahmedabad said that mutation is a natural process and it will take some more time to understand how this specific strain behaves in the Indian context. Dr Mukesh Maheshwari, a city-based pathologist, said that the evidence so far indicates that the strain has more communicability, but not increased virulence or mortality. “In general parlance, we can say that it will spread faster, multiply faster,” he said. “But apart from that, there will be no change in treatment and it will not increase the death rate among patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/enhanced-virulence-not-seen/articleshow/80077271.cms||Parth Shastri
January 3, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata's Kalighat temple installs chemical-free sanitization tunnels||KOLKATA: Kalighat Temple did away with chemical filled sanitisation tunnels on Saturday. An official statement made by the temple said that since spraying such chemicals on devotees can be harmful for their health, they were bringing in chemical free sanitisation tunnels since they are completely safe. Two such tunnels were installed at gate numbers two and five in the wee hours of Saturday before the rush of the devotees began. The temple saw a huge rush on Friday as hundreds of devotees had queued up to catch a glimpse of the deity on the first day of the year, to seek her blessings. This is a traditional practice. The temple has reopened its garba griha on December 29 allowing devotees to enter it and pay their obeisance to the goddess and this has resulted in devotees coming back in large numbers. Kalighat unlike Dakshineshwar allows devotees to enter the sanctum sanctorum and stand inches away from the goddess. Friday’s rush was so huge that gate number four was damaged and temple authorties have appealed to the Kalighat police station to send in additional personnel to help man the situation. The damaged gate was fixed on Saturday. Gate number two is manned by cops from the special branch. The Sevayat Council of the temple has donated the chemical free sanitisation tunnels at gates two and five. “We are aware of the Supreme Court order that bans the use of chemical disinfectants and so we told the temple committee that we should do away with the chemical tunnels and instal ones with ozonised water. The Sevayat Council organised for the funds for this,” said Dipankar Chatterjee, secretary of the Council. Gate number three has been assigned for entry of Sevayats with devotees after the garba griha was reopened to devotees. This gate will also have a chemical free tunnel. “At the moment gate number one is shut but we have accumulated funds for a similar tunnel if this gate reopens,” Chatterjee added. Dakshineshwar reopened on Saturday after a temporary closure because the temple wanted to avoid unprecedented rush owing to Kalpataru Utsav. Though the Utsav is essentially celebrated by the Ramakrishna Mission at the Kashipur Udyan Bati, because the Paramhansa lived in Dakshineshwar Kali Temple for the most part of his life, devotees also come here to catch a glimpse of the rooms in which the Paramhansa lived. “We wanted to avoid this rush. We offered a special bhog to the Paramhansa and continued with our usual puja but we kept the gates closed for devotees lest the infection spreads,” said Kushal Chowdhury, trustee of the temple.’ The Ramakrishna Mission is celebrating Kalpataru Utsav at the Udyan Bati but will keep the gates shut till Sunday to avoid the rush. Every year hundreds come here for Kalpataru Utsav, because the Paramhansa led his disciples on to a spiritual path on this day. He spent the last days of his life here. Devotees joined the festivities through live streaming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kalighat-temple-installs-chemical-free-sanitisation-tunnels-in-three-gates/articleshow/80076600.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
January 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘All 4 patients in Gujarat with mutated coronavirus have mild symptoms’||AHMEDABAD: Even as the UK strain of Covid-19 is feared as a highly infectious mutation, all four patients who were on Saturday declared to be infected by it are suffering only mild symptoms, said doctors. Dr Monila Patel, attending physician of the UK returned Covid-19 positive patients, said that all four patients are very stable and did not report any deterioration. “All four patients have only mild symptoms- mild fever, mild cough and mild body ache. In fact, all are being administered very basic medicines for managing the viral infection. None of the patients have desaturated, which means they have have maintained good oxygen saturation as well,” said Dr Patel Read Also4 UK returnees in Gujarat infected with new strain of coronavirusThe ‘UK strain’ of Covid-19 flew into Gujarat aboard the London-Ahmedabad flight on December 22. The state government confirmed that genome sequencing by National Institute of Virology, Pune has found four people who tested Covid-19 positive after landing at the Ahmedabad airport to be carrying theThe HRCT scan of the patients too showed low score which means there is very mild lung infection. Top sources in the SVP Hospital said that while the strain is known to be highly infectious, the patients are demonstrating a rather milder version. In fact, sources said that none of the patients have been admitted to the ICU for any worsening of symptoms. “In other patients where results for genome sequencing is still awaited, some had to be given remdesivir. Apart from that, there is no major intervention that was required,” said doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/all-4-patients-with-mutated-virus-have-mild-symptoms/articleshow/80077273.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Meerut||Despite govt outreach, over 1,000 farmers from Bijnor brave the cold to join protest in Delhi||BIJNOR: Over a thousand farmers onboard around 40 tractor-trolleys and other vehicles set off from Bijnor district on Saturday to join the massive protests against the three new farm laws at the UP-Delhi border. The latest development comes amid an aggressive outreach programme by the state government which also includes "Kisan help desks" set up at police stations as part of awareness campaigns. With blaring music and sloganeering, farmers under the banner of Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan set off in the morning, braving rough weather, on their way to the protest site. Two farmers have lost their lives in the past two days at Ghazipur border during the stir, one of the farmers pointed out. Kailash Lamba, west UP coordinator of Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan who was leading the farmers' journey, told TOI, "Over a thousand farmers travelled towards Delhi in 40 tractor-trolleys on Saturday. The farmers have been protesting in this biting cold, but the government is still unmoved on the three farm laws. That is why, we decided to leave for the Ghazipur border to strengthen the movement." Lamba further said, "Some police officials had tried to prevent us from travelling towards the Ghazipur border, but we managed to find our way. We are travelling in groups. All the farmers are united against the new laws." Notably, as the UP-Delhi border continues to swell with farm agitators, state police had come up with an elaborate plan to "allay their fears and create awareness" on the Centre’s agriculture laws "so that the farmers and their leaders stay put in the region”. The new laws have upset a large section of farmers in the state, and thousands of them have been camping and protesting at Ghazipur and other border points along the national capital for the past few weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/despite-govt-outreach-over-1000-farmers-frombijnor-brave-the-cold-to-join-protest-in-delhi/articleshow/80076010.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 3, 2021||Dehradun||Fresh snow, light rains in Uttarakhand; met dept says no let-up soon||DEHRADUN: Fresh snow and light rainfall intensified the cold wave conditions in the Himalayan state on Saturday with the weather experts predicting no let-up in the situation for the next couple of days. The higher reaches of the state received a fresh spell of snow while overcast conditions prevailed in other parts, with areas like Dehradun and Haridwar witnessing light rains on Saturday. Regional meteorological centre director Bikram Singh said, “The activity will intensify in the next few days. The state is likely to receive rain and snow on January 4 and 5 which will bring the maximum temperature down by three to four notches. Light to moderate rains and dense fog are also likely in the coming days.” Meanwhile, most residents chose to remain indoors due to the intense cold in the region, with bonfires being lit even during daytime at several places in the city. Alok Singh Negi said, “There has been a sudden change in the weather and there is a cold breeze blowing in the city. Even those who usually go for morning or evening walk don’t step out these days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/fresh-snow-light-rains-in-state-met-dept-says-no-let-up-soon/articleshow/80076014.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 3, 2021||Kolkata||26th Kolkata International Film Festival to open with ‘Apur Sansar’ on January 8||KOLKATA: This year, the inauguration of the Kolkata International Film Festival (KIFF) will move from Netaji Indoor Stadium to Nabanna Sabhaghar. On January 8, chief minister Mamata Banerjee will inaugurate the festival in the presence of all the committee members in charge of organizing the 26th edition of KIFF. Though attempts are being made to get outstation celebrities to join the inauguration virtually, there hasn’t been any confirmation so far. Among 1,170 movies submitted for consideration, the authorities selected 132 feature films, documentaries and short films to be screened at eight venues. Among these were 81 feature films, 50 short films and documentaries from 45 countries. As a special tribute to Soumitra Chatterjee, the festival will be inaugurated with the screening of ‘Apur Sansar’ on January 8 at Rabindra Sadan. His ‘Dekha’, ‘Ganadevata’, ‘Wheel Chair’, ‘Akash Kusum’, ‘Mayurakshi’, ‘Kony’, ‘Podokkhep’ and ‘Bohomaan’ will also be part of the special tribute section. Director Anubhav Sinha of ‘Thappad’, ‘Article 15’, ‘Mulk’ and ‘Ra.One’ fame has been invited to deliver the prestigious Satyajit Ray Memorial Lecture this year. KIFF chairman Raj Chakrabarty said, “No international delegate will be physically present for the festival. However, the festival will have physical screenings of all movies. There will be no online screening. No prior booking will be required to watch ‘Apur Sansar’. Like previous years, the cine adda will be held this year as well on the Nandan premises.” Online bookings will begin at 10am two days before the scheduled date of the movies’ screening. Viewers can book their seats in advance on bookmyshow.com without any payment. One person can book one seat for each show. The M-ticket will be scanned at the entries of each auditorium. In case a viewer doesn’t have a smartphone, necessary support for booking will be provided at the help desk of each venue. The festival will also pay centenary tributes to Pt Ravi Shankar, Hemanta Mukherjee, Bhanu Bandopadhyay, Eric Rohmer and Federico Fellini. Hrishikesh Mukherjee’s 1960 Hindi film titled ‘Anuradha’ will be screened as tribute to Shankar. Ajoy Kar’s ‘Saptapadi’ will be screened as a tribute to Hemanta Mukherjee. Manu Sen’s ‘Bhranti Bilas’ has been selected as a tribute to Bhanu Bandopadhyay. In addition, there will be a screening of a documentary titled ‘Bhubonmoy Bhanu’. As for the centenary tribute to Fellini, screenings of his cult films — ‘La Dolce Vita’, ‘I Vitelloni’, ‘Juliet of the Spirits’, ‘8½’ and ‘The Voice of the Moon’ — are on the cards. KIFF organizers have also procured an interesting film called ‘The Truth about La dolce vita’ by Giuseppe Pedersoli. Based on original and never-before published letters, contracts and production paperwork, the docu-drama portrays the real story of one of the most famous Italian films ever. To pay tribute to actor Tapas Paul, his ‘Dadar Kirti’ and ‘8:08 Er Bonga Local’ will be screened. ‘Hemanter Pakhi’ will be screened as a tribute to actor Santu Mukherjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/26th-kiff-to-open-with-apur-sansar-on-jan-8/articleshow/80076604.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
January 3, 2021||Surat||Woman’s body found in hotel room in Surat||SURAT: Body of a 22-year-old woman was found in a room of a hotel on Gaurav Path near Piplod area on Saturday morning. Tanvi Bhadani, a resident of Katargam, had gone there in a group of three couples. She did not wake up in the morning after which she was taken to a hospital where she was declared dead. Preliminary post mortem examination revealed that the woman died due to heart attack and clotting in blood led to the attack, police said. Bhadani had gone to OYO hotel in Ripple Mall to celebrate New Year with her friend Pankaj Gohil, 35, and others. After the celebration the couples went to different rooms and Bhadani did not wake up in the morning. Registering a case of accidental death in Umra police station police started investigation. “The woman’s parents do not have any complaint against anyone and the woman went with the man with approval of her parents. They were in a relationship for the last three years,” said a police officer of Umra police station. The deceased was doing marketing of medical instruments and used to stay out from home often. She came in touch with Gohil due to her work. Bhadani’s father runs a shop of diamond polishing machine tools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/womans-body-found-in-hotel-room/articleshow/80076594.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Nagpur||‘Worst over, let’s learn our lessons and move ahead’||NAGPUR: More than the physical impact, Covid-19 has taken a toll on the mental and emotional state of people. We must move ahead and learn our lessons, says psychiatrist and psychotherapist Dr Nikhil Pande. An office bearer of the Indian Psychiatric Society, Dr Pande runs his Clinic for Happiness, a unique endeavour to bridge the gap between human relationships. He has specialized in de-addiction, corporate psychological management, special children and stress management. In an interview to TOI, Dr Pande talks at length about the bright side of the pandemic. Excerpts... Q. On what note should we start the New Year?A. The worst is already over. The vaccine is on the way and past experiences say that pandemics recede after vaccine hits. This means that the physical effects of the pandemic will recede. Now, it’s time to concentrate on the psychological reboot. We must understand that we have seen and experienced a never before like situation. The entire world came to a standstill. It was a fight for survival. At one moment, being alive was the only goal for us. Fortunately, most of us survived unaffected. Around 50% remained totally asymptomatic and they recovered on the basis of their immunity. More than 95% of those who got infected recovered after treatment. This means we are physically strong. We are survivors. And survival is a victory in the pandemic. Now, it’s time to move ahead. Q. Many lost their jobs, some faced salary cuts and some even had to use all their savings to survive. A. That’s obvious. We are not the only ones who suffered. The entire world suffered. This period has taught us lessons that will last a lifetime. Acquiring extra skills other than the field we work in, having ‘Plan B’, coming out of our comfort zone, the importance of loved ones over materialistic achievements are some of the important learnings. Finally, we must understand that things like jobs, salary cuts, savings and money can come back, but health, mental and emotional strength and inner immunity on the basis of which we have survived has been our hidden and real treasure that most of us have discovered during this phase. Q. As a psychologist, what changes have you noticed in patients?A. I deal with special children who turned more aggressive during the lockdown phase as their movements were restricted. It was really a tough time for Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) kids, autistic kids and their parents. Even normal kids who had to stay indoors too became aggressive. This was unavoidable. Kids needs physical activity and physical touch. Elders feel exhausted after exercising, but kids become fresh. From the New Year, let’s allow our kids to go out. Wearing masks is the best way to protect them. It’s a new normal for a long term. Hence, we should train them in these new etiquettes. Parents should definitely think positively on sending their wards to schools when they reopen. Q. Has this phase brought about a change in the method of de-addiction?A. Thousands have quit smoking during the pandemic phase. Many have stopped or at least restricted their alcohol intake. People have realized that they can live without addiction during the first two phases of the lockdown. Many habits like watching movies every weekend, having dinners and outings were also discontinued during the lockdown. People wondered whether they really need to consume that much entertainment? On the other hand, many became addicts to home-based entertainment like web series. Q. What are the positive things that caught your eye?A. Many. Keeping sugar levels under control, practicing yoga and having healthy home food were some of the good habits. Quite a few learnt to cook. Many long-term relationships that were broken got healed. Overall, human relations improved for those who had a strong emotional base. Q. While many still suffer from Covid phobia, there are others who believe that it’s over.A. Every person is different and so is the thought process. In psychology, there are five stages of accepting grief as described by Elisabeth Kübler-Ross. They are denial, anger, bargaining, depression and acceptance. They are all part of the framework that makes up our learning to live with grief. In Covid-19, most of us have gone through these stages. But not everyone goes through all of them or in a prescribed order. So, some people are still in denial mode, some are in bargaining and some in depression mode. The time has come to accept this and move ahead. Q. Your New Year message.A. The pause can be an opportunity to reset and restart. The pandemic has taught us to decide our priorities. Remaining mentally and physically fit has become more important than any other thing. Good communication with loved ones is also important. Working from home could become the new normal. Living without any kind of addiction for 21 days means we can reduce it further. Do we really need a big house, a lot of money in our bank accounts or can we manage by reducing our working hours and enjoy family time? It’s time to think about the small things that add to our peace of mind. Let New Year be the positive change, not only in physical and monetary terms but also mentally and emotionally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/worst-over-lets-learn-our-lessons-and-move-ahead/articleshow/80077310.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 3, 2021||Dehradun||Kumbh Mela 2021: Social media monitoring cell to be set up to check fake news, rumours||HARIDWAR: A social media monitoring cell is being set up by the Kumbh Mela police to monitor fake news and prevent any kind of anti-social activity via social media platforms. Besides, the intelligence department will also check entry of Rohingyas and illegal migrants from Bangladesh into the fair, officials said. On Saturday, IG Kumbh held a meeting with the intelligence department and asked the officials to prepare a mechanism for sharing information with the officials of neighbouring Uttar Pradesh. IG Kumbh Sanjay Gunjyal told TOI, “Fake news and anti-social elements are the key concerns for the Kumbh Mela police and to check this menace, we are going to set up a social media monitoring cell. The unit will help in monitoring unruly and fake social media posts during the Kumbh Mela.” The official added, “Similarly, Kumbh Mela police with the help of district police will take quick action against social media rumour mongers. Meanwhile, we have completed verification drives and now our focus is on preventing intrusion of Rohingyas and illegal migrants from Bangladesh. A coordination is also being established between the neighbouring districts of Uttar Pradesh to share crucial information about the criminals, anti-social elements, and radical groups.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kumbh-mela-2021-social-media-monitoring-cell-to-be-set-up-to-check-fake-news-rumours/articleshow/80076019.cms||MS Nawaz
January 3, 2021||Business||Imports go up for 1st time since last Feb, exports dip 0.8%||NEW DELHI: Indicating a pick-up in economic activity, imports went up for the first time since February, rising 7.6% to $42.6 billion in December, while exports were 0.8% lower at $26.9 billion on account of lower shipment of oil products to the UAE and parts of Europe. As a result, trade deficit widened to $15.7 billion, the highest since January 2020, according to preliminary numbers released by the commerce department on Saturday. Drugs and pharmaceuticals, chemicals, electronic goods and iron ore were among sectors that reported double-digit export growth, with the fall in oil prices resulting in a steep 40% decline in the value of petrol and diesel shipped out of the country to $2.2 billion in December. Although countries like Singapore have stepped up purchase of fuel from India, large buyers such as the UAE have slashed imports by nearly 50%. Large buyers like the UAE have slashed imports of oil by nearly 50%, pushing down overall exports of petrol and diesel from the country. At the same time, among the major export items, there were nascent signs of recovery in case of gems and jewellery (6.7%) and engineering goods (0.1%), although readymade garments languished, falling 15% in December as large parts of the globe continued to work from home. The numbers indicated that non-oil exports had witnessed a 5.3% to $24.7 billion. Exporters appeared positive, especially with vaccination against Covid-19 starting in many parts of the world, including the US and the UK. "The New Year has brought a ray of hope and optimism for all from the worst of Covid-19 and vaccines are expected to bring both life and economy back on growth trajectory with a V-shaped recovery in world trade. Arrival of vaccines have also helped in boosting the business sentiments for the sector as a whole, which can be seen from the positive figures of the upcoming months," said SK Saraf, president of Federation of Indian Export Organisations, a lobby group. At the same time, many exporters suggested that there is a need to watch the numbers in coming months. "While domestic economy is showing sure signs of bounce back, there is still a rough sail for exports in global market. This is despite roll out of vaccine in several parts of the world," said EEPC India chairman Mahesh Desai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/imports-go-up-for-1st-time-since-last-feb-exports-dip-0-8/articleshow/80078545.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Meerut||Woman sub-inspector hangs self in Bulandshahr||Meerut: A 30-year-old woman sub-inspector allegedly died by suicide in Bulandshahr district on Friday night. The victim Arzoo Pawar, a native of Shamli district, was posted at Anoopshahr Kotwali police station and used to live alone on the third floor of a rented accommodation. Bulandshahar senior superintendent of police Santosh Kumar said that they have recovered a suicide note from the spot in which she blamed herself for taking the extreme step. According to police, the suicide came to light after the landlords got suspicious when Pawar didn’t respond to their repeated calls on Friday night. When they checked on her, the door was bolted from inside and there was no response to multiple knocks. Hence, they alerted police who peeped through the glass ventilator on the door and found her hanging. Immediately, senior police and administrative officials rushed to the spot and broke open the door. The SSP said, “Her mobile phone is locked and we are trying to ascertain the last few calls she made.” Pawar’s death is the latest in the growing number of suicides in the police department due to a variety of reasons including work pressure and family stress. Over 20 personnel have died by suicide in Uttar Pradesh since 2019. In October last year, police constable Ankit Yadav (26) died allegedly by shooting himself with his service revolver in Sambhal district. In May, constable Vijay Gaud, who was deployed at the SSP office in Meerut, allegedly ended his life at his Ganganagar residence. Preliminary inquiry pointed to domestic strife for the extreme step. At least 18 personnel took their own lives in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/woman-sub-inspector-hangs-self-in-bulandshahr/articleshow/80076027.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Surat||Surat: Virtual gems, jewellery show from January 8||SURAT: The Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) will be organising India International Jewellery Show (IIJS) on the virtual platform for five days starting from January 8. Official sources said that the retailers can now go through product images, catalogues and videos of more than 250 participating exhibitors and fix appointments. Shailesh Sangani, convener, national exhibitions, GJEPC, said, “The visitors will have enough time to browse through the products and fix appointments with prospective exhibitors. The pre-scheduling of appointments will offer a focused buyer-seller interaction. The exhibitors have already done their profiling on their pages, helping visitors to take informed decisions about who they would like to meet over the five days of the show.” IIJS Virtual is likely to witness over 250 exhibitors, 10,000 buyers, and the show is expected to hold more than 15,000 meetings. On display will be traditional gold jewellery, diamond jewellery, gemstone jewellery, bridal jewellery, loose colour stone, silver jewellery etc. Starting from the exotic walk-through feature, IIJS Virtual has added a few exciting aspects to give an experience like never before, added Sangani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/virtual-gems-jewellery-show-from-jan-8/articleshow/80076606.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Kochi||Road accidents killed 372 in Ernakulam rural areas last year||KOCHI: Ernakulam rural limits witnessed 372 deaths and 2,255 accidents last year till December, according to a report released by police. As many as 2,480 people were injured from road traffic crashes during the same period. The report compiled by Ernakulam rural police indicated a downward trend in accidents and injuries as compared with the corresponding figures in the previous year. As many as 3,992 accidents were reported from the rural limits in 2019 while 4,376 people were injured during the same period. However, there is only a slight decline in the number of deaths. With last month's data yet to come in, the number of fatalities reported from rural areas are only 15 fewer than the 387 deaths recorded in the previous year. A source with the rural police said the most deaths were reported from Angamaly police station limit while Perumbavoor region accounted for the highest number of road accidents. “As many as 33 persons have died in the past year in Angamaly police station limits. The maximum number of cases and injuries, 213 and 252 respectively, were in the Perumbavoor area,” said the source. Road safety expert PD Sunil Babu said the drop in the number of accidents was due to the lockdown. “The number of heavy vehicles on the road decreased during the lockdown. The use of public transport system also shrunk at the same time,” said Babu, adding that people took to the road only during unavoidable circumstances over the year due to the pandemic and that all this resulted in reducing the number of accidents. Sunil Babu said rash and negligent driving accounted for a major share of a deaths, and that according to the data, there is an increase in the number of such cases. “A major reason for fatalities is rash driving,” he said, adding that youths tend to overspeed. Many can be seen zigzagging ín speed on the road at night. Youths who try to experiment with their riding skills, considering the low traffic, can also meet a tragic end, he said. He added that the use of narcotics substances is also a reason behind fatal accidents. “Drunk driving is still a major cause for concern but another major issue is substance abuse. Enforcement agencies are able to detect drunken driving but they cannot zero in on drug users that easily. People driving under the influences of substances can cause fatal pile-ups,” said Sunil Babu. He added that the only long-term solution for solving the issue is to imbibe a culture of disciplined driving among the road users. “People have to understand traffic rules and follow them more religiously. Only a change in our driving culture coupled with strict enforcement can bring down the numbers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/road-accidents-killed-372-in-ekm-rural-areas-last-year/articleshow/80076017.cms||Disney Tom
January 3, 2021||Ranchi||State conducts daylong Cov vaccine dry run in 6 districts||Ranchi: The day-long dry run of the Covid-19 vaccination programme on Saturday was termed as a success with 325 health workers across six districts participating in it to check their preparedness and the functioning of the Co-WIN app, which will be used extensively during the actual vaccination drive. The nodal officer for the dry run in state, Dr Ajit Prasad, said, “If required, we will make changes to the actual vaccination programme based on the feedback we get from today’s drill.” The dry run was conducted across three centres – the community healthcare centre (CHC) at Ratu, sub-divisional hospital (SDH) at Bundu and sadar hospital — in Ranchi, while the rest of the five districts — Simdega, Pakur, Palamu, East Singhbhum and Chatra – had two centres each for conducting it. Apart from selecting their respective sadar hospitals, Simdega had selected CHC Kolebira, East Singhbhum SDH Ghatshila, Chatra CHC Simaria and Pakur had picked its primary healthcare centre in Dangapara as their second centres for the exercise. All the participating health workers got themselves vaccinated by injecting a fake syringe after getting their names verified on the register and on the Co-WIN app under the supervision of senior health and administrative officials. Dr Prasad said they had asked a few participants to fake some minor and major complications during the drill after getting the vaccine shot so that the on-duty staff are not caught unawares and they know what to do in case a person falls sick during the actual vaccination drive. When asked about the curative measures that they will take if a person falls ill during the actual drive, Dr Prasad said, “The SOP from the Union health ministry has asked all the vaccination sites to set up resting areas and beds equipped with oxygen cylinders for such emergencies. We had made all the aforementioned arrangements today so that the staff could familiarise themselves with the protocols.” TOI paid a visit to Ranchi Sadar Hospital and the operator working on the Co-WIN app said the application worked smoothly and they didn’t face any problem during the mock drill. Meanwhile in Palamu, DC Shashi Ranjan said the dry run was required as it will help in subsiding fear which is usually associated with vaccine shots. Meanwhile, Palamu civil surgeon Dr John F Kennedy said that since the Covid vaccine shot will be administered twice in all probability, as and when it arrives, those taking the first shot at a particular centre will be required to go back to the same place for the second round of vaccination. “In all probability, the second shot will administered 28 days from the first one,” he added. (With inputs from Daltonganj by M F Ahmad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-conducts-daylong-cov-vaccine-dry-run-in-6-districts/articleshow/80076674.cms||Gaurav Pandey
January 3, 2021||Ranchi||Eggs removed from Tata zoo animals’ diet after bird flu scare in Raj and MP||Jamshedpur: In the wake of avian influenza — commonly known as bird flu — being reported in Rajasthan and in Madhya Pradesh, Tata Steel Zoological Park (TSZP) has initiated precautionary measures, including removing eggs from the inmates’ diet for the time being, to prevent them from contracting the disease. TSZP director Bipul Chakravarty on Saturday said, “At least till February, eggs will not be served to the animals at the zoo.” Spread across 43 acres in Jubilee Park, the zoo boasts of more than 430 animals, including 20 species of mammals, 27 species of birds and four species of reptiles. The zoo officials usually give them eggs mashed with fried gram powder since they are rich in calcium and in protein. Now they will be given soya beans to make up for the loss in protein. K K Sharma, a functionary at the Ornithology Society of India, said bird flu is an air-borne disease which makes it crucial for the state animal husbandry department to sound an alert to the zoo authorities and the poultry farms. “Andhra Pradesh and Odisha are located close to Madhya Pradesh and the vendors in Jharkhand mostly source eggs from AP and Odisha, which means that the animal husbandry department needs to be on high alert,” he added. Some TSZP sources said the veterinary experts have been asked to monitor the inmates’ health, particularly of the birds, on a regular basis. “We anyway keep ourselves prepared since every year bird flu cases are frequently reported between December and February from some part or the other in the country and from overseas.” He further said that since the number of migratory birds flying to Jayanti Sarovar (located in Jubilee Park) during winter has come down substantially over the past few years, the risk of TSZP inmates contracting the disease from them has further been reduced. In Ranchi’s Bhagwan Birsa Biological Park — also known as Birsa zoo — authorities have upped the safety measures. Although they haven’t altered the birds’ diets, the zoo’s vet, Dr Omprakash Sahu, said they are fumigating the entire premises — spread across 104 hectares — with anti-viral sprays. The aviary at the zoo has around 500 birds belonging to various species. “All the birds are being given extra doses of multivitamins to beat the chilly weather and to fight the disease, in case they get infected,” Dr Sahu said. (Inputs from Ranchi by ASRP Mukesh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/eggs-removed-from-tata-zoo-animals-diet-after-bird-flu-scare-in-raj-and-mp/articleshow/80076657.cms||B Sridhar
January 3, 2021||Ranchi||151 new Cov cases, 4 deaths in Jharkhand||Ranchi: Recoveries outshined fresh infections on Sunday as state capital continued to report a hike in number of fresh infections. The state reported 151 fresh infections and 205 recoveries. Meanwhile casualties too reported a spike as Jharkhand reported four deaths, one each from Dhanbad, Garhwa, Palamu and Ramgarh on Saturday, taking the death toll due to the virus to 1,034. Thirteen districts of state reported fresh infections in single digits, while seven — Dumka, Giridih, Godda, Jamtara, Pakur, Sahibganj and Simdega reported zero cases. Barring Ranchi, 71 fresh infections, East Singhbhum, Ramgarh and Bokaro reported 20, 15 and 11 cases, respectively. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/151-new-cov-cases-4-deaths-in-jharkhand/articleshow/80076682.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 3, 2021||Ranchi||IIM-Ranchi to hold online ‘winter school’ from January 19-23||Ranchi: Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Ranchi will organise a winter school on leadership, policy and governance from January 19-23 online, officials said on Saturday. The programme would be held under the auspices of the institute’s centre for excellence, Atal Bihari Vajpayee Centre of Leadership, Policy and Governance. The programme will help researchers, policy-makers, students (undergraduate and postgraduate), bureaucrats, public servants and journalists as they discuss topics like team building during the initial stages of entrepreneurship, decision-making in governance, how to go from policy-making to execution, the use of big data and artificial intelligence in public policy and 10 tools for design and thinking. There will be lectures, presentations and discourses on leadership, policy and governance. The prominent speakers are state health and family welfare secretary Dr Nitin Madan Kulkarni, Dr Heera Lal , who is the additional mission director at National Health Mission, Uttar Pradesh and Shekhar Saran, who is the chairman-cum-managing director of Central Mine Planning and Design Institute Ltd, besides the senior faculty members of IIM-R. “All the participants will get e-certificates upon completion of the course. The participants can register themselves through a link after paying the required fees,” an official statement from the institute said. IIM-R had organised a summer school on leadership, policy and governance from May 25 to May 29, 2019 and it was a huge success, the statement added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/iim-ranchi-to-hold-online-winter-school-from-january-19-23/articleshow/80076703.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 3, 2021||Nagpur||If Covid positive, all suspects of new strain to be in hospital: DMER||NAGPUR: Amid growing clamour from suspects of new UK strain of Covid-19 virus over prolonged hospital stay, the Directorate of Medical Education (DMER) on Saturday declared that those who have tested positive will have to remain hospitalized till results from NIV, Pune, are out. The first sample from the city was sent to NIV for genome sequencing on December 25. The result of this sample and that of seven other suspects, is awaited. The SOPs notified by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on December 23 stated that all asymptomatic positive patients who are suspects of new virus strain can remain in paid institutional quarantine for 14 days. This led to confusion among doctors, civic officials, suspects and relatives, who are daily demanding discharge as all are asymptomatic. Some of the suspects had tested positive recently while others had tested positive over two weeks ago. GMCH, where the suspects are admitted at its special ward, and NMC have still not made the DMER guidelines public. Some suspects, who returned from one of the affected countries in Middle East, UK and South Africa, have completed 10 days in hospital and are growing restless, thus posing challenge for doctors. DMER director Dr TP Lahane told TOI that the suspects (international flyers) are supposed to be kept in institutional quarantine till their Covid report is awaited. “If they test positive, they will be shifted to the special ward of designated hospital for people coming from affected countries in Europe. If they are negative on the seventh day, they would be sent to home quarantine,” he said. Asked if these flyers would still be hospitalized in case asymptomatic, Dr Lahane said, “Yes, because it is a very infective disease. All of them who test positive will have to stay in hospital till we get the (NIV) report. If it’s the same strain currently in India, they will be sent to home quarantine. But if it’s the new UK strain, they will be in hospital till they twice test negative for two days,” he said. Dr Lahane said this guideline has been implemented since December 23. On suspects admitted to GMCH special ward awaiting NIV results for the last over one week, Dr Lahane said, “They will have to stay there whether it takes 20 days or a month,” he said. Regarding NIV results of Nagpur suspects, Dr Lahane said there is no delay. “The results take around six to eight days. No one has yet completed 14 days. They still have four more days,” he said. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B said that the guideline received on Friday doesn’t mention if a new strain suspect is symptomatic or asymptomatic. “It says passengers landing from Middle East, South Africa and Europe need to be sent directly to institutional quarantine. Once such flyer tests Covid positive, he or she will be sent to special ward for genome sequencing. “Guideline clearly says after NIV report, they can go home when RT-PCR is negative. Minimum 14-day hospital stay is required. If NIV report is positive, another 14-day hospital stay would be required from that day onwards. This has been clarified to the medical college,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/if-covid-ve-all-suspects-of-new-strain-to-be-in-hospital-dmer/articleshow/80076832.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 3, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Regulator nixes extra tariff hike sought by DIAL||NEW DELHI: The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority (AERA) has for now saved passengers and airlines from a steep increase in tariffs at IGI Airport that would have made flying in and out of Delhi Airport more expensive. Headed by retired IAS officer B S Bhullar, the regulatory agency has pointed out Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL) has “over-collected revenues (beyond its) entitlement by Rs 5,721 crore (earlier)…. This surplus collection needs to be considered for recovery from the airport operator.” DIAL had requested viability gap funding for the third control period (till March 31, 2024) of Rs 3,538 crore to meet cash shortfall of the same amount during this time due to reduced pandemic time air travel. Additionally, the operator had sought to charge Rs 200 and Rs 300 from each departing domestic and international passenger, respectively, due to the Covid crisis. “AERA is not inclined to consider the issues raised by DAIL at this stage…. Given the fact that the projected over-recovery (after March 31, 2024) is expected to be substantial at around Rs 1,267 crore, any additional cash support in form of (the sought additional) increase in tariff would mean a higher over-recovery in the later years. Hence providing additional tariff at this stage would make the process of recover difficult in future,” the B S Bhullar-headed AERA order says. It goes on to add that the pending proposal for additional hike sought by DIAL “is unfair to airport users as having already over-paid in previous years and rather than being benefited from adjustment of this amount (users) would have to bear additional burden.” The sought and denied tariff hike would “worsen sustainability of airlines who are expected to post record losses” and, in turn, “adversely affect the airport.” “In case of airport users, the (sought additional hike) will lead to uneven burden on passengers. Airport user travelling currently may have to bear the burden while airport user at later date is compensated when tariff is lowered when the additional tariff is recovered/clawed back,” the order says, adding that it is important to keep charges low to ensure the revival of overall air travel after the pandemic. AERA has allowed DIAL only levy an additional fee of Rs 65.98 (taxes extra) from February 1 to March 31, 2021, on each departing passenger as compensation towards a fuel charge on airlines that was disallowed last January. This charge per departing passenger will be Rs 53, Rs 52.56 and 51.97 in FY 2022 (April 1, 2021-March 31, 2022), FY 2023 and FY 2024, (taxes extra) respectively. DIAL is now learnt to be examining what step it should take like going in for an appeal to a tribunal after the AERA order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-regulator-nixes-extra-tariff-hike-sought-by-dial/articleshow/80078560.cms||Saurabh Sinha
January 3, 2021||Noida||Greater Noida to get 60m-wide link to Jewar airport||GREATER NOIDA: As it gears up to hand over the Noida International Airport site to the concessionaire, YEIDA is going all out to create infrastructure to ensure seamless connectivity in the region. On the cards is the development of a 60m-wide road to connect Greater Noida with the airport site, officials said. The Yamuna Expressway Authority, which had earlier built a 30m-wide stretch along the expressway, has already floated multiple tenders to start work on the road that will run parallel to the Yamuna Expressway between Greater Noida and Rabupura. However, YEIDA has to acquire land from local farmers for this road. “We have floated tenders for the construction of the 60m-wide road. This 4.1km-long road will act as a vital link for upcoming industrial clusters in sectors 21, 28 and 29. A lot of commuters will use the stretch in the coming years once these clusters are functional,” said YEIDA CEO Arun Vir Singh. The Authority, officials said, has set aside about Rs 6 crore to construct the road and is acquiring land chunks from the local villagers. “The Yamuna Expressway will be used for long-distance commuting and those coming to the YEIDA city. But internal movement will happen through the 60m-wide road,” said another official. In the past, the Authority had constructed the main carriageway that extends up to 30km along the Yamuna Expressway. However, the road ends at Rabupura and further connection to the airport site is needed. The said 4.1km-long stretch will provide further connectivity and will also act as the primary route for YEIDA’s big-ticket projects such as Film City, Medicinal Device Park, MSME, Handicraft, Apparel and Toy Park. It will also act as the link to the airport site from Yamuna Expressway via the interchange. “YEIDA is trying to acquire land from the villagers to commence work on the interchange and loops. The concessionaire has asked Authority officials to get the road ready before it commences work since a wide road would be required during the construction work,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/60m-road-will-link-greater-noida-with-airport-site/articleshow/80077820.cms||Shalabh
January 3, 2021||World||US Congress slams China’s LAC hostility||WASHINGTON: A bipartisan Congressional provision condemning China's aggression towards India has become a law as US Congress overrode President Donald Trump's veto on the $740 billion defence policy bill, which among other things, included calling out the Chinese government for its actions along the LAC. The National Defence Authorisation Act 2021, which became a law on Friday after Congress overrode Trump's veto, included a resolution urging China to end its military aggression towards India along the LAC. Trump on December 23 vetoed the NDAA, which had bipartisan support, arguing it had provisions that would damage national security. ‘Chinese aggression unacceptable, support & solidarity with India’As Congress dealt a humiliating blow to Trump in his last days in office, Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi said: "Through today's vote in the Senate, Congress has made the NDAA into law, including elements of my resolution calling on China to end its military aggression towards India and others in the broader Indo-Pacific region." The US House of Representatives and the Senate on December 15 passed the $740 billion NDAA, which included key components of Krishnamoorthi's resolution language urging the Chinese government to end its military aggression against India along LAC. Krishnamoorthi said, "The Chinese military's aggression along the LAC with India and elsewhere is unacceptable, and the passage into law of this legislation sends a clear message of support to India and our other partners as we enter New Year." Expressing "significant concern" over the continued military aggression by China along the border with India, the NDAA says China "should work with" India toward de-escalating the situation along the LAC through existing diplomatic mechanisms and refrain from attempting to settle disputes through coercion or force. Attempts by China to advance baseless territorial claims, including those in the South China Sea, are inconsistent with international law, says the bill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-congress-slams-chinas-lac-hostility/articleshow/80078559.cms||---
January 3, 2021||India||US Congress slams China’s LAC hostility||WASHINGTON: A bipartisan Congressional provision condemning China's aggression towards India has become a law as US Congress overrode President Donald Trump's veto on the $740 billion defence policy bill, which among other things, included calling out the Chinese government for its actions along the LAC. The National Defence Authorisation Act 2021, which became a law on Friday after Congress overrode Trump's veto, included a resolution urging China to end its military aggression towards India along the LAC. Trump on December 23 vetoed the NDAA, which had bipartisan support, arguing it had provisions that would damage national security. ‘Chinese aggression unacceptable, support & solidarity with India’As Congress dealt a humiliating blow to Trump in his last days in office, Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi said: "Through today's vote in the Senate, Congress has made the NDAA into law, including elements of my resolution calling on China to end its military aggression towards India and others in the broader Indo-Pacific region." The US House of Representatives and the Senate on December 15 passed the $740 billion NDAA, which included key components of Krishnamoorthi's resolution language urging the Chinese government to end its military aggression against India along LAC. Krishnamoorthi said, "The Chinese military's aggression along the LAC with India and elsewhere is unacceptable, and the passage into law of this legislation sends a clear message of support to India and our other partners as we enter New Year." Expressing "significant concern" over the continued military aggression by China along the border with India, the NDAA says China "should work with" India toward de-escalating the situation along the LAC through existing diplomatic mechanisms and refrain from attempting to settle disputes through coercion or force. Attempts by China to advance baseless territorial claims, including those in the South China Sea, are inconsistent with international law, says the bill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/us-congress-slams-chinas-lac-hostility/articleshow/80078563.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: At 494, lowest daily Covid cases in over 7 months||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded the lowest daily rise in over seven months, with 494 fresh Covid-19 cases and 14 fatalities in the past 24 hours. However, the positivity rate remained unchanged from the 0.73% on Friday. Delhi’s infection tally has now risen to over 6.26 lakh, with 10,561 total deaths recorded. Health minister Satyendar Jain, on Saturday tweeted that the positivity rate has been below one per cent for the past 11 days. “Less than 500 cases in the city for the first time in seven months, since May 17. Positivity rate reduced to 0.73% from 15.2% on Nov 7. The rate has been less than 1% for last 11 days. Active cases reduced to 5,342 from 44,456 on Nov 13. Though the third wave is going down, be careful and observe all precautions,” Jain tweeted. From December 21 to 23, the daily case count had been below the 1,000-mark. On December 21, 803 cases were reported, 939 on December 22 and 871 on December 23. However, on December 24, 1,063 cases were recorded, dropping again to 758 on December 25 and 655 on December 26. On December 27, 757 cases were recorded, while on December 28, the count was 564— the lowest in the past five months. On December 29 and 30, the city recorded 703 and 677 cases, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-at-494-lowest-daily-covid-cases-in-over-7-months/articleshow/80078573.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Delhi||Drugs gang uses 'Covid duty' sticker, two arrested in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The Crime Branch on Saturday busted a syndicate transporting drugs in the guise of medical equipment in vehicles bearing "On Covid Duty" stickers. Two people have been arrested and contraband worth over Rs 3.5 crore seized. According to ACP Shibesh Singh, 950 kilograms of marijuana has been seized, along with the vehicle used in the crime. The bust, cops claim, is the biggest seizure of cannabis in the capital in the last one year. The arrested men have been identified as Chandan Shah (30) from Nangloi, and Kishan Deo Ray (65) from Bihar's Patna. "Crime Branch received a tip-off about a smuggler's movements and mounted surveillance. The team was informed that the contraband was being ferried in the garb of transporting Covid-related equipment to dodge checking," said Bhisham Singh, DCP (Crime). A raid was conducted at a house in Nangloi and the two suspects were arrested and the drugs seized. Probe revealed the gang procured cannabis from Odisha and brought them to Delhi via tempo and trucks, which were ferrying other goods. The accused disclosed that he had come in contact with a suspect named Munna from Ganjam in Odisha, who lured him into the business promising big money. "Ray started supplying ganja with Chandan after procuring it from Munna and selling it to distributors in Delhi," DCP Singh added. In order to avoid the attention of law-enforcement agencies, the accused put a sticker on the vehicle, which read "Covid Supply Essential Service". Delhi has emerged as the third biggest consumer of cannabis as per a report prepared by a Berlin-based data firm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/drugs-gang-uses-covid-duty-sticker-two-arrested-in-delhi/articleshow/80078576.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Festive season lifts GST kitty 7% higher in December 2020 than 2019||MUMBAI: The revival of GST collections since Diwali continued till the New Year with the December receipts in the state 7% higher than the same month in 2019. The state had received Rs 16,529.5 crore worth of GST in December 2019 and collected Rs 17,699 crore in the month in 2020. The receipts for the month were also the highest in 2020. GST is the main revenue earner for the state government. Maharashtra’s GST collections are the highest in the country. Since GST is a consumptionbased tax, it reflects the purchasing power in the economy. “The rise in GST receipts reflects economic recovery and the release of pent-up demand, which we also saw in June when the lockdown started opening. Also, festive sales since October pushed up collections,” said a senior official. The nationwide drive against evaders also pushed up GST receipts, officials say. The state’s GST collections are still 16.7% lower in the ninemonth span between April and December than in 2019. The gap in collections is narrowing though. By the end of October, there was a 32% gap in GST collections between 2019 and 2020. The gap between the state’s GST collection between April and December 2019 and 2020 was Rs 22,897 crore. In 2019, the state had collected Rs 1,37,095 crore between April and December. Last year, it has collected Rs 1,14,198 crore during the same period. GST includes SGST, CGST, IGST and cess. Data shows that SGST collections in the state were lowest in April and May during the peak of the lockdown. The collections were 81.3% lower than in 2019 during the month of April and 47.6% lower in May. Collections revived with easing of the lockdown in June but dipped once again in July and August. The receipts revived in October and by December SGST collections are 3% higher than during the same month in 2019. A presentation by the state finance department to the cabinet in September had highlighted concerns about GST collections. “The contraction in GST collections reflects the weakness in Maharashtra’s economy,” the presentation said. It predicted a contraction in the state’s economic growth with the GSDP growth expected to shrink 7.4% between October-December and slide further to -16.7% in January-March 2021. The presentation pointed out unemployment would be major hindrance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-festive-season-lifts-gst-kitty-7-higher-in-december-2020-than-2019/articleshow/80078579.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
January 3, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra: Festive season lifts GST kitty 7% higher in December 2020 than 2019||MUMBAI: The revival of GST collections since Diwali continued till the New Year with the December receipts in the state 7% higher than the same month in 2019. The state had received Rs 16,529.5 crore worth of GST in December 2019 and collected Rs 17,699 crore in the month in 2020. The receipts for the month were also the highest in 2020. GST is the main revenue earner for the state government. Maharashtra’s GST collections are the highest in the country. Since GST is a consumptionbased tax, it reflects the purchasing power in the economy. “The rise in GST receipts reflects economic recovery and the release of pent-up demand, which we also saw in June when the lockdown started opening. Also, festive sales since October pushed up collections,” said a senior official. The nationwide drive against evaders also pushed up GST receipts, officials say. The state’s GST collections are still 16.7% lower in the ninemonth span between April and December than in 2019. The gap in collections is narrowing though. By the end of October, there was a 32% gap in GST collections between 2019 and 2020. The gap between the state’s GST collection between April and December 2019 and 2020 was Rs 22,897 crore. In 2019, the state had collected Rs 1,37,095 crore between April and December. Last year, it has collected Rs 1,14,198 crore during the same period. GST includes SGST, CGST, IGST and cess. Data shows that SGST collections in the state were lowest in April and May during the peak of the lockdown. The collections were 81.3% lower than in 2019 during the month of April and 47.6% lower in May. Collections revived with easing of the lockdown in June but dipped once again in July and August. The receipts revived in October and by December SGST collections are 3% higher than during the same month in 2019. A presentation by the state finance department to the cabinet in September had highlighted concerns about GST collections. “The contraction in GST collections reflects the weakness in Maharashtra’s economy,” the presentation said. It predicted a contraction in the state’s economic growth with the GSDP growth expected to shrink 7.4% between October-December and slide further to -16.7% in January-March 2021. The presentation pointed out unemployment would be major hindrance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/maharashtra-festive-season-lifts-gst-kitty-7-higher-in-december-2020-than-2019/articleshow/80078684.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
January 3, 2021||Delhi||1 lakh people to get vaccine every day in Delhi: Satyendar Jain||NEW DELHI: Health minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said 1 lakh people would be vaccinated every day in Delhi after the vaccination drive starts. The minister reviewed the dry run of the Covid vaccination process at the Daryaganj dispensary and stated that the Covid-19 vaccine shots would be given free of cost to people in Delhi. "Preparations have been done for the rollout of the vaccine, from storage to the application. 1,000 vaccination booths will be set up across the city. There are three types of centres-government hospitals, private hospitals and dispensaries. The purpose of conducting the dry run at three different types of centres was to review the system set up in each. The system is flawless," Jain said adding that "initially vaccination will be rolled out to healthcare and frontline workers, along with people over the age of 50 or with comorbidity." Each of the 1,000 booths will not give Covid shots to more than 100 people in a day. "We have set up monitoring stations at all locations. A total of 10 patients will be admitted at a time following all norms of social distancing. When the vaccination is applied, the person will be put under observation for 30 minutes. Every centre has been linked to a hospital. Most of them, though, are hospitals themselves. In case any patient shows any kind of discomfort, an emergency room has been set up. The patient will be sent to nearby hospitals, if need be," Jain said while talking to reporters. More than 650 vaccination booths have been earmarked at various health facilities across 11 districts. In some major government hospitals and private hospitals, multiple vaccination booths will be established. In Lok Nayak Hospital, five vaccination booths are planned, while in dispensaries and other small facilities like mohalla clinics, only a couple of booths will be located. A vaccination booth requires a large space because according to the norms, three separate rooms have to be earmarked-one for verification of the beneficiaries, second for vaccination and third for 30 minutes observation of beneficiaries after they get the Covid shot for side effects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/1-lakh-people-to-get-vaccine-every-day-in-delhi-satyendar-jain/articleshow/80078586.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Delhi||'Severe' air dips a little on Day 2 in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The capital began the New Year on Friday with the air quality in the "severe" range. Delhi's air quality on Saturday, too, remained in the "severe" category. Track the pollution level in your cityMet officials, however, said relief is around the corner, with Saturday's spell of rain expected to help settle pollutants. Delhi is also likely to record light showers on Sunday and Monday, IMD stated. The city's air quality had worsened over the past 24 hours, deteriorating to a reading of 443 (severe) on CPCB's air quality index (AQI), as compared to a reading of 441 (severe) on Friday. The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), a body under the Union ministry of earth sciences, said surface winds were easterly to north-easterly and moderate at present. However, wind speed was expected to pick up, owing to western disturbance influencing the region. "The condition is likely to improve by Sunday as fresh western disturbance is starting to affect the region, leading to relatively faster surface winds speed, better ventilation and moderate probability of rain. These meteorological combinations are likely to bring significant improvement to the current AQI in spite of colder temperature and relatively shallow boundary layer," SAFAR noted in its daily report. It forecasts the AQI to improve to "very poor" by Sunday, "poor" by January 4 and may even touch "moderate" by January 5. The forecasting body has, however, warned that a drizzle may trigger secondary particulate formation under colder temperatures, but the probability is low. Last year too, Delhi's first two days of the New Year had the air quality in the "severe" category. While Delhi recorded an AQI of 437 on January 1, 2020, it was 417 on January 2, 2020. An AQI between 101 and 200 is considered "moderate", while between 201 and 300 is "poor", between 301 and 400 "very poor" and "severe" when the index is between 401 and 500, according to the CPCB. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said wind speeds were expected to pick up by Saturday evening, helping in dispersal of pollutants. "Wind speed is expected to pick up by Sunday, with light rain predicted during the day and on Monday, which may further help control pollution," Srivastava added. Based on directions issued by the Commission on Air Quality in NCR, CPCB had on December 23 directed Delhi Pollution Control Committee and state pollution control boards of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, and Rajasthan to shut down all hot mix plants and stone crushers until January 2, 2021. It had also directed for an increase in the frequency of sprinkling, mechanised cleaning of roads and dust mitigation measures to be put into place. An extension of this ban is unlikely, owing to the improvement forecast for the next few days, officials claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/severe-air-dips-a-little-on-day-2-in-delhi/articleshow/80078587.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Minimum temperature goes up by 6°C, hailstorm alert for Monday||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded light showers on Saturday along with a temporary respite from the biting cold. While most of the day saw an overcast sky, the minimum temperature on Saturday was recorded at 7° C, a significant increase from Friday's minimum of 1.1°C - the lowest of the season. Both the maximum and minimum temperature are expected to rise further over the next two days, with the IMD forecasting light rain for Sunday and light to moderate showers on Monday. The forecasting body, meanwhile, has issued an "orange alert" for Monday, owing to chances of hailstorm activity and moderate showers. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre in the capital, said 'peak' activity was expected on January 4, with parts of Delhi also likely to see hailstorms. "Wind speeds will pick up from Sunday, touching 30 km/hr in some areas," Srivastava said, adding that hailstorms were expected in many parts of northern India. The maximum temperature on Saturday was 19.5 degrees Celsius. IMD forecasts both the maximum and minimum to rise by around two degrees over the next two days. "A western disturbance leads to an increase in temperature as cloudy conditions trap more heat," Srivastava added. Safdarjung observatory - Delhi's base station - recorded 1.2mm of rainfall till 5.30pm on Saturday. Lodhi Road and Najafgarh stations recorded 1.2mm and 1mm of rainfall, respectively, during the same period, while Ridge and Aya Nagar recorded "trace" amounts. The lowest minimum temperature was recorded at Lodhi Road - at 6.6 degrees Celsius - while it was as high as 10.4 degrees Celsius at Najafgarh. Forecast for Sunday shows light rain and thundershowers, accompanied with gusty winds at a speed of 20-30 km/hr. "The maximum and minimum would be around 20 and 8 degrees Celsius, respectively, for Sunday," said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/minimum-temperature-goes-up-by-6c-hailstorm-alert-for-monday/articleshow/80078594.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: BMC can inoculate 1.3 lakh health workers in 2 weeks||MUMBAI: It will take the BMC’s health cadre only two weeks to give the first shot of the Covid-19 vaccine to all 1.3 lakh healthcare workers in the city, said BMC health officials on Saturday. Around 1,500 vaccinators will work in two shifts in 60 vaccination booths spread across eight municipal hospitals for the first phase of vaccination which is meant for healthcare workers. For the second shot of the vaccine, the health workers will have to come back after 28 days; they will get the jab between the 28th and 30th day. “If we feel the need for more vaccination centres, we have identified eight more municipal hospitals that can join in,” said BMC additional commissioner Suresh Kakani. Kakani and senior health officials visited each of the eight hospitals to take stock of the readiness for the mass vaccination drives that are likely to start soon after the drug regulators give the go-ahead for the vaccines. 8 more hosps can be roped in for vax driveThe city’s vaccination booths will be spread across eight civic hospitals in the first phase of vaccination, but the BMC has shortlisted eight more municipal hospitals that could join in if the need for more vaccination centres arises. While BMC’s four medical schools – KEM, Sion, Nair and Cooper Hospitals – have 10 vaccine rooms each and will be able to vaccinate 1,000 people each every day, the four suburban hubs at Bhabha, Rajawadi, V N Desai and Balasaheb Ambedkar Hospitals have five rooms each and will manage around 500 daily. “We are also training more healthcare workers as vaccinators as we may need over 5,000 of them for the next phase of the mass vaccinations,” he said. At KEM Hospital in Parel, the 10-room vaccine centre has been created on the second floor of the only multistoreyed building on the campus. “We held the clinical trials for 101 volunteers of the Oxford vaccine here. We have, however, made the area more spacious and plan to replace the cots with chairs,” said KEM Hospital dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh. One of the hospital’s multiple ICUs is located opposite this vaccination centre. At Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar, a five-room vaccination centre with separate entrance and exit has been created near the main gate. The ice-lined refrigerator recently sent by the state government is placed in one of the rooms and stores tens of thousands of doses. “We have over 100 trained vaccinators here,” said Rajawadi medical superintendent Dr Vidya Thakur. While healthcare workers will be covered in the first phase of the vaccination, the second phase will include frontline workers from essential services such as the police and transport officials, among others. The third phase will include senior citizens and people with chronic diseases. “While data about the healthcare workers has already been fed to the centre’s Co-Win software, each of the essential services is compiling a list of its officials and sending to us,” said a senior public health department official. Work on compiling the third list hasn’t yet begun, though the BMC may use data drawn from the ‘My family My Responsibility’ campaign where every household in the city was surveyed. Dr Rahul Pandit, who heads the intensive care unit of Fortis Hospital, Mulund, and is a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force, said, “Vaccinating such a huge population in a diverse geography is a challenge, but we have a strong national pediatric immunization programme in place that should help with the vaccine deployment.” He, however, advised that some people who have severe drug allergies (leading to anaphylaxis reaction) and those with compromised immune systems need to first take approval from their doctors before they take the vaccine shot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-bmc-can-inoculate-1-3-lakh-health-workers-in-2-weeks/articleshow/80078591.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 3, 2021||Mumbai||Kanjur centre will be ready in a week, store 50 lakh vials: BMC||MUMBAI: Roughly 10 lakh vials of Covid-19 vaccine can be stored in the city’s storage facility at the moment, said BMC officials. As the battle against Covid-19 will involve vaccination of most of Mumbai’s 1.4 crore population, the BMC has just begun work on creating a mega-facility that can store over 50 lakh vials in its health centre in Kanjurmarg. Spread over 5,000 square feet on the first floor of the Parivar building, it will be known as the Regional Vaccine Storage Centre. “The centre should be done within a week,” BMC additional commissioner Suresh Kakani said. He said the team involved in creating the walkin freezer and walk-in coolers at the Kanjurmarg centre believes up to a crore doses can be stored here. On Saturday, while four districts in the state had a “dry run” to check preparedness for the Covid-19 vaccination drive, the BMC conducted its own check. Apart from visiting each of the eight hospitals where vaccination for healthcare workers will begin, the team led by Kakani also visited the Kanjurmarg facility. The fivestorey Kanjurmag building is BMC’s health centre. Each of the eight hospitals have an ice-line refrigerator that was sent by the state gover nment. “We also have storage facility in the BMC public health department’s office in Parel,” Kakani said. “We want to create a facility that can even store vaccines that need a lower temperature.” Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of the BMC-run KEM Hospital in Parel, said that there was adequate storage facility for the Covid-19 vaccines in the city. Each of the 17 ice-line refrigerators, for instance, has a capacity of 1,000 litres, while a single vaccine dosage is 0.5 ml. “We are now focusing on maintaining the cold chain in the last mile of the distribution,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kanjur-centre-will-be-ready-in-a-week-store-50-lakh-vials-bmc/articleshow/80078609.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Visakhapatnam||ITDA push to make eco-sensitive Lammasingi plastic-free||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) and local administration have decided to impose a ban on plastic in ecologically sensitive Lammasingi and gradually work towards making it a plastic-free zone in the district. Littering by tourists and traders has led to an increase in plastic waste in the region. Officials from ITDA, MPDO and gram panchayat, district tourism officer, villagers and other stakeholders held a meeting earlier this week at Lammasingi to discuss various problems and solutions. Speaking to TOI, Dr Venkateswar Salijamala, project officer of Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA-Paderu) said, “More than 60% of the waste generated in the Agency areas is plastic. Therefore, we have planned to ban plastic or polythene cover usage across all shandies (village markets) as well as sale of plastic water sachets and single-use plastic, not only in Lammasingi but wherever there are village shandies in the Agency areas.” “Once these two items are curbed, plastic waste can be minimised. We have also asked the gram panchayat officials to impose fines on tourists and shops or commercial establishments found flouting the ban,” he said. The plastic ban will be imposed during Ugadi in March-April. Meanwhile, ITDA will offer alternatives such as cloth bags stitched by self-help groups, which traders and people can use instead of plastic covers, said Dr Venkateswar. Environmentalist Sohan Hatangadi, who has been generating awareness on littering in Lammasingi also attended the meeting. “We discussed curbing plastic pollution in the area, regulating operational hours of the tents and commercial establishment, problems related to parking, regular collection of garbage and providing adequate dustbins in the area,” he added. Another problem hurting residents of Lammasingi is the mushrooming of ‘tent tourism’. Home to a largely agricultural community, tent tourism at Lammasingi has proved detrimental for the ecologically-sensitive hilly terrain. Tourism businesses, run by business owners from the plains, have allegedly taken over land by paying frugal amounts to tribals. Now, the lands are being bulldozed, their top soil eroded, tubewells dug up, area heavily littered with liquor bottles and plastic. Speaking to TOI, Daniel Kumar a local youth said, “Even though ours is scheduled area, outsiders get priority in running the tourism business here causing inconvenience to villagers. They pay a couple of lakhs to tribals who own the land on the roadside and take possession of the land on lease. Hundreds of visitors drop in around midnight.” “Rash driving, drinking, engaging in brawls and playing loud music, these things really disturb the sense of peace and safety of villagers. Tent tourism has led to an increase in air, soil and sound pollution in winter,” Kumar added. Chetti Shankar Rao, chairman of Tajangi Reservoir Adventure Tourism Association, said, “While tourism is booming these days, all its benefitting is businessmen from outside, who are setting up tents without the least concern for the environment. Locals hardly get any employment. Meanwhile, visitors destroy nature and trespass on coffee plantations. We need the government’s help to put in place a proper waste management system in Lammasingi.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/itda-push-to-make-eco-sensitive-lammasingi-plastic-free/articleshow/80075942.cms||Sulogna Mehta
January 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru centres take extra hour||BENGALURU: Officials had set a two-hour time frame, from 9am to 11am, for completing the Covid-19 vaccination dry run on Saturday. But the exercise dragged on for nearly three hours at some vaccination session sites within BBMP limits. At the Vidyapeeta urban primary health centre, one of 16 sites selected for the drill in Karnataka, 10 healthcare workers, who acted as would-be vaccine receivers, were still waiting for identity verification at 11.30am. The drill, designed to test micro-planning of the vaccination programme, faced delays because of VIP visits, ending shortly before 12.30pm. The situation was no different at the Kamakshipalya PHC, where teams wrapped up the exercise only at noon. CoWIN software, developed by IIT Delhi for monitoring of vaccine delivery among prioritised population groups, worked as expected. It also tracks the temperature at which vaccines are safely stored at all primary health centres and sends messages to beneficiaries and vaccinators about the inoculation schedule. “There were no glitches in the software or back-end support. But VIP visits during the dry run caused some delays. Our preparedness related to cold storage, logistics and manpower was proper,” said a health officer at the Vidyapeeta PHC. Twenty-five health workers played the part of vaccine receivers at each session site during Saturday’s exercise. During actual vaccination, every site will inoculate 100 registered healthcare workers a day. The frontline staff will get shots first as they are among priority groups. Health minister K Sudhakar visited Yelahanka General Hospital, which also hosted the drill. He said that the efforts were aimed at training staff, adding that Covid-19 vaccines were expected to be available later this month. Some experts from the technical advisory committee on Covid-19 also visited a site. They observed that the vaccinator used his/her experience to speak to healthcare workers instead of quoting from the SOP. “Ideally, a copy of the SOP should be with vaccinators and the same must be explained to beneficiaries,” said an expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-centres-take-extra-hour/articleshow/80078610.cms||Sunitha Rao R
January 3, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Vizag outskirts turn into hub of housing projects||VISAKHAPATNAM: In the hope that Vizag will get the best infrastructure once it becomes the executive capital of Andhra Pradesh, the city seems to be growing. Realtors are now busy building affordable housing on the city outskirts and are expecting to attract the middle-income segment there. Flats in Vizag city are becoming costlier by the day and are no more within reach of the middle-income group. Builders are looking for new locations on the city outskirts for new housing projects. Most new affordable housing projects are coming up at Anandapuram, Bheemili, Tagarapuvalasa, Bhogapuram in Vizianagaram and Kurmanapalem. CREDAI-Vizag president, B Srinivasa Rao, said that a majority of builders believe that Vizag will get more flyovers, metro rail connectivity and other transit systems that will significantly reduce travel time between Tagarapuvalasa and Vizag. Builders further believe that prices on the outskirts will be within reach of middle-income group. Over 10,000 units are coming up on the city outskirts and response from buyers has been encouraging, added Srinivasa Rao. Prices of 900–1,000 square feet flats in these new housing projects on the outskirts range between Rs 28–30 lakh. In some projects, prices are a bit higher, but builders have been announcing offers to attract buyers, said K Ramachandra Rao, a builder. CREDAI members said that with Vizag set to become the executive capital of Andhra Pradesh, people from neighbouring districts and even some people from Hyderabad are enquiring about new housing projects in the city. “In the present circumstances, it is difficult to buy a flat at Madhurawada, Sagarnagar, Yendada as one has to spend over Rs 50-60 lakh. Hence, we have paid advance to book a flat on the outskirts. We expect road connectivity to improve once Vizag gets capital status,” said K Siva Kumar, who recently bought a flat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-outskirts-turn-into-hub-of-housing-projects/articleshow/80075948.cms||Nalla.Babu
January 3, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Action against 33 buildings in Vizag||Visakhapatnam: The fire wing of GVMC has issued legal prosecution proceedings against 33 buildings through the director general of fire services in 2020. GVMC released data pertaining to NOCs and show-cause notices in 2020 on Saturday. According to GVMC officials, the civic body served notices to 209 buildings through form number 9, 10 and 12. After representatives of 56 buildings failed to furnish an explanation or take corrective action, GVMC gave notices to these buildings through form number 14. GVMC regional fire officer said that GVMC issued legal prosecution proceedings against 33 buildings to those who did not respond even 60 days after notices were served under form number 14. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/action-against-33-buildings-in-vizag/articleshow/80075955.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Woman resists attack, thrown off moving local||MUMBAI: A 25-year-old woman, on her way to meet her fiancé at Panvel, was sexually harassed and thrown off a running Harbour local on Friday. She was spotted in time by railway gangmen, who lifted her onto the next local, ensuring she got medical aid soon. GRP has formed teams to track down the culprit. The woman had boarded an empty ladies coach of a Panvel-bound local at 10.40am from Wadala.“The accused, in the adjacent handicapped compartment, noticed she was alone and entered her coach as the train started. He grabbed her and demanded sexual favours, but she fought back,” said an officer. Woman’s arm fractured, got bruises on face in attackInfuriated, he dragged her to the door and pushed her off the train between Wadala and GTB Nagar stations. She fractured her right arm and got bruises on her face. Some gangmen rushed to her rescue. They gestured to a passing CSMT-bound local to halt, spoke to the motorman and lifted her onto the train, with a request to take her to Wadala station and inform the station manager. At Wadala, GRP personnel took her to Sion hospital. The woman gave a detailed statement to police, along with a description of the accused. She said she had never seen him before and he was in his mid-20s, in jeans and a shirt, and had very short hair. After preliminary treatment, she was shifted to another hospital. A case of attempted murder and molestation has been registered by Wadala GRP, besides provisions of Indian Railway Act. In November 2020, two men were held for molesting and attempting to push a 21-year-old lone woman commuter out of a local at Kasara. The victim fought off the men. In the same month, a 22-year-old woman was molested and robbed by two men in a general compartment between Borivli-Kandivli stations. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-woman-resists-attack-thrown-off-moving-local/articleshow/80078614.cms||Nitasha Natu
January 3, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Ailing royal scion’s wife seeks to be his guardian||MUMBAI: The wife of an ailing descendant of a royal family in Rajasthan has moved the Bombay high court seeking to be appointed as his legal guardian and caretaker of properties inherited by him. Breach Candy resident Rajkumari Ratna Singh (61) has filed the petition in respect of her husband Jai Singh Sisodia (69), who is undergoing rehab at a centre in Vasai. The daughter of former foreign minister, Dinesh Singh, she was thrice Congress MP from Pratapgarh in UP. She joined the BJP in October 2019. Singh’s plea says Sisodia is “an alcoholic, drug addict and has severe medical conditions”. His diabetes and alcoholism have led to loss of sensation in his limbs and he cannot walk without help. It has also led to prostate and bladder cancer and decompensate liver cirrhosis, she said, adding, after he was diagnosed with cancer, he began consuming CBD marijuana oil that rendered him intoxicated and dysfunctional. Royal heir’s actions ruining mental peace, affecting me financially: WifeSingh’s plea states that her husband belongs to a royal family from Pratapgarh in Rajasthan and is a “descendant of the famous Maharana Pratap”. From his mother’s side, she said, he belongs to the royal family of Jamnagar, erstwhile Nawanagar, in Gujarat. Singh said her father-inlaw Ambikapratapsinh Sisodia died in November 2017 and her mother-in-law, Mukunda Kumari, a British national who resides in the UK, suffers from physical ailments due to old age. “There are a number of incidents where the petitioner’s husband sold properties and valuables to buy drugs and alcohol and smokes,” the plea states, adding that due to his actions, she is suffering in terms of mental peace and also the money required to treat him. Sisodia has inherited from his father movable and immovable properties across India and abroad. His father also had mutual funds, fixed deposits, shares, jewellery, paintings, family heirlooms and trusts, among other things. Singh’s petition says in order to safeguard these properties, it is necessary to appoint her legal guardian as her husband is disposing them to fulfil his urge for drugs. Singh’s plea said while “she has sufficient income to maintain the husband at present”, his treatment was likely to cost her a huge sum. Further, she said she also has to maintain herself and her two children. Before Justice Milind Jadhav, assistant government pleader Jyoti Chavan on Friday objected to the petition’s maintainability, saying relief has been sought under the Guardians and Wards Act, which is applicable to minors. She said the state has complete empathy for Singh, but the petition cannot be entertained in this manner. Justice Jadhav concurred, adding that the best recourse is to withdraw the petition and file it afresh under Article 226 which gives the high court wide powers to grant relief. Singh’s advocate Anand Mishra said he will take instructions on the court suggestions and inform at the next date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-ailing-royal-scions-wife-seeks-to-be-his-guardian/articleshow/80078622.cms||Rosy Sequeira
January 3, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Two held in highrise murder case, victim’s mom says no love angle||MUMBAI: Khar police arrested Shree Jogdhankar (22) and Diya Padankar (19) late on Friday for allegedly killing their friend Jhanavi Kukreja (19) on the first day of 2021 during a New Year’s Eve terrace party at a highrise. Kukreja succumbed to severe skull fractures she suffered after the duo allegedly hit her head against the staircase railing on the second floor of Bhagwati Heights in Khar (West) around 1.15am on Friday after a fight broke out between the trio. Police said while the motive is still not clear, they suspect it could be a case of a love triangle gone wrong. The victim’s parents and friends, though, refuted the love triangle theory on Saturday and said she was an intelligent girl who dreamt of a bright career ahead. Her mother has demanded severe punishment for the accused who allegedly forced the victim to join them for the party and killed her an hour into it. The party was organised by a friend who resides in the Khar building. Kukreja lived in Santacruz with her parents and a younger sister. Shree JogdhankarPolice learnt of the incident only at 2.30am, almost an hour after the accused—Wadala resident Jogdhankar and the victim’s childhood friend and neighbour Padankar—committed the alleged crime. Police suspect Jogdhankar and Padankar took “advice from someone” after committing the offence and fled from the building, leaving behind a grievously injured Kukreja, and got themselves admitted to two different hospitals—Jogdhankar at Sion and Padankar at Hinduja—to get treated for injuries they too suffered during their scuffle with the victim. Investigators found out through CCTV that Kukreja and the duo left the party around 1.30am and her body was found in a pool of blood on the second floor around 2.30am by a resident. The friend who had held the party called the police on learning of Kukreja’s death. The victim’s family learnt of her death only at 5am. Kukreja’s parents alleged she bled to death for almost an hour before she was spotted bythe resident. “She left home after celebrating her father’s birthday on December 31,” Kukreja’s mother Niddhi told TOI. Niddhi said she wants justice for her “superintelligent daughter” who secured over 95% in her Class XII and was a psychology student. While Jogdhankar is a student of Dadar Catering College, Padankar is enrolled in a second-year degree college. Niddhi spent almost the entire Saturday at the police station to find the motive for the crime. “Padankar is my daughter’s childhood friend and our neighbour’s daughter. She along with Jogdhankar visited our flat and requested us to allow them to take our daughter for the party. Despite our daughter’s refusal due to the night curfew, they told her they would drop her back in 30 minutes,” Niddhi said. “Not one of her friends at the party came to her rescue. Delay in getting medical assistance cost my child her life. My daughter was not involved with Jogdhankar, who is just a common friend through Padankar. Our lives have been shattered,” she said. Kukreja’s final rites were performed after her body was handed over to her parents following a post-mortem at Cooper Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-two-held-in-highrise-murder-case-victims-mom-says-no-love-angle/articleshow/80078632.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
January 3, 2021||Ranchi||Cybercrime centre shifts to Deoghar, district in top of chart for arrests||Ranchi: At a time when cyber cops are busy tackling criminal activities from the infamous district of Jamtara, a new area — Deoghar district — has emerged as a hotspot of cybercrimes. In 2020, of the total 1,539 cybercriminals arrested across the state, a whopping 692 were held from Deoghar while 240 and 192 were arrested from Jamtara and Giridih, respectively. Ranchi, however, has the highest number of registered cases at 1,326. Dhanbad recorded 401 cases, Hazaribag 365 cases while East Singhbhum and Giridih had figures above 300. Additional director general of police Navin Singh said, “Our arrest figures of 2020 have almost doubled compared to 2019. Deoghar and Jamtara are on the top of the list. Most of the calls related to cybercriminals are being traced to these two districts.” Singh said Jharkhand director general of police M V Rao has asked district police to keep a watch on people acquiring wealth beyond their means and said action will be taken in case they fail to explain the acquisitions. Singh said, “Besides, police have also asked the enforcement directorate to take up investigations of cybercrime cases in order to ensure confiscation of the proceeds of crime. Police are also focusing on proper prosecution to ensure strict punishment for the arrested accused persons. The objective is to make cybercrime unappealing for youths and deter them from getting involved.” He further said, “We have posted IPS probationers as officers in-charge police stations with higher number of cybercrimes for better outcome. We will also try to prevent the use of SIM cards procured on fake documents from neighbouring districts of West Bengal and Bihar.” Meanwhile, Deoghar SP Ashwani Sinha said cybercrime has witnessed a downtrend in the district after a crackdown on criminals in the last three months. He, however, admitted that the district continues to be a sensitive district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cybercrime-centre-shifts-to-deoghar-district-in-top-of-chart-for-arrests/articleshow/80076320.cms||Sanjay Sahay
January 3, 2021||Ranchi||Bokaro stn records highest ever freight load in Dec, earns R74 cr||Bokaro: The Bokaro railway station, the highest revenue earning station of the South Eastern Railways (SER), recorded its highest ever freight load in December 2020 despite the Covid-19, signalling a turnaround in the fortunes of the industries in the steel town. Accordingly, the railways has decided to increase the number of tracks and develop yards soon after, railway officials said on Saturday. The rise in the number of freight trains has also increased the earnings of Bokaro railway station, which is known as one of the highest revenue-generating stations of the SER. The station dispatched 180 freight trains to different parts of the country in December alone. Officials, who were upset with the downturn in business during the Covid-19 lockdown, rejoiced at the rising production and sales of Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) and Dalmia Cement. Bokaro area railway manager Prabhat Prasad said, “In December, BSL has dispatched 134 railway racks including 112 steel coils to seaports and other parts of the India, which is the highest ever in any month.” “This is the highest number of railways racks dispatched from Dalmia till yet. In December, Dalmia dispatched 1 lakh tonne cement through the railways. In ESL Steel Limited, outward freight was less around 8-9, but its inward freight was around 100 in December,” he said. Meanwhile, sources said Bokaro station earned around Rs 74 crore in December alone from freight movement. “The number of trains we sent off, loaded with steel products, pig iron, granulated slag, hard coke and cement in a month, is a record and was achieved for the first time in the history of Bokaro railway station,” Prasad said. Prasad said they are installing four new tracks and developing facilities in the railway yards to decrease turnaround of railway wagons and ensure the improvement of availability of wagons. He informed that there are about 55 railway tracks in Bokaro, of which only three are used for passenger trains while the rest 52 are used by freight trains. The new tracks will be operational by March 31 this year. The railways is also working to improve safety and is installing electronic interlocking in the empty wagons exchange yard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bokaro-stn-records-highest-ever-freight-load-in-dec-earns-r74-cr/articleshow/80076334.cms||Divy Khare
January 3, 2021||Kolkata||Covid vaccine trial run goes off like clockwork at 3 Bengal centres||KOLKATA: An action-packed mock drill lasting two-and-a-half-hours was carried out for the rollout of Covid-19 vaccine at the urban primary health centre (UPHC 4) in Salt Lake under Bidhnnagar Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday. For the first time, healthcare workers in the state got a taste of how vaccination will be done once it is rolled out. Two more sites in Bengal– Madhyamgram UPHC and Amdanga Rural Health Centre — also carried out simultaneous dry runs on Saturday. Even though the dry run kicked off at 9.30am, healthcare workers roped in as ‘dummy beneficiaries’ as well as those picked for specific tasks — vaccinator officer (trained in administering injections), vaccination officers 1, 2 ,3 and 4 for checking/verifying registration status of beneficiaries, crowd management — had reported to the health centre at Duttabad before 8.30am. By 9am, every arrangement was in place. The vaccinator officer, a trained nurse, had taken up her position at the vaccination room and vaccinator officer 3 ensured physical distancing norms were maintained in the queue. Around 9 am, a healthcare worker carrying the dummy vaccine vials reached the spot in a vehicle with an ILR (iced lined refrigerator). The ILR was taken into the vaccination room. Almost immediately, vaccination officer 1 started checking the registration status of the beneficiaries. A list of 25 beneficiaries was put up near the waiting area. These dummy beneficiaries had been registered for the dry run and all were sent text messages on Friday to report at the centre for the vaccination. A little before 9.30 am, the beneficiaries were called into the waiting room in batches. They were let inside after hand-sanitization and thermal-gun check of temeperature. It was manadatory for all to wear masks throughout the exercise. The first beneficiary was called into the vaccination room opposite the waiting room at 9.30 pm sharp, where the vaccinator officer carried out the dummy act of vaccination. The beneficiary was then made to wait in the observation room for 30 minutes before being allowed to leave. The process was repeated for all the beneficiaries. The data on those vaccinated were uploaded immediately after each vaccination in the Co-WIN system. Each got messages within 10 minutes of vaccination that they have been vaccinated successfully. One among the listed beneficiaries did not turn up while one refused to be vaccinated, which, too, were a part of the drill. The procedure ended around 12 noon. Senior health officials under BMC were at the site to oversee the trial run. State health officials including National Health Mission’s (NHM) Bengal mission director Saumitra Mohan and principal health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam visited the site. “The dry run went off smoothly. We are hopeful that we can carry out vaccination in the same way once the rollout happens,” Nigam told newspersons after spending about 20 minutes interacting with the healthcare workers on the issues they faced. The health department will hold a review meeting of the three dry-run sites and suggest rooms for improvement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vaccine-trial-run-goes-off-like-clockwork-at-3-state-centres/articleshow/80078102.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 3, 2021||Kolkata||VB, Alapini Samity caught in room row||SANTINIKETAN: Alapini Samity — a society by and for women dating back to the time of Rabindranath Tagore — is at loggerheads with Visva-Bharati authorities who have allegedly locked up a 400sqft office space of the Samity in the university’s core ashram area. “The room, measuring around 400sqft, is required to accommodate students of Patha Bhavana (the school wing of Visva-Bharati),” the varsity authorities said in a letter sent to Samity members who were asked to vacate the space given to them way back in 1956 by then VB vice chancellor Indira Devi Chowdhurani. “The room is within Patha Bhavana campus. If they approach for an alternative arrangement, it will be considered,” the varsity further said. Samity officials, however, want the Visva-Bharati administration to invite them for talks and till then, they plan to continue their agitation. Back in 1916, women from the Tagore family set up the society in the core ashram area of what is now VB. Later, membership was thrown open to all women in Santiniketan. The Samity was formed at the behest of Tagore’s brother Dwijendranath Tagore. Mrinalini Devi, wife of Rabindranath, and other women of the Tagore household were early members of the Samity. The ongoing trouble over this small room began in December last year when the varsity told the Samity they would have to vacate the space. Samity members refused. On New Year’s Day, the VB authorities locked up the room. This prompted Samity members to launch an agitation. They argue that the room and their Samity are integral to the heritage and tradition of Visva-Bharati and Santiniketan. A Samity official who did not want to be named said, “We will continue our agitation against such high-headedness.” Asked about their reaction to the VB statement that the Samity had not approached the authorities for an alternative, a member said: “It is for the authorities to call us if they want a discussion. We will meanwhile continue to agitate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vb-alapini-samity-caught-in-room-row/articleshow/80078101.cms||Someswar Boral
January 3, 2021||Ranchi||Raising a stink: Chas sweepers on strike, residents made to bear stench||Bokaro: The New Year began on a stinky note for thousands of Chas township residents in Bokaro district with piles of garbage and waste lying unattended after the sweepers went on strike for more than one week. About 280 cleaners and sweepers of the Chas Municipal Corporation (CMC) and its outsourced company, Chas Enviro, went on strike since December 22, demanding payment of wages, provident funds and ESI cards. Talks with representatives of the sweepers with the CMC management two days ago failed to break the ice after the CMC chief executive officer, Shashi Prakash Jha, could not provide written assurance on fulfilling the demands despite giving his nod verbally. Jha has now threatened to take action against Green Enviro and asked it to make alternative arrangements to sweep the township clean. He said, “They are contract workers and despite several discussions, they are refusing to join work. We are in the process of removing them from their contracts and engaged others. We cannot tolerate garbage lying in localities and causing difficulties to the residents. There are 70 sweepers engaged in the door-to-door waste collection under the Chas Enviro and about 210 sweepers and cleaners are under the CMC.” However, Mohan Hadi, who is leading the agitation, said, “We are not going to work until the CMC gives in writing the acceptance of our demands.” Rudra Kumar, a resident of Bhojpur Colony said, “The CMC should do something immediately to clean up the waste littered everywhere.” Sources said 55 tonnes of waste is generated every day in the 35-ward Chas township. The solid waste management plant here is also defunct since the garbage is not collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/raising-a-stink-chas-sweepers-on-strike-residents-made-to-bear-stench/articleshow/80076352.cms||Divy Khare
January 3, 2021||Kolkata||Sourav Ganguly suffers heart attack, stable after angioplasty||KOLKATA: BCCI president and former Team India captain Sourav Ganguly suffered a ‘mild heart attack’ soon after a workout session at the gymnasium in his Behala residence on Saturday morning. He was rushed to Woodlands Hospital in Alipore where he underwent an emergency angioplasty and a stent was implanted in one of his three blocked arteries. According to a seven-member medical board formed for his treatment, Ganguly is stable and will remain under observation for the next 48 hours. The 48-year-old will not require any further surgical intervention immediately, according to Woodlands authorities. “Ganguly felt dizzy after a gym session and consulted his family physician who advised hospitalization,” cardiologist Aftab Khan, a member of the medical board, said. “He reached the hospital within the golden hour which helped us begin treatment on time. Preliminary investigations indicated a card-iac condition and an angiogra-phy was done. It revealed three blockages, including a 90% block in one of the arteries. An angioplasty was done to remove it and a stent has been implanted,” Khan said. Ganguly, doctors said, has ‘triple vessel disease’ which is triggered when the major arteries are choked by plaque. The cricket icon has a family history of ischemic heart disease. His father, Chandidas Ganguly, had passed away in 2013 at the age of 75, following a heart attack. The former cricketer has responded well to the treatment and procedure, said hospital sources. He had tea and biscuits after his angioplasty. CM Mamata Banerjee called on Ganguly at the hospital. “It’s difficult to accept that such a young and fit sportsperson like him could have a condition like this. An angioplasty has been done and the blockage has been removed. He is doing well now and I wish him a speedy recovery. Doctors have done a good job,” said Mamata. Union home minister Amit Shah called up Ganguly’s wife, Dona, to get updates. “Amitji wanted to know his condition and assured every help,” Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said, adding that Shah had asked Dona if she would like to shift him to some other hospital like AIIMS. “All of us are worried about Sourav’s health. I had a word with his brother Snehasish. He said that a stent has already been implanted and two more might need to be implanted. There are good doctors in Kolkata. But in case the family thinks of shifting him, the Centre is ready to provide all assistance,” Ghosh said. Governor Jagdeep Dhankar, too, visited the hospital and expressed relief after meeting a ‘smiling Ganguly’. CPM leader Ashok Bhattacharya, who spoke to Ganguly on Friday, was surprised to get the news. “We had a long discussion on December 30. He called up around 10 pm last night. Who could have thought he has three blockages? A year back, when I had to be implanted a stent, he cheered me up. A year down the line, I am now cheering him up. I am leaving for Kolkata tomorrow,” Bhattacharya said. Trinamul Congress leader Firhad Hakim and cricketer-turned Trinamul leader Laxmi Ratan Shukla, too, visited the hospital to inquire about Ganguly’s health. Past and present cricketers, including Sachin Tendulkar, Virat Kohli, Ajinkya Rahanae, Virender Sehwag among others, took to Twitter to wish the former skipper speedy recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sourav-suffers-heart-attack-stable-after-angioplasty/articleshow/80078100.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
January 3, 2021||Kolkata||Babul Supriyo’s convoy has second accident in two days||HOWRAH/ASANSOL: A day after MP and junior minister Babul Supriyo’s convoy was breached on Friday evening, the vehicles escorting his car met with an accident near Kolkata on Saturday afternoon. Nobody was hurt. Babul was on his way to attend Suvendu Adhikari’s rally in Tamluk. His convoy took National Highway 6 and reached Sandhipur area near Dulagarh, Howrah around 1.45pm. The pilot car suddenly came to a halt, causing the cars behind it to slam their brakes. One of the vehicles was damaged as a result. “After the escort car braked suddenly, my car managed to push to a side and avoid any collision. The cars behind me had to stop suddenly and they dashed the car in front. None were injured,” Babul said. “I did not lodge any complaint. But two consecutive accidents in my convoy in a span of 24 hours is surprising.” On Friday, the minister’s convoy met with an accident near Jamuria when a Bolero car entered the wrong lane and hit the last car. Babul, who was driving, managed to escape the hit. His PSO Arijit sustained leg injury.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/babuls-convoy-has-2nd-accident-in-two-days/articleshow/80078088.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Kolkata||TMC slams ‘misogynistic’ Twitter post by Kailash Vijayvargiya||KOLKATA: Trinamool Congress on Saturday dubbed a Twitter post by BJP’s Bengal observer Kailash Vijayvargiya on Thursday as misogynistic. The post has a photograph of chief minister Mamata Banerjee cooking at a tribal village off Santiniketan and is captioned that she is doing something that she will be five months later. A sarcastic Trinamool MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, who is a doctor-turned-politician, said: “If you are a woman and you have aspirations to join active politics, remember, our country is plagued with misogynists from BJP like these who plan to send women back to the kitchen. Can’t imagine the lack of respect that women in Kailash Vijayvargiya family must be facing!” State women and child welfare minister Sashi Panja, also a doctor-turned-politician, said: “BJP shows their true colours again! This is what they think of the only sitting female CM in India. No wonder our women are not safe under their rule! Before your misogyny strikes again, remind yourselves of the chaiwala who’s now your boss!” Actor-MP Nusrat Jahan was also very vocal against it. “Kailash Vijayvargiya’s comments are outright misogynistic! BJP crossed the mark by insulting every single woman who cooks, provides for families, and has aspirations. Mamata Banerjee is the only female CM in India at present and once again, BJP targets and abuses her,” she said, dubbing it as “shameful”. Agnimitra Paul, state president, BJP Mahila Morcha, argued: “Crores of women in this country cook food for their family and feed them. How can that be a derogatory thing? Instead it is an honour for a woman who takes care of the entire family? Moreover, who said that cooking is restricted to women only? Men also cook. How can the statement be misogynist? However, we do not expect any respect for women from the TMC. Seems the party has gone into a delirium and lost the basic sense.”  Banerjee, while returning to Kolkata from Bolpur, had stopped for half an hour at Ballavpurdanga village to speak to locals, lend a hand in cooking and listen to their problems. Vijayvargiya had shared a photograph of this visit. The tweet has several thousand retweets and likes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-slams-misogynistic-twitter-post-by-vijayvargiya/articleshow/80078091.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Mumbai||In medical crisis during Covid, many took charter flights for first time||MUMBAI: While the pandemic debilitated airlines, for the aircraft charter industry, the year 2020 brought along an assorted mix of first-time charter flight flyers. These were passengers who had never flow in a charter flight, people who didn’t know that unlike airline jets, you need to duck to get into most of the smaller charter aircraft as these don’t have 'stand-up cabins', people who found queue-less security counters in exclusive charter terminals where the only passengers around were those in their group. But unlike the boom in first-time flyers that low cost carriers brought along a decade ago, most of the first-time charter flight flyers are also likely to be one-time passengers who might never board a charter flight again. Like Shiwali Chaudhary, who flew with her husband and nine-year old daughter from Mumbai to Jaipur in May. "I was eight months pregnant. We don’t have relatives in Mumbai and with lockdown, no domestic help too. Since my condition was critical with probability of an early delivery, we charted a flight to my parent’s home,’’ said Chaudhary adding that a senior doctor was on board the air ambulance to help her with posture, breathing etc. during the flight. Families pooling together for exclusive flightsThe charter company that flew Chaudhary flew about 20 pregnant passengers from April to December. It has now tapped into this niche market within first-time flyers. Mandar Bharde of MAB Aviation, a non-scheduled aircraft operator, which launched exclusive air ambulance charter flights for pregnant women last week said: "We fly a gynaecologist on board, with music and in-flight dining tailor-made for the passenger. These charter flights take off in weather that don’t make for a bumpy ride.” It cost anywhere between Rs 6-10 lakh per flight. He said that they received 25 firm bookings to fly pregnant women right in the first week of launch itself. It’s a niche market that exists only due to the pandemic. "We get queries from husbands, fathers. Most of these pregnant passengers don’t have any medical complications. But their families don’t want them going to crowded airports to board crowded airline flights. In Mumbai, charter flight passengers either board from general aviation (GA) exclusive terminal in Kalina or if they’re flying a turbo prop aircraft, then mostly, from Juhu airport. A Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) spokesperson said: "Prior to the pandemic, the terminal catered to non-scheduled or private flight operations which consisted majorly of VIP movements and corporates. However, with the lockdown, the terminal shifted its focus to cater to medical and emergency services and registered an average of 10-15 departures/arrivals during the lockdown”. Currently too, many passengers avoid the use of passenger terminals and they look for customized and risk-free flights by opting to pay extra to fly charter and use less crowded facilities,the spokesperson added. Though the number of charter flights operated between April and November last year from Mumbai airport's GA terminal is lower than that during the same period in 2019, aviation industry insiders say the numbers have gone up in the past few months after the lull during lockdown. Rahul Muchhal of Accretion Aviation, an aggregator said: "During lockdown we only flew patients with medical emergencies, like, cancer patients, a 6-year old boy who suffered a brain stroke and was flown from Dhanbad in Jharkhand to Delhi in a King Air C-90 air ambulance.” Among those chartering flights post lockdown are families flying to Shirdi as a loved one survived COVID, upper middle-class families from cities like Delhi, Mumbai flying to Maldives on charter because the economics worked. ``Nine seats for Rs 30 lakh, excluding GST, on Delhi-Male route. A large majority of all these were first-time flyers. We haven’t seen so many first-time flyers in previous years,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-med-crisis-during-covid-many-took-charter-flights-for-first-time/articleshow/80078644.cms||Manju V
January 3, 2021||Udaipur||Biker killed as live wire snaps in Chittorgarh||UDAIPUR: A man lost his life after being electrocuted in Bhainsrorgarh of Chittorgarh district on Saturday. The victim was riding on a motorcycle on the Borao-Pratappura road when an 11KV line fell on him. The deceased was identified as Shivlal Sen, who fell down as flames engulfed him from all sides. A large number of people gathered at the spot and called up the grid station to cut off the power supply to rescue the man, however, the supply wasn’t cut off immediately. The incident infuriated the locals who blocked the Begu-Rawatbhata road and staged protest demanding action for the negligence by the electricity department. A police team rushed to the spot and tried to pacify the villagers who were adamant. Seeing the public anguish, employees of the Borao power grid sub-station fled from their seats. Locals said they won’t allow the body to be shifted unless a case is registered against the staff responsible for the negligence which caused the death. They also demanded ex-gratia to be paid to the deceased’s family. Vehicles bee-lined on both ends of the roads due to the blockade which was cleared after additional staff from adjoining police stations was sent to hold the situation.AEN Mahaveer Bainsla, tehsildar Saurabh Gurjar, DySP Dhanphool Meena convinced the villagers who afterwards agreed to remove the jam. The officials announced an exgratia of Rs 5 lakh from the power supply department and additional Rs 2 lakh from the CM fund for the aggrieved family. Pillion rider Ram Singh was said to have sustained burn injuries and was referred to Kota hospital, sources said. In a similar incident on December 11, a 25-year-old school teacher in Kalinjara of Banswara district was charred to death when a loose high tension wire fell on her scooter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/biker-killed-as-live-wire-snaps-in-chittorgarh/articleshow/80078661.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram: 600 industrial units hit by power blow for three days||GURUGRAM: The three-day-long power shutdown imposed by the electricity department in Udyog Vihar phases 1, 2 & 3 has left industries in Gurugram struggling to keep their operations functional. Around 600 industrial units have been impacted by the shutdown. Industrialists say the weekend outage would force them to violate the ban on the use of diesel gensets, in turn increasing their production cost. Animesh Saxena, president of Udyog Vihar Industries Association, said the 72-hour-long shutdown was imposed by the electricity department on a short notice of 24 hours. “On Thursday, they had informed us about the three-day-long shutdown from 8am on Friday to 8am on Monday. The sad part is that the industries association was not consulted,” he said. Udyog Vihar phases 1, 2 & 3 have around 600 industries, employing nearly 3 lakh people in the textile, IT and auto component manufacturing sectors. Ambience Mall, DLF Cyber Park and adjoining areas will also be affected by the shutdown. “The shutdown will force the industries to violate the ban on the use of diesel gensets. Besides, it will increase the running cost and cause pollution,” said Saxena. On October 15, the Environment Pollution Control Authority banned diesel gensets in NCR as part of its graded response action plan to prevent pollution in the region from reaching severe levels. Before the ban came into effect, there were around 10,000 generators operational in the city, both in residential and industrial sectors, as per the pollution department. Director of Modelama Exports, Arvind Rai said they were forced to shut their operations for three days. “But we are facing problems in keeping the computer servers functional. Moreover, the absence of streetlights in Udyog Vihar and inside the company premises for three consecutive nights could create major security issues too,” he told TOI. When contacted, a senior official of power discom Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) said, “The purpose of the shutdown is to connect the newly constructed 66kV gas-insulated system (GIS) bay of DLF Cyber City Developers with the existing 66kV GIS system to comply with an order of the Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/600-industrial-units-hit-by-power-blow-for-three-days/articleshow/80077559.cms||Bagish Jha
January 3, 2021||Mumbai||Teen in south Mumbai crash charged with culpable homicide now||MUMBAI: Months after the teenage son of a city businessman died after the car he was in rammed into a stationary bus on Marine Drive during the Covid-19 lockdown in May, police enhanced the charge against the 19-year-old driver to culpable homicide not amounting to murder. Aryaman (18), son of Nepean Road hotelier, Rajesh Nagpal, died in the mishap around 5pm on May 12, 2020. Shourya Jain, also from Nepean Sea Road, had suffered serious injuries and was initially booked for causing death by negligence. While this charge attracts a maximum sentence of two years’ imprisonment, the enhanced charge under section 304 (II) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) is punishable with up to 10 years in jail. Jain surrendered before the metropolitan magistrate on August 18 and was granted bail. He subsequently moved the sessions court for anticipatory bail after the addition of section 304 (II). During the hearing of his pre-arrest bail plea, it was submitted that the charge was enhanced as police found he did not have a driving licence. The prosecution reasoned that Jain knew that driving without a licence will result in an accident or an accidental death. In an order last month, the sessions court said his plea for anticipatory bail was not maintainable. “The advocate for the applicant (Jain) fairly conceded that the investigating officer has neither applied till date for cancellation of bail, nor the metropolitan magistrate has passed the order about cancellation of the bail granted, nor has directed that the applicant be taken in custody on addition of section 304(2) of IPC, due to which this court is of the opinion that the apprehension of arrest expressed by the applicant by filing this application is misplaced,” the court said. The investigating officer had submitted that nothing remained to be seized from Jain in connection with the crime. The victim’s father, however, opposed Jain’s plea through his advocate, submitting that on account of the “deliberate wrongful act” of driving the car without a licence Aryaman had lost his life. Jain had also submitted a plea before the magistrate’s court seeking return of his passport by police. He wanted to travel to Dubai to meet his father and cited health issues. Rajesh had opposed the plea, fearing that Jain would abscond and delay court proceedings. But the magistrate’s court directed Marine Drive police station to return Jain’s passport. The court said Jain can travel abroad only with its permission and he had to co-operate in investigations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/teen-in-south-mumbai-crash-charged-with-culpable-homicide-now/articleshow/80078664.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 3, 2021||Gurgaon||‘News’ of college exam sparks a student protest in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: Students of Gurugram University staged a protest on Saturday following a rumour about the affiliated colleges conducting exams for all students, including those promoted to the next semester without appearing for tests amid Covid, on January 20. In the morning, scores of students of Sector 14 Government Girls College carried out a march from their college till Mahavir Chowk and formed a human chain to block traffic. They sat on the roads and raised slogans against the university and demanded that the varsity take back its decision to hold exams for all students. According to the protesters, two days ago, their college suspended the classes of the current semester and asked them to study the syllabus of the previous semester for the next 10 days. “Two days ago, we were told that we need to start preparing for the possibility of examinations. Now, when the government has already promoted all of us to the next semester, then what’s the urgent need to force us to not study the syllabus of the previous semester,” said Tejna Haritas, a BA second-year student of Sector 14 Government Girls College. “It is clear that the university is forcing colleges to conduct examinations. We will not let this happen and that’s why we came out to oppose this move,” she added. The college principal, RK Garg, claimed that the college management has already reached out to the students and assured them of assistance. “We facilitated their talks with the controller of examination. During the talks, it was decided that on a Monday, all the college principals, along with at least five students, will attend a meeting where the possibility of conducting exams will be discussed again,” he said. According to sources, Gurugram University had called a meeting of principals of all the affiliated colleges in Gurugram and Mewat to deliberate on the possibility of conducting the exams from January 20. The principals were asked to convince the students . The university has rejected the claims. “These protests are borne out of rumours. We haven’t made any decision or released a circular regarding this. During the meeting with the principals this week, we had only discussed the possibility of conducting exams because the UGC and the government have been pushing for it. We have only asked the principals to engage with the students and note their views on this,” said vice-chancellor Dr Markanday Ahuja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/news-of-college-exam-sparks-a-student-protest/articleshow/80077670.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
January 3, 2021||Mumbai||At 22.7°C, Mumbai sees highest January minimum temperature in decade||MUMBAI: The city’s night temperature on Saturday rose to 22.7 degrees Celsius, the highest January minimum temperature in at least a decade. A cloud cover resulted in haze-laden skies throughout the day. Track the pollution level in your cityIndian Meteorological Department’s Santacruz observatory’s minimum temperature of 22.7 degrees was 5.6 degrees above normal. The earlier highest January minimum temperature of 22.3 degrees in the decade was in 2014. Saturday’s minimum temperature of 23 degrees was above normal by 3.7 degrees. “There were partly cloudy sky condition from Friday due to the western disturbance that is also likely to affect north-west and parts of central India. But the minimum temperature is now likely to fall up to January 7 or 8,” said K S Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD. On the other hand, the cloudy conditions kept day temperatures in check. Maximum temperatures dropped marginally with Colaba at 28.8 degrees (1.7 degrees below normal) and Santacruz at 30.1 degrees (0.9 below normal). Despite hazy skies, the higher minimum temperatures meant the city’s overall air quality index improved from 307 to 266 on January 1. An AQI of 201 to 300 is considered poor and people with heart or lung diseases and the elderly must reduce heavy or longer exertion and outdoor activity. “Due to the winter conditions, the tiny dust and pollutant particles get trapped closer to the earth’s surface in the inversion layer. Additionally, there are very light winds, cloudy skies and less sunlight, which led to a haze on Saturday,” said Hosalikar. Among 10 locations monitored by SAFAR, Malad, Mazgaon, Chembur, Andheri and Navi Mumbai were most polluted (AQI over 300) and Colaba was least polluted (83). SAFAR said that the AQI was expected to be 245 on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/at-22-7c-mumbai-sees-highest-january-minimum-temperature-in-decade/articleshow/80078673.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 3, 2021||India||Bihar junked APMC Act in '06, but it hasn't benefited farmers||Bihar's farmers got the 'freedom of choices' in selling their produce 14 years ago with the scrapping of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act in the state in 2006, but that has not yielded better prices for them, an analysis of price trends before and after the scrapping of the Act shows. The gap between farm harvest prices and MSP for three major crops - paddy, wheat and maize - has either widened or remained at the same level. What's more, it appears that low harvest prices have caused agricultural wages in Bihar to remain suppressed as compared to Punjab and Haryana and resulted in labour migration from the state. The analysis of farm harvest prices and MSP for wheat in Bihar from 1998-99 to 2016-17 shows that for nine harvest seasons from 1998-99 to 2006-07, the harvest price remained above MSP in three, from 90% to 100% of MSP in three, and below 90% of MSP in three. During the same period, the prices in Punjab remained above MSP in three seasons and 90% or more of MSP in the remaining six seasons. In Haryana, the prices remained above MSP in five seasons and 90% or more of MSP in the remaining four. Read Also'How new laws will help farmers, make agri competitive'The Centre sees the new farm laws as much-needed reforms to make agriculture competitive, improve investments and provide options to farmers.Farm harvest prices collated by the agriculture ministry are averages of wholesale prices at which the farmer sells to the trader at the village site. Follow TOI's live blog for latest updates on farmers protestIn the ten marketing seasons between 2007-08 and 2016-17 (the latest data available), not a single season saw prices in Bihar go beyond MSP. Prices remained 90% or more of MSP in four seasons and fell even below that level in the remaining six. In Punjab, on the other hand, there were two seasons when prices went beyond MSP, while only one saw them fall below 90% of MSP. Similarly, for seven seasons during this period, farmers in Haryana sold wheat at higher prices than MSP, while two seasons saw prices at between 90% and 100% of. Data was not available for one marketing season in Haryana. The trends are in harvest prices for paddy. Paddy is cultivated in both autumn and winter in Bihar and the higher of the two prices is taken for this analysis. Haryana is excluded from this comparison because the cultivation of high-quality rice in the state has pushed farm harvest prices to a much higher level than the MSP. In Bihar, in the nine harvest seasons between 1998-99 and 2016-17, only one saw prices nearly on a par with MSP (99.5% of MSP), for three prices were within 80-90% of MSP and for the remaining five farmers got 70-80% of MSP. In the ten seasons between 2007-08 and 2016-17 after APMC act was abolished, prices were within 70-80% of MSP in three and between 80-90% of MSP in the remaining six. This raises questions about the claim that farmers are trapped in the MSP and APMC mandis system and opening up the market leads to corporates and private buyers giving higher prices. It also helps explain the farmer anguish over uncertainty of MSP and distrust of 'free markets'. In Punjab, for the 16 marketing seasons for which data is available since 1998-99, the paddy harvest price fell below MSP (96.6%) only once and remained higher than the MSP in the rest. The patterns hold even in maize which unlike paddy and wheat doesn't have government procurement and is sold mostly to private buyers. In the nine seasons before the abolition of the APMC act, there were two when maize was sold higher than MSP in Bihar. In the ten seasons after abolishing the mandis, again only two saw prices go beyond MSP. For the last four seasons, it has remained below 90% of MSP. In contrast, farmers in Punjab sold maize above MSP in 14 of the 18 seasons for which price data is available. Prices fell below MSP only four times but remained between 90% and 100% of it. In Haryana, prices never fell below MSP. Data on average daily wages of male ploughman or field Labour (data for female labour was not available for all the years) between 2005-06 and 2017-18 shows that the lower price of output might have suppressed agricultural wages in Bihar. In 2006-07, the average wage in Bihar was 79% of wages in Punjab and 66.8% of wages in Haryana. Today, farm labour in Bihar earns 61% of what it could in Punjab and 50-60% of wages in Haryana, the latest figure being 59.1%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bihar-junked-apmc-act-in-06-but-it-hasnt-benefited-farmers/articleshow/80078630.cms||Atul Thakur
January 3, 2021||Thane||Thane couple on picnic drown off Ratnagiri beach||NAVI MUMBAI: A Thane couple drowned off Hedvi beach near Guhagar in Ratnagiri district on Saturday. The 36-year-old woman, who has been identified as Sucheta Mangaonkar, was in the water taking a selfie when a strong wave hit her. Her husband, Anand, tried to save her, but he also drowned. The Mangaonkars and one of their cousins, Prashant Baip reached Hedvi beach on Saturday. Baip, Anand’s cousin, lodged a police complaint after locals fished out their bodies. A case of accidental death has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-couple-on-picnic-drown-off-ratnagiri-beach/articleshow/80078679.cms||Umesh K Parida
January 3, 2021||Gurgaon||2,800 vaccinators gear up for rollout in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: There are around 2,800 vaccinators in Gurugram who are being trained for Covid-19 vaccination programme. The vaccine is likely to reach the city by mid of January. TOI spoke to some of the vaccinators before they participate in the second dry run, which is likely to take place next week in Gurugram. The vaccinators said that they are well prepared for the roll out of the vaccine. Vinod Kumar (54), who works in Carterpuri government health centre, said that they had to undergo an extensive one-day training last week. “We are now explaining the next part of the plan to Asha workers who will be part of the process as they will observe the beneficiaries after they get the dose and they will also see if social distancing is properly maintained in the waiting area. We were told that the vaccine is expected to reach Gurugram by mid-January. We will also share our phone numbers with the people and they can get is touch with us later too,” Kumar said. Neelam (40) another vaccinator who works in Wazirabad health centre said that they will be vaccinating 36,000 health workers in the first phase. “It is a big opportunity to be part of the Covid-19 vaccine roll out process. We were given intensive training with the help of audio, visual and reading materials. We are also given material to read before we take part in the final process. We have a target of immunising 100 people in one booth. Everything will be in the same process as of an election day. We are yet to know which vaccine we are getting but we are ready for the process,” said Neelam, who has been part of the immunisation process for the past 10 years. Priyanka Kumari, another vaccinator, said that they were informed about the beneficiaries and the vaccination process that includes setting up of booths, description of each room and role of vaccinators. “We were also informed how the Co-Win system works and it was an absolutely delightful experience,” she said. Meanwhile, Gurugram chief medical officer Dr Virender Yadav said that the health department has identified 286 vaccine sites. “Each site will have five rooms with different purposes. For example, the first room will be the waiting area, second is the verification room, third will be the vaccination room, fourth observation and the fifth will be a store room for vaccines and medicines. We have trained everyone and will start the vaccination process in the district by the third-week of January,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/2-8k-vaccinators-gear-up-for-rollout-in-city/articleshow/80078192.cms||Ipsita Pati
January 3, 2021||Business||Govt proposes seaplane services from Delhi to Ayodhya, Uttarakhand||NEW DELHI: You could soon take a seaplane from the Yamuna riverfront to Ayodhya or from Mumbai to Shirdi for a pilgrimage. The Sagarmala Development Company (SDCL) under the shipping and waterways ministry on Saturday issued an expression of interest (EoI) for seaplane services on routes such as Delhi to Ayodhya, Tehri, Srinagar (Uttarakhand) and Chandigarh; Mumbai to Shirdi, Lonavala and Ganpatipule; Surat to Dwarka, Mandvi and Kandla; and within the archipelagos of Andaman & Nicobar and Lakshadweep. The interested players can also come up with other routes which they find viable. The routes under this Sagarmala Seaplane Service (SSPS) may be operated under the government's subsidised "Ude Desh ka Aam Nagrik (UDAN)" scheme. Sources said some players in this sector have carried out assessment of tourist interest and the EoI is aimed at gauging the interest of the various companies. "We had also explored the possibility of running such a service between Varanasi and Ayodhya. Though currently there is no infrastructure for running such a service, that can be set up in not much time. We are only exploring the possibilities," said a source. According to the EoI, the government has sought a response from interested entities for forming a special purpose vehicle (SPV) with SDCL to undertake joint development and operation of SSPS. The inclusion of seaplane services to islands has been made after PM Modi asked the shipping ministry to explore developing islands as standalone cities for tourism, as reported by TOI on November 29. Currently, there is only one such service in India - between the Sabarmati riverfront and Statue of Unity in Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-proposes-seaplane-services-from-delhi-to-ayodhya-uttarakhand/articleshow/80078701.cms||Saurabh Sinha
January 3, 2021||Chennai||Under pressure from TN Muslim groups, DMK scraps invite to Asaduddin Owaisi||CHENNAI: A day after calling All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) leader Asaduddin Owaisi to its minority wing conference scheduled in Chennai on Wednesday, the DMK withdrew the invitation following pressure from its Muslim allies and some other religious groups. AIMIM sources said the meeting between Owaisi and DMK minority wing secretary D Mastan at the former’s Hyderabad residence lasted for ten minutes on Friday. AIMIM Tamil Nadu president Vakeel Ahmed was also present at the meeting. As DMK’s allies IUML and Manithaneya Makkal Katchi (MMK) protested, Mastan denied having met Owaisi. The DMK kept silent over a video of the meeting that was circulated on social media. The AIMIM leader, said a source, was upset over the DMK’s flip-flop, especially since he had cancelled another meeting in Uttar Pradesh to attend the DMK conference. When contacted, Owaisi refused to comment, but said, “I don’t speak bad about people who come to me as guests.” A source told TOI that the DMK deputed one of its senior leaders to explain to Owaisi the circumstances that forced the party to withdraw the invitation. “It was an embarrassment,” said the source, adding, “Channels of communication for a possible electoral alliance between the two parties, however, remain open." Muslim groups in TN feel AIMIM’s inclusion in the DMK-led front would eat into their seat share. “Owaisi has no base in Tamil Nadu. Neither him nor his state unit has voiced for the cause of Tamils,” said an MMK leader seeking anonymity. In the 2016 assembly election, the AIMIM contested in two seats – Vaniyambadi and Krishnagiri – in Tamil Nadu and got 10,289 votes. An AIMIM source said the party has plans to contest in more seats if the alliance with the DMK does not work out. (With inputs from Nabinder Bommala in Hyderabad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/under-pressure-from-tn-muslim-groups-dmk-scraps-invite-to-asaduddin-owaisi/articleshow/80078707.cms||Julie Mariappan
January 3, 2021||Coimbatore||Intelligence officers recording my phone calls: M K Stalin||COIMBATORE: DMK chief M K Stalin on Saturday alleged that intelligence officers of the state police are recording his phone calls. DMK has ample evidence to prove that corruption prevails in local bodies and the highways department, Stalin told supporters at a gram sabha meeting conducted at Devarayapuram village. “The project to replace sodium vapour lamps with LED lights was mired in corruption. We gave the governor all evidence. If the governor fails to take action, DMK will take action against the AIADMK leaders involved after coming to power.” Responding to municipal administration minister S P Velumani's challenge to prove the corruption charges levelled against him or quit politics, Stalin said, “I have evidence to prove the corruption charges against the minister. If I proved the charges, Velumani should quit politics. DMK will make sure that corrupt AIADMK politicians are punished,” he added. DMK’s manifesto for the upcoming assembly election will promise a fresh investigation into the death of late chief minister J Jayalalithaa, he said. “The AIADMK government will bite the dust after four months. We are sensitizing people about AIADMK’s corruption. The state government tried to stop us. However, people are much aware about the government’s corruption,” Stalin said. “The state government should conduct grama sabha thrice a year. After coming to power, AIADMK did not conduct even one gram sabha meeting. So, the DMK decided to do so to solve problems faced by people. The government did not allow us to conduct the meeting. So, the name was changed to people’s grama sabha. But the state government has been attempting to stop the meeting.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/intelligence-officers-recording-my-phone-calls-m-k-stalin/articleshow/80078711.cms||A Subburaj
January 3, 2021||India||In U-turn, Akhara Parishad to back UP law 'on shrines'||PRAYAGRAJ: Changing its earlier stand of opposition against the proposed Religious Places Registration Regulation 2020, Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) said all 13 monastic orders under it would support whatever decision the state government takes. The Akhara Parishad took this decision during a meeting at Baghambari Gaddi in Prayagraj on Friday. "Be it Kinnar Akhara, Pari Akhara or any other monastic order which applies for getting registered as an 'akhara', we demand that the government should not entertain any such claim as there can't be any 14th akhara other that the 13 existing ones which are members of ABAP. Any organisation can merge with an existing akhara, but a separate akhara will not be accepted," said ABAP chief Mahant Narendra Giri. Opposing ABAP's stand, Mahamandeleshwar of Kinnar Akhara Laxmi Narayan Tripathi said, "In Kumbh Mela 2019, there was so much of opposition against us, but we were given all amenities by state government. The time has come that ABAP acts like an ocean and not confine itself like the 'frog in a well. We would continue to press for our demands." Several other key resolutions were passed at the meeting. ABAP again demanded that the Uttarakhand government should extend all amenities to seers for Haridwar Kumbh 2021. "If seers' proposal is not accepted, ABAP will stage a protest and take its demands to PM Modi," said Giri. " We also demanded a dissolution of the Maharashtra government and that President's rule should be implemented there."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-u-turn-akhara-parishad-to-back-up-law-on-shrines/articleshow/80078750.cms||Rajiv Mani
January 3, 2021||Lucknow||Chill eases in Lucknow but rain, thunderstorm likely today||LUCKNOW: A day after pushing minimum temperature to freezing levels in the city, icy winds abated on Saturday, bringing relief to the people. However, the sky remained partly cloudy and the state Met office predicted possibility of thunderstorm or light rain on Sunday and Monday in many parts of the state, including Lucknow. The maximum temperature on Saturday was 24.4 degrees Celsius, four degrees above normal, while minimum temperature stood at 6.8 degrees Celsius, a unit below normal. “While thunderstorm is expected in many parts of west UP and some parts of central UP, the case of Lucknow is a borderline one with chances of light rain till Monday,” said state Met director JP Gupta. “Temperature, however, will go up as the movement of icy winds from snow-fed mountain has been cut off by the western disturbance (WD) hoverning in the form of cyclonic circulation over Afghanistan and adjoining central Pakistan. An induced cyclonic circulation has also been created over Rajasthan,” he added. Gupta said the western disturbance was also responsible for snow and rain in hill states and was expected to cause thundershowers in the state. Light to moderate rainfall accompanied with thunderstorm and lightning are likely on Sunday in Saharanpur, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Ghaizabad, Hapur, Gautam Budh Nagar, Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Mathura, Hathras, Etah, Agra, Firozabad, Mainpuri, Etawah, Auraiya, Farrukhabad, Kannauj, Bijnor, Amroha, Morabadbad, Rampur, Sambhal, Bareilly, Pilibhit, Shahjahanpur, Badaun, Kasganj, Lakhimpur Kheri, Haridoi, Sitapur, Lucknow and Bahraich.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/chill-eases-in-lucknow-but-rain-thunderstorm-likely-today/articleshow/80078764.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Chandigarh||Summon me, not my officers: Capt Amarinder Singh to Punjab governor||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday took strong exception to the governor summoning the state’s police chief and top bureaucrat, instead of seeking a report directly from him, saying that law and order was his responsibility as he held the home portfolio. "While the propaganda of the BJP on collapse of law and order in the state was nothing more than a tactic to divert attention from farm laws and the farmers’ agitation, the governor should have taken up the matter directly with me, instead of the officers, as I am the custodian of home portfolio," said Amarinder. ‘BJP’s gameplan to undermine stir’Amarinder was reacting to the governor summoning Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan and DGP Dinkar Gupta to question them on law and order problem in the state amid sporadic incidents of damage to some mobile towers. Amarinder slammed the state BJP leadership for adding fuel to the fire, with their irresponsible statements, in the already surcharged atmosphere triggered by the farm laws. He termed it a vicious gameplan of the party to undermine the peaceful agitation of the farmers by terming a few minor incidents of damage to some mobile towers as a law and order problem. "These damaged towers can be, and are being repaired, but what about the lives of the farmers lost in the bitter cold at the Delhi borders, where they continue to fight for their rights amid total apathy from the BJP-led government at the Centre," asked the CM. He expressed shock over the fact that not a single BJP leader had expressed any concern over the deaths of protesting farmers, including some by suicide. "The lost lives cannot be recovered," he pointed out, asking the Punjab BJP leaders to stop politicizing a peaceful agitation with their illconceived comments. Instead of the slandering of farmers by using terms like `Naxalites’, `Khalistanis’ etc., the BJP should press their central leadership to heed the voice of the `Annadaatas’ and revoke the black farm laws that were threatening the livelihood and future of the farming community. "At a time when the very existence of our farmers is at stake, the BJP leaders are busy indulging in petty politics and also dragging the constitutional office of the governor into their unsavoury agenda," he added. “Terming as `unfortunate’ the fact that the governor had bowed to these antics, the CM observed that it had taken just a day for the former to react to the state BJP leadership’s complaint of purported law and order collapse in Punjab. This was in sharp contrast to the prolonged delay in sending to the President the State Amendment Bills, passed by all political parties (barring BJP) in the Vidhan Sabha, for assent," said an official statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/summon-me-not-my-officers-capt-amarinder-singh-to-punjab-governor/articleshow/80078766.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Noida||Moderate to heavy rain lashes parts of Delhi-NCR||NEW DELHI: Moderate to heavy rain lashed parts of the national capital on Sunday morning. "Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rainfall to occur over some parts of south Delhi (Ayanagar, Deramandi, Tughalkabad ), and some districts of Haryana," tweeted IMD at 4.55am on Sunday. 03-01-2021 0455 IST Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over some parts of South-Delhi (… https://t.co/4ODxZa1XZp— India Meteorological Department (@Indiametdept) 1609630485000Both the maximum and minimum temperature are expected to rise further over the next two days, with the IMD forecasting light rain for Sunday and light to moderate showers on Monday. The forecasting body, meanwhile, has issued an "orange alert" for Monday, owing to chances of hailstorm activity and moderate showers. Heavy rain lashes parts of Delhi-NCR(Visuals from Sector 137, Noida)#DelhiNCRRain#DelhiRain https://t.co/b4eeUfrnHK— TOI Noida (@TOINoida) 1609636577000Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre in the capital, said 'peak' activity was expected on January 4, with parts of Delhi also likely to see hailstorms. "Wind speeds will pick up from Sunday, touching 30 km/hr in some areas," Srivastava said, adding that hailstorms were expected in many parts of northern India. Delhi receives a spell of rainfall(Visuals from a section of National Highway 24 near Akshardham)#DelhiRains… https://t.co/0C7IfmJTFK— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1609638498000The capital recorded light showers on Saturday along with a temporary respite from the biting cold. While most of the day saw an overcast sky, the minimum temperature on Saturday was recorded at 7° C, a significant increase from Friday's minimum of 1.1°C - the lowest of the season. Rain lashes parts of #Delhi(Visuals from near Barakhamba Road)#DelhiRains https://t.co/Ib481iaFTe— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1609640814000The maximum temperature on Saturday was 19.5 degrees Celsius. IMD forecasts both the maximum and minimum to rise by around two degrees over the next two days. "A western disturbance leads to an increase in temperature as cloudy conditions trap more heat," Srivastava added. "The maximum and minimum would be around 20 and 8 degrees Celsius, respectively, for Sunday," said an official. Watch Watch: Heavy rain lashes parts of Delhi-NCR||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/moderate-to-heavy-rain-lashes-parts-of-delhi-noida/articleshow/80078771.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Delhi||Moderate to heavy rain lashes parts of Delhi-NCR||NEW DELHI: Moderate to heavy rain lashed parts of the national capital on Sunday morning. "Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rainfall to occur over some parts of south Delhi (Ayanagar, Deramandi, Tughalkabad ), and some districts of Haryana," tweeted IMD at 4.55am on Sunday. 03-01-2021 0455 IST Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over some parts of South-Delhi (… https://t.co/4ODxZa1XZp— India Meteorological Department (@Indiametdept) 1609630485000Both the maximum and minimum temperature are expected to rise further over the next two days, with the IMD forecasting light rain for Sunday and light to moderate showers on Monday. The forecasting body, meanwhile, has issued an "orange alert" for Monday, owing to chances of hailstorm activity and moderate showers. Heavy rain lashes parts of Delhi-NCR(Visuals from Sector 137, Noida)#DelhiNCRRain#DelhiRain https://t.co/b4eeUfrnHK— TOI Noida (@TOINoida) 1609636577000Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre in the capital, said 'peak' activity was expected on January 4, with parts of Delhi also likely to see hailstorms. "Wind speeds will pick up from Sunday, touching 30 km/hr in some areas," Srivastava said, adding that hailstorms were expected in many parts of northern India. Delhi receives a spell of rainfall(Visuals from a section of National Highway 24 near Akshardham)#DelhiRains… https://t.co/0C7IfmJTFK— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1609638498000The capital recorded light showers on Saturday along with a temporary respite from the biting cold. While most of the day saw an overcast sky, the minimum temperature on Saturday was recorded at 7° C, a significant increase from Friday's minimum of 1.1°C - the lowest of the season. Rain lashes parts of #Delhi(Visuals from near Barakhamba Road)#DelhiRains https://t.co/Ib481iaFTe— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1609640814000The maximum temperature on Saturday was 19.5 degrees Celsius. IMD forecasts both the maximum and minimum to rise by around two degrees over the next two days. "A western disturbance leads to an increase in temperature as cloudy conditions trap more heat," Srivastava added. "The maximum and minimum would be around 20 and 8 degrees Celsius, respectively, for Sunday," said an official. Watch Watch: Heavy rain lashes parts of Delhi-NCR||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/moderate-to-heavy-rain-lashes-parts-of-delhi-noida/articleshow/80078761.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Faridabad||Moderate to heavy rain lashes parts of Delhi-NCR||NEW DELHI: Moderate to heavy rain lashed parts of the national capital on Sunday morning. "Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rainfall to occur over some parts of south Delhi (Ayanagar, Deramandi, Tughalkabad ), and some districts of Haryana," tweeted IMD at 4.55am on Sunday. 03-01-2021 0455 IST Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over some parts of South-Delhi (… https://t.co/4ODxZa1XZp— India Meteorological Department (@Indiametdept) 1609630485000Both the maximum and minimum temperature are expected to rise further over the next two days, with the IMD forecasting light rain for Sunday and light to moderate showers on Monday. The forecasting body, meanwhile, has issued an "orange alert" for Monday, owing to chances of hailstorm activity and moderate showers. Heavy rain lashes parts of Delhi-NCR(Visuals from Sector 137, Noida)#DelhiNCRRain#DelhiRain https://t.co/b4eeUfrnHK— TOI Noida (@TOINoida) 1609636577000Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre in the capital, said 'peak' activity was expected on January 4, with parts of Delhi also likely to see hailstorms. "Wind speeds will pick up from Sunday, touching 30 km/hr in some areas," Srivastava said, adding that hailstorms were expected in many parts of northern India. Delhi receives a spell of rainfall(Visuals from a section of National Highway 24 near Akshardham)#DelhiRains… https://t.co/0C7IfmJTFK— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1609638498000The capital recorded light showers on Saturday along with a temporary respite from the biting cold. While most of the day saw an overcast sky, the minimum temperature on Saturday was recorded at 7° C, a significant increase from Friday's minimum of 1.1°C - the lowest of the season. Rain lashes parts of #Delhi(Visuals from near Barakhamba Road)#DelhiRains https://t.co/Ib481iaFTe— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1609640814000The maximum temperature on Saturday was 19.5 degrees Celsius. IMD forecasts both the maximum and minimum to rise by around two degrees over the next two days. "A western disturbance leads to an increase in temperature as cloudy conditions trap more heat," Srivastava added. "The maximum and minimum would be around 20 and 8 degrees Celsius, respectively, for Sunday," said an official. Watch Watch: Heavy rain lashes parts of Delhi-NCR||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/moderate-to-heavy-rain-lashes-parts-of-delhi-noida/articleshow/80078990.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram: More crimes detected last year than in 2019||GURUGRAM: The detection rate of all recorded crimes in the city saw a significant rise in 2020 as compared to 2019, according to data released by Gurugram police. Last year, 100% of dacoity cases in the city were detected — an increase from 65% in 2019. Similarly, the detection of attempt-to-murder cases increased to 90% from 54% that was recorded in 2019. Meanwhile, detection of murder cases rose from 78% in 2019 to 83% last year. Also, detection in cases of vehicle lifting increased three-fold, from 10% to 30% during the same period. In cases of snatching with the use of weapons, the detection rate was 70% in 2020 and 56% in the previous year. Meanwhile, robbery and burglary cases increased from 54% and 40% to 65% and 45%, respectively. Increase in crime detection, according to the Gurugram police, is correlated to the large numbers of gangs getting busted and the arrests of many most-wanted criminals last year. The cops in the city busted 62 gangs, arrested 159 criminals and solved around 293 cases in 2020. Additionally, they recovered around Rs 1.80 crore from their possession. In the same period, the police arrested 368 proclaimed offenders and 93 bail jumpers. Also, as many as 34 most-wanted criminals were arrested by Gurugram police in 2020. Some of the major criminals include Rupender alias Nanha from Kharkhoda in Sonipat. With a reward of Rs 2 lakh on his head, Rupender was arrested by the crime branch in November in connection with a murder case. Pawan Nehra from Bilaspur, with a reward of Rs 1 lakh on his head, was arrested in November also in connection with a murder case. Sahid alias Polo from Nuh, with a reward of Rs 50,000 on his head, was arrested in June in connection with several theft cases. In 2020, several gangs of vehicle lifters, burglars, thieves and snatchers were active in the city. From the beginning of the year, Gurugram police started to tighten the noose around these gangs by forming dedicated teams to nab them. “The arrests of criminals carrying rewards and busting of several gangs helped in bringing down the crime rate and increased crime detection,” said commissioner of police K K Rao. He said, around 103 cases of murder were registered in 2019 and added that the number came down to 82 last year. Out of them, the police managed to solve around 64 cases. The dacoity cases declined from 17 cases to 11 cases — a 35% drop. All of these cases were solved, Rao added. The number of cases in which houses were broken into came down, from 569 in the previous year to 322 in 2020. The police have solved 121 of those cases. The number of simple thefts, meanwhile, was recorded at 787 this year as compared to 1,252 in 2019. Police claimed to have solved around 249 of those cases. In 2019, as many as 4,084 cases of vehicle lifting were registered. In 2010, the figure dipped to 2,658, of which only 537 cases have been solved. Additionally, 2020 also saw four police-criminal clashes. The first one took place in October when police arrested Sombir alias Chand alias David alias Govind after a brief exchange of fire. In the same month, the cops arrested three criminals after a brief encounter.  In November too, police arrested two criminals after brief encounters and in December four criminals were nabbed in the same manner, but one of the accused died during treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/more-crimes-detected-last-year-than-in-2019/articleshow/80077744.cms||Bagish Jha
January 3, 2021||Gurgaon||Road dug up for laying pipeline, triggers pollution, snarls: RWA||GURUGRAM: Residents of sectors 23A and 9A alleged that the work of laying water pipelines has been going on at a snail’s pace. In Sector 23A, the residents said the work started in August last year but till now, only 15% of houses have been covered. They alleged that the contractor, who was appointed by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), is missing for the past three months. The entire sector has been dug up, causing traffic snarls and aggravating dust pollution in the area. Sector 23A RWA president Malkhan Singh Yadav said: “The conditions were better when HUDA was looking after the sector. We are suffering daily now.” CD Kaushik, a resident of the sector, said: “It is very difficult to step out of home due to this never-ending development work. There is a lot of dust pollution, forcing us to keep our windows and balcony closed.” The residents said several requests have been made to officials concerned to expedite the work but all in vain. Meanwhile, residents in Sector 9A have been facing similar issues due to a delay in laying water pipelines. They said there has been no progress in the project for the past one-and-a-half month. “We were happy that after 25 years, old pipelines were being replaced with better ones but now, it is a nightmare. Only 10 % of work has been done so far. The MCG should heavily penalise the contractor as many other developments works like recarpeting roads and tiling are yet to start after this one,” said Lalit Suraj Bhola, General Secretary of RWA Sector 9A. MCG officials could not be reached for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/road-dug-up-for-laying-pipeline-triggers-pollution-snarls-rwa/articleshow/80078188.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Noida||Noida: Protest at police station after rickshaw hits RSS man’s car||NOIDA: Scores of BJP workers and members of the RSS and VHP gathered at the Sector 20 police station on Friday night after a road rage incident involving a local RSS functionary led to a scuffle between two groups. The incident happened around 6.30pm when Vinod Kaushik, who holds the post of vibhag sah-karyavah in the RSS, was travelling in his brand new Swift through Sector 9 and a rickshaw retrofitted with an engine hit the car from behind. As the collision led to a scratch on the car, Vinod got off the vehicle and allegedly beat up the driver, identified as Wahaab. Wahaab’s friends in the area rushed to his rescue and around 15 of them blocked the way of the RSS functionary. Vinod’s younger brother Umanandan Kaushik, the district general secretary of the VHP, said the RSS functionary was returning from an outreach programme. “Wahaab called 15 of his friends and attacked my brother with a sharp-edged weapon,” he alleged. Vinod, another brother Vipin and their supporters caught hold of three youths —Wahaab, Nadeem and Mehtaab — and handed them over police. Soon, around 300 local supporters of BJP, RSS and VHP flocked to the Sector 20 police station and raised slogans. They demanded that all those involved in the alleged attack be booked for attempt to murder and arrested. BJP city president Manoj Gupta, four district general secretaries of the party and Mahila Morcha leader Dimple Anand were among those who were at the police station. Although the youths claimed it was Vinod who started the fight, an FIR under IPC sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object.), 307 (attempt to murder) and 395 (punishment for dacoity), among others, was lodged and the three youths were arrested. Rakesh Kumar Singh, the station house officer (SHO) of Sector 20 police station, clarified that no sharp object had been used to attack Vinod. “A road rage snowballed into a clash. The party functionaries demanded that the accused be booked for attempt to murder. An FIR has been lodged,” he added. A senior police officer, however, admitted that technically, the attempt to murder charge should not have been invoked against the youths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/protest-at-police-station-after-rickshaw-hits-rss-mans-car/articleshow/80076990.cms||Shikha Salaria
January 3, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Plant around pond to filter 1.5 lakh litres of water daily||GURUGRAM: The Gurugram administration has completed work on restoration and rejuvenation of a pond in Khentawas village. Union minister for statistics and planning and Gurugram MP Rao Inderjit Singh inaugurated the pond on Saturday. The restoration project was completed under the Gurujal initiative of the district administration. Singh said concerted efforts should be made to improve the level of underground water by adopting methods of conservation. He added that using ponds to tap rainwater was a traditional method of water conservation in early times. A well, he said, would also be constructed adjacent to the pond to utilise the rainwater. “Around Rs 70 lakh has been spent on rejuvenation and revival of the pond. A natural water filtration plant of 150 KLD capacity has been installed at the site. We have also planted medicinal plants such as neem, tulsi, sheesham, aloe vera etc. around the pond. Residents can use water from the pond for various purposes like irrigation,” said Shubhi Kesarwani, director of Gurujal society. Deputy commissioner Amit Khatri said the pond spreads over 1.2 acres and the administration had installed machinery to purify 1.5 lakh litres of water daily. Officials said water from the pond could be utilised for irrigation purposes. Badshahpur MLA Rakesh Daultabad, who was also present during the inauguration, urged residents to keep the surroundings clean. He said the residents go also go for walks around the pond. Gurujal is an integrated water management initiative of the administration that aims to address issues of water scarcity, depletion, flooding and stagnation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/plant-around-pond-to-filter-1-5l-litres-of-water-daily/articleshow/80078185.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh in for yet more rain, snow||SHIMLA: Cold conditions have been further intensified in Himachal Pradesh with fresh spell of rain and snow. Weathermen have predicted more rain and snow for the state in coming days due to which cold to severe cold wave is likely to occur in the higher reaches. Dense to very dense fog may occur in isolated pocket of lower hills of the state from January 6. Around 1,000 tourists had to return from north portal of Atal Tunnel due to snowfall in Lahaul. A large number of tourists had crossed Atal Tunnel from Rohtang to enter Lahaul valley and had to return due to snowfall. According to sources, around 250 vehicles returned from portal due to snowfall in Lahaul. Police officials advised the tourist vehicles with or without booking to return from Dhundi itself. In Lahaul, only 4x4 vehicles were allowed to ply that too with the prior permission. Seeing snowfall in Dhundi area, later Kullu police also did not allow vehicle movement beyond Solang valley. According to Shimla meteorological centre officials, light to moderate, fairly widespread rainfall and snowfall is very likely to occur at many places from Sunday onwards till January 6 with peak intensity on January 4-5. Moderate snowfall will occur over high hills in the districts of Sirmaur, Mandi, Kullu, Kangra, Chamba, Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti on January 4-5 with possibility of heavy snowfall at isolated areas in the districts of Kullu, Lahaul & Spiti, and higher reaches of Chamba and Shimla during these days. They said thunderstorm and lightning accompanied with hail is very likely in the districts of Solan, Una, Bilaspur, Kangra and Hamirpur. Day temperature is very likely to fall by 5-7 degree at most places during these days and night temperature by 2-3 degree. Minimum temperature will further decrease by 4-5 degree from January 6 onwards. The officials said on account of snowfall, traffic and electricity and water supply may disrupt in the districts of Shimla, Kinnaur, Lahaul-Spiti, Kullu and Chamba. They added that outdoor activities may be avoided by people if not necessary. Tourists have been advised not to visits the higher reaches in the districts of Shimla, Kinnaur, Lahaul-Spiti, Kullu and Chamba from January 4-5 and to keep regular contact with state authorities. In the state, lowest temperature of minus 7.3 degrees Celsius and maximum of minus 4 degrees Celsius was recorded at Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district on Saturday. Kalpa town of Kinnaur district recorded maximum temperature of 5.4 degrees Celsius and minimum of minus 0.8 degrees Celsius, Shimla recorded maximum temperature of 8.9 degrees Celsius and minimum of 5.1 degrees Celsius, Dharamshala recorded maximum temperature of 11.6 degrees Celsius and minimum 3.2 degrees Celsius. Dalhousie recorded maximum temperature of 4.7 degrees Celsius and minimum of 4.1 degrees Celsius, Solan recorded maximum temperature of 11 degrees Celsius and minimum of minus 2.2 degrees Celsius, Manali recorded maximum temperature of 13.5 degrees Celsius and minimum 1.4 degree Celsius while Kufri recorded maximum temperature of 107 degrees Celsius and of 2.6 degrees Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/more-rain-snow-in-store-for-himachal/articleshow/80077395.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Chandigarh||Hisar shivers as mercury plunges to record lows||Hisar: Residents of the district woke up to a chilly morning as Hisar remained coldest in the state. It was even colder than Shimla, Solan and Kangra in Himachal Pradesh, besides Jammu. This December was the coldest Hisar had seen for years and the first day of January followed the same pattern. According to data recorded in the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), Hisar recorded maximum temperature of 17 degrees Celsius and minimum of 2 degrees Celsius on Saturday. On the same day, Jammu recorded minimum temperature of 5.5 degrees Celsius, Shimla of 5.1 degrees Celsius, Solan of 2.2 degrees Celsius and Kangra of 3.3 degrees Celsius, which was less than the minimum temperature recorded in Hisar on Saturday. On January 1, maximum temperature in Hisar was recorded at 14 degrees Celsius while minimum temperature was -1.2 degrees Celsius. Minimum temperature in Hisar has not fallen below freezing point in the last five years. However, on January 6, 2014, Hisar recorded minimum temperature of -2.1 degrees Celsius. On January 31, 1929, Hisar recorded all-time lowest minimum temperature of -3.9 degrees Celsius. This December, the mercury plunged to an 11-year low. On December 31, Hisar recorded minimum temperature of -1.2 degrees Celsius. According to temperature data of Hisar for the month of December, it was not so cold from 2009 to 2019. In 2018, on December 26, Hisar recorded minimum temperature of -1 degree Celsius, lowest in 11 years. Professor M L Khichar, chairman of the agricultural meteorology department of the Agricultural College of Haryana Agricultural University, said weather in the state will be generally variable till January 6, but light rain with thunderstorm is possible between January 3 and January 5, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hisar-shivers-as-mercury-plunges-to-record-lows/articleshow/80077403.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Noida||Greater Noida: 10-year-old sleeping in her room injured as plaster falls off ceiling||GREATER NOIDA: A 10-year-old girl was injured after a portion of the ceiling in a flat on the ninth floor of Panchsheel Greens society fell on the two sisters when they were sleeping. The incident took place around 8am when the sisters — Nabya Gupta (10) and Mili Gupta (13) — were sleeping in their bedroom in their flat in C-3 tower of the society. Navya suffered injuries on her leg. Navya’s father Tanu Gupta, an IT engineer, told TOI that they informed the maintenance team and went to the Bisrakh police station. The maintenance team said that they will get it repaired on their cost, he said. Prakash Jha, GM (projects) for Panchsheel Greens, however, said that about a three-foot wide plaster had fallen on the girl’s foot. “Earlier, a portion of the plaster had been repaired but it was not done properly. We are getting it changed completely,” he said. Bisrakh SHO Munish Chauhan said that a sample from the fallen off plaster would be sent for investigation. “We spoke to both parties and it was found that previously, too, some repair work was carried out, which was not properly done,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/10-year-old-sleeping-in-her-room-injured-as-plaster-falls-off-ceiling/articleshow/80078212.cms||Shikha Salaria
January 3, 2021||Amritsar||Raj Kapoor, Dilip Kumar's Pakistan homes to be made museums||AMRITSAR: In a first step towards turning the ancestral houses of Bollywood legends Raj Kapoor and Dilip Kumar in Pakistan’s Peshawar into museums, the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KPK) provincial government has approved Rs 2.35 crore for purchasing the properties. Kamran Bangash, special assistant to KPK chief minister Mehmood Khan told TOI on Saturday: "Mehmood Khan has approved Rs 2.35 crore for purchasing the house of Dilip Kumar and haveli of Raj Kapoor for turning them into museums and throwing the properties open to the public." Kamran said this was being done as part of the government’s plan to reinstate the pre-Partition culture and the government’s initiative would attract a large number of tourists. Ikram Khatana, Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf’s (PTI) digital media head, KPK, said the ancestral houses of Dilip Kumar and Raj Kapoor were lying vacant and in a shambles. "We have already struck deals with their respective owners, which will be finalized in near future and then we will begin the restoration process to turn these into museums showcasing their journey to Bollywood," he added. The house of Dilip Kumar and the haveli of Raj Kapoor known as "Kapoor Haveli" are situated in Qissa Khwani Bazar of Peshawar. "Kapoor Haveli" was built between 1918 and 1922 by the actor’s grandfather Dewan Basheswarnath Kapoor. Raj Kapoor and his uncle Trilok Kapoor were born there. Both the houses have already been declared national heritage by the Pakistan government after their owners tried to demolish these to construct a commercial plaza in this prime location of the town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/kpk-govt-approves-rs-2-35-cr-for-buying-ancestral-houses-of-raj-kapoor-dalip-kumar/articleshow/80077427.cms||Yudhvir Rana
January 3, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to have 3 new govt medical colleges worth Rs 1,000 crore||Chandigarh: Punjab medical education minister Om Parkash Soni said on Saturday that three government medical colleges will soon be opened in the state at a cost of Rs 1,000 crore. He said government medical college in Mohali would start in 2021 and medical colleges of Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala, which have been sanctioned by the government, would start in 2022. The medical education minister said soon, a burn unit and trauma centre would be started at Rajindra Hospital in Patiala. He added that a Cancer centre with 150-bed capacity, is being set up in Amritsar at a cost of Rs 120 crore. It would be ready by the year-end, he said. Also, a separate department of virology would be started at government medical college, Amritsar. A new sub-station would be set up at Amritsar medical college to prevent power shortage, Soni said, adding that a super-specialty block and five new operation theatres were being set up in Faridkot. Two new hostels would be set up in Jalalabad and one in Goindwal Sahib, along with a pharmacy building at a cost of about Rs 5 crore. Diploma courses are also being started at Baba Farid University hospital in Badal and Jalalabad, the minister said. Punjab government, he said, has initiated proceedings for setting up of a state of the art advanced virology centre at a cost of Rs 550 crore in Mohali. The Centre would offer virology education, research and testing facilities under an ICMR-funded project, he said. The PGI satellite centre in Sangrur would be completed in 2021-22 and construction work of the satellite centre in Ferozepur would start soon. The cabinet minister also said that new posts would be created and candidates would be recruited at Ayurvedic College, Patiala. A proposal for setting up of a new college and hospital at Guru Ravidas Ayurvedic University, Hoshiarpur was under consideration. The department of medical education and research proposed to recruit 726 persons under the “Ghar ghar rozgar yojana” next year, including 142 doctors, 189 nurses and 234 technicians, he added. Hailing the department’s role in the fight against Covid-19, he said major casualties had been prevented in the state. The cabinet minister said as many as 21,000 tests per day were being conducted in labs of three government medical colleges. Besides, 5,500 tests were being conducted every day in four new labs – two in Mohali and one each in Ludhiana and Jalandhar - taking the tally of RT-PCR tests per day to 26,500. Soni said the the lab at government medical college, Patiala has the capacity to perform 10,000 tests per day, which is the highest in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-to-have-3-new-govt-medical-colleges-worth-rs-1000-crore/articleshow/80077454.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Chandigarh||Woman commits suicide along with 4-year-old daughter||Hisar: A 30-year-old woman committed suicide with her four-year-old daughter by jumping in front of a train in Peeranwali village of Hisar district on Friday night. The deceased have been identified as Gurmeet Kaur and her daughter Amandeep Kaur, both residents of Peeranwali village. Government Railway Police (GRP) have registered a case on the complaint of Inder Kaur, a resident of Bandrala village in Karnal district, against husband of the deceased Sonu Singh, father-in-law Pritam Singh, mother-in-law Sheela Kaur, two brothers-in-law Binder Singh and Satnam Singh, all resident of Peeranwali village in Hisar under sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. In her complaint to the police, she stated that her daughter Gurmeet Kaur had married Sonu in 2009 and since then her in laws were harassing her for dowry. A complaint was also made about this on July 7, 2005, at Assandh police station, but then the in laws apologized and took Gurmeet Kaur to their village, she added. She said the accused again started harassing her daughter. Upset by this, Gurmeet committed suicide by jumping in front of a train with her daughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/woman-commits-suicide-along-with-4-year-old-daughter/articleshow/80077459.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Amritsar||Two more farmers die at Tikri border||FEROZEPUR/BATHINDA: A farmer from Mehmujoyia village in Ferozepur and an 18-year-old man from Chaoke village in Bathinda, who were participating in the ongoing agitation against the Centre’s farm laws in Tikri (Delhi-Bahadurgarh border), died on Saturday. Kashmiri Lal (50), who was from Guruhar Sahai sub-division in Ferozepur district, had a heart-related ailment on December 31 night, following which he was taken to Bahadurgarh civil hospital. He was sent back to his village on Friday, but he breathed his last in the night. Narinder Singh Joga, a farm body functionary, said Kashmiri Lal participated in the months-long dharna by farmers at Mehmujoyia toll plaza against the farm laws. The other deceased, Jashanpreet, whose family owns three acres of land, had reached only on Saturday. He is said to have died of cardiac arrest, said BKU Ekta Ugrahan leader Jasbir Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/two-more-farmers-die-at-tikri-border/articleshow/80078774.cms||---
January 3, 2021||India||Covid vaccination: Net connectivity an issue, reveal dry runs||PUNE: The vaccination dry runs in four Maharashtra districts on Saturday were largely problem-free except for one hitch: spotty internet connectivity. Three sites from four districts - Pune, Jalna, Nandurbar and Nagpur - were picked for the drills, part of a nationwide preparedness assessment before the actual vaccination drives later this year. A key component of Covid-19 vaccination will be the Co-Win app, onto which details of beneficiaries and dosages have to be uploaded. The system needs a steady internet connection. The district administration of Nandurpar said they have now sought permission for "offline vaccinations". Pune authorities said they have asked for more infrastructure to improve their link. On Saturday, 25 "practice" beneficiaries were asked to arrive at each site via SMS. One beneficiary in Pune "refused" to take the shot while the Nandurbar and Nagpur sites each had one person not turning up. The Jalna centre saw full participation. Health officials in Pune said there was a need for taluka-level vaccination sites to plug gaps in the internet connectivity. During an address before the dry runs, state health minister Rajesh Tope said the state was fully prepared for the real vaccination drives. In Nagpur, deputy director of health services Sanjay Jaiswal said the dry run gave them the confidence that 25 people can be vaccinated at one centre within two hours. The drills, he said, also brought up a few technical glitches such as wrong phone numbers and a missing option to change time slots if a person cannot make it to a site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-vaccination-net-connectivity-an-issue-reveal-dry-runs/articleshow/80078785.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Ghaziabad||List ready, 6 Ghaziabad centres gear up for vaccine dry run on Tuesday||GHAZIABAD: The district administration has made all preparations for the dry run of Covid-19 vaccination scheduled for Tuesday. Six centres have been selected where the exercise will take place under strict Covid protocols. The exercise will begin from 9am on Monday. “Gayatri Hospital in Lohia Nagar, District Women Hospital and Santosh Hospital have been selected as centres in urban centres. ITS Dental College in Muradnagar, IDST in Modinagar and CHC in Loni have been chosen as rural centres,” said district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey. He added that four vaccination officers have been deputed at each of these centres. “Supervisors and medical officers have also been deputed to oversee the entire operation,” he said. The centres have three separate chambers and the beneficiaries will be allowed in each of these chambers in a regulated manner. “Beneficiaries will first enter the waiting room area with strict adherence to social distancing norms and police will be deputed at the gates to control gatherings. The beneficiaries will be then taken to the vaccination room where mock vaccination drills will be conducted,” Pandey said, adding, “after that beneficiaries will be shifted into an observation room where they will stay for about half an hour and a medical team will closely monitor any adverse event”. There will be separate entry and exit points at all the centres, and emphasis will be laid on medical waste segregation and disposal as per Covid protocols. The administration has already made preparations for a mass immunization programme against Covid-19, which included setting up of infrastructure and cold chain points. It has prepared a database of medical teams from both private and government hospitals who will be administered vaccines in the first phase. “The vaccines stored at the district vaccine centre will be ferried to 29 cold chain points from where it will be transported to vaccination points in specially designed cold containers,” said Pandey. Apart from ANMs, the work of administering the vaccines will also be entrusted to pharmacists and other medical staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/list-ready-6-ghaziabad-centres-gear-up-for-vaccine-dry-run-tomorrow/articleshow/80077073.cms||Abhijay Jha
January 3, 2021||Gurgaon||Rain may bring relief from cold in Gurugram, but not for long||GURUGRAM: Several parts of the city received light rain on Saturday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said Gurugram is likely to receive a spell of light showers or thundershowers in the next 3-4 days, which will bring some relief from cold wave conditions as the night temperature will rise to 8-9°C. However, an intense cold wave is likely to hit the region from January 7 onwards. Also, fog engulfed several areas of the city on Saturday. “An active western disturbance along with an induced cyclonic circulation is causing the rainfall, which eventually led to a rise in minimum temperature in the region. The region is likely to receive light-to-moderate rainfall from January 2 to January 6. The maximum impact will be on January 4 with a possibility of hailstorm,” an official said. On Saturday, the automatic weather station in Gurugram did not record the city’s minimum and maximum temperatures. However, the daytime temperature was recorded at 19.3°C at Delhi’s Ayanagar observatory, the station in the capital which is very close to the city. Also, the minimum temperature was recorded at 6.6°C, a notch above the normal. The capital recorded also light showers on Saturday along with a temporary respite from the biting cold. While most of the day saw an overcast sky, the minimum temperature on Saturday was recorded at 7° C, a significant increase from Friday’s minimum of 1.1°C — the lowest of the season. The forecasting body has issued an “orange alert” for Monday, owing to chances of hailstorm activity and moderate showers. The minimum temperature in the city is likely to rise to 9°C on Sunday, while the maximum temperature will hover around 18°C. According to the IMD’s weekly forecast, there will be cloudy skies with possibility of rain or thunderstorm. The city air quality, meanwhile, improved slightly but remained in the ‘very poor’ category for the third consecutive day. The overall air quality index (AQI) was recorded at 336 on Saturday, down from Friday’s index of 376, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. According to the IMD official, the air quality might see improvement for the next few days owing to the current weather conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/rain-may-bring-relief-from-cold-but-not-for-long/articleshow/80077574.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Gurgaon||Ad and dance: Drawing the parallel between two worlds||By Chandana Agarwal Not long back, we lead our neatly compartmentalised lives. I had office on set days and my kathak dance class on certain others. There was no overlap. I felt I had to reach into different aspects of my personality to bring to life these two loves of my life. They were the masculine and feminine side of me — one was the ground below my feet and the other the sky above my head. I felt a different energy in the two spaces. This segregation kept me sane, or so I believed In March, it all collapsed. The worlds collided, the walls fell by the side. Physically, temporally and geographically, the office and the dance class became the same space. I did it all from the same room and the same laptop. The surprising thing is not that it happened but what came as a surprise to me was that over time, I began to love the integration, I felt it energised me. I started thinking about the reasons and discovered that the fundamentals of the two worlds are similar. Both advertising and kathak are about storytelling. They are about encoding meaning in a systematic way, such that it can be decoded by the rasiks or the audience with no loss of intent. Here is my attempt at drawing parallels between my two worlds. To begin with, they are both collaborative art forms and need a meeting of minds for their creation. They are both created for an audience, they could appeal to the rational or emotional side but the objective is to create a connect with the audience. In the language of dance, it is about invoking the rasas. Dance comprises Nritta, Nritya and Natya. Nritta: It means pure dance, a presentation of rhythm through graceful movement of the body. This presentation of dance does not stress on facial expressions. It does not convey any poetic meaning. Beat and tempo are its two vital constituents. If I was to draw a parallel with the world of brands, this would be akin to communication, where a brand is appealing to our rational side. The advertising would make a superiority claim that is demonstrable and in most cases quantifiable. Some examples that come to mind are appeals like two times more absorbent diapers or sanitary napkins or LED bulbs that save on electricity bills by 20% Nritya: It consists of footwork and abhinaya. It can be described as the explanatory aspect of dance where hand gestures and facial expressions or bhava convey the meaning of the lyrics of the song. The emotional appeals in advertisements for me would be the closest parallels that I can draw between these two worlds. We buy into what the brand stands for, not what it is selling. For instance, we buy into the proposition of real beauty in the case of Dove, not just a better soap. Or we go to Starbucks not merely for the coffee but because it represents the third place for us beyond home and office Natya: It is the combination of the above two. In another parallel, abhinaya can be classified as natyadharmi and lokdharmi. Simply put, natyadharmi means theatre-oriented or stylised representation, normally used in dance. For instance, a dancer can depict a peacock dancing in the rain purely by gestures. Lokdharmi means life-oriented. It involves the use of props and is more realistic in its representation (often used in theatre, where the artiste has access to props and reality is recreated). In many ways, the lockdown has meant that we move from lokdharmi to natyadharmi. Offices gave us access to props to display hierarchy. The size of the room, the seating order in a conference room etc were used to signal authority. Zoom and Teams took that away. The world is far more representational now. We do not have a party, we sit in our homes with our glasses and make believe that we are partying by changing our backgrounds. We give each other the licence to believe, just like in a dance performance when a dancer performs the ‘matka gat’, without a real pot. It’s a world that is representational. This understanding, that it is about assimilating knowledge, not compartmentalising it, is one of my biggest takeaways of this year. It can be applied across. When a woman leaves a child at home to come to the office, she doesn’t have to leave her maternal instincts. This is liberating. This also ties back to authenticity. My life’s journey is not about role-playing, it is about becoming all that I want to be. I am not playing the role of an artiste. I am one, just like I cannot play the role of being a corporate manager in advertising, that is who I am. I don’t have to choose. (The author is | President, 82.5 Communications, North, The Ogilvy Group, and Kathak artiste)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/ad-and-dance-drawing-the-parallel-between-two-worlds/articleshow/80077835.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Truck helper dies in crash, tractor crushes woman||GREATER NOIDA: Two persons, including a 45-year-old woman, died in two separate accidents in Greater Noida on Saturday. The first accident took place early in the morning when an Eeco van crashed into a stationary truck on NH-34. The helper of the truck died on the spot. Police said the Eeco was travelling towards Ghaziabad when it crashed into the truck around 7.30am. Dharmendra Sharma, the SHO of Badalpur police station, said the truck helper was guiding the driver to reverse the vehicle when the van hit him. “The Eeco first hit the helper, Krishnamurti, before crashing into the truck. He got crushed between the two vehicles and died on the spot,” Sharma said. The truck driver fled the spot. Three youths who were in the Eeco — Vikas, Prince and Pradeep, all from Muradnagar — suffered injuries. They were rushed to a nearby hospital and were referred to Safdarjung hospital. The second accident took place in Dadri area around 5pm. A 45-year-old woman, Pawan Devi, died on the spot when an overloaded tractor trolley hit the bike on which she was travelling with her husband. A police officer said the tractor hit the bike from behind when it swerved to avoid a collision with a bus that was trying to overtake a vehicle. “A bus was trying to overtake a vehicle near the Nagar Palika office. In order to avoid a collision, the tractor swerved but and hit the two-wheeler. Pawan Devi fell on the road and was crushed under the wheels of the tractor,” the officer said. The woman died on the spot, while her husband suffered serious injuries. An FIR is being lodged for death due to negligence against the unknown tractor driver, who fled the spot, Dadri SHO Rajvir Singh Chauhan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/truck-helper-dies-in-crash-tractor-crushes-woman/articleshow/80078210.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Open escrow accounts, builders to be told||GREATER NOIDA: To monitor the financial health of the private developers executing realty projects in the city and to ensure timely payment, the Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority will ask builders to open escrow accounts now on. The Authority took the decision to implement the system after recently getting an approval from the board. Home to 207 group housing projects, the Greater Noida Authority has to recover dues to the tune of over Rs 7,000 crore from the private developers executing the multi-storey apartment projects in the city. Officials said these developers will now have to set up an escrow account for every project. The funds collected from the buyers will be utilised for further construction work or for ensuring payments related to the same project. The Authority will also seek its payment from the developers towards the land premium, they said. “Only completed projects will be kept out of the purview of the order. However, the incomplete ones will have to open escrow accounts,” said GNIDA additional CEO Deep Chandra. Developers have welcomed the move. Chairman of National Real Estate Development Council (Uttar Pradesh) RK Arora said, “The move will ensure timely completion of realty projects and revive confidence in the sector.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/open-escrow-accounts-builders-to-be-told/articleshow/80077844.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana practises Covid-19 vaccination drive||CHANDIGARH: Taking steps to ensure an immaculate implementation of Covid-19 vaccine roll out in the state, the health department on Saturday conducted a dry run in the Panchkula district as planned by ministry of health and family welfare (MOHFW). ACS health and home Rajeev Arora formally launched the dry run and the Panchkula health authorities administered dry run on health workers and para medics of Barwala and Raipur Rani blocks. “The primary aim to conduct the dry run was to exercise end-to-end testing of Covid-19 vaccination roll out so as to identify the challenges, which will further help in formulating detailed plans for actual implementation of the vaccine roll out and also to provide confidence to programme managers at various levels,’’ said Arora, adding that the dry run will also help in monitoring and reviewing the preparedness at the district and block levels and gather empirical data. A dry run has been planned across Haryana on January 7 as well. Arora said three session sites will be selected in each district. “The existing universal immunisation programme of the state will be used for providing Covid-19 vaccine,” added Arora. According to guidelines given by GOI, the Covid-19 vaccine introduction will span over a year with multiple groups being included sequentially starting from health care workers (HCWs).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-practises-covid-19-vaccination-drive/articleshow/80078857.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Bengaluru||New Act not applicable to land acquired under state laws: Karnataka HC||BENGALURU: The Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, popularity known as the New Land Acquisition Act, does not apply to acquisitions initiated under provisions of any other enactment, particularly state laws like the BDA Act, the high court said. It made the observation while rejecting the writ appeal filed by a landowner seeking compensation under the new law in respect of 20 guntas of land at Agara village, acquired for formation of HSR Layout. A division bench comprising Justices BV Nagarathna and NS Sanjay Gowda noted that section 24 of the 2013 Act creates a new right of landowners and for it to be exercised, certain conditions have to exist, the most significant of them being initiation of proceedings for acquisition under provisions of the LA Act, 1894, also known as the Old LA Act. “Therefore, the said words must be given a natural interpretation and not an expansive or wide interpretation, so as to extend the right under Section 24 even in respect of owners whose lands are subjected to acquisition under any state enactment, such as the BDA Act or KUDA Act,” the bench said. It also noted the Parliament itself was conscious of the fact that the 2013 Act repeals and substitutes only LA Act, 1894, and not any other central or state enactment dealing with acquisition of lands, and the same is evident from section 105 of the new Act which says it’s not applicable or applicable with modifications vis-a-vis 13 enactments, including Electricity Act, NHAI Act and Railways Act among others. In the case on hand, L Ramareddy had challenged the April 16, 2018 order of the single bench rejecting his petition. The division bench noted that acquisition has attained finality, the award was passed on July 7, 1987 (compensation amount Rs 19,86,749) and possession was taken on July 15, 1987. Since the appellant neither challenged the acquisition notification nor took up the contention under section 27 read with Section 36 of the BDA Act, the scheme had lapsed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/new-act-not-applicable-to-land-acquired-under-state-laws-hc/articleshow/80076645.cms||P Vasantha Kumar
January 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Two transgenders get bail||BENGALURU: The high court has granted bail to two transgenders who were accused of killing another transgender, Rajendra Kumar, in August last year. Allowing the bail petitions filed by Devi alias Ashok Kumar and Nithya alias Ramakrishna — the first and second accused — Justice Sreenivas Harish Kumar pointed out that apart from there being no eye-witnesses, at this stage there is no prima facie material against the petitioners. The judge directed them to furnish a bail bond for Rs 2 lakh each with two sureties and mark their attendance before the jurisdictional police every Sunday, till conclusion of the trial. The judge also pointed out that incidentally, Bhavana alias Abdul, third accused in the case, is already out on bail. On August 14, 2020, around 8.30pm, they abducted Rajendra in a hired car and took him to their house in Konappa Agrahara, allegedly beating him to death with a stick. Later, they took the body to Rajendra’s village to give an impression that he was assaulted by a truck driver. The court was also told that during investigation, police were able to recover the stick from the petitioners’ house. However, the petitioners disputed these contentions and claimed they took the deceased to his native village in Ramanagara. The prosecution said the accused had murdered Rajendra — who collected money from motorists near the Nice Road toll plaza — because they were worried about their income reducing because of him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/two-transgenders-get-bail/articleshow/80076648.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||4 UK returnees in Gujarat infected with new strain of coronavirus||AHMEDABAD: The ‘UK strain’ of Covid-19 flew into Gujarat aboard the London-Ahmedabad flight on December 22. The state government confirmed that genome sequencing by National Institute of Virology, Pune has found four people who tested Covid-19 positive after landing at the Ahmedabad airport to be carrying the UK strain named VUI-202012/01 (variant under investigation in December 2020). All four patients, residents of Ahmedabad, had returned to the city airport from the UK on December 22. As they tested positive in RTPCR test, they were directly taken to the SVP Hospital where they are admitted for the past 11 days. Nitin Patel, state deputy CM and health minister, confirmed the news and said that the persons were quickly identified and isolated. “The medical and overall administration is taking all precautions to cure them and prevent further spread of the highly infectious strain,” he said. The discovery would not change the course of treatment, said Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) officials. The four persons are kept in a separate ward at the SVP Hospital, where they don’t have any major health complications so far. “We have taken two repeat samples of the 55 passengers who are in Ahmedabad and will continue to monitor them for any viral traces or clinical symptoms,” said the official. ‘Clear SOPs issued’Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), said that there are clear SOPs issued by the Government of India about treatment and observation of the patients, which are being followed. “We are awaiting the results of 15 other samples from NIV. As finding the strain requires genome sequencing of the virus, it takes more time than the regular procedures,” she said. “All the persons who have returned from the UK and other European countries recently are under observation.” The strain is defined as a set of 17 changes or mutations. International experts have termed it more infectious, and not more virulent or deadly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/4-uk-returnees-in-gujarat-infected-with-new-strain-of-coronavirus/articleshow/80078901.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: 'Try more private players in retail liquor business'||NEW DELHI: The excise committee of Delhi government has suggested minimising the presence of Delhi government in the retail business of liquor and increase private participation. It has also recommended that the government should exit the retail business at a later stage. Currently, Delhi government runs 60% of the retail liquor shops while the rest is run by private companies. The revenue contribution by the government vends is, however, almost equal to private sector. The average contribution per vend of government corporation in terms of excise duty is Rs 5 crore per annum in comparison to Rs 8 crore per annum per private vend, the committee's report noted. The committee was formed by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia in September last year with the objective to suggest reform measures for liquor trade. The panel has recommended that Indian Made Foreign Liquor trade should be revamped by bringing wholesale operations under one government body. The model to be followed should be similar to the one followed in Karnataka where Karnataka State Beverages Corporation Ltd is the fully government-owned wholesale corporation. The advantage of having minimal governmental presence in the retail sector is that it helps keep a check on the tendency of private players to engage in malpractices, besides keeping once source of distribution at the end-point ready and available at all times to the government. The retail sector in Delhi is served by 720 active vends. Out of these, 60% of the vends are owned by government corporations in the form of 372 Indian Made Foreign Liquor vends and 88 country liquor vends and rest 40% of the total vends are privately owned. Further, corporation-owned vends fall short in providing a congenial consumer experience in terms of choice and wide brand availability. Also, since 2016, no new retail licences have been granted. The liquor trade, in terms of volume, has remained almost flat for the last six years in spite of a growing economy, increasing population and other favourable factors. Many find it difficult to purchase liquor from the authorised sources due to non-availability of vends in their proximity. This not only results in a loss to the government revenue but also puts the life of the consumers at risk. Further, the legal drinking entrants are likely to increase by another 2 million in the next five years. So to cater to the demand, supply chain needs to be strengthened in the city. The panel suggested that retail licences for private vends should also be allotted through lottery system once in every two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-try-more-private-players-in-retail-liquor-business/articleshow/80078902.cms||AlokKNMishra
January 3, 2021||Mumbai||One flyer among returnees found Covid-positive in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: On Saturday, there were no new Covid-19 patients among the passengers who returned to the city from the UK since November 25. The tally of such patients remained 29. A BMC official said there was no report yet from NIV in Pune on the genetic sequencing for any city patient to know if they had the UK variant of the virus. The state recorded only one case in Nagpur among returnee flyers, where the tally climbed to nine. The state’s overall tally is now 68. The BMC sent 362 flyers passengers into compulsory institutional quarantine upon arrival at the airport. A total of 876 passengers arrived in 12 flights. While 471 passengers were allowed to travel to other states, 43 passengers were exempted from quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/one-flyer-among-returnees-found-covid-positive-in-maharashtra/articleshow/80078906.cms||---
January 3, 2021||World||A dozen US senators plan to oppose Biden certification||WASHINGTON: A group of Republican senators led by veteran lawmaker Ted Cruz said Saturday they would not vote next week to certify Joe Biden's election win- the latest last-ditch move to support Donald Trump's efforts to undermine the vote. The initiative, which appears certain to fail, flies in the face of rulings in dozens of courts and the findings by officials in several key states, that there were no widespread voting problems. The Republicans' statement, signed by Cruz and six other current senators along with four senators-elect, asserts that "allegations of fraud and irregularities in the 2020 election exceed any in our lifetimes." The group said that when Congress convenes in a joint session on Wednesday- for what normally would be a pro-forma certification of Biden's victory- they will demand the creation of a special commission to conduct an "emergency 10-day audit" of the election results. The statement says individual states could then convene special legislative sessions and potentially revise their vote totals. "An attempt to steal a landslide win. Can't let it happen!" Trump tweeted Saturday. Posting a list of the 11 senators, Trump added: "And after they see the facts, plenty more to come...Our Country will love them for it!" They join Senator Josh Hawley of Missouri, who said earlier that he planned to raise objections on Wednesday. A Republican member of the House of Representatives, Louie Gohmert, has also announced his plan to oppose certification, and more than 100 House Republicans reportedly will back his challenge. Gohmert sought to further raise the stakes with a lawsuit that would have given Vice President Mike Pence- traditionally in a ceremonial role in Wednesday's session- the power to overturn the election result. Pence opposed that effort, and a federal judge in Texas on Friday rejected the suit. The Hawley and Gohmert challenges will ensure that Congress must meet to hear the complaints. The Congress sessions, sure to be contentious, will play out against a backdrop of pro-Trump rallies in Washington next week encouraged by the president himself. As with Trump's other attempts to reverse his election defeat, the latest political maneuvering appears doomed. Democrats control the House, and many Republicans are expected to vote Wednesday for certification. The 11 senators conceded that most Democrats and "more than a few Republicans" would likely oppose their initiative. Among them is Republican Senator Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania, whose state was a battleground that helped tip Biden into the win column. Its result is expected to be among those contested on Wednesday. "A fundamental, defining feature of a democratic republic is the right of the people to elect their own leaders," Toomey said on Twitter. "The effort by Sens. Hawley, Cruz, and others to overturn the results of the 2020 presidential election in swing states like Pennsylvania directly undermines this right."He added: "I voted for President Trump and endorsed him for re-election. But, on Wednesday, I intend to vigorously defend our form of government by opposing this effort to disenfranchise millions of voters in my state and others." Senate majority leader Mitch McConnell has urged fellow Republicans to vote to certify and avoid a divisive political brawl, saying, "The Electoral College has spoken." Biden won in the all-important Electoral College by a vote of 306 to 232. "This is cynical, anti-democratic posturing," presidential historian Tim Naftali told CNN. Cruz is considered a likely 2024 presidential candidate. Hawley is also said to be positioning himself for a 2024 run -- and so is Pence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/a-dozen-us-senators-plan-to-oppose-biden-certification/articleshow/80078903.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Vitamin D cuts Covid severity, no impact on mortality: IIPH-Gandhinagar meta-analysis||AHMEDABAD: In times of Covid-19 pandemic, sunny’s the way to boost immunity. Vitamin D, which is an integral part of Covid-19 treatment, can contribute to cutting severity of the virus, revealed a meta-analysis of international studies carried out by a team of researchers from IIPH-Gandhinagar (IIPH-G). The study, however, pointed out that the vitamin doesn’t impact mortality of positive patients. The study titled ‘Vitamin D supplementation, Covid-19 & Disease severity: A meta-analysis’ is accepted for publication by QJM, a journal of medicine by Oxford University Press. The authors include Komal Shah, assistant professor, Deepak Saxena, professor, and Dileep Mavalankar, director, of IIPH-G. “The systematic review included three studies from Spain, Brazil and India - two randomized controlled trials, and one retrospective case control study. In all, 532 hospitalized positive patients were included. Dosage and duration of Vitamin D supplements varied,” said Dr Shah. “It was observed that there was a statistically significant difference between patients requiring ICU admissions and those who did not need it. But it was not so in mortality.” Prof Mavalankar said that earlier studies have indicated highly deficient levels of Vitamin D in Indian population, despite the country being abundant in the primary source – sunlight. No known side effectsProf Mavalankar said that earlier studies have indicated highly deficient levels of Vitamin D in Indian population, despite the country being abundant in the primary source – sunlight. “Rationale behind the study was to assess other impacts on the prevention and treatment of Covid-19 infection apart from vaccination. The best part is, there are no known side effects of the supplementation,” he said. City-based experts agreed with the overall findings, pointing at the vitamin’s protective and curative roles. Dr Manoj Vithalani, a city-based internal medicine expert, said that the vitamin works as an immuno-modulator. “It improves the immune system of the patient. It has been observed that those with vitamin levels of 40-50 nanograms/ milliliter (ng/ml) have less Covid-19 severity. However, more studies in Indian context are required to understand the impact,” he said, adding that the general level they have observed in the local population is 10-30 ng/ml. Experts said that the vitamin is important for regulation of calcium and phosphate in the body along with the immune system. Earlier studies have also pointed at the positive impact of the vitamin in respiratory tract infection. Intake of fortified food - ranging from milk to oil - in daily diet can help in achieving better immunity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vitamin-d-cuts-covid-severity-no-impact-on-mortality-iiph-gandhinagar-meta-analysis/articleshow/80078916.cms||Parth Shastri
January 3, 2021||Mumbai||300 days after Covid entered Maharashtra, cases & toll see decline||MUMBAI: On the 300th day since the first Covid-19 cases were reported in the state, Maharashtra and Mumbai reported a marginal dip in fresh cases and deaths. A total of 3,218 cases and 51 deaths were reported in the state on Saturday, taking the total cases to 19,38,854 and the total deaths to 49,631. On Saturday, the state update said 593 cases were added to the Mumbai tally, which is now 2.94 lakh. With seven deaths reported, the city’s toll is 11,132 deaths so far. There were clear indications that the Covid wave in the city and state is on the wane. BMC’s premier medical school at KEM Hospital, Parel, had less than 30 in-patients on Saturday as against the 500-plus on any given day in the April to June period. “We don’t even see one death a day,” said KEM Hospital dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh. At the peak of the city’s Covid wave, the deaths here would run into double digits every day. The BMC has decided to keep its Covid infrastructure, especially beds, at present levels, said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani during an inspection drive on Saturday of BMC hospitals that will double up as Covid-19 vaccination centres. “We have low bed occupancy rates and low number of cases, but we will wait for a few weeks more before taking any decision,” he added. Dr Rahul Pandit, who is a member of the state Covid-19 task force, said that the daily caseload has witnessed a slight increase in the last four days. “However, this could be because of the fine contact-tracing we are doing at the moment for international travellers,” he said. Overall, the corona wave is down. “If we can tide over the next two weeks and with the vaccination coming in, we should be able to hit a 100-cases-a-day scenario by March end or April beginning,” Dr Pandit added. There was a slight increase in active cases in the state and city on Saturday. There were a total of 53,137 people getting treated for the infection in the state, of which 9,027 were in Mumbai. The daily recoveries reported on Saturday were lower than daily additions. A total of 2,110 people recovered on Saturday, taking the total discharges to 18.3 lakh and the rate of recovery to 94.6%. Speaking to reporters in Jalna, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said the state is prepared to undertake actual the Covid-19 vaccine inoculation exercise in the coming days. He said the Centre should ensure that poor people get the Covid-19 vaccine free. When asked whether the Maharashtra government would provide the vaccine free to the poor if the Centre doesn’t, Tope said, “We won’t leave the poor in the lurch.” “I heard that Union health minister Harsh Vardhan has declared that the government would give the Covid-19 vaccine free to health workers and frontline workers. I would request him to give the vaccine free to poor people too in Maharashtra,” Tope said. Tope said the selection of beneficiaries for the first phase of actual mass vaccination will be modelled on the Election Commission’s polling procedure. Meanwhile, in Thane city, 103 fresh cases were registered on Saturday, taking the tally there to 53,519. The city presently has 978 active cases and the toll is 1,249. In the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation area, 85 cases and two deaths were reported, taking the toll to 1,106. In Navi Mumbai, 66 cases were registered on Saturday and 3 deaths. The PCMC areas reported 31 fresh cases and two deaths on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/300-days-after-covid-entered-maharashtra-cases-toll-see-decline/articleshow/80078919.cms||Bhavika Jain
January 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Two Uttar Pradesh men who broke into 35 houses nabbed||BENGALURU: Central Crime Branch sleuths have arrested two men from Uttar Pradesh on charges of breaking into at least 35 houses in Bengaluru in the past two years and recovered 4kg gold ornaments worth around Rs 2 crore from them. The accused are: Fayum Islamuddin alias ATM Fayum, 35, and Murasaleem Mohammed, 42, both residents of Moradabad, UP. Police commissioner Kamal Pant said the UP government had announced a cash reward of Rs 10,000 for information on Fayum. “Facing more than 40 criminal cases, including murder, attempt to murder and dacoity, Fayum is an absconding warrantee since 2017,” Pant said. During investigation, Fayum tried to mislead police by saying the stolen gold articles were disposed of by his associate Ashok Lathe. “Fayum told us Lathe was in a Gurugram prison. When our team visited the jail, officials said Lathe was murdered in 2019. When we told this to Fayum, he had no option but to take us to his sister’s and other relatives’ houses in and around UP where he had hidden the booty,” joint commissioner of police (crime) Sandeep Patil said. Explaining how he earned the moniker of ATM Fayum, a senior police officer said UP police had imprisoned Fayum in a Gurugram prison where he would give hand loans to fellow inmates by giving his ATM cards, which his advocates had. “At one point of time, Fayum owned around 30 ATM cards,” the officer added. Fayum and Mohammed would drive from UP to Bengaluru and break into locked houses at nights. “Each time they visited, they never stayed in the city for more than 10 days. Usually, they lived in hotels at Majestic or KR Market. From Bengaluru, they would drive to Goa and burgle houses. From Goa, they would travel to Maharashtra or Andhra Pradesh and target more houses before returning to UP,” police said. By arresting the duo, police have cracked cases of house break thefts in Sanjaynagar, Nandini Layout, Kodigehalli, Annapoorneshwarinagar, Rajagopalnagar, Amruthahalli, Banaswadi, Hennur, KG Halli, Jnanabharathi and RR Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/two-up-men-who-broke-into-35-houses-nabbed/articleshow/80076474.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Chennai-bound passenger held with 13 bullets at KIA||BENGALURU: In this year’s first seizure of ammunition at Bengaluru airport, a passenger carrying 13 live bullets attached to a .32 mm pistol was nabbed when he tried to board a Chennai flight early Saturday. He was handed over to Bengaluru police as he didn’t have a licence. Sources at Kempegowda International Airport identified the suspect as Nandeswar Lahkar who was scheduled to take IndiGo Airlines flight 6E 6217 at 5.55am. Lahkar reached the Central Industrial Security Force’s security-checking bay around 2am. When his hand luggage was being scanned, CISF sleuths found something amiss. A thorough examination revealed 13 active bullets in his bag compatible with a .32mm handgun. CISF personnel detained Lahkar and realised he didn’t have a valid weapon licence. He was handed over to Kempegowda International Airport police who will ascertain from where he got the bullets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/chennai-bound-passenger-held-with-13-bullets-at-kia/articleshow/80076469.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: ‘Dry run of vaccination a success’||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Health minister KK Shailaja said that the dry run of the Covid-19 vaccination held at selected pockets in the state on Saturday was a success. The minister has claimed that the necessary preparations for administering the vaccine were complete. Shailaja said the government expects the vaccine to reach the state earlier as no specific date for the delivery of the same has been intimated by the centre. “Health experts have certified the Covishield vaccine as effective and free of side effects. There is no need to panic. The state is ready for the systematic administering of the vaccine to all people, on a priority basis,” the minister said. The state government has already decided on the priority group, as per the instructions from the centre. “We have readied the plan for hassle-free storage and distribution of the vaccine,” the minister said. She was interacting with the media after personally assessing the dry run conducted at Peroorkkada government hospital here. “We usually conduct mock drills when confronted with unusual situations. Apart from what the centre government has offered, the state has made additional arrangements for the safe-keep of the vaccine in cold storage. About 3.13 lakh people belonging to the priority sector have already registered for vaccination. “After health workers, it’s the elderly people who get the preference. The state would require at least 50 lakh doses of vaccine to be administered to the elderly population alone. We would ask the centre to provide us enough quantity of vaccine to meet our requirement,” she said. Meanwhile, the minister added that a disciplined effort from the health department has helped the state to bring the impact of Covid-19 under control. “Though at one time we expected the number of cases to go up to 20,000 (daily), it never happened,” she said. The dry run for the vaccination was held in four districts. Besides, Thiruvananthapuram, Idukki, Palakkad and Wayanad held dry runs between 9 am and 11 am. A batch of 25 health workers participated in the dry run in each centre. Senior officials in the health department oversaw the preparations in the districts. Meanwhile, 14 lakh disposable auto-disable syringes reached the storage depot in Thiruvananthapuram on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-dry-run-of-vaccination-a-success/articleshow/80078937.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Mumbai||Court says OC is builder’s job, acquits 80-year-old BMC wanted to evict||MUMBAI: Acquitting an 80-year-old Mulund man who failed to comply with the eviction notice issued by the BMC for residing in a flat without obtaining an occupation certificate, a magistrate court recently said that the responsibility of procuring the document lies only with the builder, developer and architect. The court found that the accused, Avinash Vaidya had not violated section 353 A of The Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act. “The basic object of section 353A is obtaining completion certificate by the developer and architect. For their failure, the flat owners, who have paid a large amount to the builder to purchase the flat, cannot be held responsible,” the metropolitan magistrate said. The section attracts a fine if one is found guilty. The court also said that the BMC had no authority to inspect the premises in 2016 without giving prior notice. The court said that under provisions of the act no building which is being used as a human dwelling should be entered without the consent of the occupier and in the absence of giving a written notice. It pointed out that the act provided sufficient reason must be fur nished in their absence. “In the present case, Mr Avasare (BMC’s sub engineer) has admitted that no such notice was given to the residents of the building, prior to inspection. Therefore, the inspection taken by Mr Avasare without issuing the said notice becomes invalid in the eyes of law,” the court said. Additionally, the court pointed out that in any case 15-day period given in the eviction notice was not a sufficient enough time for anyone find another house in Mumbai. “Evidence on record reveals that the notice is issued to vacate the flat immediately. Thereafter, second inspection is carried out exactly after 15 days and prosecution is initiated. However, in my view, 15 days period is not at all a sufficient period to find out other premises in a metropolitan city like Mumbai,” the court held. The court also observed that the sub engineer in his deposition only submitted that the flat was occupied by Vaidya. It held that inspection report nowhere clarified as to how the sub engineer had drawn the inference. “Even if it is considered that the accused was present in the flat, this fact itself can not prove that it was occupied by him. He may be present in the flat for any other reason like carrying out interior work prior to occupation,” the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/court-says-oc-is-builders-job-acquits-80-year-old-bmc-wanted-to-evict/articleshow/80078950.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Refund for skin-whitening failure to avoid legal grey areas||AHMEDABAD: A clinic that failed to deliver on its promise to give an Ahmedabad woman fair skin told her it had no grey areas to argue about in court and offered her a full refund. The woman was aggrieved not only because the skin treatment clinic’s procedures on her failed but also because she had endured severe pain during the process. When dragged to a consumer court, the clinic clearly told the customer that it did not want to contest the case. The matter involved a Jivrajpark resident, Khushubu Soyantar. She visited Skinsight Clinic on Sindhu Bhavan Road in February for laser treatment to whiten her face, and eliminate stretch marks and body hair. She was given to understand that the treatment at the clinic would change her skin tone and remove black marks from below her lips. Soyantar’s treatment began the following week. She underwent the treatment but did not find any change in her skin. She finally sued the clinic in October, moving the consumer dispute redressal commission, Ahmedabad (rural). She complained that she was charged Rs 20,000 for fraction laser treatment and Rs 4,000 for skin whitening. As the treatment began, she felt severe pain and requested the dermatologists to administer local anesthesia, but it was not used during the first sitting. There were four sittings and the clinic charged about Rs 840 extra for the anesthesia. Soyantar also said that the medication prescribed by the clinic was not effective and she did not witness any change in her skin colour even months after treatment. When the clinic came to know that Soyantar had sued it, its management quickly approached her and settled the dispute by expressing willingness to return the full amount. In its e-mail written to her on December 5, the clinic maintained that there was nothing wrong in its treatment. “You are not satisfied with treatment results and we do not want to argue or fight with you on this in the consumer case and that is why we will refund the total Rs 24,000+Rs 838 which you had spent on the treatment,” the email read. After receiving the refund, the woman withdrew her complaint on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/refund-for-skin-whitening-failure-to-avoid-legal-grey-areas/articleshow/80078954.cms||Saeed Khan
January 3, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 18-year-old hit by 2-wheeler dies||An 18-year-old, on her way to work, died after being hit by a speeding two-wheeler in Vasai on Friday. The accused has been arrested. The police said that Alfiya Rizvi, a degree college student, had joined a part-time job last month. On Friday morning, she was walking towards office when the accident took place. She hit her head on a stone and succumbed to head injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-18-year-old-hit-by-2-wheeler-dies/articleshow/80078968.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Delhi||Delhi Development Authority flat scheme on with 10 lakh hits||NEW DELHI: Delhi Development Authority's website saw nearly 10 lakh hits after the launch of its housing scheme on Saturday. Housing Scheme 2021 was launched by DDA's vice-chairman Anurag Jain. Applications for the scheme will be received till February 16, with the draw of lots expected by the first week of March. The scheme offers 252 3bhk Higher Income Group (HIG) flats with prices ranging between Rs 70 lakh and Rs 2.1 crore, 759 2bhk Middle Income Group (MIG) flats priced between Rs 40 lakh and Rs 1.3 crore and 52 1bhk Lower Income Group (LIG) flats costing Rs 17.5 lakh to Rs 35.5 lakh. The scheme also has 291 flats for economically weaker sections priced between Rs 7.5 lakh and 29.5 lakh. "As the scheme offers largely MIG and HIG flats located close to Delhi Metro corridors, we were sure that the scheme would attract a lot of applications. The response on the first day was very good," a DDA official said. By late afternoon, the website displaying the brochure of the housing scheme received 9.7 lakh hits. "Around 3,000 people registered by late afternoon, 210 people filled applications completely and 30 even made the payment," he said. Any Indian can apply for a flat as long as they, their spouse or dependent children don't already own a plot or flat in Delhi. Both husband and wife can apply but in case both land a flat, only one would be allotted. The application has to filed online through www.dda.org.in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-development-authority-flat-scheme-on-with-10-lakh-hits/articleshow/80078981.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Ashore for nine months, NaMu swimmer aces trip to Gateway||NAVI MUMBAI: Pandemic did not deter Nerul-based international open water swimmer Shubham Vanmali (24) from embracing another challenge in the high sea despite lack of training due to the lockdown. Vanmali successfully swam the choppy water for a distance of 15km from Walkeshwar (Governor’s Bungalow) to Gateway of India in just 3 hours and 13 minutes on Friday. Though the distance was short compared to his earlier records at English Channel or Strait of Gibraltar, this swim was special. Vanmali managed to get barely 20-25 days of training after the unlocking as the swimming pools remained shut from March to November last year. He started at 3.56 pm and completed the swim at 7.09 pm. Swimmer Rupali Repale was appointed the observer of Vanmali’s swim by Swimming Association of Maharashtra to certify the achievement. “I could not train for months but decided to take the plunge. At one point of time, I thought of giving up halfway but gathered enough courage to continue,” said Vanmali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/ashore-for-nine-months-namu-swimmer-aces-trip-to-gateway/articleshow/80078991.cms||B B Nayak
January 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka cabinet rejig not on cards now: BJP general secretary||BENGALURU: BJP general secretary in-charge of the state Arun Singh has made it clear that cabinet expansion is ‘not in the scheme of things’ of the party brass. “There is no plan as of now. What is the urgency when there are so many bypolls coming up?” Singh told STOI soon after he arrived in Bengaluru on Friday night. Singh said he’ll ensure the party conducts core committee meetings every month and take all important decisions there. This, he said, will put to rest opposition charges that Vijayendra is the de facto CM and Yediyurappa is the de jure CM. Also, it will address concerns raised by MLAs that the CM is not consulting them before taking key decisions or making appointments, he added. Party insiders also suggested that the state cabinet rejig is likely to happen only after expansion of the PM Modi’s cabinet. Endorsing Yediyurappa’s statement that he will complete his full term, Singh said: “There is no connection between the delay in granting permission for cabinet expansion and leadership change. These are two different issues and the party will address them separately.” Quoting Singh’s earlier statement, Yediyurappa on Thursday had contended that he would complete the remaining two-and-a-half years of his tenure and that there’s no confusion in BJP. This came amid intense speculation that the high command is considering leadership change in Karnataka considering Yediyurappa’s age (78) and health since he had been exempted for two years from the party’s unwritten 75-year age ceiling for holding offices and contesting elections. “Of course, he is above 75 but he is still fit enough to carry on the workload as chief minister,” Singh said. No action against YatnalAsked whether the party would initiate action against senior BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal for making public statements, Singh said: “No really. He is our senior leader. He was a minister in the Vajpayee cabinet. But we will advise him not to make statements on leadership change in public.” On the demand of some MLAs that Yediyurappa should hold the party’s legislature meeting instead of holding talks separately (region-wise), Singh said they will discuss all such issues in the party’s core committee to be held on Saturday and Sunday and take a call. When quizzed about the sagging image of the party because of dissent and continued speculation over leadership change, Singh said: “I’ll be frequently holding meetings with all our legislators and try to understand their concerns and address them. I am working to counter negative publicity for our government which is partly because of the opposition and partly because of our partymen.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cabinet-rejig-not-on-cards-now-bjp-general-secretary/articleshow/80076564.cms||ManuAiyappa Kanathanda
January 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Marriage certificate sans emblem not invalid: Karnataka HC||BENGALURU: Merely because there is no image of the state emblem printed on a marriage certificate, it cannot be considered invalid, the high court has observed. The court rejected an appeal filed by a man, challenging his conviction by a Mangaluru court for offences under IPC sections 498A (subjecting wife to cruelty) and 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of peace). Based on the complaint by his wife Shobha from Shivanagar in Alape village, Mangaluru, that her husband assaulted her and married another woman, Sadananda Naik from Karwase village in Karkala taluk was held guilty by a trial court. He was sentenced to one-year imprisonment and fined Rs 5,000. A sessions court affirmed the verdict on March 29, 2011. Naik had moved the high court, stating he had not married Shobha and contended that the certificate produced was suspicious as it lacked the emblem. However, Justice HB Prabhakara Sastry pointed out though the document doesn’t contain the emblem as per the format of Form 2A, it still has all other necessary details, including the title showing it as the certificate issued by government and stamp of the marriage officer.  The judge noted that even under section 8 of the KMRM Act, it is stated that non-registration would not invalidate any marriage. The wedding was solemnized between the complainant and the accused on February 3, 2006 and registered before the Registrar of Marriages on March 21, 2007, and it was proved by photographs and evidence of witnesses. The evidence showed the accused married Jyoti at Mahalingeshwara temple in Karkala and it was his second marriage, the judge added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hc-marriage-certificate-sans-emblem-not-invalid/articleshow/80076574.cms||P Vasantha Kumar
January 3, 2021||Mumbai||Dilip Chhabria's son, sister ‘wanted accused’ in Rs 100-crore car scam||MUMBAI: City crime branch, probing an interstate car-financing and forgery scam involving India’s leading car designer, Dilip Chhabria (68), have shown his son Bonito, sister Kanchan and company directors Choclingam Kathiravan and Sethraman Selvara as wanted accused. Dilip had allegedly cheated an Indian cricketer and a Bollywood actor, which needs to be thoroughly probed, the remand application stated. Crime intelligence unit had arrested Dilip for the scam worth more than Rs 100 crore. The 37th metropolitan magistrate on Saturday remanded him to police custody till January 7. Police claimed Dilip Chhabria Designs Pvt Ltd (DCDPL) manufactured 127 Avanti cars in three years and sold them in India and abroad with multiple registrations. Ninety were allegedly used for fraudulent financing, by taking loans from non-banking financial companies (NBFCs). Police said DCDPL would manufacture a car, register it in one state and buy it posing as a dummy customer, take finance on it, and then the same car would be registered in another state and sold to a third party. Crime branch had detained the owner of a two-seater DC Avanti in Colaba recently. On scrutinising its documents, they found a car with same chassis and engine number was registered in TN and Haryana. Police on Thursday searched Dilip’s workshop at MIDC and recovered another Avanti car with the same engine and chassis number and was registered in Haryana. Police then launched a search for Bonito. They said DCDPL took loans on each vehicle from NBFCs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dilip-chhabrias-son-sister-wanted-accused-in-rs-100-crore-car-scam/articleshow/80079006.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 3, 2021||Mumbai||‘Opposing plan of Aurangabad renaming won’t hit MVA govt’||MUMBAI: Days after Maharashtra Congress leaders said they would oppose any proposal regarding renaming of Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar, the Shiv Sena on Saturday said that the stand taken by the Congress will not affect the MVA government. Shiv Sena leader and MP Sanjay Raut on Saturday said that if there is any opposition, then the issue will be resolved. In its party mouthpiece Saamana, the Sena said, “The Congress has opposed the proposal of renaming Aurangabad to Sambhajinagar. It has made the BJP happy.” He added, “But the Congress’s opposition to the proposal is not new and therefore, linking it to the MVA government is foolishness.” Talking to media Raut said that he is sure than the state Congress leaders, including Balasaheb Thorat, Ashok Chavan and Prithiviraj Chavan have more respect for Sambhaji Maharaj than Aurangazeb and as far as the BJP is concerned, why didn’t they rename it in the last five years when they were in power in the state and the Centre. “They changed the name of many cities like Allahabad, which was renamed to Prayagraj,” said Raut. State Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat had said that the Congress would oppose the proposal to rename Aurangabad, and had said that the MVA government works according to a Common Minimum Programme and no decision can be taken outside it. “Balasaheb had renamed it as Sambhajinagar 30 years ago, which was accepted by people. It will soon be changed officially as well,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/opposing-plan-of-aurangabad-renaming-wont-hit-mva-govt/articleshow/80079025.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh no more top contributor to India’s active Covid-19 case load||VISAKHAPATNAM: At its peak of the Covid-19 pandemic in August-September, Andhra Pradesh had accounted for a major share in the active case load of the country. But the state, which suffered one of the worst outbreaks in the country, now has the lowest number of active cases among all the eight states/union territories, which recorded at least five-lakh Covid-19 cases. Kerala and Maharashtra have about 65,000 and 53,231 active cases respectively compared to AP’s 3,200 active cases. Even as of Saturday, the state with 98.8% recovery rate tops all the states in India. The state’s active case load continued to exhibit a sustained downward trend in the last two months with it declining to about 0.4% as of Saturday morning. While 58,938 people were found to have contracted the novel coronavirus in November and December 2020, the state witnessed 79,833 recoveries during the same period. While the recovery numbers improved from 70 per cent to 95 per cent in just a span of two months, the state took the same two months to take it past the 98 per cent mark due to the plateauing curve, both in terms of new cases and recoveries. Other than a few districts like Krishna, Guntur and Nellore, the new daily infection numbers have been consistently below 30-mark for the last two weeks. East Godavari and West Godavari, the top two Covid-19 hotbeds of the state in terms of absolute case numbers, already achieved the 99 per cent recovery rate. Three more districts also touched the 99 per cent recovery rate milestone. The active cases are less than 100 in four districts. Speaking to STOI, AP Covid-19 nodal officer Dr K Rambabu said that apart from augmenting the health and hospital infrastructure, the state health department has set up 20 VRDL labs and 65 Truenat testing centres to prevent and manage the Covid-19 pandemic in the state. “The combined testing capacity of all modalities is around 70,000 samples a day, the highest among all the states in the country. The health department has also taken advantage of the two HIV viral load testing labs in Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada and five CBNAAT (cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test) machines, located at various hospitals, to increase the coronavirus testing footprint in Andhra Pradesh,” said Dr Rambabu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/andhra-pradesh-no-more-top-contributor-to-indias-active-covid-19-case-load/articleshow/80079000.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
January 3, 2021||Chennai||HC notice to TN on school bag tender violations||CHENNAI: A Haryana-based company has moved the Madras high court alleging irregularities in a tender floated by Tamil Nadu textbook corporation for purchase of school bags and shoes for government school students. Admitting the plea, Justice Senthil Kumar Ramamoorthy directed the state and the corporation to file their reply in two weeks. According to the petitioner BNG Fashion Gears, though it was an eligible bidder and made the lowest bid in the tender, its bid was rejected without any reason. “Though we made multiple attempts to know the reason for the rejection, officials of the corporation failed to provide any valid reason,” the petitioner said. Claiming the action of the authorities in rejecting its bid illegal, the petitioner said, a division bench of Supreme Court headed by Justice S K Kaul had made it clear that the tender-inviting authority is duty-bound to disclose the reason for rejection to the bidder. In the present case, the authorities have deliberately violated the same and refused to provide any justification for the rejection, the petitioner firm said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-notice-to-tn-on-school-bag-tender-violations/articleshow/80079035.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Delhi||Message loud & clear: Check volume to respect the dead||NEW DELHI: Blaring music from speakers mounted over a tractor is a usual sight at Singhu border. However, a group of people from Nawanshahr in Punjab believes that people should stop playing music loudly to honour the sacrifice of those farmers who have passed away recently. With posters stuck over a tractor trolley, these 10 people from Punjab say that the fight is long. "One must understand that we have to respect the farmers who have died while fighting for all of us. Playing such loud music while the people are speaking on the stage is disrespectful," said Jitendra Singh. The group members have made a blue trolley, which has an 'eagle' resting on top of a wooden pole, home. Over their temporary home are three posters that have been put up in Punjabi. The first one reads: "Everyday farmers are being martyred in this fight. We can't understand why songs are being played loudly, what is the happiness for ?" "It's the kites, which change their direction when the wind blows but to an eagle, it doesn't matter in which direction the wind is blowing," reads the second poster. Jaskaran Singh, who also hails from Nawanshahr, said: "We are not against people playing music but when we are losing our people then what is the point of this. We don't force anyone but quietly stand on the sides. Some people lower down the volume at times while some continue. We don't force anyone to do it. This is what we feel and we have written it out for people to understand our sentiment." Singh further claimed that "around 30 farmers have so far died while fighting against the new farm laws."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/message-loud-clear-check-volume-to-respect-the-dead/articleshow/80079040.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Navi Mumbai man gets 4 years’ RI for abetting suicide of 17-year-old girl||THANE: The sessions court convicted a 33-year-old man from Ghansoli for abetting the suicide of a 17-year-old girl and sentenced him to four years of rigorous imprisonment. The judge also fined the accused an amount of Rs 4,000. The accused is a married man and the deceased was his neighbour. Judge G P Shirsat, at the special court trying cases of SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, held the accused Nitin Madhavi, guilty of the offences punishable under the provisions of Atrocities Act and under Pocso Act. Prosecutor Sanjay Londhe told the court that the victim was only 17 years old and lived close to the accused who used to stalk her. He also made advances to the victim and harassed her by saying he wanted a sexuon December 29, 2016, the victim hanged herself from the ceiling of her room. The defence counsel pointed out several gaps in the prosecution’s version but the judge, after hearing both sides, in his order noted, “..from the evidence and circumstances on record, it is clear that accused was constantly causing harassment and trouble to the deceased (by insisting) on having an affair with her and start a sexual relation.” The judge added, “...it is significant to note that there is concrete evidence with the certainty that the accused constantly harassed the deceased, the daughter of the complainant, and insulted her by abusing her caste in a public place. So, on consideration of the evidence of all prosecution witnesses...in my considered view, the accused is liable to be convicted for the offence of 305 IPC, Sections 3(1)(r), 3(1)(s), 3(1)u), 3(2)(5a)of The Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes(Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 and Section 12 of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act.” al relationship with her. He frequently made phone calls to her. When the victim complained to her parents, they reprimanded the accused but the harassment did not stop. Finally||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/navi-mumbai-man-gets-4-years-ri-for-abetting-suicide-of-17-year-old-girl/articleshow/80079042.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
January 3, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Flyer caught with heroin in plastic pellets||NEW DELHI: An Afghan national was arrested in the early hours of Saturday at Indira Gandhi International Airport with 89 plastic pellets in his lower abdomen, each containing heroin. A total of 635g of the narcotic have been recovered, an official said. Customs said the man arrived from Mazar-i-Sharif in Afghanistan on Friday and was intercepted based on inputs. A physical and medical inspection revealed a strange substance, which was being secreted from the lower abdomen. "A medical procedure resulted in the recovery of 89 plastic pellets, each containing white substance. When the material was tested, it appeared to contain commercial quantities of heroin," said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-flyer-caught-with-heroin-in-plastic-pellets/articleshow/80079044.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Vehicles kept off Marina service road on January 1 too||CHENNAI: Continuing with the restrictions of NewYear’s eve in view of Covid protocols, the Chennai city police stopped the bikers near Marina Beach from taking the Beach Road on Friday night and sealed the entry and exit points towards the service road. Marina Beach,whichwas opened almost eight months on December 14, was again closed to the public who wanted to hold midnight celebrations to mark New Year. A police officer said, “The access to the service road near the beach was blocked all through the day.” Vehicles were diverted near Gandhi Statue towards Dr Radhakrishnan Salai and police stopped and inquired road road users, especially bike riders. Traffic police slapped more than 200 cases against bikers for not wearing helmets and facemasks at various junctions.Following this, many flocked to roadside parks. The state government order banning congregation of crowd at public places,especially beaches on the night of December 31 as a precaution for Covid-19. While implementing the orders of the government, the Greater Chennai Traffic Police has taken various steps in the past week, such as closing roads leading up to beaches and flyovers and conducted vehicle checks at 170 points to check unnecessary movement of public, said a police officer in a release on Saturday. The release said that the Chennai traffic police had registered 4,368 accident cases in 2020,whichis 36% lessthan the recordthe number in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-vehicles-kept-off-marina-service-road-on-january-1-too/articleshow/80079048.cms||A Selvaraj
January 3, 2021||Chennai||Two held for cheating Kerala doctor of Rs 45 crore||CHENNAI: Two men were arrested for cheating a doctor from Kerala after collecting the commission amount Rs45 crore from him promising to get him loans from Non-Resident Indians (NRI) amounting to Rs5,000 crore on Saturday. A court sent the duo to prison. Police identified the two as P L Jayaraj, of Chennai and Ashwin Rao from Bengaluru. They had been dodging the complainant whenever the latter approached the duo to get loans from NRIs. The complainant, police said, Dr Zacharia Paul, whose father Kurien Paulose runs a hospital in Kerala, had planned to develop the facility into a multispeciality hospital and approached many banks and private firms for funds. After he failed to arrange for funds, he met Jayaraj and Rao through a common friend, who promisedhim the amount via loans through some NRIs. The duo asked Paul to pay an advance of 10% of the amount as commission. The doctor transferred the money in instalments. But the duo stopped responding to him after that. Police apprehended Jayaraj from his house in Chennai and based on a tip nabbed Ashwin Rao in Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/two-held-for-cheating-kerala-doctor-of-rs-45-crore/articleshow/80079058.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Vaccine dry run in 13 districts of Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state health department conducted a dry run of the Covid-19 vaccine at three identified locations in all 13 districts of Andhra Pradesh on Saturday. The key objective of the dry run was to test end-to-end planned operations and mechanisms to ensure smooth conduct of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, which may begin any time soon. The exercise has already been conducted at five session sites in Krishna district on December 28 when the Union government selected four states for the dry run in the first phase. According to the state health department, 954 of the 975 identified beneficiaries were vaccinated during the dry run in all 13 districts on Saturday. Visakhapatnam district collector V Vinay Chand, who inspected the mock vaccination site at the Government ENT Hospital in Visakhapatnam, said the dummy vaccination drive was conducted as per Union government guidelines. “The healthcare workers would receive the vaccine first,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vaccine-dry-run-in-13-districts-of-andhra-pradesh/articleshow/80079060.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Mumbai||Seven-year-old boy dies in Virar wall collapse||MUMBAI: A seven-year-old boy died and two minor girls were injured after portions of an under-construction compound wall of their house collapsed on them in Virar on Friday. Sahil Wagh, his sister Ankita (5) and cousin Nidhi Wagh (5) were playing outside their house in Hanuman Nagar, Khanivade in Virar (east) at around 11.30pm when the compound wall of their house came crashing down and fell on the three children. They were rushed to a nearby hospital where Sahil was declared dead on admission. The Mandvi police said that Ankita and Nidhi sustained serious head injuries and their condition is said to be serious.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/seven-year-old-boy-dies-in-virar-wall-collapse/articleshow/80079061.cms||Sandhya Nair
January 3, 2021||Chennai||Political graffiti take over Chennai's Greenways Road walls||CHENNAI: The elections are around the corner and political graffiti and posters are hogging all the space, sometimes even erasing old murals creating awareness on conserving water and the environment. For instance, the compound wall of the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board on Greenways Road, had murals on water conservation. But, a large part of it is now defaced and has paintings and posters of the ruling party and others. “We spent ₹88,000 on these murals and all our work vanished overnight,” said Arun Krishnamurthy, founder of the Environmentalist Foundation of India. Arun said the aim behind the murals was to inform the public about the importance of water and about the birds found along the Adyar. Several political posters have come up along Greenways Road where chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, his deputy OPanneerselvam, other ministers and many high court judges reside. While the paintings were not found outside their premises, they were present on a few walls of residential complexes on the opposite side and a few metres from the state human rights commission office. “One night I stepped out for a walk and saw a few men pasting posters on the walls of our apartment complex. When I intervened, they began arguing. They left after n I told them that I would complain,” said a resident of the road. Many walls were defaced on Bishop Garden, Mylapore Tank Road, Pasump on Muthuramalinga Thevar Road with signboards also being used for political posters. In 2016, the Madras high court had said those violating the Tamil Nadu Open Places (Prevention of Disfigurement) Act, 1959 will face contempt. “The corporation and police can take action against violators and for that to happen one has to complain. This is happening in the presence of police officers who fear the party workers and stay quiet,” said V S Suresh, advocate at the Madras high court. Officials from the corporation said they have received a few complaints and have begun whitewashing defaced walls. AIADMK Chennai south (east) district secretary M K Ashok said , “We have a standing instruction from our ministers to not deface walls. We shall look into it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/political-graffiti-take-over-chennais-greenways-road-walls/articleshow/80079065.cms||Aditi R
January 3, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: LED traffic poles light up sea face||The BMC on Saturday lit up the city’s first ‘aesthetic traffic signal’ at Worli Sea Face. The entire signal pole, fitted with LED lights glows and changes colour with the traffic signal as it turns green, yellow and red.  “The fitting was done in-house. These lights help motorists spot the signals from a distance, making it safer for pedestrians. This is a pilot project and we will soon have LED signals at other locations on Worli Sea Face,” said Sharad Ughade, assistant municipal commissioner, G North Ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-led-traffic-poles-light-up-sea-face/articleshow/80079082.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 3, 2021||Delhi||AAP alleges graft in machine rent to clean landfill sites||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party functionary Durgesh Pathak on Saturday alleged corruption in the cleaning of landfill sites and demanded that Delhi BJP and the mayors of the BJP-governed corporations should come clean on the issue. Pathak in a press conference said: "There has been no progress in the cleaning of these landfills but there is massive progress in making money over the issue. The audit report on the Bhalswa landfill has come out and shows graft in the name of cleaning landfills." "The corporations have installed 50 machines at landfills to segregate the garbage. These machines have a contract of five years and the civic bodies pay around Rs six lakh per month for them. The report, however, alleges that the machines cost just Rs 16 lakh each," Pathak said, adding that BJP spent Rs 180 crore in five years instead of just Rs 8.5 crore. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said there has been no five-year-contract for the machines. "The cost of machines quoted by Pathak is a lie because each machine costs Rs 52 lakh," he said, adding that each machine needs fuel besides three drivers and three operators who work in three shifts. The cost of wear and tear is also covered by the company. Meanwhile, Delhi BJP functionary Virender Babbar said that three lakh BJP workers would protest at 13,750 polling booths on Sunday demanding Delhi government release the crore dues to the corporations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-alleges-graft-in-machine-rent-to-clean-landfill-sites/articleshow/80079095.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Colleges expect more students from January 4, evolve Covid-19 protocols||CHENNAI: Expecting more students on campus when the new semester begins on Monday, city colleges have evolved protocols to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in view of the recent cluster at IIT Madras. Some plan to quarantine hostel students before allowing them to attend physical classes while others like Madras Christian College plan to test all students coming to the campus. The higher education department allowed final year UG and PG students to attend the physical classes from the first week of December. But, due to semester exams, many colleges postponed reopening to January first week. Loyola College principal Thomas Amirtham said around 60% of final year students opted to attend physical classes from Monday. “We will quarantine hostel students for one week before allowing them to attend classes. We also plan to conduct online classes simultaneously for others.” There will be less than 50% of the total strength in any given time in the classroom and the remaining will attend classes virtually, he said. “Physical classes will be held for only three hours a day. In the remaining two hours, they have to do academic activity in asynchronous mode.” DG Vaishnav College in Arumbakkam will allow students into hostel students only after they test negative for Covid-19. “If the student strength is more than 50% we will split the class into two batches and conduct classes on alternative days. If it is less than 50%, both offline and online classes will be held. We will conduct a review meeting on Monday,” said principal S Santhosh Baboo. Madras Christian College plans to check daily the temperature of students and isolate those with symptoms. “We expect full strength only after Pongal,” said Paul Wilson, principal. Guru Nanak College in Velachery plans to begin with practical classes, shift wise and batch wise. “Once colleges fully reopen, we will conduct theory and practicals offline,” said principal M G Ragunathan. At MOP Vaishnav College for Women in Nungambakkam, students have already begun practicals in labs. “Our students are not keen to attend physical classes for theory. We are allowing students who want to come and we are keeping our classes ready,” said Lalitha Balakrishnan, principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-colleges-expect-more-students-from-january-4-evolve-covid-19-protocols/articleshow/80079087.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Mumbai||A child fell from WR, CR local and died every third day in 2019||MUMBAI: A child fell from a running suburban train and died every third day on Western Railway and Central Railway’s main and harbour lines in 2019. At railway claims tribunal, which adjudicates on compensation for accidents victims, 119 cases were filed of children aged below 15 who died after falling from running trains in 2019. Sources said it was shocking and showed how dangerously children travel in suburban trains. The network witnesses more than 3,000 deaths and a similar number of people lose limbs or are partially disabled either after falling from trains or due to trespassing. The source said, “Most children who died were going to play an outdoor sport far away from their residence or were headed to tourist spots. They may have been travelling dangerously or performing stunts, risking their lives. Although the figures are for 2019, the trend seems similar every year. Most of the deaths were on weekends on holidays.” Railway activist Bhavesh Patel said, “Many children travel dangerously and most who try stunts are in coaches close to the ladies compartment. Police counsel them and their parents. In many cases, parents are unaware their children travelled by train.” Compensation is usually awarded only if the victim has a valid ticket but in many cases the tribunal has ignored this clause. A source said, “Children get a concessional pass from school or college to travel from home to their education institution. But these children travel ticketless, as they are not used to standing in a queue . Hence, we sometime overrule the clause and award compensation to distraught parents.” In March 2019, a 17-yearold boy was crushed to death after he fell off a running train near Dockyard Road railway station. Zubair Siddiqui was returning home from CSMT after his last exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/a-child-fell-from-wr-cr-local-and-died-every-third-day-in-2019/articleshow/80079105.cms||Manthank Mehta
January 3, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Showroom fire spreads to 'illegal' party floor, 4 saved||NEW DELHI: Four people, including two women, had a miraculous escape after a major fire broke out on Friday night at a cafe and lounge club that was still open beyond the permitted time. The fire started at an automobile and motorcycle showroom in west Delhi's Moti Nagar around 1.30am and spread to the third floor where some people were partying in violation of the night curfew. A fire officer disclosed that the people in the showroom first tried putting out the blaze on their own, but the combustible items stored on the second floor fed the fire. It was then that they informed the fire department. The firemen found their way blocked by a tree in front of the flaming building, and a sky lift had to be arranged before the trapped people in the Markaz cafe could be ushered to safely. The building did not have fire certification, leading police to register a case. Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Service, said, "We received a call about a fire on Rama Road in Moti Nagar at 1.36am on Saturday. We rushed 25 fire tenders to the spot and brought the blaze under control at 5.50am. The fire began at an auto and motorcycle agency on the first floor and spread to the second floor, where plastic materials and glass were stored. Some portions of the ground floor and the basement were also affected." It was only after the firefighters arrived that they were informed about the trapped people. "Our first priority was to save human lives," said Garg. "Four people were rescued from the third floor and were identified as Shahdab (23), Dhirender (21), Kiran (20) and Riya (24)." Rajendra Athwal, divisional fire officer, who led the rescue operation, narrated "Since a lot of plastic, glass and other combustible materials were burning, there was thick smoke and tall flames. We tried to approach the building from three directions but could not do so. A huge tree just outside the building made it difficult to see things clearly. The staircase going to the second floor was engulfed in smoke. We then used a skylift to bring the four people to safety. We drove them to a hospital, where their condition was determined to be stable." Deepak Purohit, DCP (West), said, "Police have registered a case under sections 188 of Indian Penal Code for disobedience of an order duly promulgated by a public servant, 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), the last because of the violation of the anti-Covid night curfew. We are probing the incident." Police said the staff of Markaz restaurant had tried to extinguish the flames, but failed. A cop on duty saw the fire cand called the police control room. "Piyush Arora runs a readymade garments factory on the second floor," said Purohit. Rama Road, which is one of the oldest industrial areas in the capital, is spotted with factories and showrooms. "During the lockdown, when many of the establishments reported thefts allegedly by residents of the nearby shanties, we got heavy doors constructed to deter thieves and robbers," one of the workers said. "But when the fire broke out, the doors were difficult for us to break through and we could not prevent the higher floors from catching fire."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-showroom-fire-spreads-to-illegal-party-floor-4-saved/articleshow/80079114.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Chennai||Chennai corporation to test employees of luxury hotels for Covid-19||CHENNAI: Following the emergence of a cluster at the ITC Grand Chola, Greater Chennai Corporation has decided to test staff at all luxury hotels in the city for Covid-19. “We have asked for random tests at all (luxury) hotels so that we can identify early in case if there are clusters,” said joint commissioner (health) S Divyadharshini. So far, no call has been taken to impose such restrictions on other luxury hotels. “Based on the results of the tests, we will take a call on imposing restrictions,” an official said. An official said apart from luxury hotels, service apartments and budget hotels will also be checked. An official said that in Adyar zone alone, staff of 68 hotels will be tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-corporation-to-test-employees-of-luxury-hotels-for-covid-19/articleshow/80079115.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Chennai||Will send you to Institute of Mental Health, Chennai court warns habitual petitioner||CHENNAI: A city civil court has severely censured a petitioner, warning him that he would be sent to Institute of Mental Health at Kilpauk for treatment if he is found loitering in court complexes, disturbing staff and court functions and making unwarranted allegations against judicial officers, while dismissing his petition. The petitioner has been repeatedly approaching lower courts and high court seeking directions to police to take action on his complaints. The additional sessions court was hearing the revision petition after the chief metropolitan magistrate (CMM), Egmore dismissed his petition. The petitioner, claiming to be an advocate appeared as party-in-person to appear his own case. The petitioner has two vague grievances the court noted. One against neighbours allegedly causing nuisance and another against a lawyer, who made the petitioner suffer loss in legal profession. Since police did not take action on his complaints, the petitioner approached the Madras high court in 2016 and the petition was dismissed. Meanwhile, he had approached the CMM, Egmore to direct police to act on his complaints in August and October last year. The CMM had returned the petition directing him to submit an affidavit in support of the allegations. But the petitioner filed a review petition before the CMM and it was duly dismissed as a criminal court is not empowered to review its own order, the sessions court noted. “Though he argues fluently in English, he is ignorant of basic aspects of criminal law, procedure and practice,” additional sessions Judge S Isvarane stated and noted the submissions from the prosecution that he was harassing court staff and behaved in a similar manner before the high court too and was warned then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/will-send-you-to-institute-of-mental-health-chennai-court-warns-habitual-petitioner/articleshow/80079126.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: E-book out on building bylaws||NEW DELHI: To help people understand the amendments made in the building bylaws since 2016, South Delhi Municipal Corporation has come out with an e-version of its recently launched book - Unified Building Bylaws 2016. The e-book will be accessible through the link provided in each book. The civic agencies will keep updating the e-version in case of new amendments. "The language of the book is simple and we have used different colours to highlight amendments, illustrations, important regulations. Live links are given in the e-version of the book for convenience of the reader. We have even added important points mentioned in Delhi Master Plan 2021 till last year," said an SDMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-e-book-out-on-building-bylaws/articleshow/80079134.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Customs seized gold worth Rs 48 lakh, 2 arrested||CHENNAI: Chennai airport customs seized 937g gold worth ₹48lakh on Saturday. Based on intelligence inputs officers intercepted Mohamed Hashan Malique, of Ramanathapuram, who arrived from Dubai and recovered three bundles of gold weighing 880g from his rectum which on extraction yielded one gold ingot of 772g of 24k valued ₹40lakh. In another case, Mohamed Asarudeen, of Nagapattinam, who arrived from Dubai was intercepted at the exit gate. On search, officers found one a pouch containing gold paste weighing 82g which on extraction yielded 72g gold of 24K purity, one cut bit weighing 57g and two gold plates weighing 36g. A total of 165g of gold valued ₹8.4lakh was recovered and seized from him. The two have been arrested and further investigation is under process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-customs-seized-gold-worth-rs-48-lakh-2-arrested/articleshow/80079137.cms||---
January 3, 2021||World||UK PM Johnson could lose his seat and majority at next election: Poll||LONDON: British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is on course to lose his own seat and neither of the two main political parties is likely to win an outright majority at the next general election, not due until 2024, according to a new poll. This is the first detailed survey of the public's perception of Johnson's handling of the recently concluded Brexit talks and the COVID-19 pandemic after he reversed plans to allow families to meet up at Christmas in parts of southern England to combat the spread of the virus. More than 22,000 people were surveyed in a closely watched poll constituency-by-constituency poll over a four-week period in December, which was conducted by the research data company Focaldata and published by the Sunday Times. The so-called multilevel regression and post-stratification (MRP) poll found the ruling Conservatives would lose 81 seats, wiping out the 80-seat majority. This would leave the Conservatives with 284 seats, while the opposition Labour Party would win 282 seats, the poll showed. The Scottish National Party, which wants to break away from the rest of the United Kingdom, is predicted to win 57 of the 59 seats in Scotland, meaning the party could potentially play a kingmaker role in forming the next government. The prime minister is at risk to lose his own seat of Uxbridge, west of London, the poll found. Johnson won a resounding election victory last year that allowed him to take Britain out of the European Union's orbit on New Year's Eve after almost half a century of close ties. But Johnson's premiership may increasingly be defined by the government's response to the coronavirus pandemic, which has already killed more than 74,000 people and crushed the economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/uk-pm-johnson-could-lose-his-seat-and-majority-at-next-election-poll/articleshow/80079135.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Mumbai||Railway constable pulls 60-year-old to safety at Dahisar station||MUMBAI: A constable saved the life of a 60-year-old Dahisar resident before he could have got killed by an incoming train at Dahisar station on Friday. S B Nikam who saw the train entering platform 2, jumped and pulled Ganpat Solanki before he could have got crushed in between the platform and the train around 11.30am. Solanki avoided the FOB to catch a train to Khar. Video: A GRP constable saves life of a 60-year-old man at #Dahisar railway station in #Mumbai on Friday. (ANI) https://t.co/TP12avtH6g— TOI Mumbai (@TOIMumbai) 1609575763000Borivli railway police senior inspector Bhaskar Pawar said they called Naik’s son Mahendra and handed him over after counselling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/railway-constable-pulls-60-year-old-to-safety-at-dahisar-station/articleshow/80079116.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Chennai||Light rain, misty mornings in Chennai for two days, says IMD||CHENNAI: The city is set to receive light rain accompanied by misty mornings for the next two days. Sunday is likely to be a cool and cloudy day. As per the IMD forecast, “Light to moderate rain is likely to occur in some areas. Maximum and minimum temperature will be around 28°C and 24°C.” The city experienced a misty Saturday up to noon with light rain due to a combination of factors such as high humidity, a cloudy sky and cold wind from the north. The prevailing mist helped pull down the maximum temperature to 26°C. A met department official clarified that the city didn’t experience fog. “It is misty and cloudy weather... But, there wasn’t much rain due to the cloudy weather and drop in temperature. Fog, which forms during nights and early mornings when the sky is clear, will set in by mid-January. We usually have a few foggy days close to January 14,” the official said. He added that with the difference between the maximum and minimum temperature reducing, the days are likely to be similar to weather at hill stations. The visibility at the airport was up to 1,500m on Saturday and increased to 4,000m later in the forenoon. The mist did not affect flights or trains. Private weather bloggers forecast good rain this month for the city and other parts of the state as part of the northeast monsoon. The light rain on Saturday is considered the beginning of a spell, likely to last the next couple of days. The IMD forecast heavy rain with thunder particularly in Puducherry and Karaikal. The rain will impact the weather in Chennai and its southern suburbs. The city has received surplus rain of 33% so far via the northeast monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/light-rain-misty-mornings-in-chennai-for-two-days-says-imd/articleshow/80079153.cms||---
January 3, 2021||World||A dozen US senators plan to oppose Biden certification||WASHINGTON: A group of Republican senators led by veteran lawmaker Ted Cruz said Saturday they will challenge Joe Biden's election win -- the latest last-ditch move to support Donald Trump's efforts to undermine the vote. The initiative, which appears certain to fail, flies in the face of rulings in dozens of courts and the findings by officials in several key states, that there were no widespread voting problems. The Republicans' statement, signed by Cruz and six other current senators along with four senators-elect, asserts that "allegations of fraud and irregularities in the 2020 election exceed any in our lifetimes." The group said that when Congress convenes in a joint session on Wednesday -- for what normally would be a pro-forma certification of Biden's victory -- they will demand the creation of a special commission to conduct an "emergency 10-day audit" of the election results. The statement says individual states could then convene special legislative sessions and potentially revise their vote totals. "An attempt to steal a landslide win. Can't let it happen!" Trump tweeted Saturday. Posting a list of the 11 senators, Trump added: "And after they see the facts, plenty more to come...Our Country will love them for it!" They join Senator Josh Hawley of Missouri, who said earlier that he planned to raise objections on Wednesday. A Republican member of the House of Representatives, Louie Gohmert, has also announced his plan to oppose certification, and more than 100 House Republicans reportedly will back his challenge. Gohmert sought to further raise the stakes with a lawsuit that would have given Vice President Mike Pence -- traditionally in a ceremonial role in Wednesday's session -- the power to overturn the election result. Pence opposed that effort, and a federal judge in Texas on Friday rejected the suit. On Saturday, a federal appeals court upheld that dismissal. The Hawley and Gohmert challenges will ensure that Congress must meet to hear the complaints. The Congress sessions, sure to be contentious, will play out against a backdrop of pro-Trump rallies in Washington next week encouraged by the president himself. As with Trump's other attempts to reverse his election defeat, the latest political maneuvering appears doomed. Democrats control the House, and many Republicans are expected to vote Wednesday for certification. The 11 senators conceded that most Democrats and "more than a few Republicans" would likely oppose their initiative. Among them is Republican Senator Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania, whose state was a battleground that helped tip Biden into the win column. Its result is expected to be among those contested on Wednesday. "A fundamental, defining feature of a democratic republic is the right of the people to elect their own leaders," Toomey said on Twitter. "The effort by Sens. Hawley, Cruz, and others to overturn the results of the 2020 presidential election in swing states like Pennsylvania directly undermines this right." He added: "I voted for President Trump and endorsed him for re-election. But, on Wednesday, I intend to vigorously defend our form of government by opposing this effort to disenfranchise millions of voters in my state and others." Utah Senator Mitt Romney, a vocal Trump opponent and onetime presidential candidate who lost a 2012 White House bid to Barack Obama, dismissed his colleagues' rationale as "nonsense." "The egregious ploy to reject electors may enhance the political ambition of some, but dangerously threatens our Democratic Republic," Romney said in a statement. "Members of Congress who would substitute their own partisan judgment for that of the courts do not enhance public trust, they imperil it," he said, adding, "Has ambition so eclipsed principle?" Senate majority leader Mitch McConnell has urged fellow Republicans to vote to certify and avoid a divisive political brawl, saying, "The Electoral College has spoken." Biden won in the all-important Electoral College by a vote of 306 to 232. Cruz is considered a likely 2024 presidential candidate. Hawley is also said to be positioning himself for a 2024 run -- and so is Pence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/a-dozen-us-senators-plan-to-oppose-biden-certification/articleshow/80079174.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Delhi||Latest traffic updates from Delhi-NCR||When you want to be in the know on the go, Times City is here to help. Be it traffic snarls, metro-train delays or cancelled flights, Times City brings you every information that can ease your commuting woes. Gurugram traffic police tweet at 6.06pm: Traffic congestion has been reported on NH-48 near NSG campus towards Jaipur due to heavy vehicle pressure. Traffic police is on the spot to facilitate the movement. Inconvenience caused is highly regretted. * The waterlogged Pul prehladpur underpass Pul prehladpur underpass waterlogged after heavy rain lashes #Delhi-NCR #DelhiRainfall https://t.co/zH6y362oG5— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1609667861000*Delhi Traffic Police update at 10.44am: The truck has been removed. Traffic is now normal in the carriageway from Madhuban Chowk towards Mukarba Chowk. *Traffic is affected at Pul Prahladpur underpass due to waterlogging. Kindly avoid the stretch, tweets Delhi Traffic Police at 10.38am. *Delhi Traffic Police update at 10.21am: Obstruction in traffic in the carriageway from Madhuban Chowk towards Mukarba Chowk due to breakdown of a vehicle on elevated flyover. Kindly avoid the stretch. *Delhi Traffic Police update at 8.17am: Tikri, Dhansa Borders are closed for any traffic movement. Jhatikara Borders is open only for LMV (cars/ light motor vehicles), two wheelers and pedestrian movement. *According to Delhi Traffic Police, the following routes are open to Haryana: Jharoda (only single carriageway/road), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders. *The Chilla & Ghazipur Borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida & Ghaziabad to Delhi due to farmer protests. Please take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra & Loni Borders, tweets Delhi Traffic Police at 8.14am. *Delhi Traffic Police update at 8.13am: Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli & Mangesh borders closed. Please take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road & NH-44.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/latest-traffic-updates-from-delhi-ncr/articleshow/80079141.cms||---
January 3, 2021||Chennai||Judge who authored Marina makeover bids adieu||CHENNAI: Seniormost judge of the Madras high court, Justice Vineet Kothari, who authored several landmark verdicts and headed a bench that ensured the welcome makeover of Marina beach and restoration of the Broken Bridge, was given a farewell by the Madras Bar on Saturday. Justice Kothari, who was first appointed judge in Rajasthan high court in 2005 and was transferred to Karnataka in 2016 and then to the Madras high court in November 2018, had two brief stints as acting chief justice of the chartered high court. Now, he has been transferred to the Gujarat high court. Chennaiites will remember Justice Kothari for the active role he, along with Justice R Suresh Kumar, played in making the Chennai corporation regulate the pushcart vendors of the Marina beach, and the proposed removal of fish vendors on Loop Road off the Light House, and restoration of the Broken Bridge. It was only after the intervention of the bench headed by Justice Kothari through a PIL, that the corporation took active steps to regulate vending in the beach by restricting their numbers to 900. Justice Kothari also gave a new lease of life to the ‘Broken Bridge’ which once ran parallel to Santhome high road, connecting Foreshore Estate with Besant Nagar. Though the corporation initially took a stand that only a pedestrian-cum-cyclist bridge can be constructed replacing the broken bridge, it later altered its stand in view of the suggestions made by the bench headed by Justice Kothari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/judge-who-authored-marina-makeover-bids-adieu/articleshow/80079170.cms||---
