January 4, 2021||Mysuru||Mysuru's Bahuroopi National Theatre Festival pushed to April||After several months of no activity at all owing to the pandemic, the Rangayana theatre resumed operations, albeit on a much smaller scale with weekend plays called Marali Rangake, about two months ago. The response to the initiative has been quite good, so much so that the the group is considering conducting the annual Bahuroopi National Theatre Festival in April. The festival is usually conducted at the start of the year, either in January or February. Addanda C Cariyappa, director of Rangayana, says, “Although we are more than thrilled with the response to Marali Rangake, in the wake of reports suggesting a second wave of Coronavirus, we have decided to hold on and maybe conduct the Bahuroopi festival sometime in April next year. In fact, a proposal to this effect has been approved by the Ranga Samaja and we have received a grant of Rs 50 lakh from the government for the festival. Wehave already formed committees and are hoping to conduct this edition of Bahuroopi on par with the Dasara festivities and Hampi Utsav.” BHOOMI (EARTH) OR THAAYI (MOTHER) TO BE THEME OF THE FESTIVAL This time around, the authorities are looking at having Bhoomi as the theme of the festival. “The importance of the earth will be focus and looked at from various perspectives. Since the pandemic, people have been increasingly returning to their roots and taking to farming. The feasibility of depending on agriculture during this time of crisis will be touched upon in the festival. We also consider earth as our mother in our culture,so we will have either earth or mother as the theme of the festival. Writer philanthropist Dr Sudha Murty is likely to inaugurate the festival,” he adds. SEVEN HOUR PLAY PARVA TO BE STAGED IN FEBRUARY Parva, the stage adaptation of SL Bhyrappa's novel Parva, will be staged in February. Cariappa adds, “Parva, directed by Prakash Belawadi, and performed by Rangayana artistes, will be staged in February to set the tone for Bahuroopi . The play will be staged thrice in a week, given the reduced seating capacity as per pandemic social distancing protocol. Thereafter, the play will tour the rest of the state and country."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysurus-bahuroopi-national-theatre-festival-pushed-to-april/articleshow/80082968.cms||Vinay Lokesh
January 4, 2021||Bengaluru||A multi-media tribute to COVID-warriors at Bengaluru's Karnataka Chitrakala Parishath||Karnataka Chitrakala Parishath has been bustling with activity for a few days now. Apart from the regular santhes, which are conducted on the premises, students pursuing fine arts, were seen putting up a multi-media art installation on campus. Turns out, this time around, it is a tribute to COVID-warriors. Talking about the installation, Professor Thejendra Baoni, principal, says that it depicts the current times. "Art has the power to convey messages and that is what we are trying to do. This multi-media installation will be in the shape of the Coronavirus," says Thejendra, adding, "The concept behind the installation is to depict what everyone across the world went through in 2020. There was fear, negativity and the whole world stopped. Each rod in the installation depicts humans who want to come out of the situation. Through art we also want to pay our tributes to all frontline workers and COVID-warriors who have worked endlessly during the pandemic. Every year we dedicate one piece of art during Chitra Santhe, this year we have this art installation dedicated to COVID warriors."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/a-multi-media-tribute-to-covid-warriors-at-bengalurus-karnataka-chitrakala-parishath/articleshow/80085461.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Mangaluru||Seven die as bus heading to wedding falls into gorge near Mangaluru||MANGALURU: Seven persons, including two children, died and many others sustained grievous injuries after a bus carrying a wedding party toppled near Sullia, 90km from here, around 11.30am on Sunday. The accident occurred at Panathur in Kasargod district of Kerala and 8km from the state border. Of 50 passengers on the bus, about 40 were relatives and friends of the bride. They were heading to Kodagu to attend her wedding with Prashanth, a gram panchayat member, at Karike later in the day. Kerala police said the victims were from Balnadu in Puttur taluk of Dakshina Kannada district. They have been identified as Adarsh, 14; Sumathi, 50; Rajesh, 45; Ravichandra, 49; Shreyas, 13; and Shashidhar Poojari, 43, bus driver. The identity of a woman, whose body has been shifted to Government District Hospital, Kanhangad, Kasargod, is yet to be established. Police sources said the driver, on reaching Panathur, lost control over the vehicle due to brake failure and rammed a roadside tree. In the impact of the collision, the bus veered off the road and fell into a gorge. Six persons died on the spot. The driver succumbed to injuries at a private hospital in Mangaluru. Villagers pulled out every occupant from the mangled bus and rushed them to Pariyaram Medical College, Government District Hospital, Kanhangad, and private hospitals in Mangaluru. The toll is likely to go up as several persons are in a critical condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/7-die-as-bus-heading-to-wedding-falls-into-gorge-near-mangaluru/articleshow/80086566.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru engineers score big in CAT 2020||BENGALURU: When the results of Common Admission Test (CAT) were announced on Saturday, Bengaluru had its own share of toppers. What was common among them was the fact that many of them were engineers working in private companies in the IT city, with a year or two of experience. Vishesh Garg, who scored 99.99 percentile, hails from Himachal Pradesh, but has been working in a tech startup in Bengaluru for 1.5 years. “I had scored 99 percentile last year. But I had not prepared for the exam and wanted to test what best I could achieve with preparation,” said the NIT Hamirpur alumnus, who later went for coaching with TIME institute in Bengaluru. “I have a knack for speaking, being a team player and not losing my cool when under pressure. In college, I was part of the organising committee of many programmes. A management degree was part of my academic plans,” said Vishesh. Aditya Devalla Sai Satya, a chemical engineering graduate from IIT-Bombay has been with Axis Bank, Indiranagar as a data engineer since 2019. Aditya, who has been working from home since the lockdown, is keen on entrepreneurship. “There are two reasons for wanting to become an entrepreneur. One is to create livelihood opportunities for people. The other is that I’m passionate about football and want to do something around it. I want to make the sport more popular here. I have a vague idea and hope my stint at an IIM will help me pursue the dream,” he said. Aditya secured 99.97 percentile in CAT 2020. For Ankita Agarwal, who comes from Guwahati, entrepreneurship is a long-term dream. Ankita has a percentile of 99.52. Having studied civil engineering at PES University and joined Amazon on graduation, Ankita said her family is into business and she too would like to join the league.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-engineers-score-big-in-cat-2020/articleshow/80086667.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Bengaluru||Sandalwood drugs case: Four months on, Aditya Alva & 3 others elusive||BENGALURU: Four months after booking a drug-peddling case with alleged links to Sandalwood, Central Crime Branch (CCB) sleuths are still searching for four suspects named in the FIR. They are cinema producer Shivaprakash, 46, of Nandini Layout, former minister Jeevaraj Alva’s son Aditya Alva of Hebbal Kempapura, Prashanth Raju, 39, of BTM Layout 2nd Stage and Abhiswamy, 31, of Madanayakanahalli. The apex court had last month asked city police not to take any coercive action against Shivaprakash. However, police have been unable to secure him for questioning. Cops said their teams have visited Assam, West Bengal, Maharashtra and Goa in search of the absconding suspects, but all efforts to trace them have been in vain. Police had also searched Alva’s brother-in-law and Bollywood actor Vivek Oberoi’s Mumbai residence and enquired about Alva’s whereabouts. Later, CCB officials issued a notice to Alva’s sister Priyanka instructing her to appear before police. “She did not appear citing Covid-19 till now,” an investigating officer said. Acting on a tipoff that Raju was hiding in West Bengal, a team rushed there, but he escaped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/4-months-on-aditya-alva-3-others-elusive/articleshow/80086670.cms||---
January 4, 2021||India||Covid-19: Experts question vaccine approvals, say key info must be made public||Several experts have raised questions on the approval process of the two Covid-19 vaccines, Covishield of Serum Institute and Covaxin of Bharat Biotech by the drug controller general of India (DCGI). Former president of the International Association of Bioethics, Dr Anant Bhan, pointed out that the only other countries to approve vaccines without making the efficacy data public were Russia and China. "It is important to build confidence in the regulatory process. But here, a lot of clinicians are unsure and they are asking which vaccine actually works. There is no confidence in the way the approvals were done and in a language that seems to be more creative writing than based on any law," said Dr Bhan. Read AlsoCovid: Both vaccines get final nod, first shots to be of CovishieldThe Serum Institute of India’s Covishield is likely to be first shot used in India’s vaccine drive against Covid-19. For Covaxin, the authorisation is in clinical-trial mode, which means that monitoring of recipients will be in the same mode as those taking the trial. Vaccination is likely to beThose who waited for clarification from the briefing by DCGI this morning were disappointed as no questions were allowed after a statement was read out by the DCGI. "In the case of each approved vaccine, there is no information regarding the specific provision of the law under which the DCGI is granting Restricted Emergency Use (REU) approval. Neither has information been provided regarding the conditionalities attached to either approval," said Malini Aisola of the All India Drug Action Network (AIDAN). AIDAN has issued a statement requesting the regulator to make all the data and analyses that were the basis of these decisions publicly available so that they can be independently verified. Read AlsoSix states with 33% of India’s population have 52% cold-chain pointsWhile the union ministry had earlier said the country has 28,932 cold chain points and 85,622 equipment. State-wise data shows that just six states with only a third of India’s population have more than 52% of the cold chain points and nearly 40% of all the equipment. Maharashtra, Karnataka, TamilDr Gangandeep Kang, noted vaccine expert and AIDAN have questioned the claim that Covaxin would work against the UK strain of Covid pointing out that there was no data or scientific basis to back the claim. "What is the local efficacy data on the basis of which the expert committee recommended approval for the two vaccines? It is shocking that while Bharat Biotech is struggling to complete recruitment of volunteers for phase-3 trial, the approval was given. So what did the SEC base the approval on?" asked Dr Amar Jesani, editor of the Indian Journal of Medical Ethics. "We need to wait for at least the early results from that Bharat Biotech phase-3 trial before approval. Yes, there is a pandemic, and we need vaccines. But it is equally important that the public have absolute trust in a vaccine that is approved," said Dr JN Rao, an independent public health physician, researcher, and visiting professor at Staffordshire University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vaccine-approval-process-opaque-experts/articleshow/80086635.cms||Rema Nagarajan
January 4, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Traders welcome move, call for proper support structure||BENGALURU: As Karnataka ushers in a new Bengaluru with shops and retail establishments open 24/7, traders and government agencies aren’t quite sure it’ll work due to the lack of a support system. While welcoming the policy, some traders want better policing as well as a transportation system to ensure it functions well. However, manpower crunch and economic constraints are a stumbling block for the state to meet these expectations. “We have limited staff strength and the decision to allow shops open throughout the night came a little unexpected for us. It all depends on public response. If a few shops open here and there, then it can be managed. If the response is tremendous and nightlife comes alive, then there will be an issue. We will have to see how to augment our strength,{sic}” said Bengaluru city police commissioner Kamal Pant. Another major driving force is Namma Metro. BMRCL spokesperson BLY Chavan said the corporation will weigh its options before extending service timings. At present, the schedule is from 7am to 9pm due to Covid-19 restrictions. Earlier, it was 5am to 11pm. The priority is to restore ridership which has taken a huge hit due to the pandemic. The BMTC looks to be better placed and transport secretary Anjum Parvez said it will do everything possible to ply more buses at night. BMTC is looking at increasing feeder service. “If we want to convert Bengaluru into an international city, there has to be nightlife. While we have night buses on select routes, we’ll increase numbers wherever required. We can start with minibuses and scale up gradually,” said Parvez. Hotels around CBD While there are around 40,000 hotels and 70 per cent resuming operations, only a few hotels around busy areas like the international airport, Majestic, Shivajinagar, Jayanagar, Indiranagar, etc may see some activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/traders-welcome-move-call-for-proper-support-structure/articleshow/80086913.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
January 4, 2021||Bengaluru||Rs 169-crore Koramangala valley project gets Karnataka govt nod||BENGALURU: The state government has given administrative approval to the Rs 169-crore Koramangala valley development and rejuvenation project (from KR Market to Bellandur Lake) under the Citizens Water Way Project. Koramangala valley is one of the three major valleys that form the city’s natural system for draining runoff rainwater. However, the valleys are now carrying sewage and effluents. The government approval came on December 31. The ambitious project, which is expected to bring about a change in the state of the valley by creating European-style pathway (Church Street model) along the channel, will have pedestrian trails and cycling tracks. The project involves construction of a sewage treatment plant. BBMP commissioner Manjunatha Prasad said the chief minister has shown keen interest in the project and is closely monitoring it. The tender for it will be floated shortly, he added. Meanwhile, Rs 4.2 crore has been sanctioned for BWSSB towards maintenance of sewage treatment plants (STP). According to BBMP officers, one of the most historically significant raja kaluves of the city, the Kormangala stormwater valley, originates at the erstwhile Dharmambudi Lake (now Majestic bus stand) and leads to Bellandur Lake. The primary drain is 11.4km long, while the total network of drains is 28km, including secondary drains. The project will focus on restoring the waterway for the city and encourage the public to use the space for recreation and relaxation.  BBMP said initial field studies and analysis of the raja kaluve have revealed that sewage is flowing freely into the drain. Even as BWSSB is undertaking measures to stop sewage inflow, remaining sewage in the water will be made to flow through dense reed beds and/or constructed wetlands, designed in a manner that is aesthetic, ecologically viable and of low maintenance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/169cr-kmangala-valley-project-gets-govt-nod/articleshow/80086914.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Bengaluru||Multi-level parking at Bengaluru's Freedom Park likely by June||BENGALURU: The multi-level car parking (MLCP), coming up at Freedom Park and dogged by delays, is expected to become operational by June, according to BBMP. Considering Freedom Park is often used for protests, there were several requests to leave the place as it is. “The high court later made it clear that only ground-minus-four basement floors must be constructed and nothing will be allowed to come above the ground level. The design had to be redone, which is another reason for the delay,” a civic body official said. The project was to be completed by 2017 but got delayed because of multiple reasons, including lack of permission to carry out blasts to negotiate the rocky surface on which construction was to happen. When work finally began in 2015, they found that after 10 feet of soil, nearly 67,000 cubic metres were only rocks and boulders. Considering there were several buildings in the vicinity, permission for blasting the boulders was denied. BBMP claims that most of the work, including flooring, plastering and painting, is done and that there are only a few odd jobs left before the MLCP can be operational. The parking facility is being constructed at a cost of Rs 78 crore and can accommodate 550 cars and 500 two-wheelers. “It will be a paid parking system, calculated on an hourly basis, just like the ones at malls or at the airport,” the BBMP official said.  BBMP is confident of unveiling the facility by May-end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/multi-level-parking-at-freedom-park-likely-by-june/articleshow/80086919.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Bengaluru||GP polls help BJP strengthen cadre base in south Karnataka||BENGALURU: BJP’s high-decibel campaign involving national functionaries from across the country for the recent Hyderabad municipal corporation elections (GHDMC) had raised many eyebrows. But the outcome was overwhelming for the saffron party which came too close for comfort of the ruling Telangana Rashtriya Samiti (TRS). Cut to the recent gram panchayat elections in Karnataka: The same intent and fire power were pressed into service with BJP using all its cabinet ministers, MPs and former MLAs to rally its troops for building a cadre base for the future. Though fought on apolitical lines, BJP was the first of the blocks to prepare for GP elections after a resounding victory in the Sira and RR Nagar bypolls. “While it may be an apolitical fight, it was always a give-and-take relationship between those contesting the polls and political parties. They take our help and in turn, give us their base to build the party for future,” said a BJP legislator. While it was always going to be a straight fight between BJP and Congress in Mumbai-Karnataka, Hyderabad-Karnataka and Byalaseema regions, and a one-sided affair in coastal districts, the bigger surprise has come from Old Mysuru region where the saffron wave appears to be getting stronger, much to the concern of the Congress and JD(S) leadership. Such was the seriousness with which BJP contested the GP polls that it identified its own party’s primary membership card holders or their families to contest the elections. Sources said 85 to 90 per cent of BJP-backed candidates were its members, giving them direct access to party resources for the elections. And the numbers claimed by BJP seemed to prove the strategy. According to BJP state general secretary N Ravi Kumar, who was also party in-charge of Old Mysuru region for the GP polls, the party has made inroads into places where it had never dreamt of 10 years ago. BJP has outperformed its own results from 2015 by doubling numbers in Mysuru, increasing presence in Chamarajnagar and denting Congress voteshare in Mandya and Hassan, he said. “In Mandya, a district where our sympathisers had won only three panchayats and 125 seats in 2015, as of December 31, we are in a position to form 40 panchayats and have 817 candidates winning polls,” said Kumar. According to an MLC, BJP has broken into the voteshare of Congress and JD(S) in Old Mysuru region and is in a position to put up a strong fight in the next urban local body polls and 2023 general elections. However, according to political pundits like former media adviser to CM BS Yediyurappa, Mahadev Prakash, the elections are not a mandate for BJP. “While at the outset, BJP may have expanded its footprint in south Karnataka, this election is not a mandate for the party. A lot of money, muscle and political power are involved in GP polls. Voters tend to believe that if they go with the ruling party, then there is a possibility of development,” he said. Insiders believe the victories claimed by BJP in south Karnataka is primarily based on individuals and turncoats like KC Narayan Gowda, ST Somashekar, K Sudhakar and Byrathi Basavaraju who have used their influence to the fullest. “This may go any time,” said one insider.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/gp-polls-help-bjp-strengthen-cadre-base-in-south-ktaka/articleshow/80086971.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
January 4, 2021||Business||Need to create environment for more people to come into tax net: PwC India chairman||Sanjeev Krishan, who takes over as the new chairman of PricewaterhouseCoopers in India, believes that the government needs to provide funds for healthcare, sanitation, infrastructure and recapitalisation of institutions in the budget. In an interview, he also tells TOI that there is a need to widen the tax base. Excerpts: What are the biggest challenges for you in your new role?It is an interesting time to be taking over. Even before Covid, the world around us was getting more volatile owing to the disruption caused by age, asymmetry between haves and have-nots, technology and geopolitics. It also has created some sort of a trust deficit for businesses, government and civil society. As a people’s organisation, serving multiple stakeholders, the challenge is how to build trust amongst the various stakeholders. Second, we can only be as successful as our clients can ever be and as they look to come out of the crisis, we need to be able to support them with “outcome” based propositions. Getting prepared for that is the other key challenge, but also an opportunity. How do you differentiate PwC from others since the Big Four are offering the same services?The important thing for us is how we can keep re-inventing ourselves. We should be able to figure out what’s coming next, and accordingly one of our key focus areas would be on being agile and nimble and to be able to adapt to the evolving eco-system. We will continue to invest in our people, upskill them to ensure that they are distinguishable in the marketplace, as that will create greater relevance for us and also help build our brand. The two key areas of upskilling for us would be technology and being able to supplement their depth of conversations with the width so they can do broader business conversations beyond their domains. For the various entities associated with the global network of PwC, which business has grown the fastest and what has contributed to the growth?Advisory has been our fastest growing business and now accounts for over 50% of our revenues. Our Advisory business has four pillars, and each one of them attempts to address the transformation journey Indian businesses are attempting to undertake - The growth agenda is served by management consulting and deals businesses. Today Technology and Digital are the backbone of any growth discussion and our Technology Consulting practice has been a strong pillar for our clients in that journey. Finally, as businesses attempt to go digital, they need to keep abreast of the risks - these include, cyber, regulation and general business risk and frauds. We have threaded these together in response to our clients Transformation journey, and we see a big opportunity in this going forward as well. What are the big challenges for businesses, there seems to be some stress?Stress is in two segments – first is that the mid-corporates may not have strong enough balance sheets to survive the crisis, and while there has been enough liquidity it is possibly not reaching them. Second, certain segments such as the discretionary consumer segments such as hospitality, aviation and other general consumer businesses which are awaiting demand pick up. At the same time, many sectors have seen compression, particularly those serving the capital sectors as well as some parts of the financial services sector, specifically NBFCs. For various reasons, the big have continued to become bigger, not just because of M&A but due to a series of events – demonetisation, GST and others. Even the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code has enabled further consolidation and the pandemic has in some ways exacerbated the consolidation process. One of the key challenges has been the narrowing of the mid - corporates space; simply put an OEM can possibly survive the crisis, but long-term sustenance would require the entire supply chain and the distribution network to remain strong. They are also very significant job creators, and critical from a societal perspective. You spoke of GST being one of the disruptors. How do you look at the recent developments in terms of limiting tax credits or registration? Do you see a lot more human intervention now, which was not supposed to be the case?That will not be the case. Limiting credit is in line with the initial design of GST and cancelation of registration is meant in cases of continuous non-compliance or fraud. I would like to believe that there is more technology that would have a more prominent role in tax administration in future. With e-invoicing becoming mandatory, there is not going to be a look back. From a governance point of view, to prevent leakages there may be some manual interventions but from a compliance perspective, manual interventions would be minimal. We are too far ahead in the path to turn back. What will be the key issues for the budget?We are not out of the woods yet. In 2021, we will continue to grapple with the pandemic and its aftermath. This would entail more allocations towards healthcare, sanitation, recapitalisation of some institutions and investment and innovation. Infrastructure investments would need to be made to pump prime the economy out of the slowdown. We will need to find money for this and there have been attempts for the government to lighten its balance sheet. Disinvestment will be a big theme and some of the lacunae, particularly on the indirect tax side, once plugged can create avenues for higher revenues. The final thing is how do we enhance the tax base. Despite what has been done, tax collection is still from a narrow set of taxpayers. We need to create an environment for more people to come into the tax net and plugging of leaks using data analytics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/need-to-create-environment-for-more-people-to-come-into-tax-net-pwc-india-chairman/articleshow/80086834.cms||Sidhartha
January 4, 2021||Mangaluru||Jaguar driven by doctor kills pedestrian in Udupi||UDUPI: A pedestrian was fatally knocked down by a speeding high-end car at Kirimanjeshwara along NH-66 in Baindoor on Saturday night. The victim, Buddivantha Nayari, succumbed to injuries notwithstanding the effort by Dr Shehzad, who was driving the Jaguar, to shift him to a hospital. The incident took place at 8.40pm when Nayari was waiting to cross the road at a bus bay, and the Jaguar, coming from Kundapur, moved to the extreme right and hit him. Dr Shehzad took Nayari up to Trasi in the Jaguar, after which he was shifted to a private ambulance. However, the victim breathed his last by the time the ambulance reached Arehole Cross. Nayari was a resident of Nagoor. Additional SP Kumarchandra said Dr Shehzad from Mangaluru was at the wheel of the Jaguar (KA19-ME7638), registered in the name of Abdul Rahiman. “Dr Shehzad helped shift Nayari from the car to the ambulance,” Kumarchandra said, adding that he’ll be questioned on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/jaguar-driven-by-doctor-kills-pedestrian-in-udupi/articleshow/80087022.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Business||Economic recovery, better compliance has pushed GST collections to record level: Finance secy||NEW DELHI: The government believes that economic recovery coupled with action against wrong-doers has helped push GST collections to record levels. In an interview, finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey tells TOI that the government is moving with specific information against those misusing the facility and will ensure that the honest are not burdened. Excerpts: What would you attribute the record GST collections to?During the last few months, we have seen an upward trend in economic activity, which is reflected in the data. In October, we had 6.41 crore e-way bills and in December, around 6.42 crore were issued. It is the first time that GST collections have crossed the Rs 1.15 lakh crore, based on November transactions. Read AlsoGST collections at all-time high of over Rs 1.15 lakh crore in DecemberGST collections touched a record high of over Rs 1.15 lakh crore in December, reflecting festive demand and reflating economy. The gross GST revenue collected in the month of December 2020 is Rs 1,15,174 crore and is the highest since the introduction of Goods and Services Tax from July 1, 2017, theAfter Diwali, there was a surge in Covid cases in some parts of the country and some restrictions were imposed. It demonstrates that the economy is going in positive territory. It also shows much higher compliance and one of the reasons is that we are now using data extensively. During the last one-and-a-half months, this targeted action has led to the arrest of 187 persons, including five chartered accountants and one company secretary. Our actions are very specific. We are not going based only on last month’s transactions but anyone who has taken or issued fake bills since the start of GST is getting exposed due to data analytics. We are using income tax data and often it shows that some people with income tax liability of just a few lakh rupees are showing very high turnover in GST. There is coordinated action between the income tax department and GST. Getting fake bills results in siphoning of funds, which will also attract higher penalty under income tax. Another very important thing on GST is to prevent unscrupulous elements from taking input tax credit. Now, from the returns of their suppliers, we can get how much tax credit should be given. We are now flashing the figures at the time of filing so that taxpayers know what their entitlement is, and any higher claim may require some explaining. Further measures have been notified in consultation with the states, which will also help. We want to honour the honest and uncover the unscrupulous elements. We are hoping that the collection trend will continue. You started data analytics around one-and-a-half years ago. So why did the department go slow in between? Six-seven months can be explained due to Covid.Triangulation of data between GST, income tax and customs started last year. While we had come to a certain stage, Coronavirus hit us, and we had to issue instructions asking officers to suspend any notice, survey etc. From October, we resumed field actions. Our actions are specific, and we go with a full network diagram, ensuring 100% success rate. We can pinpoint specific cases of issuance of fake bills and those who have taken benefits using these fake bills. No matter how many layers they create to route their transactions, they are all getting caught. By all accounts, the economy is working at 90-95% of pre-Covid capacity and several services are still impacted. You had assumed an average monthly collection of around Rs 1 lakh. So, can we estimate that there was 15-20% of the leakage in GST revenue all these months?We will have to watch the data for a few months. But broadly, if the economy is moving at a certain pace and collections have gone up by certain extent then we can say that there is a certain degree of improvement in compliance. There seems to be a mismatch between collections and what’s happening in the economy in terms of core sector data and the fact that hotels, airlines and entertainment are not near Covid-levels. Is it also because of the increase in prices given that inflation is around 7%?Maybe some part of it could be due to that. . But one needs to watch for a few more months to come to any definitive conclusion. Since we do not get data based on HSN (product) codes, it will take time to get granular data. Do the GST numbers also tally with income tax and customs trends?As of December, income tax collections are down by 9.9 % with Rs 7.7 lakh crore gross direct tax collections. When two quarters have been badly affected, corporate profitability is hit. In addition, we had also reduced the TDS by 25%. Plus, dividend distribution tax, a major source of revenue, was abolished. On the customs side, collections have hit Rs 16,000 crore in December, as against around Rs 12,000 crore in November. This is partly because of faceless assessment as it has helped reduce connivance at local levels. There were 1.6 lakh suspect entities and you have tightened the registration norms, refunds. How will you ensure that businesses are not inconvenienced because there is a growing view that revenue officers have made a comeback on the customs and excise side?All our action is based on data analysis and there is no randomness. Out of 1.2 crore GST taxpayers, only a few thousands have been touched. We will maintain the trust and ensure ease of doing business for those carrying out business according to the rules. What is the extent of invoice matching?Since November 2019, we were matching around 80% of the invoices due to a cap on input tax credit. From last January, we reduced the cap to 10% of what the suppliers have required. So, 90% invoice matching is happening. Now, 10% is further reduced to 5% from January 2020. This will ensure 95 % invoice matching. The system calculates the tax credit based on returns filed by suppliers. From April onwards it could be tightened further to take it to the level of 100 % invoice matching.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/economic-recovery-better-compliance-has-pushed-gst-collections-to-record-level-finance-secy/articleshow/80087145.cms||Sidhartha
January 4, 2021||India||Covaxin given nod after meticulous review of data: ICMR DG||NEW DELHI: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) director general Dr Balram Bhargava refuted claims that phase 3 trial data for Bharat Biotech's Covaxin shot was not evaluated, saying the emergency use authorisation (EUA) was given after meticulous review of data of 22,500 persons which established safety of the shots. "The phase 3 data has been completed for 22,500 patients and the safety was fully established. That has been submitted and the full trial of 25,800 persons will be completed in a week's time," Bhargava said, underlining that by the time the vaccination programme is launched, the Phase 3 trial for Covaxin will be concluded and final set of data will also be available. Health minister Harsh Vardhan also strongly backed the Covaxin shot, saying "For those spreading rumours let it be known that EUA for Covaxin is differently conditional - in clinical trial mode" He explained this means its use will be in "clinical trial mode" where all recipients are monitored as if they are in trial. "This approval ensures India has an additional vaccine shield in its arsenal especially against potential mutant strains... A strategic decision for our vaccine security," he said. AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria told ANI that the shot "can also be used as a backup when we're not sure how efficacious the Serum Institute vaccine is going to be." Bhargava said "The immunogenicity is 98% and we have had no cases of Covid in the phase 1 or phase 2 and the animal studies and challenge studies have shown full efficacy compared to any other vaccine in the world." On Sunday, Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) V G Somani announced a final approval for restricted emergency use for Serum Institute of India's Covishield as well as Covaxin - which was developed in collaboration with ICMR. An official statement on Sunday said, "The Phase III efficacy trial was initiated in India in 25,800 volunteers and till date, ~22,500 participants have been vaccinated across the country and the vaccine has been found to be safe as per the data available till date." "The subject expert committee has reviewed the data on safety and immunogenicity of the vaccine and recommended grant of permission for restricted use in emergency situation in public interest as an abundant precaution, in clinical trial mode, to have more options for vaccination, especially in case of infection by mutant strains. The clinical trial ongoing in the country by the firm will continue," Somani said while detailing the approval criteria for Covaxin. The reference to mutant strains is based on the assessment that vaccines based on whole virus or deactivated virus methods are better equipped to deal with a range of virus mutations. Bhargava said all vaccines approved globally are for emergency use including those by Pfizer, Moderna and the Oxford vaccine. "We are dealing with a world war...so at this point we have to look at what is going to be beneficial for society at large and these are not full approvals at all - neither Covishield nor Covaxin." Dr Guleria said the shots are first generation vaccines and it is quite natural that as long term studies emerge, the efficacy and immunogenicity are likely to improve. The vaccines are also under rolling reviews with the regulator continuously evaluating data from trials, a health ministry official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covaxin-given-nod-after-meticulous-review-of-data-icmr-dg/articleshow/80087250.cms||Sushmi Dey
January 4, 2021||India||'I have no clue. I have never seen anything like it'||Dr Gagandeep Kang, the vice-chair of the board of Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), a global partnership seeking to proactively develop vaccines for epidemics, and professor at the Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore, talks about concerns around the approval process of the two vaccines by DCGI during an interaction with Rema NagarajanWhat do you make of the approval of the two vaccines?I am completely confused. I read the SEC document yesterday, the approval, the SEC recommendations. I can understand what they are saying about the Covishield vaccine and then they have this very complicated language for the Covaxin vaccine. The DCGI has actually quoted that language, but its approval for both of the vaccines is identical. But for Covaxin, they say it will be given in clinical trial mode. What does that mean?I have no clue. I have never seen anything like this before. Isn't the vaccine already on clinical trial?Exactly! Either you are doing a clinical trial or you are not. I am confused. Even for Covishield, shouldn't the data on which the approval is based be made public?What other companies have been doing is going to the regulator. In parallel to the data they are submitting to the regulator, they are also submitting to journals. If we look at Pfizer, Moderna, Gamlaya, Astra Zeneca, all of this has already been published in peer reviewed journals. In case of Covishield, couldn't ICMR do a pre-print in its own journal?ICMR does not need to do a pre-print. It can publish in its own journal. It has already done that for many papers that it has published, like the hydroxychloroquine one, the observational study they had and many others. Wouldn't publishing it have helped build trust? The first people to get the vaccine would be doctors and they do understand data and trial studies?So Bharat has put some data out there and has some data in preparation, but as far as I am aware there is absolutely no efficacy data that has been presented or published. In fact, it is impossible for them to have it given that the vaccine required two doses. The phase-III trial started only in November. And what about Covishield?Even though it is labelled a phase2/3 study, it is not a phase2/3 in the form recognised in any other part of the world where phase-3 implied clinical efficacy. If you read the CTRI description of what is labelled a phase 2/3 study by Serum Institute, you realise that it actually is what would be called a phase-2 study in other parts of the world, i.e. for safety and immunogenicity and not for efficacy. They are relying on, and that in fact was in the note that was put out in the DCGI statement, they are relying on the Astra Zeneca data for clinical efficacy. And even there what is stated, they have said that they are looking at 70% efficacy which is pretty much what the UK regulator did even though we know that in the dosing schedule that is proposed for India and that has been tried for India, the actual efficacy is about 62%. That's fine as long as it is over 50%. So definitely for Covishield, there is data that an equivalent vaccine tested elsewhere is over 50%. But for Covaxin there is no such data available anywhere to my knowledge. Doesn’t this dent the reputation of the indigenous vaccine, Covaxin? How is this an indigenous vaccine if the adjuvant that is in the vaccine is one that came from the US? Yes, the strain is an Indian strain but a key component of the vaccine is the adjuvant and that’s not Indian. So you could argue that Covishield is Indian because they just imported the viral vector and after that they have done everything in the development themselves here. We should take pride in our vaccine industry for how much service they have done but this kind of thing is not going to be good for our reputation. Would we be able to defend this internationally?How are we different from Russia and China? I really don't have an answer if anyone asks me that question. The list of experts in the subject expert committee (SEC) is also not in the public domain. Does that add another layer of distrust?Earlier membership of SECs used to be in the public domain. And I guess they have now decided this wasn’t a good idea. I have nothing to say except that I am confused. I don’t understand the language, I don’t understand what this means for the way forward for us. I guess the government will give us clarity in the days ahead about how this is actually going to be used. I see a difficult time ahead in trying to explain to people why we are going to work like this. Would this add to the vaccine hesitancy?That's what bothers me because people are already worried, wondering about how they developed a vaccine so fast and how they must have cut corners. Essentially you are handing people who are anti-vaccine, anti-science a weapon that they can use. It is horrendously hard to think of why experts would think that this was a good way to go.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/i-have-no-clue-i-have-never-seen-anything-like-it/articleshow/80087336.cms||Rema Nagarajan
January 4, 2021||India||Submitted all data as per guidelines, says Bharat Biotech||HYDERABAD: Amid concerns over the Indian drug regulator granting emergency use authorisation (EUA) approval to the indigenous Covid-19 vaccine candidate Covaxin even as its Phase 3 trials are underway, a spokesperson of Bharat Biotech said on Sunday that "as part of our regulatory guidelines, all data has been submitted to the DCGI and CDSCO". "The product development and clinical trial data thus far has generated five publications, which have been submitted to international peer reviewed journals, four of which will be published soon," the spokesperson added. Bharat Biotech had earlier said that Covaxin has already been evaluated in approximately 1000 subjects in Phase I and II clinical trials with promising safety and immunogenicity results with acceptance in international peer reviewed scientific journals. Amid concerns that EUA was given to Covaxin despite its incomplete trial data, industry sources pointed out that there is a provision for accelerated approvals in special situations in the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019, published in The Gazette of India. The NDCT rules have specified special situations in which relaxation, abbreviations, omission or deferment of data can be considered for new drugs and biological products to be used to expedite the development and approval process in case of life threatening or serious disease conditions of special relevance to the Indian scenario or unmet medical needs. "This provision is intended to facilitate and expedite review of drugs so that an approved product can reach the therapeutic armamentarium expeditiously," the rules state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/submitted-all-data-as-per-guidelines-says-bharat-biotech/articleshow/80088641.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
January 4, 2021||India||ED starts probe in loans app case, may look for money trail abroad||HYDERABAD: The Enforcement Directorate on Sunday said that it has filed a money laundering case on the basis of FIRs registered by police in the countrywide instant loan app scam. ED officials said they have taken up FIRs booked by Hyderabad and Cyberabad police against locals and Chinese nationals, who are accused under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. "Unauthorised loan apps are avoiding all regulatory agencies. We are looking at a possible transfer of crime proceeds money abroad," said an ED official. Sources in the ED said the agency is collecting details from officials investigating 27 FIRs booked so far by Hyderabad police. In one case involving Chinese national Zhu Wei, and his Indian associates, an investigation by the police showed 1.4 crore transactions worth around Rs 21,000 crore were carried out from seven call centres. Police have conducted searches across the country, including Hyderabad, Gurgaon, Bangalore and other places. "The accused were not only collecting interest, processing charges but also GST, default charges and penalty," one official added. Cops have so far arrested four Chinese nationals. Three of them have been arrested in the past month. The fourth, Yah Hao, was arrested in August in connection with running an online gambling racket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-starts-probe-in-loans-app-case-may-look-for-money-trail-abroad/articleshow/80088655.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 4, 2021||India||Republic Day parade to be shorter with smaller marching contingents||NEW DELHI: The Republic Day Parade will be of a shorter duration this year, with smaller marching contingents and fewer cultural performances as well as strict social distancing protocols in place for a reduced number of spectators on Rajpath on January 26. The "overall traditional character" of the parade, which showcases the country's military might and cultural diversity, "will however be maintained" despite the restrictions necessitated by the Covid-19 pandemic, said officials on Sunday. A contingent of the Bangladesh armed forces, incidentally, will also take part in the parade in view of the 50thanniversary celebrations of the 1971 war of liberation. UK PM Boris Johnson will be the chief guest. "The parade will begin from Vijay Chowk, as usual, but will culminate at the National Stadium instead of ending at the Red Fort. So, it will cover a distance of 3.3 km as compared to the normal 8.2 km," said an official. Only around 25,000 spectators will be allowed to witness the parade as compared to the average of 1.3 lakh people every year. "Children below 15 years and the elderly with co-morbidities will not be permitted," said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/republic-day-parade-to-be-shorter-with-smaller-marching-contingents/articleshow/80088728.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Patna||282 fresh Covid cases reported in Bihar||PATNA: Bihar reported 282 fresh cases of Covid- 19 and two more deaths during the last 24 hours, taking the number of total confirmed cases to 2,53,934. As per the daily bulletin released by the state health department, 631 patients have been discharged from the hospitals and isolation centres in the last 24 hours, which took the total number of recoveries in the state to 2,48,210. The state’s recovery rate now stands at 97.75 per cent on Sunday, which is slightly better than the previous day. The number of active cases in the state stood at 4,319. As many as 94,560 new samples were tested at health facilities and laboratories taking the number of total samples tested so far to 1,86,20,805 in the state since March. Officially, one death was registered in Patna and one in Jehanabad taking the respective districts death toll to 381 and 21. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) reported three deaths including a 58-year-old man from Patrakar Nagar. Other victims who succumbed include a 60-year-old woman from Simri Jaitiya village in Aurangabad and 73-year-old woman from Murgiyachak village in Nalanda. AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar said eight patients were admitted to the AIIMS-P from localities such as Rupaspur, Mahendru, Anisabad and also from other districts like Bhojpur and Aurangabad while three people were discharged on Sunday. The number of patients admitted at AIIMS- P is now 135. No new Covid casualty was reported on Sunday at NMCH, Patna. “However, two Covid positive patients was admitted and two were discharged from the hospital,” nodal officer for Covid Dr Mukul Kumar Singh said. The number of patients admitted in Covid ward including ICU stood at 16. Of 282 new cases registered on Sunday, Patna accounted for 88. With this, the district’s count has reached to 49,461 so far, while 47,281 people have recovered, leaving the active cases in Patna at 1,799. Among other districts, Saran recorded 22 cases on Sunday, Nalanda (17), Muzaffarpur (12), Bhagalpur (11) and Saharsa (10).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/282-fresh-covid-cases-reported-in-bihar/articleshow/80085418.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Four lakh health workers to get vaccines in first phase||PATNA: Altogether 4,39,663 health workers in Bihar would get the vaccine doses in the first phase. A database of government health workers has been prepared while the private ones have been told to submit their list. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Sunday approved the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine ‘Covishield’ manufactured by the Serum Institute and indigenously developed ‘Covaxin’ of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country. Health minister Mangal Pandey said the two vaccines used for routine vaccination can be stored in cold chain equipment. Pandey said 932 deep fridges and 1,654 refrigerators have been arranged for keeping the vaccines in cold chain equipment. “Altogether 423 ILRs (a variety of refrigerators) have been sent to the districts. A total of 4,39,663 healthcare workers have been registered on the corona portal so far. Of which, 3,62,061 are from government institutions and 72,371 from private institutions. The rest belong to the Union ministry,” he said. Giving details of the vaccination process in the first phase, the minister said there were 14,724 trained vaccinators in the state to carry out the drive. “In addition, 64,568 potential vaccinators have been identified in the state on Covid portal, who would also contribute. A total of 700 government institutions and 68 private institutes have been selected for vaccination in the first phase,” Pandey said. The health workers hailed the emergency approval of the vaccines as a crucial step in the fight against this global pandemic. AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, welcomed the government’s decision. “There is a difference between Covid and other diseases, because the health workers are more prone to Covid as they came in direct contact with the infected patients,” he said. “Two doses will be given to the health workers, first on zero day and second on day 28 as per the protocol. The vaccines efficacy has been proved in the first and second phase of trial while the initial report of ongoing third phase is also safe, so it is approved for the emergency use,” he added. Dr Veena Singh, head of the plastic surgery department at AIIMS-Patna, said the emergency licensing of both the vaccines is an encouraging step from the government. Since the frontline workers are supposed to get the vaccine in the first phase, the others will get in second slot. “So, it’s a good news for the nation,” she said. NMCH deputy superintendent Dr Santosh Kumar said it is welcome step taken by the government, because health workers are the frontline workers and most prone to get infected with Covid. A paramedical staff at PMCH, Bharat Bhushan said, “We are waiting for the vaccination drive because the efficacy of the vaccine has already been proved.” Lata Devi, an Asha worker, said the New Year has brought gift for everyone in the form of vaccine. “We are grateful to all the experts, who made this possible,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/4l-health-workers-to-get-vaccines-in-first-phase/articleshow/80085404.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 4, 2021||Patna||Patna zoo takes steps to ward off bird flu||PATNA: The Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park, commonly known as Patna zoo, has taken necessary precautionary measures to ensure the safety of inmates in the wake of avian influenza (bird flu) cases reported in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. The behaviour of birds is being watched both in the cages and in the open space as well. The outgoing zoo director, Amit Kumar, said December to February is the crucial period as bird flu cases are reported after the arrival of migratory birds during the winter. “The zookeepers have been asked to keep a tab on the behaviour of inmates and monitor their health, particularly of the birds, on a regular basis. The staff continue to maintain a strict vigil on open water sources like lakes,” he said. Spread over 152.95 acres of land, the Patna zoo has more than 500 birds belonging to 30 different species. As a precautionary measure, the zoo officials sprayed disinfectants regularly, especially near the bird enclosures. Besides, sanitisation of zoo premises is a regular exercise after the Covid-19 breakout. “At Patna zoo, disinfecting the entire premises is a regular exercise after the outbreak of avian influenza in December 2018, which led to death of peafowls. The path leading to all the enclosures are also being sanitised by spraying disinfectant. Every month, we randomly send the samples of bird droppings, swabs and feathers to the Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (RDDL), Kolkata. So far, no bird flu case has been reported,” Amit told this newspaper on Sunday. “We keep extra precaution on dietary plan of birds, animals and reptiles, especially in winter times,” he added. The zoo authorities are providing super-worms, multi-vitamins, lukewarm water in moats for birds. Paddy straw and wheat husk bedding have been provided to all the birds for warm nesting in winter season. No bird flu case has been reported in the state so far. The experts are keeping a vigil, said an official of animal husbandry department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-zoo-takes-steps-to-ward-off-bird-flu/articleshow/80085413.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 4, 2021||Patna||Night and morning temperature may dip in coming days in Bihar||PATNA: Many places in the state, including Patna, witnessed partly cloudy skies on Sunday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted similar weather conditions on Monday. The overcast weather conditions have been attributed to a western disturbance that led to showers in north India for the last couple of days. Neeraj Ashutosh, an officer at Patna Meteorological Centre, said the minimum temperature increased slightly, while maximum temperature dropped a tad along with partly cloudy skies in the last 24 hours. The minimum temperature at Patna was recorded at 9.2 degrees C, which was 3.1 notches higher than the minimum temperature recorded a day before. The lowest minimum temperature in the state was recorded at Gaya at 7.5 degrees C, which was equal to its corresponding normal for the day. “Minimum temperature is unlikely to change much in the next 24- 48 hours,” Neeraj said. The weatherman said cloud cover was seen over Bihar in the satellite images. Another official at the meteorological centre claimed that though cloudy skies are likely to prevail on Monday, weather is likely to remain dry at most places in the state. “The cloud cover is due to the western disturbance, which led to showers in northern states, including Delhi and west Uttar Pradesh. Cloud patches are likely to get clear from Bihar in the next 48 hours,” he said. The weatherman added that clear skies are likely to increase minimum temperature after 48 hours. “As northwesterly and northerly wind again set in the region, the minimum temperature is likely to fall by two to three notches and nights will be colder,” he said. The IMD bulletin on Sunday evening stated that another western disturbance was lying over central Pakistan and neighbourhood, which along with several other weather factors, is likely to lead to rainfall along with thunderstorm till January 5. Thereafter, cold wave to severe cold wave condition is likely over the plains in northwest India from January 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/night-and-morning-temp-may-dip-in-coming-days/articleshow/80085440.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Jaipur||Child worker crushed to death in Jaipur flour mill||JAIPUR: A 16-year-old teenager was crushed to death in an accident at a flour mill under the Nahargarh police station area in the city on Sunday evening. He got stuck inside the grinder while putting wheat into it from a sack. Police have registered a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder and under other sections of the Juvenile Justice Act against the owner of the mill for engaging children for work. According to police, the incident took place at 5.30pm when the teenager, identified as Amit Das, was putting wheat from sacks into the grinder. “Preliminary investigation suggested that his hands first got stuck in the grinder, dragging his body head first into it. His body upto the waist had got stuck inside the grinder. His neck was broken and fingers were found chopped,” said circle inspector Mukesh Khardia, Nahargarh police station. A team of senior police officers and a rescue team of the civil defence rushed to the spot. “His body was badly stuck inside the grinder and had to be pulled out with the help of metal cutters,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/child-worker-crushed-to-death-in-city-flour-mill/articleshow/80087364.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Kolkata||Logistics support ready as Kolkata airport awaits Covid vaccines||KOLKATA: The city airport is ready with specialized logistics support to receive freighters carrying consignments of Covid-19 vaccine for the ambitious immunization programme that is expected to roll out sometime later this month or early February. The 50-tonne refrigeration unit at the airport’s cargo complex will be cleared of all perishables and sanitized for use as an exclusive storage facility for vaccines ferried into Kolkata from the US, Russia and some Indian cities where they are being manufactured. The attempt will be to dispatch the precious cargo to the government medical store depot (GMSD) in Clive Row, Hastings, after they land in Kolkata. “We have prepared 20 docking stations for refrigerated trucks or reefer vans — 16 in the international cargo wing and four in domestic — to wait for the vaccines to arrive. Once freighters land, the consignments will be cleared by Customs authorities and the boxes will then be directly loaded on vans to be ferried to the destination,” said Kolkata airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee. The GMSD in Kolkata is one of four hubs for vaccine distribution in the country and caters to the whole of east and northeast. The other three are Karnal in north India, Mumbai in the west and Chennai in the south. The 53 state vaccine stores get their supplies either from these GMSDs or directly from manufacturers. The state vaccine stores then distribute the items to regional, district and sub-district-level cold-chain points via insulated vans. A joint commissioner of the Customs has assured that the consignments will be cleared within two hours of arrival and a team will be exclusively deployed on vaccine duty. Customs clearance usually takes between 48 hours and 72 hours at the airport. Only in instances where vaccines need to be stored for a few hours will the cold storage be used. They could be for an interim period if it is decided to directly dispatch the consignment to north Bengal and other states in the east or the northeast. With three-four types of vaccines set to arrive in Kolkata, the storage requirement is varied. While the Pfizer-BioNTch vaccine, which will arrive from the US, requires to be stored at -70°C, Moderna, also from the US, has to be stored at -20°C. Both Gamaleya’s Sputnik V, which will fly in from Russia and Oxford University-AstraZeneca, that is being produced in India, require 2°C-8°C storage temperature. “Our cold storage is equipped to store goods at 2°C-8°C and -20°C. But we don’t have a refrigeration unit that can maintain a temperature of -70°C. Since these vaccines will come in boxes filled with ice packs, we have to maintain the external temperature,” explained Kolkata airport deputy general manager (cargo) Rahul Nandy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/logistics-support-ready-as-city-airport-awaits-covid-vaccines/articleshow/80087154.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Patna||Bihar schools reopen today, asked to follow safety protocols||PATNA/CHHAPRA: The schools and colleges in the state are reopening on Monday almost after nine months since the lockdown was imposed in the country following the Covid-19 pandemic. The heads of the educational institutions have been directed to follow the safety protocols and standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the state education department. Regular classes from Std IX upwards would commence in schools with 50% attendance on alternate days. Most schools have decided to call students on an odd-even roll number basis. Patna district education officer (DEO) Jyoti Kumar on Sunday held a meeting with the heads of different schools and the Association of Independent Schools-Bihar to ensure the adherence of Covid-19 protocols. Kumar said no school would force the students to attend the classes. “Students will be allowed to attend classes only after written consent of their parents and guardians. Schools should continue online classes,” he said. The DEO directed each school to set up a task force of teachers, staff, and students to ensure that the safety measures like thermal screening, sanitisation of touchpoints, social distancing, mask rule are strictly adhered to. “Schools and their vehicles have to be thoroughly sanitised after classes and every trip respectively,” Kumar said during the meeting. “Students should be encouraged to wash hands regularly and schools have to make arrangements for the soap dispenser and sanitiser,” he added. Association of Independent Schools-Bihar president CB Singh said the agenda has been sent to all private schools. “We have asked the schools to make a proper inspection and ensure complete sanitisation of the entire premises, including the classrooms and staffroom as well as the entrance, reception, laboratories, libraries, toilets, and sports ground,” he said. The association’s general secretary, Rajiv Ranjan Sinha, said, “Schools have been asked to constitute a Covid Care Committee (C3) on the first day to ensure social distancing during the lunch break, dispersal, and adherence of other safety protocols. Schools have to ensure that the students would not assemble at any eatery outside the school premises.” He added: “Temperature of kids and teachers will be checked when they board the school vehicles and also when while entering the premises. Students and staff have to wear the mask all the time.” Meanwhile, Saran DEO Ajay Kumar Singh on Saturday held a meeting with the headmasters at the local Zila School and asked them to follow the Covid protocols and allow only 50% of the students enrolled in classes IX to XII. “Allow 50% of the students on Monday and the rest the next day,” he said, adding that classes should be held in shifts in case of more students,” the DEO said and directed the schools to mark white circles for the students at counters, toilets, library, drinking water taps to maintain social distancing. He also distributed masks received from the Jeevika for the students. The directions apply to the coaching institutes also, the DEO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/schools-reopen-today-asked-to-follow-safety-protocols/articleshow/80090419.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 4, 2021||Business||Metal giants in race for Uttam Galva||MUMBAI: Metal billionaires Lakshmi Mittal, brothers Sajjan Jindal & Naveen Jindal, and Anil Agarwal (of Vedanta) have shown an interest in Uttam Galva Steels, which has been put on the block by lenders. Mittal has the highest exposure to Uttam Galva’s liabilities of Rs 9,742 crore, followed by other financial and operational creditors. Phoenix Asset Reconstruction Company (ARC), owned by Kotak Mahindra, has also thrown in its hat for Uttam Galva, for which the initial bid deadline ended last month. The ARC too has an exposure to the 35-year-old, Mumbai-based company’s liabilities. In March 2020, State Bank of India (SBI) had initiated bankruptcy proceedings against Uttam Galva at the Mumbai bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) after it defaulted on an external commercial borrowing of $6.7 million. Six months later, the NCLT admitted SBI’s petition and appointed Milind Kasodkar of law firm KMDS & Associates to oversee Uttam Galva’s affairs and conduct its bankruptcy proceedings. Uttam Galva, founded by Rajendra Miglani, is among the largest makers of value-added steel in western India with facilities located at Khopoli, about 75km from Mumbai. Value-added steel is used in automobiles, aerospace and consumer durable industries. The company posted a loss of Rs 140 crore on a revenue of Rs 277 crore in the first six months of FY20. While Sajjan Jindal’s JSW Steel and Naveen Jindal’s JSPL declined to comment on the report, Mittal’s local unit ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel India and Vedanta did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Phoenix ARC could not be reached for comments. Vedanta, said sources, has routed its interest in Uttam Galva through ESL Steel, a company it acquired through the bankruptcy route in 2018. ArcelorMittal was once a co-promoter of Uttam Galva, but later sold its stake in the company to the founders so that it could bid for other stressed Indian steel assets that were being auctioned under the bankruptcy proceedings. It also had to take on the bulk of the stressed Uttam Galva’s debt to be eligible to bid for bankrupt Indian steel assets. It subsequently won Essar Steel, now known as ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel India, through the bankruptcy route. ArcelorMittal through two entities has an exposure of Rs 7,922 crore to Uttam Galva’s liabilities. It has 87.2% vote among financial creditors — 71.5% through ArcelorMittal India and 15.9% through AMNS Luxembourg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/metal-giants-in-race-for-uttam-galva/articleshow/80087498.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Patna||Maya Sarovar in Gaya to be developed as a tourist spot||GAYA: Maya Sarovar in Bodh Gaya will be the new attraction for the tourists—domestic as well as foreigners—in the days to come. The campus will have various means of entertainment as well as eateries. Bihar state tourism department has awarded the tender to ‘New Travel In Style’, a group of individuals hailing from Bodh Gaya to serve the purpose. Bodh Gaya Travel Association president Suresh Singh said, “We had applied for the tender floated by the state tourism department for Maya Sarovar and it has been awarded to us. We have plans to develop the campus so that tourists can enjoy the place.” Divulging the plans he said, “Statues on different stages of the life of the Buddha will be installed on the campus which will be made from fibre, which would be brought from outside the state. There will be cafeteria, fast food and ice-cream stalls on the campus.” He added, “We are also planning to provide facility of fishing to the visitors from the big pond on the campus. Visitors will have boating facility and there will be oars instead of paddles for rowing the boats.” For entertainment of the visitors, there will be light and sound shows, musical & cultural programme. The light and sound programme on the life of Buddha will be organized on a water screen created by the water fountain. The campus of Maya Sarovar was developed by CPWD and handed over to the state government. There is a park, big pond and an open gallery on the campus spread in about five acres. Chief minister Nitish Kumar had unveiled it in 2010 and since then it is open for public. On new year every year, people visit the campus to enjoy picnic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/maya-sarovar-in-gaya-to-be-developed-as-a-tourist-spot/articleshow/80085501.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Business||RIL deals lift PE-VC funding to $39 billion in 2020, highest in 5 years||CHENNAI: On the back of Reliance’s fund-raising spree, private equity (PE) and venture capital (VC) investments in 2020 beat the pandemic blues and recorded the highest level in the last five years at $39.2 billion across 814 deals. This was 6.6% higher than 2019, which had seen 1,012 deals. Investments into RIL’s businesses made up 44% of the PE-VC deal value in 2020. US-based PE firms and global sovereign wealth funds invested around $17.3 billion in Reliance group companies including Jio Platforms ($9.9 billion), Reliance Retail ($6.4 billion), and Reliance Digital Fibre Infrastructure Trust ($1 billion), data from Venture Intelligence said. Other top investments included the acquisition of container glass packaging manufacturer Piramal Glass, by Blackstone for $1 billion, and $603-million investment in Zomato by global PE firms led by Tiger Global and Kora Management. Investment by marquee PE firms in established companies dominated the pandemic-hit year, as VC investments fell 13% in value to $10.7 billion compared to $12.5 billion in 2019. Venture Intelligence defines VC investments as seed to series-F investments in companies less than 10-years old and late-stage tech firms. “The accelerated adoption of digital technologies by both consumers and enterprises attracted investors to ‘TMT’ (telecom media and technology) companies including in sectors like edtech, e-commerce and financial services,” Venture Intelligence founder Arun Natarajan said. “Geopolitical compulsions, which led to marked slowing down of investments from Chinese investors in Indian companies, was another key ecosystem altering feature of 2020,” he added. The telecom sector, led by Jio, accounted for $11.2 billion of the investment pie in 2020. Bharti Airtel’s data centre-focused subsidiary Nxtra Data and smartphone manufacturer Lava International also raised $235 million and $90 million, respectively. Tech also continued to be investors’ favourite as the IT & ITeS sector attracted $7.5 billion. This included big-ticket investments in unicorns Zomato, Oyo Rooms, Swiggy as well as in the year’s eight new unicorns — Dream11, Zenoti, Unacademy, Postman, Nykaa, Glance InMobi, Dailyhunt, and Pine Labs. The bounce back in PE-VC investment activity was aided by stellar performance on the two ends of the spectrum, Venture Intelligence’s analysis showed. While early-stage investments in the final quarter of the year were up 48% compared to the low in April-June to set a seven-quarter high, the second half of 2020 saw 35 PE-VC investments of over $100 million compared to 25 such deals in the first half. Despite private markets’ performance in 2020, there are several factors contributing to an uncertain future for PE-VC investments in 2021 from eco-political changes in the US, to the threat of a second wave of the coronavirus, Natarajan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ril-deals-lift-pe-vc-funding-to-39bn-in-20-highest-in-5-yrs/articleshow/80086746.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
January 4, 2021||Patna||Toddler drowned, parents rescued after accident in Bihar||PATNA: A two and a half years old girl drowned after the bike she was travelling on with her parents fell into in a roadside water body near Lekhanagar under Khagaul police station area in western Patna late Saturday night. Khagaul police station SHO Mukesh Kumar Mukesh said the deceased was identified as Chandni Kumari while her injured parents were Muthur Das (25) and Laxminia Devi (22). The family was travelling from Fatuha to Maner where the parents of the woman lived. Police said the couple was rescued by the locals and some students who collected their mufflers and sweaters and used it as a rope to pull them up to safety from the water body, which was 15 feet down from roadside. Police said an SDRF team was also called for search and rescue operation after the accident at around 10.30pm. However, the team reached the spot from Gai Ghat in Patna City only after midnight for lack of vehicle for movement. Danapur circle officer Vidyanand Rai, who was present at the spot, told TOI at midnight that a vehicle was sent to bring the SDRF team to the spot. Quoting eyewitnesses, the SHO said Muthur was driving the bike at a speed of around 80kpmh when he suddenly took a wrong turn towards concrete railing built on the roadside above the water body cum drainage covered with weeds. “The mother-child duo was flung into the water body. However, she didn’t lose grip on her daughter while throwing limbs to keep her afloat. She lost the child only while trying to catch the improvised rope for saving herself. The child was not seen afterwards,” he said. Mukesh said two students had jumped into the water immediately after the accident for rescue. “However, they had to swim to safety as the water was around 25 feet deep,” he said. The SHO said the body was fished out by SDRF divers at around 1.30am on Sunday. He said her parents were provided first aid by a medical team. “However they refused to go to a hospital as the woman was frantic for getting her child rescued,” he said. This is the second such accident in Patna within three days. On Thursday night, businessman Krishnakant Sharma (45) was killed after his car fell into the roadside drainage in south Mandiri area. Two of his colleagues were rescued by the locals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/toddler-drowned-parents-rescued-after-accident/articleshow/80085425.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Patna||Woman killed for ‘witchcraft’ in Bihar||PATNA: An elderly man and his son killed their 61-year-old relative for allegedly practising witchcraft at Laldeiya under Khaira police station area in Jamui district on Friday. Police received information about it on Saturday morning. Khaira police station SHO Chandra Prakash Yadav told TOI over phone that the deceased was identified as Kalawatia Devi, whose husband Arjun Yadav had lodged a murder case against his relatives Bhuna Yadav (65) and his younger son Mukesh Yadav (35). The SHO said Bhuna’s grandson Lodna Kumar (2) died on Friday evening after suffering from some ailment for the last several days. He said Lodna’s father works in Gujarat and Mukesh is his uncle. Yadav said Arjun and Bhuna are relatives. “Bhuna’s family was getting Lodna treated by a quack. It is yet unknown that what disease he was suffering from. However, Lodna’s family members suspected Kalawatia of practising witchcraft to get him possessed by a ghost which ultimately led to his death,” he said. The SHO said Arjun alleged that Bhuna and Mukesh barged into their residence at around 1am on Saturday while they were asleep. “The duo started thrashing Arjun’s wife after which they killed her by hanging from the ceiling with a rope. Arjun fled to save his life,” he said. The SHO said both the accused fled from the village after police started searching them after a murder case was registered against them. He said Lodna’s grandmother Yasoda Devi (60) has also lodged a murder case against Kalawatia for killing the boy by practising witchcraft. He said police found Kalawatia’s body hanging while the child’s body was also inside his home. “Both the bodies were sent for postmortem. Their viscera has been preserved for forensic analysis,” the SHO said, adding raids were on to nab the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/woman-killed-for-witchcraft/articleshow/80085507.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Patna||937 kg ganja, 1,250 litres liquor seized in Bihar's Bhojpur||ARA: Bhojpur police on Saturday evening seized 937 kg of ganja (marijuana) and 1,250 litres of India-made foreign liquor (IMFL) and arrested two persons in this connection. SP Har Kishore Rai told reporters that on a tip-off about a large quantity of illicit ganja and liquor kept in a three-storied building, which is under construction and situated at Dulaur Tola village in Simraon under Charpokhari police station, Charpokhari SHO Subodh Prasad conducted a raid. The house belonged to one Amrendra Kumar Singh alias B P Mandal. Altogether 140 cartons of liquor and 937 kg of ganja concealed in two cars and six bikes, all parked in the basement of the house were found during the raid. The ganja, concealed in 26 sacks, had a market value of more than Rs 30 lakh according to an estimate. “Two persons—Md Noor Alam, resident of Bawandih village under the Siswan police station area in Siwan district and Uma Shankar Singh, resident of Jokta village under the Chandi police station of Bhojpur district were arrested by the police,” the SP said. In another development, six riders of Mounted Military Police, Ara, qualified for the national-level competition to be held at Noida from February 1 to 7, by a jury of the Equestrian Federation of India on Sunday, the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/937-kg-ganja-1250-litres-liquor-seized-in-bhojpur/articleshow/80085538.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Patna||Three-year-old raped by 3 minor boys in Bihar||MOTIHARI: A 3-year-old girl was allegedly gang-raped by three boys under 11 years of age under Banjariya police station area of East Champaran district on Saturday evening. The girl has been admitted to Sadar hospital at Motihari in critical condition. East Champaran SP Navin Chandra Jha said all the three accused have been detained. “All the accused are juvenile,” he said, adding that he was shocked to see the survivor in the hospital. “The parents of the survivor have lodged a case with Mahila police station at Motihari against the three,” SHO Sarita Devi said, adding that the accused would be sent to remand home after medical examination. The parents of the victim stated in the FIR that the girl was playing near her home on Saturday when the accused lured and took her to a nearby hutment where she was raped. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-year-old-raped-by-3-minor-boys/articleshow/80085514.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Kochi||CSML to complete renovation of Kochi roads by end of January||KOCHI: Motorists using city roads can heave a sigh of relief soon. Cochin Smart Mission Ltd (CSML) will be completing the renovation of 20 roads in Kochi city and 15 roads in West Kochi by the month-end. While renovation of 15 roads in Fort Kochi area will be completed by January 15, renovation of 20 roads will be completed by the month-end. “The work on Abraham Madamackal Road, which is being upgraded to a smart road by CSML, will be completed by January 15. So, many of the city roads will be motorists-friendly by the month-end,” an official with CSML said. Six roads in the city are being upgraded to smart roads and there will be more facilities for motorists and pedestrians. Dedicated utility ducts, road furniture, including zebra crossing and signage, bus bays, walkways and cycle track, will be some of the features of the smart roads. There will be LED street lights, medians, flowers and plants on the shoulders of the road, provisions for visually challenged as well. Junction improvement is also being planned as part of the upgradation of roads into smart roads. The upgradation of Banerji Road, Shanmugham Road, Park Avenue Road, DH Road and South Railway Station Road into smart roads is progressing. To promote pedestrian-friendly, child-friendly, safe and happy public spaces/streets in Kochi city, CSML has invited designs for the selected streets from the citizens as part of ‘Streets for People Challenge’. The Streets for People Challenge is an initiative of the ministry of housing and urban affairs and Smart Cities Mission to inspire people to create and promote pedestrian-friendly streets and create flagship pedestrian-friendly initiatives in cities. The designs should have safety and security features for all users, activity area, shopping area, interaction spaces, kids play area, etc. “CSML has shortlisted four major sites/streets with mixed use flagship and neighbourhood to promote pedestrian-friendly spaces which are Vasco Square, P T Usha Road, streets along the Eruveli and Kalvathy Canal, and Jew Town Road. The winning design will first be tested on the grounds. The winning entry will be implemented after modification based on site conditions and other approvals. The sites have been suggested by CSML but participants can propose any other similar site also within Kochi corporation area,” said CSML CEO Jaffar Malik. The CSML authorities are planning to encourage nightlife in the streets like P T Usha Road. “CSML will complete other works like renovation of Dutch Palace entry, Vasco Da Gama Square and open-air theatre in Fort Kochi this month. The work on all these projects is fast progressing,” officials with CSML said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/csml-to-complete-renovationof-kochi-roads-by-end-of-jan/articleshow/80085849.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
January 4, 2021||Vadodara||Gujarat: Cop caught ferrying liquor for bootlegger||VADODARA: A constable of Vadu police station was arrested in Waghodiya on Sunday for allegedly transporting liquor in a pick-up truck from Madhya Pradesh. Harsinh Rathwa, who is in police department for the last three years, was nabbed during a vehicle checking drive along a canal in Tavra village of Waghodiya taluka. When the pick-up truck approached the checkpoint, the driver’s behaviour seemed suspicious, so the cartons inside were checked. A stock of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 1.7 lakh was found in the carriage of the truck. When questioned, Rathwa revealed that he is a cop with Vadu police station. “He revealed that he had brought the liquor stock from MP for a bootlegger in Vadu named Vijay Mali,” said assistant superintendent of police Jagdish Bangarwa. Mali too was arrested during the day. “We have sent a team to MP to arrest the person who had sent the liquor stock,” Bangarwa added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cop-caught-ferrying-liquor-for-bootlegger/articleshow/80085908.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Ahead of Covid vaccine drive, 75-plus group emerges as most at risk||KOLKATA: Ahead of the vaccine roll-out in Bengal, state health department data clearly indicate that the 75-plus age group are most at risk due to Covid. In comparison, Covid fatalities across age groups — including the 61 to 75 — has significantly reduced in Bengal. The 0-15 years group and the 16-30 years group have the least Covid-related risks. The Centre has indicated that Covid vaccine will be offered first to healthcare workers, other frontline workers and to people above 50. The Bengal government has prepared a list of healthcare and frontline workers and Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) has prepared a separate database for people with co-morbidities. According to figures released by the state health department, over 11% of all Covid deaths had taken place in this age group alone. The most prevalent co-morbidities remain hypertension, diabetes, cardiac ailments, chronic kidney ailments and COPD. In June-end, Covid fatalities in the 75-plus age group remained at 18.8%. This has dipped progressively. On Sunday, Covid fatalities in this age group were at 11.2% — the most among all age groups in Bengal. Health experts have stressed on vaccinating this elderly populace first. According to the state health department, the sharpest fall in Covid fatalities has been recorded in the 61-75 age group. In late June, when the state started analyzing the high Covid fatalities in Bengal, the Covid fatality rate (CFR) in this group was around 12%. It started falling month-on-month and, in December, fell below the 5% mark. On Sunday, the CFR in this age group was 4.9%. In comparison, the Covid fatalities have been a constant 0.1% in both the 0-15 age group and 16-30 age group. This has remained so since June-end. In the 46-60 age group, Covid fatalities have dropped from 4.6% in June-end to 1.6% in December. On Sunday, the state health department data indicated the CFR in this age group was 1.6%. A fall in the number of elderly cardiac patients — the most-at-risk group — to die of Covid has pushed diabetes to the second-most common co-morbid condition in Bengal, even as hypertension continues to be the number one. This coincided with an overall drop in CFR in the state’s elderly population. In descending order of prevalence, most of the Covid deaths had hypertension, diabetes, and cardiac disease as co-morbidities. Chronic kidney disease has replaced COPD as the fourth most common co-morbidity among the elderly. For the two highest-risk age groups — 60-75 and 75-above — the primary co-morbidities in Covid deaths initially were hypertension, cardiac ailments and diabetes. A high proportion of elderly patients who died with Covid also had COPD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ahead-of-vaccine-drive-75-plus-group-emerges-as-most-at-risk/articleshow/80087156.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Schools realize 93% arrears, make list of regular defaulters||KOLKATA: There are about 2%-3% parents who are genuinely distressed and will not be able to pay their wards’ school fees, and there is a similar percentage that is playing truant. The remaining have more or less paid their fees up to the third quarter and some up to the fourth quarter, said a large number of city schools. Most have formed a committee that have met parents in distress and given them waivers during the winter vacation. But when schools (non-church) reopen on Monday in the virtual mode, they have decided not to block anyone. The High Court hearing on the issue is also slated on Monday. Some schools, like Birla High School and Sushila Birla Girls’ High School, have managed to receive nearly 93% of the arrears. The committee with director Mukta Nain, the principal and the headmistress in Birla High School, have allowed between 30% and 100% waivers to parents who have approached with proof of distress. Schools have found that about 3% parents who have not paid and have not contacted the schools are those who have been habitual defaulters. A separate list of such parents has been made and an “intense follow up” regimen will be followed. “We checked records and noticed there are habitual defaulters who have never paid on time,” said Bratati Bhattacharya, spokesperson of Shri Shikshayatan School. Many schools had given time to parents till December 31 to make their payments. “There are many genuine cases of distress. A boy in Class X has lost his father, his elder brother is in college and his mother is a homemaker. How will this family pay? We have allowed relief to such families and yet there are habitual offenders. Many of them have not even bothered to contact us,” said Amita Prasad, director of Indus Valley World School. Church-run schools are reopening on January 12, though a tally has been made of habitual offenders. “We have been going slow on defaulters because the year has been difficult, but we have a long list of those who have refused to pay on time for years,” said John Ghosh, secretary of the Kolkata Diocese of the Church of North India that runs 12 schools of the city. Schools are finding it difficult to open channels of communication with this set of parents. “They are just as elusive as other years,” Ghosh added. About 95% parents at Don Bosco Park Circus have paid and about 2% have approached for higher waivers. “We, too, have 2%-3% parents who are habitual defaulters,” said Father Bikash Mondal, principal of the school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-realize-93-arrears-make-list-of-regular-defaulters/articleshow/80087158.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
January 4, 2021||Surat||Brain dead Surat bizman ‘weaves’ new life for five||SURAT: Vishnu Patel, a 57-year-old Surat-based businessman, has woven a new fabric of life for three patients in the country, while he will provide vision to two others. Brain-dead Patel’s cadaver donation helped the needy awaiting for heart, liver and lung transplant in different corners of the country. Patel, owner of a weaving unit, had met with an accident on December 30 while he was on his way from his Pandesara-based factory to his home in Dindoli area on a motorbike. He suffered severe head injuries after his bike collided with stray cattle near Dindoli. Although he was rushed to New Civil Hospital and later to a private hospital, Patel’s CT scan revealed that he had suffered a brain haemorrhage. Doctors even removed the clotting in his brain, but was declared brain dead on January 1. “We had received a call informing about the willingness of the family members to donate Patel’s vital organs. After receiving their consent, we informed Dr Pranjal Modi, convener of the State Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (SOTTO)” Nilesh Mandlewala, Founder of Donate Life, told TOI. Patel’s heart and lung were transported to Chennai through a chartered flight. His heart was transplanted into 58-year-old patient at Chennai’s MGM hospital while his lungs were transplanted into a 62-year-old female patient at Chennai’s Apollo hospital. The eyes have been donated to Surat-based Lokdrashti eye bank. Patel’s two kidneys and liver were transported from Surat’s Mahavir Trauma Hospital to Ahmedabad’s IKDRC via road on Saturday night. His liver was transplanted into a 45-year-old patient from Kheda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/brain-dead-surat-bizman-weaves-new-life-for-five/articleshow/80086168.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Kolkata||None in Bengal secures 100 percentile in CAT 2020||Kolkata: The Common Admission Test (CAT) 2020 threw up the worst results in the past four years. None of the 11,000-plus candidates from Bengal managed to bag the 100 percentile score. This year, nine students aced the examination, of which five are IIT pass outs. “Many students returned to their hometown during lockdown and took the test there, which may have led to none from Bengal securing 100 percentile,” said a coaching institute head. Naveen Saraf, head of another coaching institute, said, “There is a drop in applicants and a marginal slump among those who took the test. Those securing the 10th position will have a negligible difference with the top scorers. There are several such students with a 99.99 percentile score from the state.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/none-in-bengal-secures-100-percentile-in-cat-2020/articleshow/80087163.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Patna||New projects on the cards in Saran division||CHHAPRA: Several new projects are in the offing for development of Saran and its adjoining areas. “Several key road, flyovers and by passes among other projects are likely to see the light of the day this year. The foundation of one such alternative bridge over Ganga between Dighwara and Sherpur is expected in the month of April as per publication of the gazette and also hinted by Union minister Nitin Gadkari,” said a social activist of Dighwara Amit Kumar. The unusual delay in completion of NH-19 between Chhapra- Hajipur covering about 65km from the last 10 years has irked the residents of the district. With acceleration of work on rail over bridges (RoB) at Bishnupura by the constructing agency, locals have seen a ray of hope for smooth vehicular movement in the area this year. Also, in order to get rid of traffic-congestion, the district is likely to get bypasses at Chhapra, Amnour, Garkha, Parsa and Rebelganj respectively. “The expected time of completion of much-talked about double-decker flyover at Chhapra town is 2022. The 3.5km flyover will pass through the heart of the town. The town is also likely to get an indoor stadium on the premises of Government Girls School,” said Suresh Prasad Singh, a retired sports teacher. Residents are also expecting improvement in law and order scenario. Senior IPS officer Manu Maharaj has recently been posted as DIG of Saran range. Also, the installation of computed tomography (CT) scan apparatus in Sadar hospital is likely to provide relief to patients. Saran civil surgeon M Jha said the machine has been purchased at the cost of Rs1.25crore. “The number of Covid patients in the district had also disturbed the people but with the arrangements for storage of vaccine and arrangements for maintenance of the cold chain in the sadar hospital has also given satisfaction in the minds of the people,” said a medical practitioner Dr Shyamal Kishor. Meanwhile, the district administration has assured to provide respite from encroachment and provide vending zones for street vendors. The street vendors have been assured to be provided a vending zone near Kachahari station road at Chhapra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/new-projects-on-the-cards-in-saran-division/articleshow/80085549.cms||H K Verma
January 4, 2021||Patna||Patna HC to resume physical hearing with curbs||PATNA: The Patna high court would start functioning physically once again from Monday for the first time since March 23 following the nationwide lockdown amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Only urgent matters were being taken up through virtual hearing since then. However, the physical functioning would be only on experimental basis till January 15, as per the high court notice. Only 25 cases would be listed before each bench every day during the physical hearing. In the present system, civil matters would be taken up on Thursday and criminal matters on rest of the working days. While almost half of the benches would function physically in the first session from 10.30am to 1pm, rest would function in the second session from 2pm to 4.30pm. The one-hour gap would be used for sanitising the courtrooms, entrances and other touchpoints. Judges would have discretion to conduct virtual hearing of other pending cases before or after conducting physical hearing as per session timing. However, such hearings would be conducted as per convenience of the stakeholders or parties. Entry of lawyers and other persons would be strictly regulated and standard operating procedure (SOP) has been prescribed for it. Several courtrooms have been transformed as waiting rooms for lawyers where they will sit while maintaining social distancing until their cases are taken up for hearing by a bench in another courtroom. Special e-pass would be generated for lawyers and it will be valid for the day and time slot when their cases are listed for hearing. They will have to leave the court premises soon after the hearing. All would have to wear mask and follow social distancing norms. Besides, lawyers would be permitted to take one advocate clerk and an assisting counsel on the basis of identity cards issued by the high court. No litigant or party would be allowed to enter the court until their physical appearance is required. Special passes would be issued for entry of such persons. Health workers would be deployed by the civil surgeon for screening purpose at the entrance gates. Meanwhile, the coordination committee of all three associations of the high court lawyers on Sunday held an emergency meeting urging lawyers to support physical hearing. The meeting was presided by Advocates’ Association president Yogesh Chandra Verma and Lawyers’ Association president Ajay Thakur. They appealed to the lawyers that only those who have their cases listed for hearing should come to the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hc-to-resume-physical-hearing-with-curbs/articleshow/80085384.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 4, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Chandni Chowk temple in right of way finally goes||NEW DELHI: Early on Sunday, an encroachment in the form of a temple on the central verge of the road near Moti Bazaar was removed by North Delhi Municipal Corporation in compliance with an order by Delhi high court. The structure was coming in the way of completion of the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project. Teams of the corporation carried out the action amid heavy deployment of police personnel. On December 18, the high court had dismissed the plea by a religious society seeking a stay on the removal of the Hanuman temple. Before this action, the corporation had made three attempts earlier to relocate the temple, but met with no success. The structure on the main road, which is being pedestrianised, had been declared illegal and the order for its removal was passed in 2015. The ambitious project is being closely monitored by the high court since its inception. The project has 24 stakeholders, including PWD, north corporation and Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation. Earlier, north corporation had tried to remove the encroachment on November 20 and 22 and December 20, but the exercise could not be carried out due to unavailability of police force and large crowds gathering near the temple. A senior corporation official said the entire area was barricaded around midnight. “Barricades were placed at Chandni Chowk Road, Netaji Subhash Marg T-junction, near Town Hall and the entry and exit points of various katras. Both Delhi Police and CRPF personnel were present in large numbers to maintain law and order. Action started around 5.30am and it took 15 minutes to remove the structure,” added the official. On November 14, 2019, Delhi High Court had rejected the recommendations of Delhi government’s religious committee to allow the temple to exist at the site. The order was challenged in Supreme Court, which disposed of it after the government said it would move a suitable application before the high court for further directions. Removal of encroachments remains a key hurdle in the timely execution of the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project, the last deadline for which was December 31, 2020. Last month, Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation had noted that the delay in removal of encroachment from the colonnade at Fountain Chowk was not only causing hindrance to the movement of pedestrians, but also their safety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/chandni-chowk-temple-in-right-of-way-finally-goes/articleshow/80087357.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Kochi||Police to send teams to Tamil Nadu to trace ‘pootham’||KOCHI: Mariyar Pootham, the notorious thief, who had been striking at various locations in the city over the past few weeks, has suddenly gone missing from action and police suspect that he might have returned to his home state, Tamil Nadu. According to a senior officer, a police team would soon be dispatched to locations, including his hometown in Colachel, to trace Pootham, who has been involved in at least half-a-dozen thefts in city in the past dew months. Search parties were also formed to nab him. “It seems our efforts to comb the area at night with the help of residents have paid off. There have been no reports of him being spotted anywhere for the past few days and our information is that he has left the area. He would soon be tracked down and arrested to answer for the crime that he had committed in the past weeks,” said an officer. President of SRM Road Aikyavedi, an apex body of residents’ associations in the area, A Paulose said the reports of him withdrawing from the area started to spread by New Year’s eve. “WhatsApp groups formed to track him down has been inactive since January 1. We had seen him jumping from rooftops. We used to alert to each other when we see movement in otherwise deserted locations. Patrolling parties used to rush to such spots and by the time we reach he would to escape. However, we have seen signs that suggest that he was camping at such areas,” said Paulose. Official sources said that the man was a serious nuisance for residents. “He used to work as scrap collector in the area in the 70s, even before high-rises and other developments took place in the region. He knew all the routes and pocket roads here so well making it very difficult to catch him,” said an official. Meanwhile, residents have heaved a sigh of relief. “We had even printed posters to get to him. Police say that a relative of his had landed in some trouble which also led to his return. We are relieved for the time being as his presence used to give us wort nightmares,” said a resident.  Pedestrian knocked down: A 53-year-old pedestrian died and his wife sustained serious injuries when a car which came from Vaikom direction lost control hit the couple near Kochupalli in Udayamperoor on Sunday. Babu, a lottery agent, and his wife were walking along the side of the road when the accident happened. Police arrest one for fire at shop: Rural police arrested Mohankumar Kondath, 57, of Palakkad in connection with a fire reported at a sanitary equipment store at Aluva in November. Kondath, a security guard, allegedly tried to burn garbage when he was inebriated. Man held for assaulting woman: Angamaly police arrested Arackal Kurakose, 65, of Akapparambu for assaulting and verbally abusing a woman. He has been remanded in judicial custody. One held for lifting bike: Aluva police arrested Abubakker Poozhitharakudiyil, 38, of Keezhmad on Sunday after he was found riding a bike he had stolen from the parking area near Aluva railway station on New Year’s eve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/police-to-send-teams-to-tn-to-trace-pootham/articleshow/80085856.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Kolkata||Sourav Ganguly case raises health alarm across gyms in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The news of BCCI president and former Team India captain Sourav Ganguly (48) suffering a ‘mild heart attack’ soon after a workout session at a gymnasium at his home on Saturday has alarmed gym enthusiasts over 40. City gym trainers have now highlighted the need of proper food habit and maintaining a list of specific forms of exercise in consultation with a certified fitness trainer before hitting the gym. Ganguly, who had last played competitive cricket representing Pune Warriors India in IPL 2012, was training at his home when he experienced chest pain. He was admitted to a private hospital where he underwent an emergency angioplasty and a stent was implanted in one of his three blocked arteries. “The incident has left me shocked. Ganguly has been my idol for several years and he still looks so fit. The fact that he suffered a cardiac arrest at such an age has worried me,” said Santanu Chakraborty (44), who undergoes heavy weight training on a regular basis. Times ViewThe time lag between an untoward incident during exercising and hospitalisation can make a life-and-death difference. Most people use gyms for their daily exercise regimen and so it is important that gyms have trained staff and properly devised SOPs for medical emergencies.Trainers said such incidents should be treated as an eye opener while dealing with every gym member above the age of 40. “While admitting a new member, we conduct a series of tests like the Rockport walk test, treadmill test and three-minute step test to check a person’s stamina and intensity before assigning him/her an exercise chart,” said Souvik Banerjee, a premium trainer at Core Gym. Gagan Sachdeva of Karma Fitness Studio that has multiple gymnasium branches across the city called for better food habits and regular health check-ups. “We always advise our patrons that fitness is 70% of right food and 30% correct workout. The moment a person crosses 40 or 45 s/he should have a health check-up every six months and then consult a certified trainer for the right form of exercise depending upon his health. Exercise is good for health. But if you have a problem in the cardiovascular system, heavy exercise can aggravate that,” said Sachdeva. In Ganguly’s case, doctors said he has ‘triple-vessel disease’ which is triggered when the major arteries are choked by plaque. The cricket icon has a family history of ischemic heart disease. His father, Chandidas Ganguly, had passed away in 2013 at the age of 75, following a heart attack. “Every gym should also maintain data of family history and advise exercises accordingly,” said Rupam Chakraborty, technical head of Rush Fitness studio. Cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar said that while unrestricted workout is permissible when you are young, with advancing age you not only need to temper it but also ensure that you do it under proper supervision and get yourself monitored regularly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sourav-case-raises-health-alarm-across-city-gyms/articleshow/80086575.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
January 4, 2021||Jaipur||7 crows found dead in Jal Mahal lake as bird flu fears hit Jaipur||JAIPUR: Seven crows were found dead at Jal Mahal lake on Sunday, adding to the fears that a strain of the avian influenza virus has hit the state capital. At least 252 birds have died from the disease, so far, in the entire state. Pressing the emergency button, the animal husbandry and forest departments have jointly sent teams to districts and set up a state-level control room on Sunday. Till date, deaths of 100 crows have been reported from Jhalawar, 72 from Baran, 47 (Kota), 19 (Pali), seven (Jodhpur), and today, seven from Jaipur. #BirdFlu in Rajasthan: Presence of the dreaded #BirdFluVirus was confirmed in dead crows in #Jhalawar and more avia… https://t.co/RR3HBSG8Cw— TOI Jaipur (@TOIJaipurNews) 1609735150000The government has sent samples of the carcasses to a laboratory in Bhopal for examination. Kunji Lal Meena, principal secretary, animal Husbandry, said, “Deaths occurred due to this virus are mainly reported among crows and majority of the cases are reported from Kota and Jodhpur divisions.” The department claimed that though no poultry death has been reported so far, the administration has started preventive exercises. Bhawani Rathore, additional director, animal Husbandry department, said, “Over 75 samples have been sent from various places for testing. The situation is not alarming, but we are vigilant and will ensure that this virus does not affect domestic animals. The guidelines are being followed and dead animals have been buried.” A senior official further added that an alert has been sounded in all districts. The forest department also sounded a high alert on the possibility of bird flu spreading among migratory birds present in many water bodies. A senior forest official said, “Directions have been issued to the team in Jhalawar and other districts to monitor the health of migratory birds. We have asked our teams to inform immediately if they observe indifferent behaviour in migratory birds. Action will be taken if any death is reported among migratory birds.” Watch Bird flu fear grips Rajasthan, Seven crows found dead in jail Mahal lake||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/7-crows-found-dead-in-jal-mahallake-as-bird-flu-fears-hit-jaipur/articleshow/80087393.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Dehradun||Injured sambar deer & wild boar rescued, poaching activity suspected||Dehradun: An injured sambar deer was rescued from the district’s Timli village on Sunday. It is suspected that the deer sustained injuries in a poaching attempt. The deer was first spotted around 10 am by village locals. Later, one of the villagers informed Pooja Rawal, range officer of Kalsi Civil Soyam forest division, about the deer straying in the village. “The sambar had strayed from the forest into the village. It even entered the house of one of the villagers. Later, it was saved from a cow shelter. Its rescue took an hour,” said Ravi Joshi, in-charge of the Dehradun’s wildlife rescue team of the forest department. In another such incident on Sunday, an injured young female wild boar was rescued from the Jhajra forest range of Dehradun forest division. Three days ago, a dead male leopard was also found trapped in clutch wire in the Jhajra forest range. Earlier on December 20, 2020, another leopard was found trapped in clutch wire in the Khatima Forest range of Champawat. In view of these incidents — suggesting that poachers have become active — the forest department has become alert in the region. “Some days ago, we had rescued a leopard caught in a trap. And on Sunday, a wild boar injured due to clutch wire, set-up probably by poachers, was rescued. We released it into the wild after administering it medication,” added Joshi. It is worth mentioning that the chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand has already set up special teams to check crimes related to wildlife. The chief wildlife warden also directed the officials to maintain a central log to keep track of anti-forest elements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/injured-sambar-deer-wild-boar-rescued-poaching-activity-suspected/articleshow/80085841.cms||Shivani Azad
January 4, 2021||Goa||Monserrate: Time to make way for younger Panaji civic body||Panaji: The Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) might soon have a new and young council with Panaji MLA Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate deciding not to field 80% of the sitting councillors for the upcoming CCP elections scheduled in March. “We need to have young faces in politics,” Monserrate told TOI. “I have spoken to many councillors and told them that if they want to keep their wards with them, then they should step down and allow their children to contest,” he said, adding, “I have told the sitting councillors that 80% of the sitting councillors would be changed.” CCP mayor Uday Madkaikar told TOI that it was Monserrate’s own decision. Monserrate said that despite him being in the opposition he managed to win the last three CCP elections. “This time I want to win all the 30 seats to carry on the development of Panaji,” the Panaji MLA said. Of the 30 wards that form the Panaji and Taleigao constituencies, 9 members represent Taleigao and 21 members represent Panaji. Monserrate had recently said that if the zilla panchayat elections were fought on party lines, then the municipal elections should also be fought on party lines. He had said that conducting civic polls on party lines, as is done in larger cities, will be beneficial in the long-run. The state election commission (SEC) in August postponed polls to the 11 municipal bodies which were scheduled for October 18 by three months due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/monserrate-time-to-make-way-for-younger-panaji-civic-body/articleshow/80087433.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: ED begins laundering probe into instant loan app cases||HYDERABAD: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Sunday said it has booked a money laundering case in the instant loan app fraud cases registered by the Telangana police so far. ED officials said it has taken up FIRs booked by Hyderabad and Cyberabad police against Chinese nationals and locals who are accused in the cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. “Unauthorised loan apps are avoiding all regulatory agencies. We are looking at a possible transfer abroad of money from the crime proceeds,” said one official. Sources in ED said that they are collecting details from the investigating officials in 27 FIRs booked by Hyderabad police so far. ED authorities believe that the instant loan app fraud has huge ramification on where the money would have been laundered abroad. In one case involving Chinese national Zhu Wei and his Indian associates, an investigation by Hyderabad police showed 1.4 crore transactions worth around Rs 21,000 crore was carried out from seven call centres. Police conducted searches across the country including Hyderabad, Gurugram, Bengaluru and other places on the loan apps’ call centres. Cops have so far arrested four Chinese nationals. Three of them, Yi Bai, Liang TianTian and Zheu Wei, have been arrested in the past month and booked in the instant loan app case. The fourth, Yah Hao, was arrested in August in connection with running an online gambling racket in which a large number of Indians have lost crores of rupees. “The accused were not only collecting interest, processing charges but also GST, default charges and penalty,” one official added. ED officials said they will be grilling 16 accused so far arrested by Hyderabad police. Investigators said the mobile loan apps collect exorbitant interest rate and when people fail to repay they are harassed, threatened and abused by the recovery wing of these companies. At least five suicides have been recorded in Telangana linked to instant lending apps in a little more than a month. In all cases the victims killed themselves after they were shamed in front of friends and family for defaulting on loans. Police booked cases under abetment to suicide, cheating, extortion and IT act sections against. Several victims have deposed before police that the loan apps collect additional charges. Apart from Hyderabad and Cyberabad police, Bengaluru and Chennai police have also begun crackdown over the loan apps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ed-begins-probe-in-instant-loan-app-fraud-cases/articleshow/80087398.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 4, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Woman, daughter raped; two held after video goes viral||NEW DELHI: A 45-year-old ragpicker and her 18-year-old daughter were allegedly raped by two men, who also threatened to kill them, police said. The incident took place on the intervening night of December 29 and 30, but no complaint was lodged then. The police were alerted about the incident on Sunday after a video of the incident went viral. Police have arrested two people for the crime. They have been identified as Amit from Wazirpur and Sonu from Jahangirpuri. Both are in their mid-20s. The teen survivor, who is specially-abled, is learnt to be pregnant, an official said, citing her statement. The police have launched a separate inquiry to ascertain if she was raped earlier too. The act was captured on a mobile phone by a local who shared it on social media. In the video, a seemingly drunk man, wearing a cap and yellow shirt and trousers, is seen threatening to hit the woman with a big boulder in his hand. “On January 3, a video was reported to be circulating on the social media regarding the molestation of two women by two unknown people in Wazirpur. Multiple teams were formed. They examined CCTV footage, collected local intelligence and conducted spot inquiries at nearby bus stops, metro stations and shelters. Both survivors were traced," said DCP (northwest) Vijyenta Arya. The cops first identified the location from the video and made inquiries to track down the video maker. More than a dozen cops were put on job and over three dozen people interviewed for clues. It came to light that the woman's husband had abandoned her and returned to his village during the lockdown, forcing the mother-daughter duo to live off the streets. On the intervening night of Friday and Saturday, two drunk men spotted them and started misbehaving. When the women resisted, one of them picked up a rock and threatened to kill them. A local woke up to the altercation and filmed the incident. “After police interviewed them, their statements were recorded and medical examination conducted. An FIR under sections of assault, rape and molestation was registered,” a senior official said. The person who made the video of the incident has been identified as Ritik (18) and arrested. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)Watch Shocking: Woman, daughter molested in Delhi; 2 arrested after video goes viral||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/woman-daughter-raped-2-held-after-video-goes-viral/articleshow/80087383.cms||---
January 4, 2021||India||After 30 weeks, Covid deaths below 2,000 in past 7 days||India recorded less than 2,000 deaths from Covid-19 over the past seven days, the first time in 30 weeks that the weekly toll has fallen below that mark. There were 1,748 deaths recorded during the current week (December 28-January 3), a drop of 16% from the previous week's toll of 2,087. The last time the weekly death toll in India was below 2,000 was in June 1-7, when 1,797 fatalities were reported. Fatalities recorded this week were the lowest since the last week of May, more than seven months ago. The weekly death toll is nearly one-fifth (21.3%) of what it was during the peak in September 14-20, when 8,175 fatalities were recorded.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); The tally of fresh cases too has fallen to nearly a fifth of the peak of the pandemic in the country. This week, fresh cases declined to 132,765, down 13% from the previous week. This was the eighth straight week of fall in cases. The current week's tally is the lowest since 1.2 lakh cases were recorded in the last week of June (June 21-28). The Covid-19 pandemic has been in recession in India since mid-September. On Sunday, fresh cases dropped to 16,733, a fall of nearly 1,400 from the previous day's count. There were 217 deaths reported on the day. The tally of active cases fell below 2.5 lakh while the total caseload stood at 1,03,41,502. Kerala again added the highest number of fresh cases at 4,600, while there were 25 deaths in the state. No positive cases were detected among UK returnees in the last 24 hours, state health minister K K Shailaja said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-30-weeks-covid-deaths-below-2000-in-past-7-days/articleshow/80088779.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
January 4, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Vaccination drive dry run successful in Patiala dist’||Patiala: A dry run for administering Covid vaccine in Patiala was a success on Sunday, according to a top official of the district. The dry run is part of a plan being implemented by the Union ministry of health and family welfare to ensure the rollout of Covid vaccination is a success later this year. In Patiala, the dry run was conducted at three places — Government Rajindra Hospital, Sadbhavna Medical and Heart Institute, and community health centre (CHC), Shutrana. Patiala deputy commissioner Kumar Amit said all activities, from uploading beneficiary data, allocating session sites and managing them to reporting and evening debriefing, were covered in the two-day exercise. Patiala has done cold chain assessment and identified 48 cold chain points, 15 session sites, 289 vaccinators and registered 8,800 healthcare workers for the first phase of vaccination. Patiala civil surgeon Dr Satinder Pal Singh said 25 beneficiaries were called at each site. UNDP project officer (operations) Meenakshi Deol said the vaccine was planned to be rolled out in a phased manner with priority groups. All beneficiaries are to be pre-registered on CoWIN portal. Photo ID will be required for same. Apart from a state vaccine store, three regional vaccine stores have been created in Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and Ferozepur. So far, 1.5 lakh healthcare workers from Punjab, including from private and public facilities, have uploaded their information on the Co-WIN portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vaccination-drive-dry-run-successful-in-patiala-dist/articleshow/80087399.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Punjab to add 3,448 more cases by month-end, say experts||CHANDIGARH: After assessment of Level-II facilities, the Punjab government has come up with fresh advisory for further streamlining monitoring and management of Covid-19 patients. The guidelines have been framed on recommendation of an expert committee which was entrusted with responsibility of evaluating Level-II health centres. There are 7,911 Level-II beds having intensive care units, ventilators, and beds with oxygen support in Punjab, of which 5,238 are in government set-up across the state. On arrival of the patient in a Level-II facility, the doctors on duty will categories the patient whether to be put in Level-II or -III facility and the details are to be displayed at each nursing station. If the patient is to be referred to Level-III facility on recommendation of the consulting doctor on duty, a detailed referral form giving a brief about the patient’s condition is to be shared with the doctor on duty where the patient is being referred. The referring health centre will take regular feedback of the referred patient from the doctor concerned. The medical staff on duty have to daily record vitals and Covid-19 specific investigations such as respiratory rate, oxygen saturation, pulse, blood pressure, urine output, sensorium, and temperature of all the patients. As the co-morbidities are high, a suitable diet as per the clinical conditions of patients is to be provided to them. Punjab health department spokesperson for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said uniform advisory had been framed after much deliberation with the experts. He said instructions had been issued to deputy commissioners and civil surgeons to ensure mandatory compliance of these guidelines in health facilities in their respective districts. After deluge for months, Punjab has recorded a steady fall in fresh cases and deaths. In December, 13,813 cases surfaced, while 520 people succumbed to the virus, lowest since July. The virus has infected 1,67,012 people and claimed 5,364 lives till January 2. If the projections made by experts are to be believed, the slow growth will continue, and the state will add 3,448 new cases in the next 28 days. During the same period, the number of Covid deaths will come down to 229. As per the projections, the state will have only 186 active cases by January 31. Even as there has been a drop in the number of deaths, the fatality rate continues to be highest in the country. Punjab’s case fatality rate stands at 3.21%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-to-add-3448-more-cases-by-month-end-say-experts/articleshow/80087396.cms||Vinod Kumar
January 4, 2021||Kochi||Vennala school team qualifies for state-level role play contest||Kochi: A five-member team of Class IX students from Government Higher Secondary School, Vennala, has been selected from the district to compete in the National Role Play Competition for school students organized by National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT). The six-minute role play in Hindi, themed on challenge faced by a blind student for participating in dance competition in the school youth fest and the support given by fellow students, has won in the district-level contest and is set to compete in state-level contest next week. The team consists of Shikha S, Supriya Subeesh, Adhil Mohammed M S, Lisa Sajan and Neha Mary, all students of Class IX. Shikha played the role of the blind student who struggles to study dance for the competition. Neha acted as her best friend who supports her to learn dance steps. While Lisa and Supriya played the roles of the students who make fun of the blind student’s dance, Adhil played the role of the headmaster who makes students aware of the challenges faced by students with disabilities. “Adhil has disability in leg and the role he played won much appreciation from the judges. Also, we received special mention about the use of simple language and a socially-relevant theme,” said Vishnu Raj C S, the Malayalam teacher who directed the role-play. The script was written in Malayalam and it was translated by Sandhya Rani, the Hindi teacher in the school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/vennala-school-team-qualifies-for-state-level-role-play-contest/articleshow/80085874.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Delhi||How Delhi’s green spaces can help harvest millions of litres of rainwater||NEW DELHI: The national capital’s response to tackling urban flooding has largely remained muddled with even light-to-moderate showers causing large-scale waterlogging on arterial as well as inner colony roads. Ironically, while an increasingly concretised Delhi struggles to deal with the excess runoff during the monsoon season — or otherwise — the groundwater levels continue to go down at an alarmingly rate. A study by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) has advocated water harvesting in parks and open spaces of Delhi as a way to augment the drainage system and also address the issues related to urban flooding. Spread over 8,000 hectares, Delhi has more than 16,000 parks and open spaces where stormwater harvesting can be implemented. The city has the potential to harvest 12,800 million litres of rainwater every year, the report states. City officials should recognise the importance of urban green spaces in creating a “naturally-oriented water cycle while contributing to the amenity of the city”, says CSE. Water-sensitive urban design interventions like rain gardens, water-detention ponds and rainwater harvesting solutions and swales — a shallow channel with sloping sides — can be adopted in parks and open spaces to not only reduce waterlogging, but also recharge groundwater. Such interventions have been successfully implemented in countries like Japan, Brazil, China and Australia. CSE researchers enumerate several successful case studies of such waster-sensitive urban designs in different countries (see graphic). Delhi has more than 16,299 parks with a bulk of these green spaces falling under the purview of the municipal corporations. The CSE report states that parks under South Delhi Municipal Corporation have the highest annual water-harvesting potential (1,968 ML), followed by the north civic body (1,083 ML) and the east corporation (372 ML), if 2m-deep infiltration structures are built in just 1.5-3% area of the parks. Based on factors like area, geology, groundwater levels, waterlogging hotspots and elevation, the report suggests that south and central municipal zones and NDMC areas are ideal for such interventions. “As these zones also witness a higher number of incidents of waterlogging and flooding, they provide an ideal scenario for the selection of pilot examples,” it notes. The report, titled “Roadmap for implementation of water-sensitive urban design and planning in Delhi”, refers to the potential of three parks in Saket, GK and Panchsheel to carry out a pilot project in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-capitals-green-spaces-can-help-harvest-millions-of-litres-of-rainwater/articleshow/80087409.cms||Paras Singh
January 4, 2021||Gurgaon||Haryana: Rain irrigates fields as farmers continue protest||AMBALA: Light rain and cold weather has come as a relief for farmers, who have been spared the work of irrigating their fields amid the ongoing agitation. It has been raining lightly in the region for the past two days, resulting in natural irrigation of wheat, mustard and vegetable fields. Over the last two days, Ambala has recorded maximum temperature of 16 degrees Celsius and minimum of 13 degrees Celsius. Scattered thunderstorm and rain has been predicted for the next two days, agriculture department officials said. Most of the farmers protesting at the Delhi borders have been attending the agitation and coming home from time to time to look after their crops in northern Haryana. Farmer Rajeev Sharma from Hasanpur village in Naraingarh area of Ambala district said, “The recent rain and cold weather has come as a boost for the wheat crop, which is growing well. I come home from the protest in Delhi after about 10 days to harvest potatoes. I have also grown wheat.” Another farmer, Sukhminder from Sapehra village of Ambala said, “The rain has saved our hard work of irrigating fields amid the ongoing protest. The weather is pleasant for wheat and mustard and we are happy that god has irrigated our fields.” District’s deputy director, agriculture (DDA) Girish Nagpal said more than about 75,000 hectares of land in Ambala is under wheat cultivation. “Ongoing weather conditions are conducive enough for better yield of Rabi crops. At this stage of wheat, cold weather is also beneficial,” DDA Nagpal said. He added that thousands of farmers in the state, including Ambala, are given timely information on weather through text messages on their mobile phones from Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University’s, agriculture meteorology department. To a query on whether the area cultivated under wheat in Ambala has declined due to the farmers’ agitation, an official said, “There has been no decline in the area and more than about 75,000 hectares of land is cultivated under wheat. Not even one acre of land is empty in the district. Farmers are never careless about their crops. Even during the Covid-19 lockdown, farmers obtained permits, harvested wheat and cultivated paddy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/rain-irrigates-fields-as-farmers-continue-protest/articleshow/80087401.cms||JK Singh
January 4, 2021||Chandigarh||BJP has dragged governor into ‘unsavoury controversy’: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: Accusing Punjab unit of BJP of using the office of the governor for its vested interests, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said that BJP pulled the constitutional authority into unsavoury controversies in states where it is in the opposition. The chief minister said the attempts made by BJP can only be construed as a bid to get rid of democratically elected governments. Reacting to BJP state unit’s tweet accusing him of trying to make Punjab into another West Bengal, the chief minister said it was the power-hungry BJP which had been trying to use the office of the governor for its own vested interests. “It has been happening in West Bengal, it happened in Maharashtra, and now they are trying to do the same in Punjab,” said Captain Amarinder, slamming the BJP for its “shameless” efforts to force its way into power in states where they are currently not ruling. The BJP, which has been systemically trampling all democratic and constitutional institutions, has not spared even the office of governor, said the chief minister, adding that these actions do not behoove a party that is the custodian of these institutions as the ruling party at the centre. Capt Amarinder said BJP, despite being a national party, seemed totally ignorant about the constitutional provisions, according to which the governor was the titular head of the state but all administration authority vested with the chief minister. “Don’t these BJP leaders know that the law and order responsibility of my state lies with me not only as chief minister but also as the home minister,” he asked, urging the BJP leaders of Punjab to first learn the ABCs of the Indian Constitution before shooting their mouth on constitutional matters. Describing as shocking the BJP’s “repeated attempts at politicisation of the farmers’ agitation”, the CM said the party was shamelessly exploiting the situation and spreading a carnage of lies for furthering its political interests. This, he said, was evident in their bid to project the farmers’ genuine anger as a law and order situation in Punjab. Incidents of BJP leaders facing the wrath of farmers have been reported from the BJP-ruled Haryana, and even UP, he said, adding that by the same yardstick those should also be construed as a case of collapse of law and order in those states. “And if the incidents of farmers venting their anger at BJP leaders in Punjab are at the behest of the ruling Congress here, as they are alleging, then by the same logic, the ruling BJP in Haryana and UP is to blame for the trouble there,” he added. The chief minister also hit out at the BJP over its threat of gherao of Punjab Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu’s house if FIR is not registered against him by the Punjab Police. This was not only ridiculous but another instance of the BJP playing to the gallery since the Delhi Police had already registered a case in a non-cognizable offence against Bittu, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/capt-accuses-bjp-of-dragging-guv-into-unsavoury-controversy/articleshow/80087389.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Delhi||Removal of temple at Chandni Chowk: AAP, BJP slam action; blame each other||NEW DELHI: At a time when the courts have expressed “grave concern” over large number of “encroachments on public land under the shelter of a place of worship”, both BJP and AAP were found blaming each other for the removal of a temple in Chandni Chowk on Sunday. Delhi BJP blamed Delhi government’s religious committee for refusing to give exemption to the temple from removal, while demanding that the Hanuman temple should be rebuilt on the same spot on the central verge of the road near Moti Bazaar. “The Chandni Chowk beautification project involved removal of three religious structures, which was objected to by local residents. After protests, Delhi government’s religious committee reviewed two structures related to the Sikh community and exempted them. However, the committee never considered the case of the Hanuman Mandir,” said Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor, alleging that the case reflected the duplicitous political nature of AAP. He further stated that the government should reconstruct the temple. भाजपा की MCD ने चाँदनी चौक का प्राचीन हनुमान मंदिर कल रात को तोड़ दिया! शायद बजरंग बली ने भाजपा के पार्षदों को रि… https://t.co/TjjPIQ6idC— Atishi (@AtishiAAP) 1609655760000AAP functionaries, however, blamed BJP and the “corrupt” municipal corporation for the action. MLA Atishi tweeted: “BJP’s MCD demolished the Chandni Chowk Hanuman temple last night. Maybe Bajrangbali had not paid bribe to BJP councillors and that is why the temple could not be saved.” भाजपा को समझना पड़ेगा, भगवान राम को भी सबसे प्यारे हनुमान जी ही हैं। उनके सबसे बड़े भक्त हनुमान जी ही हैं।भाजपा… https://t.co/EHZg25Qjcm— Saurabh Bharadwaj (@Saurabh_MLAgk) 1609653670000Saurabh Bharadwaj, AAP MLA and the party’s national spokesperson, tweeted: “BJP should understand that Hanuman ji is lord Ram’s biggest devotee. BJP’s North Delhi Municipal Corporation has demolished the Chandni Chowk Hanuman temple. This is a matter of regret. Ram Ji will not forgive them.” DJB vice-chairperson and AAP MLA Raghav Chadha also tweeted: “BJP’s corrupt MCD has not even spared the temple of Hanuman. They take money for illegal constructions but still demolished the temple.” भाजपा की MCD ने चांदनी चौक में बजरंग बली का प्राचीन मंदिर तोड़ दिया। भ्रष्टाचार के नशे में चूर भाजपा की MCD ने प्र… https://t.co/fxuBDh1Fdl— Raghav Chadha (@raghav_chadha) 1609655400000Durgesh Pathak, AAP in-charge of corporations, said, “North corporation had filed an affidavit in court stating that they would demolish the temple, but now they are denying their own action.” North corporation mayor Jai Prakash held Delhi government responsible. “We had written several times not to tamper with the religious places in Chandni Chowk, but on August 8, 2019, Delhi government directed the corporation to remove the temple.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-bjp-slam-action-blame-each-other/articleshow/80087430.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Dehradun||Over half-a-dozen cattle burnt alive after fire breaks out at cowshed in Uttarkashi||Uttarkashi: More than half-a-dozen cattle were burnt alive after a fire broke out in a double-storey cowshed at Kafnol village in Barkot region of Uttarkashi district late on Saturday night. On receiving information, a team of the revenue department reached the spot to investigate the incident. According to TOI sources, Upendra Singh's cowshed accidentally caught fire on Saturday night. Soon after, villagers rushed to the spot and were able to douse the flames after much effort. However, as many as eight cattle, including a cow, two calf, two buffaloes, a bullock, a goat, and a horse, kept inside the shed were burnt alive. On Sunday, a team of the revenue department reached the spot to ascertain the cause of fire and estimate the loss. Devendra Patwal, district disaster management officer said, “No human loss has been reported in the incident. The revenue department is preparing a report. The cowshed owner will be compensated as per norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-half-a-dozen-cattle-burnt-alive-after-fire-breaks-out-at-cowshed-in-uttarkashi/articleshow/80085859.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
January 4, 2021||Dehradun||Fresh spell of rain, snow likely in Uttarakhand hills from Jan 4||Dehradun: The regional meteorological centre on Sunday issued an orange alert of heavy snowfall in the hill districts of Uttarakhand on January 5. Also, hail and lightning are likely to occur at isolated places in the rest of the state. Heavy snowfall is expected at places located at an altitude of 2,200 metres and above in Uttarkashi, Bageshwar, Rudraprayag, Chamoli, Bageshwar, and Pithoragarh districts, according to the MeT office forecast. “Snowfall might result in road blockages due to snow accumulation. State government authorities have been issued an advisory to make necessary arrangements for clearing of roads in hilly areas,” said Bikram Singh, director of regional meteorological centre. Even hill stations such as Mussoorie, Dhanaulti, Chakrata, and Auli are likely to get fresh spells of snowfall starting January 4 night, said a MeT official. The fresh spell is going to continue till January 6 afternoon, causing a dip in the temperature levels across the state. This is likely to result in cold wave conditions at many places, said Bikram Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/fresh-spell-of-rain-snow-likely-in-uttarakhand-hills-from-jan-4/articleshow/80085871.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 4, 2021||Delhi||Twists & Turns: Kabaddi tournament perks up farmers at Singhu border||NEW DELHI: In order to give a boost to the ongoing protest by farmers at Singhu border, 12 teams of girls from Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi participated in a kabaddi tournament organised on Sunday. The girls had covered hundreds of kilometres to reach the border. Amid applause from scores of farmers gathered around the makeshift kabaddi court, the teams contested matches on red-white mats under two categories: under-14 and open for all (no age limit). Each match was of 40 minutes with a five-minute break. The players, whose parents were mostly farmers or labourers, continued to play even in the rain. They said they had come not to win or lose, but to express solidarity with the farmers. Khushi Panchal, a 14-year-old student of Class X from Haryana’s Hatt village, said, “Though I have played in national-level tournaments, the excitement and energy was totally different at Singhu border compared with big events. We played here proudly for a cause.” The daughter of a farmer from Haryana, Komal Lamba (13), a student of Class VIII, said, “My parents, four sisters and brother were elated when they came to know that I was going to Singhu border to play in front of the farmers. We are happy to contribute to the farmers’ movement in a small way.” Lamba added, “We got a platform to showcase our talent. Besides, it was the first time when my kabaddi match was covered by the media.” Another kabaddi player, Sokpreet (20) from Mehna village in Moga district of Punjab, said, “My parents are daily-wagers. The farmers are struggling for the withdrawal of the three black laws even in the rain and cold. We hope that our tournament helped in lifting their spirits.” Payal Kumari, a 22-year-old pursuing MCom from a college affiliated with Delhi University, has been playing kabaddi for the past seven years at an academy in outer Delhi’s Narela. She said, “I have played in many matches in Delhi and Punjab, but I have never been so happy. When we play elsewhere, we always think about winning awards. However, we came to Singhu border only to support the farmers.” Bhoop Singh Bhura, a kabaddi coach from Jind in Haryana, said, “Kabaddi is an ancient sport played in almost all villages of Punjab and Haryana. Like boys, a large number of young girls have started playing it due to its popularity. As most of the girls are from the farming background, they came here to show their support.” The general secretary of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, Sarvan Singh Pandher, said, “Many international kabaddi coaches had approached us to organise a tournament at Singhu border. They told us that we would not have to give any reward to the winners and they would make arrangements for the mats. However, as we received many donations, we gifted Rs 2,100 in cash to all teams and our union in the one-day tournament as a reminder of our campaign.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/twists-turns-kabaddi-tournament-perks-up-farmers/articleshow/80087443.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
January 4, 2021||Dehradun||Sisodia reaches Doon, says will be waiting for debate||Dehradun: Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia fired an opening salvo at the state government as soon as he reached Dehradun on Sunday, when he dared Uttarakhand urban development minister Madan Kaushik to an open debate on January 4 to discuss development models of Delhi and Uttarakhand. “I’ll be waiting for Madan Kaushik at IRTD auditorium in Dehradun on Monday for an open discussion to compare work done by his government in four years against that carried out in Delhi under Arvind Kejriwal,” said Manish Sisodia in a statement released on Sunday. The Delhi Dy CM also invited Kaushik to Delhi on January 6 to witness developmental works done by the Kejriwal government in the national capital in the fields of education, health and women safety. “I dare Madan Kaushik to publicly name just five major developmental works done by the Trivendra Singh Rawat government in the last four years. I’m ready to name 200 works done by AAP in Delhi,” said Sisodia. AAP has announced its intent to fight the next assembly elections in Uttarakhand. The party is trying to get a foothold in the Himalayan state before the 2022 polls. Reacting to Sisodia’s challenge, Kaushik said AAP leaders are not serious, that debate is done only with those who are serious about issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sisodia-reaches-doon-says-will-be-waiting-for-debate/articleshow/80085870.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 4, 2021||Dehradun||Broken lane off Rajpur Road a bane for walkers||Residents said that although Mussoorie MLA Ganesh Joshi, in whose constituencyDehradun: Despite claims of converting Doon into a ‘Smart City’ and allocation of funds for the repair of roads, many lanes in upscale areas like Rajpur Road are crying for attention. One such lane, near GRD Institute at Rajpur Road has almost completely worn out making it extremely difficult and precarious for the residents, mostly senior citizens to walk on the lane. Even though promises have been made by PWD officials and the area MLA, Ganesh Joshi to repair the lane, nothing has been done. Air Marshal BD Jayal (retd), a resident of the lane, told TOI, “Properly-maintained roads are the most basic amenity that any resident can expect. We pay house tax every year for these basic facilities, but it is extremely unfortunate that those responsible are not doing anything. There are a number of senior citizens residing in the area, who often go out for a walk, but the poor condition of the lane leaves them prone to injury.” Another resident of the lane said that even though residents had written to the area MLA Ganesh Joshi over a year ago, no action was taken. “About two months ago, the MLA, after repeated requests, came to the lane, and promised that repairs will be carried out swiftly but there was no action at all. The lane was last repaired over 13 years ago and its condition is quite bad. If people living in upscale areas like Rajpur Road have to fight for basic amenities in this manner, one shudders to think of the situation elsewhere in the state.” Meanwhile, MLA Joshi when queried about the matter, reiterated that “the cost of the repair work of the lane has been estimated and the repair work will start very soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/broken-lane-off-rajpur-road-a-bane-for-walkers/articleshow/80085889.cms||Abhijeet Singh
January 4, 2021||Ghaziabad||How NCR may move in 2021||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: With several road and rail projects being planned in the three cities, residents will not only be able to get quicker access to major residential, commercial and educational hubs in the area, but also the capital. While Aqua Line between Noida and Greater Noida is ready for expansion, the Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME) and Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) network are set to boost connectivity in Ghaziabad. A quick look at the major projects that are set to pick up speed in 2021. Aqua line expansionThe new extensions have been planned on the Greater Noida-Botanical Garden and Depot-Boraki routes. The project will be divided into three phases — Noida Sector 51-Knowledge Park V line, Sector 142 -Botanical Garden line and Boraki-Depot line Sector 51-Knowledge Park V In 2020, the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) floated tenders for the Sector 51-Knowledge Park V section thrice. For the first two times, two valid respondents had shown interest. As the minimum requirement for the bidding process was three respondents, the tenders were floated again. The third round, the deadline for which was December 18, concluded with responses from two previous bidders. The bids are being evaluated. The detailed project report on the corridor has been approved by the state cabinet. The 15km-long elevated corridor will be built in two phases and provide a link to Delhi Metro’s Blue Line at Sector 52. Of the nine stations planned, five are to be built in the first phase by 2022. The estimated cost of the project is Rs 430 crore. Four stations have been planned in the second phase. Sector 142-Botanical GardenThe second arm of Aqua Line will provide a crucial direct link to Delhi Metro through Botanical Garden. The 11.5km section will branch out of the existing Sector 142 station to meet Botanical Garden, where it will have an interchange with the Blue and Magenta lines. This section will be helpful for residents who stay near the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway in Greater Noida and. Now, a commuter who wants to use the metro from these areas to go to Delhi has to take the Aqua Line, get off at Sector 51, walk to Botanical Garden station and then take the Blue Line. The new route will also provide a link to the domestic terminal at IGI as passengers would be able to take the Magenta Line metro from Botanical Garden station itself. The detailed project report (DPR) is yet to be vetted by the NMRC board. The section will have 11 elevated stations, including Botanical Garden. It will be ready by 2023 Boraki-DepotNo major progress has been made on this plan. The section may have three stations IKEA connectIKEA, which is set to build a store at Sector 51, is likely to create a pathway between Sector 51 and 52 metro stations. It will help shoppers and commuters switch between Blue and Aqua lines DMRC supportNMRC has signed an agreement with the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), under which the former will be engaging the later for services of General Consultants (GC) or Project Management Consultants (PMC) for a part of the project. DMRC will also be responsible for planning and arranging for training in different fields DME almost readySoon, it will take a little over 30 minutes to travel between Delhi and Meerut as DME, which passes through Ghaziabad, may be ready by February. Now, it takes about 90 minutes to cover the 82km stretch. There are two incomplete stretches on the 14-lane road (6 lanes of DME that run parallel to 8 lanes of NH-9). The National Highways Authority of India officials said 90% of the work on the UP Gate-Dasna stretch and 80% work on the Dasna-Meerut stretch is over. The road was supposed to be ready by December 2020 Ghaziabad to be on RRTC map Work on the country’s first RRTS corridor between Delhi, Ghaziabad and Meerut has picked up speed. The Rs 30,274 crore project is likely to be completed by March 2024 but the Sahibabad-Duhai stretch may be ready by March 2023. As per the DPR, the daily ridership on the line is expected to be over 8 lakh. Once ready, trains with an average speed of 100kmph will cover the distance between Meerut and Delhi in less than an hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/how-ncr-may-move-in-2021/articleshow/80089383.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
January 4, 2021||Noida||How NCR may move in 2021||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: With several road and rail projects being planned in the three cities, residents will not only be able to get quicker access to major residential, commercial and educational hubs in the area, but also the capital. While Aqua Line between Noida and Greater Noida is ready for expansion, the Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME) and Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) network are set to boost connectivity in Ghaziabad. A quick look at the major projects that are set to pick up speed in 2021. Aqua line expansionThe new extensions have been planned on the Greater Noida-Botanical Garden and Depot-Boraki routes. The project will be divided into three phases — Noida Sector 51-Knowledge Park V line, Sector 142 -Botanical Garden line and Boraki-Depot line Sector 51-Knowledge Park V In 2020, the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) floated tenders for the Sector 51-Knowledge Park V section thrice. For the first two times, two valid respondents had shown interest. As the minimum requirement for the bidding process was three respondents, the tenders were floated again. The third round, the deadline for which was December 18, concluded with responses from two previous bidders. The bids are being evaluated. The detailed project report on the corridor has been approved by the state cabinet. The 15km-long elevated corridor will be built in two phases and provide a link to Delhi Metro’s Blue Line at Sector 52. Of the nine stations planned, five are to be built in the first phase by 2022. The estimated cost of the project is Rs 430 crore. Four stations have been planned in the second phase. Sector 142-Botanical GardenThe second arm of Aqua Line will provide a crucial direct link to Delhi Metro through Botanical Garden. The 11.5km section will branch out of the existing Sector 142 station to meet Botanical Garden, where it will have an interchange with the Blue and Magenta lines. This section will be helpful for residents who stay near the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway in Greater Noida and. Now, a commuter who wants to use the metro from these areas to go to Delhi has to take the Aqua Line, get off at Sector 51, walk to Botanical Garden station and then take the Blue Line. The new route will also provide a link to the domestic terminal at IGI as passengers would be able to take the Magenta Line metro from Botanical Garden station itself. The detailed project report (DPR) is yet to be vetted by the NMRC board. The section will have 11 elevated stations, including Botanical Garden. It will be ready by 2023 Boraki-DepotNo major progress has been made on this plan. The section may have three stations IKEA connectIKEA, which is set to build a store at Sector 51, is likely to create a pathway between Sector 51 and 52 metro stations. It will help shoppers and commuters switch between Blue and Aqua lines DMRC supportNMRC has signed an agreement with the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), under which the former will be engaging the later for services of General Consultants (GC) or Project Management Consultants (PMC) for a part of the project. DMRC will also be responsible for planning and arranging for training in different fields DME almost readySoon, it will take a little over 30 minutes to travel between Delhi and Meerut as DME, which passes through Ghaziabad, may be ready by February. Now, it takes about 90 minutes to cover the 82km stretch. There are two incomplete stretches on the 14-lane road (6 lanes of DME that run parallel to 8 lanes of NH-9). The National Highways Authority of India officials said 90% of the work on the UP Gate-Dasna stretch and 80% work on the Dasna-Meerut stretch is over. The road was supposed to be ready by December 2020 Ghaziabad to be on RRTC map Work on the country’s first RRTS corridor between Delhi, Ghaziabad and Meerut has picked up speed. The Rs 30,274 crore project is likely to be completed by March 2024 but the Sahibabad-Duhai stretch may be ready by March 2023. As per the DPR, the daily ridership on the line is expected to be over 8 lakh. Once ready, trains with an average speed of 100kmph will cover the distance between Meerut and Delhi in less than an hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/how-ncr-may-move-in-2021/articleshow/80083701.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
January 4, 2021||Varanasi||UP: Tutor, aide abduct, kill boy for Rs 7 lakh ransom in Jaunpur||VARANASI: A seven-year-old boy of Shahganj was kidnapped and murdered by two ITI students in Jaunpur district on Saturday. Both accused, one of whom gave tuitions to the boy, were arrested. The deceased Abhishek was a student of Upper KG. The two accused were identified as the tutor, Shivam Kumar Srivastava, and his accomplice Akash, said Jaunpur SP Rajkaran Nayyar. Nayyar said duo had already killed the boy by strangulating him with a muffler, before texting Abhishek’s father Deepchand Yadav with a Rs 7 lakh ransom demand. At 10 am on Saturday, Abhishek had left home on Ayodhya Road under Shahganj police station for his tutor’s (Shivam’s) place in neighbouring Yadav colony and was scheduled to return by noon. However, when he did not return even after 2 pm, his father Deepchand, who runs a pathology centre in Bibiganj area, reached the tutor’s place. There, he was informed that Abhishek did not turn up for tuition. Around 3pm, Deepchand received a text message on his mobile phone from an unknown number which said Abhishek had been kidnapped and he would be released only after Rs 7 lakh is paid to the kidnapper. Deepchand reached Shahganj police station and filed a complaint. SP Nayyar said a case of kidnapping for ransom was lodged and six teams were formed to rescue the boy. Watch Seven-year-old boy abducted, murdered for Rs 7 lakh ransom in UP's Jaunpur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/tutor-aide-kidnap-kill-boy-for-rs-7l-ransom/articleshow/80087371.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Chandigarh||SAD won’t align with BJP as it backstabbed Punjab: Sukhbir||Abohar: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday said his party would not align with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) because the latter had backstabbed it by keeping it in the dark about the three agricultural laws and had passed them without consulting their erstwhile ally. Talking to journalists after a tour of wards in the city, the SAD president said the party was open to new allies except the BJP, Congress and AAP. Sukhbir also castigated the Congress and BJP for spreading false propaganda that former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal had signed on the agriculture laws as Union minister. “Show me one piece of paper which supports this lie,” he said, adding that Harsimrat had consistently opposed the agricultural ordinances and had even protested against the same in the Union Cabinet. Speaking about the forthcoming elections to municipal bodies, Badal said the SAD would contest the elections in Abohar on the plank of development. He said they would seek a vote against the ‘goondaism’ (lawlessness) unleashed by Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar in the constituency. He said it was unfortunate that Abohar had become one of the dirtiest towns in the state when the Jakhar family was presiding over the constituency. He said besides poor sanitation, all development work had been stopped in the city. “We will approach the people to vote on the agenda of turning Abohar into a model city besides asking people to vote to end the culture of false cases unleashed by the Punjab Congress president.” Badal said SAD would contest all seats in Abohar on its symbol and there was tremendous enthusiasm among party workers with three to four candidates emerging in every ward. He said people were convinced that only the SAD could ensure development of the city. “The municipal elections will be a gamechanger as SAD is poised to make a clean sweep,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-wont-align-with-bjp-as-it-backstabbed-punjab-sukhbir/articleshow/80087499.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Dehradun||Covid-19 infection rate reaches its five-month low in U’khand||Dehradun: Uttarakhand recorded 267 new Covid-19 cases and five virus-related deaths on Sunday. With this, the total number of cases shot up to 91,811 and the toll of the virus reached 1,527 in the Himalayan state. In some good news, the Covid-19 infection rate has come down to its lowest in the last five months in Uttarakhand. Till Sunday, the infection rate stood at 2.4% in the state. Also, the state recorded more cases of recoveries than those of new infections last week. However, around 15,000 less Covid-19 samples were tested last week as compared to the week before. According to the health department, the maximum of 123 out of 267 new Covid-19 cases reported on Sunday were recorded in Dehradun, followed by 54 in Nainital, 22 in Haridwar, 18 in Uttarkashi, 13 in Pauri, 11 cases each in Udham Singh Nagar and Tehri, seven in Champawat, three in Pithoragarh, two in Rudraprayag, and one each in Almora, Bageshwar, and Chamoli districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-infection-rate-reaches-its-five-month-low-in-ukhand/articleshow/80085881.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 4, 2021||Dehradun||SSB starts construction of five BoPs along Indo-Nepal border in Pithoragarh||PITHORAGARH: To further strengthen security along the Indo-Nepal border, the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), which guards the Indo-Nepal and Indo-Bhutan border, has started the construction of five more Border Out Posts (BOPs) along the Mahakali river in Pithoragarh district. “The five new BOPs are to be constructed at Dhungatoli, Dwalisera, Aultadi, Bhonra, and Haldu villages. The construction has started now. SSB will set up a BOP after every five kilometre on the Nepal border. Each BOP will ideally have 35-40 personnel,” SSB officer KN Nagarkoti told TOI.It is worth mentioning that two SSB battalions — 55th Corps Battalion and Battalion 11 — guard the Nepal border in Pithoragarh. While Battalion 11 has 18 BoPs under its command, the 55th Corps Battalion, at present, has 13 BoPs. The 55th Corps Battalion guards the Indo-Nepal border from Haldu to Baluakot, an 85-km-long stretch, while Battalion 11 guards the border from Baluakot to Kalapani, also 85-km-long, said Nagarkoti. “Every BoP has a soldiers’ barrack, a command barrack, arms depot, and a guest room. The construction of BoPs in Bhonra and Haldu villages have already started. The construction of the other three BoPs will also start soon,” added Nagarkoti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ssb-starts-construction-of-five-bops-along-indo-nepal-border-in-pithoragarh/articleshow/80085916.cms||Prem Punetha
January 4, 2021||Lucknow||Covid-19 vaccine can make you impotent, fears Samajwadi Party legislator||LUCKNOW: Hours after Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav described Covid-19 vaccine as 'BJP vaccine', party MLC from Mirzapur, Ashutosh Sinha, has claimed that people are afraid that Covid-19 vaccine can make them impotent. "If honourable Akhilesh Yadav has said this (that he will not take the vaccine), then there will be something serious. We do not believe in the machinery of the government. He has said this based on facts. If he is not vaccinating himself, then I think Covid-19 vaccine might contain something, which can cause harm," he said. "Tomorrow, people will say the vaccine was given to reduce the population. You can even become impotent, anything can happen," Sinha, SP Mirzapur MLC said while talking to the media. "And if Akhilesh Yadav is saying this, then I think no one should get vaccinated in the state," he had said. Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday said Covid -19 vaccination is a sensitive exercise as it pertains to protecting human lives and the ruling BJP must not showcase it as a gala event or a mega exhibition. The statement comes a day after Akhilesh drew flak from various quarters on Saturday after he announced that he won't take the vaccine for now as he did not trust the BJP. I don’t know about anyone else but when my turn comes I’ll happily roll up my sleeve & get a COVID vaccine. This da… https://t.co/5BsmOXQKNO— Omar Abdullah (@OmarAbdullah) 1609591550000SP chief’s comments triggered a row as not only the BJP but National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah also tweeted: “I don’t know about anyone else but when my turn comes I’ll happily roll up my sleeve & get a Covid vaccine…”. कोरोना का टीकाकरण एक संवेदनशील प्रक्रिया है इसीलिए भाजपा सरकार इसे कोई सजावटी-दिखावटी इवेंट न समझे और अग्रिम पु… https://t.co/ApSOcxBcUf— Akhilesh Yadav (@yadavakhilesh) 1609645811000“Vaccination for Covid-19 ins a sensitive exercise and the BJP must not treat it as just another gala event or mega exhibition. The government must make all arrangements fool-proof and well in advance before starting this exercise as it involves human lives. There is no scope for making improvements once the vaccination is done. The Government should also announce the date from which the poor will be vaccinated,” Akhilesh tweeted on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/akhilesh-against-vax-drive-big-show-mlc-raises-impotency-flag/articleshow/80087887.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
January 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana diabetic rice a big hit in other states||HYDERABAD: Telangana Sona, popular as diabetic rice and an indigenously developed fine variety, is getting good response not only in the state, but in other states too. This year the staple, a variety developed by Professor Jaysashankar Telangana State Agriculture University (PJTSAU), was grown in an extent of 25 lakh acres after it was introduced a few years ago. As many studies had shown good result, the variety is being cultivated in other states too. “West Bengal, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and even Rajasthan are growing the rice variety,” Dr Jagedeeswar, research head, PJTSAU, said. With many journals endorsing the scientific quality of its low glycemic index, several states have shown interest in the variety. Researchers claim other state were growing this variety in 10 lakh acres. “Telangana Sona has many qualities like having good yield and there is no compromise on taste. It is good for those who prefer fine variety of rice,” Dr Pavin Rao, University vice-chancellor said. Looking at the potential of the variety, Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) has also shown interest in exporting this variety to other states and countries. Interestingly, the Telangana Sona variety is being marketed by small-time traders as the healthy rice variety. The packaged Telangana rice is now available for Rs 100-145 per kg in the market. Ironically, farmers get only between Rs 40 and Rs 45 a kg. The fine varieties, including Telangana Sona, bagged good price in the later part of the season with a rate of Rs 2,500 per quintal. However, by then, many farmers had already sold their produce at minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 1,888. “Farmers who wait get good price as Telangana and AP are the only states in the country where cultivation of the fine varieties of rice also happens in the rabi season ” officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-sona-rice-variety-a-big-hit-in-other-states/articleshow/80087486.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 4, 2021||Kochi||Thrikkakara’s new council to hold 1st meeting today||Kochi: The newly-elected governing body of Thrikkakara municipality will convene its first council meeting on Monday. At the meeting, the council is likely to give its consent to start a dialysis unit at the primary health centre. The issue of drinking water shortage would also be discussed at the meeting. Though no standing committee has been constituted, the governing body decided to hold the first council meet to take a decision on three matters placed in the agenda. “We are planning to set up the dialysis unit with the held of MLA fund. Though the Rs.1.2cr-project found a place in the agenda of previous governing body’s council meet, the municipality failed to give nod,” said Ibrahim Kutty, Thrikkakara vice chairman. The council is also planning to give drinking water in trucks to residents in pipeline area and would approach the district administration for financial support under disaster management act for the same. “The motor, which pumps water distributed by the Kerala Water Authority, to overhead tank in the area was damaged when it caught fire. This affected drinking water supply in the area. We will approach the district administration to fund the water supply until the damage is repaired,” he said. Another issue the council would be discussing is maintenance of street lights. The contractor who installed the high mast and mini high mast lights failed to reach an agreement with the municipality regarding its maintenance. Meanwhile, the municipality which witnessed power shift between LDF and UDF every six months in the previous council, would face the same in the current council too. Though UDF secured a clear majority, the local body is likely to witness a change at the helm after two-and-a-half years. “If the current council fails to perform well, there will be change in the chairperson and vice-chairman posts,” said a source. The election to standing committee chairperson posts will be held on January 8 in municipalities. While Kalamassery municipality may have to wait till February as model code of conduct is in effect in the local body as election to ward number 37 will be held on January 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/thrikkakaras-new-council-to-hold-1st-meeting-today/articleshow/80085914.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Goa||Melauli police outpost not to intimidate anyone: Sawant||Panaji/Bicholim: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Sunday said that the land at Melauli has been handed to IIT-Goa and no injustice will be done to the people living there. After a meeting with the chief minister, IIT-Goa director issued a statement on Saturday stating that work on the institution’s Goa campus will start within a month. People should not misunderstand the setting up of a police outpost at Melauli. It is not to intimidate anyone, Sawant said. “Wherever an IIT campus is established, there is an outpost. They had demanded one here too, so the government has started the process,” the chief minister said. Sawant further said that he is ready to discuss the demands of the people of Melauli. “I visited the village and interacted with the people. I heard their demand and did not decline them. I have assured them that I will not do injustice to the people of Melauli,” he said. “But if we agree that government land belongs to some people, then there won’t be any land left with the government,” Sawant added. Melaulim locals have been opposing the IIT project for the last many months. However, local MLA and health minister Vishwajit Rane has said that the government should go ahead with the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/melauli-police-outpost-not-to-intimidate-anyone-sawant/articleshow/80087629.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh Yadav unleashes Ayodhya card, vows to waive taxes on temples to usher Ram Rajya||AYODHYA: Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav unleashed his Ayodhya card by vowing to waive municipal taxes charged from temples to usher in real Ram Rajya if he storms to power in 2022 assembly elections. He made this announcement while meeting a delegation of Ayodhya seers at party headquarters in Lucknow on Saturday. All temples would be exempt from house and water taxes and the temple town will celebrate Deepavali 365 days a year, he told seers, who raised the issue of high taxes clamped by Ayodhya municipal corporation. Talking to TOI, SP corporator Mahendra Shukla who led the seers’ delegation to Lucknow, said, “The government is charging tax from temples, ashrams and other religious places. We demand the government immediately waive these taxes.” Addressing seers, Akhilesh said, “Ayodhya will celebrate Deepavali throughout the year after SP comes to power. Ayodhya will get the status of a heritage city and all religious places there will be exempt from tax. Ayodhya is city of ‘vasudhaiv kutumbakam’ as it accommodates all religions. Our two corporators Haji Asad Ahmad and Mahendra Shukla are from the area that houses Ramjanmabhoomi and this exemplifies a secular Ayodhya.” Hamid Jafar, general secretary of Ayodhya SP said, “This is Akhilesh’s powerful counter to the state government's decision to bring a law to regulate religious places.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/akhilesh-unleashes-ayodhya-card-vows-to-waive-taxes-on-temples-to-usher-ram-rajya/articleshow/80087954.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
January 4, 2021||Bareilly||UP: Over 1,000 primary schools in Bareilly undergo ‘kayakalp’||LUCKNOW: The primary schools of Bareilly have got a fresh lease of life under the government's Kayakalp scheme under which over 1,000 primary schools have been renovated and equipped with libraries to inculcate reading habit in students. “Under this scheme, 8,646 classrooms, renovation of 754 school toilets and multiple hand wash systems have been put in place in 1,070 schools. Besides, panchayat buildings have also been renovated and 200 libraries have been established to promote reading habits,” said the Basic Shiksha Adhikari (BSA), Bareilly, Vinay Kumar. Apart from this sports facilities in around 75 primary schools have been given an uplift. For making students take interest in sports activities MNREGA parks and open gyms have been developed. The school furniture has been made available in these schools and the boundary wall has also been constructed, he added. Kumar said only in Bareilly district as many as 17,000 primary students are mastering skills like dance, singing, yoga, painting, art crafts by joining the portal `Bareilly Ka Hunar’. Meanwhile, BSA, Lucknow, Dinesh Kumar said, "Around 1,450 primary schools of state capitals have also been rejuvenated under the ‘Kayakalp’ Scheme. He further added that according to the statistics of the education department,over 60,000 primary schools of the state have been rejuvenated under the `Kayakalp' scheme and the state government aims to cover all 1.58 lakh primary schools by 2022. Lucknow: The primary schools of Bareilly have got a fresh lease of life under the government's Kayakalp scheme under which over 1,000 primary schools have been renovated and equipped with libraries to inculcate reading habit in students. “Under this scheme, 8,646 classrooms, renovation of 754 school toilets and multiple hand wash systems have been put in place in 1,070 schools. Besides, panchayat buildings have also been renovated and 200 libraries have been established to promote reading habits,” said the Basic Shiksha Adhikari (BSA), Bareilly, Vinay Kumar. Apart from this sports facilities in around 75 primary schools have been given an uplift. For making students take interest in sports activities MNREGA parks and open gyms have been developed. The school furniture has been made available in these schools and the boundary wall has also been constructed, he added. Kumar said only in Bareilly district as many as 17,000 primary students are mastering skills like dance, singing, yoga, painting, art crafts by joining the portal `Bareilly Ka Hunar’. Meanwhile, BSA, Lucknow, Dinesh Kumar said, "Around 1,450 primary schools of state capitals have also been rejuvenated under the ‘Kayakalp’ Scheme. He further added that according to the statistics of the education department,over 60,000 primary schools of the state have been rejuvenated under the `Kayakalp' scheme and the state government aims to cover all 1.58 lakh primary schools by 2022.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/over-1000-primary-schools-in-bareilly-undergo-kayakalp/articleshow/80087962.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Lucknow||‘Self-reliance’ theme of this year’s UP Diwas||LUCKNOW: The theme of this year’s UP Diwas celebrations, to be organised between January 24 and 26, will not only be related to ‘Ram Yatra’ and ‘Mahabharat’ but will also be dedicated to people who worked tirelessly in giving a new identity to the state and making it ‘atmanirbhar’ (self-reliant). The decision was taken at a meeting presided over by chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday. “UP Diwas is the function of every citizen of the state. A new UP has emerged in last four years. This UP turns challenges into opportunity. UP Diwas will be the projection of a self-reliant state,” the CM said. The CM also announced that the state government would honour select women members of self-help groups (SHGs), progressive farmers and artisans with ‘UP Gaurav Samman’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/self-reliance-theme-of-this-years-up-diwas/articleshow/80087875.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Jockey dies after fall from horse during race in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A jockey had a fatal fall during a race at Malakpet Race Course on Sunday afternoon. Jitendra Singh (24) of Rajasthan was participating in Osman Sagar Plate (Division II) when the mishap happened. “About 10 seconds into the race Jitendra fell from the horse, Gold Label. He was rushed to a nearby hospital where doctors declared him brought dead on arrival. We suspect that he was trampled by horses and suffered internal injuries,” Chaderghat inspector P Sateesh said. After the starter’s order, the jockey was caught between the horses as they bunched and he fell right in the middle. A case under section 174 of CrPC has been registered and the body has been shifted for post-mortem. There were seven races scheduled for the day and Jitendra was in the fourth race which had 10 horses in the fray. ‘Crackershow’ with BR Kumar in the saddle, ‘Misty River’ (Gaurav Singh astride) and ‘Air Salute’ (Santosh Raj atop) bagged the honours in the race.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jockey-dies-during-races/articleshow/80087582.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Kolhapur||Maratha students unsure of how to get EWS certificate||KOLHAPUR: Confusion persists among students and parents of the Maratha community over the undertaking that is to be submitted before the tehsildar to get a certificate for economically weaker section (EWS) category. Recently, the state government, citing orders of the Bombay and Aurangabad benches of the high court, had asked the tehsil authorities to provide EWS certificates to Maratha youths only if the youths submit, in writing, that they will not seek benefit under the socially and educationally backward category (SEBC) reservation. Under the SEBC, they were entitled to the quota for jobs and educational institutes until the Supreme Court stayed its implementation in September 2020. The SC is going to start its final hearing on the Maratha quota later this month. Upon strictures from the high court, the government extended the EWS reservation to the Marathas with certain conditions. The students and their parents said there is no fixed format for the undertaking and tehsildars in various talukas are making their formats. For instance, a youth from Islampur in Sangli district said the tehsildar’s office has asked him to surrender his SEBC certificate to get EWS certificate, citing that the SEBC certificate will not be valid henceforth in his educational career. Pradip Patil, a student, said: “The format of the undertaking mentioned that to get the EWS certificate, I have to surrender the original copy of my SEBC certificate, which I withdrew to get the reservation benefit that is now stayed. The government has time and again said that the Maratha youths will get additional benefits. However, if we surrender the SEBC certificate, we will be deprived of such benefits.” Islampur tehsildar Ravindra Sabnis told TOI that such a condition was put in the undertaking before the recent government resolution was issued. “Condition of surrendering the SEBC original certificate was put up at our level before the recent GR. If the practice is continued, I will have to check. As per my understanding, such a condition should not be there as there is no such specific mention in the recent GR,” he said. The Maratha leaders have appealed to the government to fix the format of the undertaking at the earliest. They have also appealed to the Maratha students to bring to their notice such practice followed in other tehsildar offices. When TOI searched for the official format issued by the government, nothing was found and it was different for every tehsildar office TOI approached.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/maratha-students-unsure-of-how-to-get-ews-certificate/articleshow/80085939.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Bengaluru||Minister DV Sadananda Gowda faints, rushed to Bengaluru hospital; is stable now||CHITRADURGA/BENGALURU: There were anxious moments when Union chemicals and fertilizers minister DV Sadananda Gowda fainted after getting down from a car in Chitradurga in central Karnataka on Sunday. Sources said the minister, who reportedly suffered from low sugar level, was rushed to a local hospital where he was administered first aid and given a glass of juice. After he was found normal, Gowda was rushed to Bengaluru —about 200km from Chitradurga —in an ambulance through a zero-traffic corridor for examination at a hospital in Hebbal. His condition is stable, doctors said. DVS under observation for 24 hrsIn the night, the Bengaluru hospital said DV Sadananda Gowda was brought in by 4.45pm and his condition is stable. “He is under observation for 24 hours,” a hospital spokesperson said. A doctor said the former chief minister’s blood parameters are normal and they have started treatment for his low sugar levels. The 67-year-old leader, who attended the BJP executive committee meeting in Shivamogga on Saturday, was returning to Bengaluru. Sources said he was scheduled to break the journey for lunch at Chitradurga when he lost balance and fell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/minister-dvs-faints-rushed-to-bluru-hosp-is-stable-now/articleshow/80088853.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: BJP backs BS Yediyurappa, warns Basangouda Patil Yatnal to stop ‘leadership change’ talk||SHIVAMOGGA: Endorsing BS Yediyurappa as ‘our CM’ and a ‘prominent leader’, BJP general secretary in charge of Karnataka, Arun Singh, on Sunday issued a stern warning to dissident Basangouda Patil Yatnal and directed him to stop embarrassing the party with his statements. Soon after the party executive committee meeting in Shivamogga concluded on Sunday, Singh said: “Who is Yatnal to make statements? No leader should cross the line. Leaders — both big and small — should follow the party’s instructions and discipline.” In the same breath, Singh reiterated that the BJP was not contemplating change in leadership and praised the chief minister both during the meeting and outside. Yatnal has expressed displeasure with the CM and suggested a leadership change in the state. Sources said Singh asked the state leadership to issue a notice to Yatnal for his statements against the CM.  Yatnal to get show-cause notice for remarksAccording to sources, Arun Singh has asked the state BJP unit to issue a show-cause notice to Yatnal for his comments in public against Yediyurappa. This will be a second notice in 15 months, if issued. Singh said the party practised internal democracy and there are forums which will entertain any issues that individuals may have against the CM. Singh downplayed the possibility of an alliance with JD(S), saying there was no need to join hands with any party as the BJP was strong in the state. The chief minister has set a target of winning 150 seats in the 2023 assembly polls and urged party cadres to start the groundwork right away. “With victory in gram panchayat polls, BJP needs to perform well in the coming local body elections. It will, then, be easy to win the maximum number of assembly seats two years later,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bjp-backs-yediyurappa-warns-yatnal-to-stop-leadership-change-talk/articleshow/80088856.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Nagpur||107 flyers from UK, other countries have tested -ve||Nagpur: The number of citizens who returned from European countries, Middle East and South Africa and testing negative for Covid-19 has increased to 107 on Sunday. Eight flyers who tested positive so far are admitted to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) as suspected patients of the new variant of novel coronavirus that emerged in UK. As per data available from the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), 28 persons who landed in city between December 4 and January 1 on return from these particular countries were admitted to quarantine centres as per central government’s standard operating procedures (SoPs). NMC medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar told TOI, “Of them, 15 were discharged in the last three days after testing negative and completion of five-seven days in quarantine.” Remaining 13 flyers will be tested after completion of five-seven days in quarantine centres, he said. The civic body had received list of 131 persons who returned from these countries between November 25 and December 23. Of them 96 persons were tested. The five who tested positive among them were admitted to special ward of GMCH. One resident who was not in the list and returned from UK tested positive and admitted. Two of three persons from a family were in the list of Janjgir in Bilaspur district, Chhattisgarh, tested positive here and admitted. Swab samples of all suspected patients were sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, for genome sequencing. Results are awaited from NIV. Thus, eight of the 115 flyers who were tested came positive and remaining 107 came negative. Meanwhile, the NMC has denied exemption from seven-day quarantine to three persons who were supposed to arrive in the city from Middle East in a chartered plane and return after six hours. “We received a call from an official from airport in this regard. We made it clear that they will have to be in institutional quarantine for seven days if they step in the city. The chartered plane was cancelled later,” NMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/107-flyers-from-uk-other-countries-have-tested-ve/articleshow/80086758.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 4, 2021||Bareilly||Two Dalit among five booked under anti-covnersion law in Shahjahanpur||Bareilly: Five people, including two Dalit men, were booked under appropriate sections of the UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance for allegedly "pursuing" a man for coverting to Christianity in UP’s Shahjahanpur. An FIR was lodged after right-wing activists claimed to have caught them with a musical keyboard, a portable sound system and a Bible when they were reciting prayers at the house of one of the accused in Kanshiram Colony in Shahjahanpur city.The man who was "asked" to adopt Christianity alleged that he was among nearly 15 people who were "lured with a job and a house" for changing their religion. Two accused named in the FIR hail from Tamil Nadu, but they have been living in Shahjahanpur, at present, said police.The accused claimed that they were only propagating the Bible’s message, but police "overlooked their statements".Shahjahanpur senior superintendent of police S Anand has, meanwhile, ordered a probe into the matter. “An FIR has been registered under the new law. We have not arrested the accused, as they don’t appear to have the capacity to fulfil the promise of a job and house as mentioned in the complaint. Based on the investigation report, we will take further action. Meanwhile, police are keeping a tab on the accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-dalit-among-five-booked-under-anti-covnersion-law-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/80085451.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 4, 2021||Aurangabad||Aspirants divided over MPSC’s decision to limit number of attempts||Pune: Aspirants are undecided about the Maharashtra Public Service Commission’s decision to limit the number of attempts allowed for each candidate. The notification on Wednesday said MPSC is limiting the number of attempts for open category students to six and other backward classes to nine. Kiran Nimbhore, a founder of MPSC Students’ Rights group, said it should have been six attempts for all categories. “Students waste over 10 years hoping to get a government job. Although students start out seriously, not everyone is able to keep this momentum. Putting a limit on attempts will force students to make them count. The MPSC must ensure that it is able to work in a time-bound manner,” he added. Kalpesh Yadav, president of MNS’s youth wing in Pune, said, “If MPSC is following UPSC, then it should do so on all counts. UPSC ensures that the exams are conducted and the results declared within one year. In the state, the time from the release of advertisement to the result declaration is long and unpredictable. We want MPSC to follow the strict work ethics of UPSC.” Meanwhile, Maratha students are not happy about the timing of the announcement. Anup Deshmukh, who has already attempted the examination thrice, said the MPSC should have waited for the Supreme Court’s final judgment on Maratha reservation. “Now, students in the community do not know whether they get six opportunities or nine. Even with EWS quota there is no clarity, as many say it comes under the open category and not the reserved ones. Hence, the timing of this change is wrong,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aspirants-divided-over-mpscs-decision-to-limit-number-of-attempts/articleshow/80085951.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 4, 2021||Nagpur||‘A new face’ of Maharashtra farm crisis heads for Delhi||NAGPUR: All India Kisan Sangh (AKS), the peasants’ wing of Communist Party of India (CPI), is bringing in widows of farmers who committed suicide to join the farmers’ protest at Delhi-Punjab. The outfit, which started from Kolhapur, came with over 100 farmers comprising 35 widows mainly from Marathwada for a stopover at Nagpur. Among them, Savita Jadhav from Dasada village of Parbhani district is being presented as the face of Maharashtra’s agrarian crisis. Both her husband and father have committed suicide, allegedly due to farm crisis. Like her, Kalavti, a widow from Yavatmal, was projected as the poster woman of farm crisis in 2009. Sharing the dais with other leaders, Savita in her brief speech at Samvidhan Chowk said, “Barely two years of our marriage my husband committed suicide in 2010, followed by my father in 2017.” Two buses with farmers and AKS workers further headed toward Saoner to finally reach Delhi. Their route will cover Jabalpur and Bhopal. Other farmers joining on the way is expected to take the number to 2,500, said the activists. Speakers raised the issue of farmers’ suicide as they lashed out at the government over the new laws. Even as Vidarbha has been infamous for suicides, the activist and widows heading for Delhi were mainly from Marathwada. To this, a CPI worker said they could mobilize farmers from Marathwada as the party has a stronger base there. Savita told TOI she was in touch with the leaders since a year. “My husband Parmeshwar owed over Rs4 lakh to SBI, and died because he could not repay the loan,” she said and added, “He ran a pan shop.” But the family also had two acres of land which was sold by her in-laws soon after Parmeshwar’s death. “In 2017, falling income from farms and a similar loan from Bank of Maharashtra drove his father Gyaneshwar Gajmal to suicide,” she said. As her father’s land has been inherited by her brother, Savita said she earns her livelihood by working as a farm hand. She has a 10-year-old daughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/a-new-face-of-maha-farm-crisis-heads-for-delhi/articleshow/80086795.cms||Shishir Arya
January 4, 2021||Lucknow||Covid-19 vaccination dry run in all 75 UP districts from Tuesday||LUCKNOW: With the Drug Controller of India giving its nod to two Covid vaccines, the Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday announced that it would conduct a dry run in six places — three urban and three rural — in all the districts beginning Tuesday. Additional chief secretary, health, Amit Mohan Prasad said the state government was all spruced up to conduct the mock drill besides making arrangements for vaccine storage. He said the state would install CCTVs at vaccine storage facilities. According to reports, arrangements were in full swing to give vaccine shots to the targeted groups in a phase-wise manner. This comes a day after chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced that the state government would begin the vaccination process around Makar Sankranti. Prasad, however, maintained that taking precaution at this point was of extreme importance. “The infection has reduced but not wiped out completely,” he said. Prasad said the department got the gene sequencing done for the new strain of virus in 12 people in UP. “We found only two people infected with the new strain,” he said. Maya seeks free vaccine for poorA day after SP chief Akhilesh Yadav kicked a row claiming that he won’t take vaccine shot, BSP chief Mayawati on Sunday welcomed India make of vaccines even as she asked the Centre to provide the vaccine to poorest among the poor free of cost, like in case of health workers. Over 4k used e-sanjeevani for teleconsultation in 24 hrsIn the last 24 hours, the state recorded 769 fresh Covid cases and 17 deaths, taking the death toll to 8,403. The number of active cases mounted to 12,858, of which 5,269 were in home isolation. As many as 1,179 people got discharged from hospitals after recovering. This way the recovery rate was around 96.39%. In all, 5,66,910 people have been discharged from hospitals after recovery till date. A total of 1,31,890 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. With this, the total number of samples tested since the outbreak reached 2.43 crore. Prasad said as part of surveillance exercise to identify the cases, the government has reached out to over 3.10 crore households covering more than 15.10 crore people in the state. At the same time, 46,49 people chose to use the e-sanjeevani portal to undertake teleconsultation in the last 24 hours. Till date, over 3.45 lakh people have logged on to esanjeevani portal to seek medical help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dry-run-in-all-75-up-dists-from-tomorrow/articleshow/80087927.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Lucknow||UP: Sitapur don’s properties worth over Rs 75cr seized||LUCKNOW: Properties worth over Rs 75 crore of gangster Mujeeb Ahmad and his brothers were seized in Sitapur on Saturday night. The police said that over 60 criminal cases were registered against Mujeeb and his brothers in police stations of Ramkot, Maholi, Kotwali, Aliya in the district. Saturday's seizure was also the biggest single-day strike against any criminal by the UP police. Superintendent of Police, Sitapur, RP Singh said that the Mujeeb along with his brothers Hasin and Ahmad Hussain had wreaked havoc in the district. Mujeeb and his brothers were carrying out extortion rackets and indulged in smuggling of psychotropic substances. They had also encroached upon government lands. Mujeeb used to realise ‘hafta’ from shopkeepers and businessmen and his henchmen also operated illegal bus and taxi stands in the district, said the SP. “In an extensive operation, we have seized three-gram sabha lands measuring nine-hectare each, four shops of nagar palikas, 22 residences, eight brick kilns, a poultry farm and four SUVs, totalling over 75 crore. The SP further said that Mujeeb and his brothers were operating in the district for over 31 years. They used to purchase properties in the names of their distant relatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sitapur-dons-properties-worth-over-rs-75cr-seized/articleshow/80087795.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Nod to 1st leg of two Kukrail drain bridges||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh Public Works Department (UP PWD) has approved the first instalment of Rs 5.81 crore from its budget of 2020-21 financial year for the construction of two bridges over Kukrail drain on Sarvodayanagar and Rahimnagar routes. According to UP PWD officials, the total cost of the project is Rs 23.25 crore and the first instalment of Rs 5.81 crore will be released for construction work before March 31. Both the projects will be constructed under the supervision of PWD chief engineer and private construction agencies will be hired to carry out work. Once completed, both the projects will help to resolve traffic woes in prominent areas of the city like Aliganj, Khurramnagar, Dandaiya, Vikasnagar and Sarvodayanagar. The proposal was mooted by Union defence minister and Lucknow MP Rajnath Singh a year ago in view of traffic jams in several areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nod-to-1st-leg-of-2-kukrail-drain-bridges/articleshow/80087979.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Aurangabad||Nails removed from trees in Kolhpur city||Kolhapur: Nails, strings and billboards were removed from over 100 trees in the Kolhapur city on Sunday as part of a campaign — Free Trees From Nails — launched by district guardian minister Satej Patil. Over 50 organisations participated in the campaign, which will now be held regularly. Volunteers of the organisations and the locals participated in large numbers in the drive on Sunday. They removed nails, strings and billboards from big and old trees. Many used metal cutters to cut the strings and nails embedded deep into the trunk of the trees. Patil said, “The campaign has been launched to save trees and create awareness among citizens over the importance of trees. It is legally punishable to inflict any sort of injury to the trees. I have asked the civic administration to launch the drives regularly and fine those putting nails and strings.” Similar campaigns have been carried out in big cities. Patil said he is going to appeal to people across the state to undertake the campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nails-removed-from-trees-in-kolhpur-city/articleshow/80085960.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Covid blamed for delay in gunthewari regularization||AURANGABAD: The state government, in March last year, had decided to regularize the gunthewari properties in Aurangabad and issue property cards to owners. However, the Covid-19 put the brakes on implementation. As per official records, Aurangabad has around 118 gunthewari areas with minimum 40,000 properties. Local Shiv Sena functionaries, who have been demanding the regularization of these properties, said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was in favour regularization of the gunthewari properties not only in Aurangabad, but even in other parts of Maharashtra. “The town planning department has already given its go-ahead to the issuance of property cards and the matter is pending with the revenue department. While the Covid outbreak caused a delay in completing the necessary formalities, the matter is expected to get a push as none other than the CM has paid attention to it,” corporator Raju Vaiday said. The gunthewari status of properties puts limitations on real estate transactions besides denying loan facilities to property holders from a section of banks. Balasaheb Mule, a resident of Pundalik Nagar, a major gunthewari area, said many property holders like him either have 7/12 extracts of their properties or notarized agreements showing ownership. “Even if we live in cities like Aurangabad, we still do not have property cards with us. We had raised our demand with different public representatives but to no avail. Around five years ago, the government had relaxed the norms for purchase and construction of houses on these properties, but that was not adequate,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/covid-blamed-for-delay-in-gunthewari-regularization/articleshow/80085975.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Goa||At 93.2%, South Goa’s crime detection rate improves since 2019||MARGAO: The South Goa police has registered 93.2 % crime detection rate during the year 2020. Of the altogether 1,667 criminal offences registered at various police stations across the district, the police succeeded in cracking 1,554 cases, police records reveal. This is several notches higher than last year’s performance as the South Goa police had registered 86.8% crime detection rate in 2019. Of the 1,100 criminal offences registered at various police stations during the last year in South Goa, 955 cases were cracked. As the Covid-19 pandemic raged across the state in 2020, the South Goa police were kept on their toes throughout the year creating awareness about the lockdown measures, advising people to stay indoors, and cracking a whip against the violators. The police were also seen at their creative best as many performed musical performances on the streets aimed at drawing attention of the public to the need for observing health and hygiene measures. Altogether 13 cases of murder were registered at a number of police stations in South Goa in 2020, and the police succeeded in cracking all 13 cases with the arrest of all the accused involved in the cases. The police also succeeded in cracking all 15 cases of attempt to murder registered in 2020. Of the 22 cases of rape registered in 2020, investigations in 21 of them have been completed, police records reveal. 9 cases of house break-ins during the day were registered during the last year, out of which 4 cases were detected, while of the 36 house break-in cases during night, 16 were cracked. All 16 cases of kidnapping registered in 2020 in South Goa, were detected. Altogether 69 cases of automobile thefts were reported at various police stations across South Goa, and 34 of these were detected, police records reveal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/at-93-2-south-goas-crime-detection-rate-improves-since-2019/articleshow/80087706.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
January 4, 2021||Pune||Pravin Darekar seeks clarity on renaming Aurangabad||PUNE: Leader of opposition in the state legislative council Pravin Darekar on Sunday said that the Shiv Sena should explain its stand on changing the name of Aurangabad to Sambhajinagar. Darekar was speaking at a press conference held in the city. “The Shiv Sena is showing double standards as far as changing the name of the city is concern. Is it under pressure from their alliance partners, like Congress? Sena leaders should come forward and tell people whether party principles are more important or being in government,” Darekar said. He added that Sena leader Sanjay Raut is speaking in a tone comparable to the stand of Aurangabad Sena leader and former MP Chandrakant Khaire. Some other senior party leaders have remained quiet as far as taking a stand on this issue is concerned, he stated. Darekar said BJP will decide on whether it will make the change of name an election issue before Aurangabad Municipal Corporation polls at their committee meeting. While reacting to changing the name of Pune as well, Darekar said that it was not needed. “Changing the names of the cities is a matter of our spirit and pride. Changing the name of other cities will not serve any purpose,” he said. On Shiv Sena’s stand to carry out agitations against the Enforcement Director (ED), Darekar said that such protests will be against the democratic spirit. “If such agitations are conducted against governing agencies, it will lead to a mockery of the system. Issues such as reservation for the Maratha community should be taken up on priority. Agitations should be carried out on such pressing issues related to development,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/darekar-seeks-clarity-on-renaming-aurangabad/articleshow/80086800.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Pune||Metro rake completes trial run on 6km Pimpri-Phugewadi stretch||PUNE: The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) on Sunday successfully completed the trial run of the rake between the PCMC and Phugewade stations. MahaMetro said the test run was successful and that all the necessary technical and safety parameters were met. MahaMetro managing director Brijesh Dixit said this was an important step for the project. MahaMetro said that it has approached the Commissioner of Metro Railway Safety (CMRS) and the Research Design Standardization Organization (RDSO) for the necessary permissions. Over the past few months, MahaMetro had inspected the viaduct, tracks, overhead traction cables and other crucial systems on the six-kilometre stretch between PCMC and Phugewadi. On Sunday, the rake powered by the 25KV overhead traction, completed the test run in 30 minutes. “The trial was successful. Many technical parameters were tested during the run. We carried out an inspection of the safety aspects as well. The testing will continue as per the requirement,” Hemant Sonawane, general manager (public relations), MahaMetro, said. The 6km-long stretch is part of the PCMC-Dapodi priority section. This falls on the 16.6km Pimpri-Swargate corridor. MahaMetro recently completed constructing the viaduct, laying the tracks and installing the overhead cables a few days ago. The rakes were installed on the viaduct towards the end of 2019. Sonawane added that MahaMetro had been conducting trial runs of the rakes in parts of the PCMC-Phugewadi viaduct section so far. Once the entire infrastructure was in place, we decided to conduct a full-fledged trial run on Sunday. The next item on the agenda for MahaMetro is completing the construction of the stations in the priority section. The work on the Sant Tukaramnagar and Phugewadi stations is nearing completion, MahaMetro said. As per the original plan, the work on the priority stretch was to have been completed by April 2020, followed by the trial runs. Before that could happen, the pandemic struck and upended all plans. Work resumed, albeit at slower pace, in the second half of the year and gathered momentum in the last three months of 2020. MahaMero MD Dixit said that they have expedited work on both corridors — the fully elevated Vanaz-Ramwadi route being the other line.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/metro-rake-completes-trial-run-on-6km-pimpri-phugewadi-stretch/articleshow/80086792.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Hyderabad||50% paddy bought via govt procurement centres||Hyderabad: The procurement centres set up by the state government have been able to purchase only 50 per cent of the total anticipated quantity of paddy from farmers, between October and December 31. While the farmers welfare associations said that the farmers incurred losses on the remaining 50 per cent of their agriculture produce sold to the traders and rice millers in the open market as they did not get the MSP, officials maintained that the ryots sell their agriculture to private traders mostly when they get a price better than what is being offered by the government at the procurement centres. The government had offered Rs 1,888 per quintal MSP for the paddy. However, the setting up of procurement centres at villages was delayed in October. “Firstly, the delay by the government to procure paddy from October first week itself, and later the officials and self helf help group members raising too many queries over the quality of paddy and slow procurement resulted in many farmers selling their produce in the open market,” said K Ravi of Rythu Swarajya Vedika, which works for the welfare of farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/50-paddy-bought-via-govt-procurement-centres/articleshow/80087707.cms||Roushan Ali
January 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Home-grown Covaxin aims at global footprint||HYDERABAD: Even as most of the developed nations like US, UK and Canada have cornered a chunk of the Covid-19 vaccine supply pipeline, Covaxin, India’s first indigenous vaccine candidate, will cater to global populations that need it the most, Bharat Biotech chairman and managing director Dr Krishna Ella said. On a day Covaxin secured EUA (Emergency Use Authorisation) approval from the Indian drug regulator, Ella said: “While this vaccine addresses an unmet medical need during this pandemic, our goal is to provide global access to populations that need it the most.” Indian vaccine makers account for over 60% of the global vaccine supply, churning out efficacious but low-cost vaccines, millions of doses of which are supplied to organisations such as CEPI (Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations), the GAVI Alliance (formerly Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation). Ella’s statement comes amid growing concern at rich nations securing more number of vaccine doses per person than required, leaving poorer nations high and dry. Even global non-profit Oxfam International had last year warned that wealthy nations representing just 13% of the world’s population have cornered over half the promised doses of the then five leading Covid-19 vaccine candidates, leaving two thirds of the world’s population without a vaccine till 2022. For instance, Canada has inked deals for 214 million doses and has an option to purchase another 200 million, resulting in one of the highest vaccine doses per capita (5 doses per person). “The UK government has managed to secure deals on several leading vaccine candidates, equivalent to five doses per head of population. By contrast, Bangladesh has so far secured only one dose for every nine people,” Oxfam had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covaxin-will-cater-to-global-populations-that-need-it-most-bharat-biotech-cmd/articleshow/80087733.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
January 4, 2021||Nashik||Nashik likely to host annual literary meet||Aurangabad: The 94th edition of the annual All India Marathi Literary meet is likely to be held in Nashik this year with formal announcement expected to come out on January 8. The Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Mahamandal (ABMSM), an apex literary body, on Sunday held a meeting during which a six-member panel was formed to take a call on the next venue for the literary event. ABMSM secretary and writer Dada Gore said Nashik along with Amalner, in Jalgaon district, and Delhi were in race for holding the prestigious event as per interests expressed in the past. “Organisers from Amalner, however, have retracted their proposal whereas ABMSM unanimously denied Delhi as the venue. We still have two proposals from different organisers in Nashik. The panel formed today (Sunday) will visit Nashik on January 7 for review, and formal announcement will take place on the next day,” he said. Gore said the annual literary meet has to be organised before the end of March. “The event is usually conducted during December or January. However, we had to postpone it to March this time due to Covid-19 outbreak. The event cannot be postponed further as the funds received from the government will get lapsed by end of the financial year,” he said. Gore said compliance with Covid prevention norms and ensuring safety of all the stakeholders would remain the top priority of ABMSM while holding the literary meet. Notably, Osmanabad from Marathwada had hosted the last All India Marathi literary meet which was held in January last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-likely-to-host-annual-literary-meet/articleshow/80085994.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Hyderabad||ABVP wants regular VC for univs||Warangal: ABVP student activists gathered around Panchayat Raj minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao demanding the appointment of a regular vice-chancellor for Kakatiya University. Many students gathered besides Savitribai Phule statue and obstructed the convoy from entering the premises. The minister had come to the university to pay tribute to Phule on the occasion of her 190 birth anniversary. Protestors raised slogans accusing political leaders of ignoring issues faced by students. Police detained some of the protesters. ABVP state secretary A Kiran said that the government had failed to appoint regular vice-chancellors for state universities and failed to fill vacant posts which is the reason for students performing poorly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/abvp-wants-regular-vc-for-univs/articleshow/80087705.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
January 4, 2021||Patna||Gaya administration identifies land to set up new powerloom units||GAYA: Gaya district administration has initiated the process to identify land for setting up new units of the powerloom industry running at Patwa Toli under Manpur block in the district. Manpur is known as the ‘Manchester of Bihar’ for production of quality cotton fabric, which is in very good demand in other states. District Magistrate Abhishek Singh on Saturday inspected a vacant government land of several acres along the Falgu river at Shadipur panchayat under Manpur. Sources said that it was found during inspection that at least 80 people have got parcha (land ownership right from the government) of the said plot. At the same time, around 150-160 people have been living on small tracts and have illegally occupied it. The DM directed the Manpur circle officer (CO) to get the measurement of the land within seven days. “With the consent of parcha holder land owners, they would be shifted elsewhere on priority basis, so that the powerloom industry can be set up here,” he said. The DM also expressed displeasure over the ongoing construction work on the land besides the river and directed the CO to stop all the ongoing construction works immediately. Magadh Bunkar Kalyan Seva Samiti president Prakash Ram Patwa said, “It is a very good initiative by the administration. We have also requested the CM Nitish Kumar to make us subsidized loan and land available for setting up new units. Already around 10,000 powerlooms are running in Patwa Toli, which are the source of livelihood for more than 20,000 people.” He added, “But now, there is shortage of space in Patwa Toli to set up new units. Every year, youths from Patwa Toli compete in the prestigious IIT- JEE exam. Several youth possess engineering degree from prestigious engineering institutes. Having advance technical knowledge, they want to contribute in the growth of our powerloom industry with latest technology.” “If land is made available, new units would come up thereby increasing the prospect of weavers (bunkars). Quality cotton fabric including bedsheets, blanket cover, towel (gamchha) are made here. Traders from Kolkata, Asssam, Rajasthan come here and book consignment of fabrics to sell in their state,” Prakash added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gaya-admn-identifies-land-to-set-up-new-powerloom-units/articleshow/80085497.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Pune||Eatery owner and manager booked for assault in Pune||PUNE: The Hinjewadi police on Saturday registered an offence against the owner and manager a restaurant on charge of thrashing a 25-year-old man and his three friends, who had gone to the establishment on January 1 to celebrate the New Year. The 25-year-old complainant also alleged that his and his friend’s gold chains, collectively worth Rs75,000, were misplaced during the scuffle. When TOI contacted the complainant, he said, “We have sorted out the matter and I do not have any complaint against anyone, just that mine and my friend’s gold chains got lost during the dispute.” Assistant inspector Shashikant Dendge of the Hinjewadi police told TOI, “The complainant noticed that an inebriated man was teasing a woman, seated at another table at the restaurant. When the complainant reprimanded the man, he abused the complainant and also beat him and one of his friends. The gold chain of the complainant’s friend got misplaced during the scuffle.” Dendge said the manager of the restaurant told the inebriated youth and his friends to leave. Meanwhile, the complainant’s friend informed his brother about the incident. “The friend’s brother reached there and asked the manager about the incident and also slapped him as the latter had abused him,” Dendge said. The manager then contacted the owner of the restaurant. The owner and his men then thrashed the complainant and his friends with sticks. “The complainant claimed that his gold chain too was lost during the second scuffle,” Dendge said. Dendge said, “We are yet to make arrests in the case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/eatery-owner-and-manager-booked-for-assault/articleshow/80086802.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Bareilly||SP leadership stands with Azam, his family, says Sumaya Rana||RAMPUR: Famous Urdu poet Munawwar Rana’s daughter and anti-CAA activist Sumaiya Rana who recently joined the Samajwadi Party (SP) met Rampur MP Azam Khan’s wife and MLA Tazeen Fatma at her residence in Rampur on Saturday in an effort to put to rest rumours that “senior party leaders are not supporting Azam and his family after they were sent to jail”. Rana told TOI, “My visit was intended to put all such rumours to rest. After joining the SP, I had a brief discussion with party president Akhilesh Yadav over the Khans, and he told me that the entire party and the leadership were with Azam Khan and his family in this crisis. I conveyed the party president’s message to Tazeen Fatma.” Azam Khan and his family members were being targeted because they are Muslim leaders, alleged Rana. Rana, who also visited Muhammad Ali Jauhar University, said, "By opening a university here, Azam Khan has worked for the betterment of the community.” Rana, who actively participated in anti-CAA protests, said the party president had assured that “after the SP forms a government in the state, all cases against anti-CAA protesters will be withdrawn”. Recently, local SP workers had alleged that senior party leaders were not supporting Azam and his family after they were sent to jail. They had also uploaded a few pictures and videos of the Khans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sp-leadership-stands-with-azam-his-family-says-sumaya-rana/articleshow/80085164.cms||Nazar Abbas
January 4, 2021||Goa||Goa: Sugarcane growers seek relief, intensify agitation||POINGUINIM: Around 200 sugarcane cultivators resorted to an agitation in Sanguem seeking early decision on their demands. Farmers gathered in front of the deputy collector’s office under the banner of Uss Utpadhak Sangarsh Samiti seeking a written assurance from the government compensating their standing crop at Rs 3,600 per tonne till Sanjivani sugar factory becomes operational. Cultivators are upset with the government for having failed to reply to their memorandum of December 23 wherein a deadline of 10 days was set. Farmers also demanded payment of compensation every year by February end and the basis for calculating it shall be the highest average of the sugarcane supplied by individual farmers during the last 10 years. Samiti chairman Kushta Gaonkar said the cultivators will not withdraw their agitation until government gives a written assurance on solving their demands. Deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar appealed the agitating farmers to give time till Tuesday for a solution and that he would take up the matter with the chief minister. He said that an amount Rs 6.3 crore was disbursed to farmers before Chaturthi and another Rs 80 lakh to 58 farmers in respect of standing crops. He said the rate of harvested crop has been increased from Rs 200 to Rs 600 per tonne. Gaonkar requested him not to persuade the farmers to withdraw their agitation as the government had repeatedly failed to resolve their grievances. Sanguem MLA Prasad Gaonkar who supported the agitation urged the government not to play with the sentiments of the farmers. He also appealed the farmers to support and join the dharna if the government fails to give a written assurance in respect of their demands. Vice chairman of the samiti Chandan Unankar said they have lost faith in the previous committee of the farmers and constituted the new one to pursue the matter vigorously. Sanguem mamlatdar Manoj Korgaonkar visited the agitating farmers and heard their grievances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sugarcane-growers-seek-relief-intensify-agitation/articleshow/80087788.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Nashik||Maharashtra: Cops rescue sand boa, arrest three||NASHIK: The Malegaon police on Saturday rescued a sand boa, locally known as two-headed mandul snake, from the Camp area and arrested three people — Ranjesh Gulabchand Chavan (30), Savan Devraj Chavan (30) and Vinitabai Savan Chavan (29) — all residents of the Sakri taluka in Dhule district. They were allegedly looking to sell the boa, worth nearly Rs 20 lakh. Acting on a tip-off, the personnel of the Camp police station laid a trap and intercepted a silver hatchback. They found the three suspects inside the car with a bag containing the sand boa. The police have also confiscated the vehicle. the men were using. Chandrakant Khandvi, the additional SP of Malegaon, said that the men have been arrested under relevant sections of the Wild Life Protection Act, 1972. Sand boas, which are protected under the Act, are often sold to be used for medical purposes or black magic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cops-rescue-sand-boa-arrest-three/articleshow/80086009.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Drunk driving checks: Cyberabad traffic police book 313||HYDERABAD: Cyberabad traffic police booked 313 drunk driving cases during a special drive on Saturday night. Among the persons caught, 228 were two-wheeler riders and 69 four-wheeler drivers. “The increase in the number of two-wheelers riders driving under the influence of alcohol is a dangerous trend. The two-wheeler riders should not have any misconception that drunk driving tests will be conducted only against cars and bigger vehicles,” traffic police said. Most cases were reported from Madhapur, Gachibowli, Rajendra Nagar, Kukatpally and Alwal. Traffic police were also deployed in residential areas to curb drunk drivers. All offenders would be charge sheeted in court and their driving licences would be seized and referred to the RTA seeking their suspension, police said. The special drives were monitored by Cyberabad commissioner of police V C Sajjanar. Cyberabad DCP (traffic) said cases would be registered by against administrators of WhatsApp groups which were used to alert about drunk and driving checks conducted by traffic police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drunk-driving-checks-313-booked/articleshow/80087762.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Pune||Erring PCMC contractors to face action||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Pimpri Chinchwad civic chief Shravan Hardikar on Sunday said the process of lodging criminal cases against the 18 blacklisted contractors involved in the bogus fixed deposit receipts (FDR) scam had started. “The documentation work is underway for all these cases and FIRs will be lodged soon,” the civic chief said. The (PCMC had blacklisted 18 contractors after at department-level inquiry found that the contractors were involved in producing bogus FDRs while undertaking contract works from the local body. Chinchwad’s Bharatiya Janata Party MLA Laxman Jagtap said that why the lodging of criminal cases was getting delayed, needed to be answered by the civic chief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/erring-pcmc-contractors-to-face-action/articleshow/80086804.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Ajmer||Brothers die in road mishap in Bhilwara||AJMER: A 30-year-old man along with his 22-year-old brother were killed when the bike they were riding was hit by a truck near Sankhada village in Kotara block of Bhilwara district on Sunday. Police said Mahaveer Bheel and his younger brother of Bagudar village went to Sankhada village in Kotra following an invitation by Mahaver’s in-laws to visit their home with his wife Shyama. Since Shyama was working in MGNERGA, she could not go. Mahaveer’s mother-in-law gave sweets and fruits for Shyama and her minor two daughters aged four and two years. While returning from Sankhada, a speeding truck came and hit the motorcycle from the rear. Mahaveer died on spot while Dinesh succumbed to his injuries while being taking to hospital. Police seized both the motorcycle and the truck but driver manage to flee from the spot. Police said Mahaveer was a tractor driver who helped to harvest corps in the village while his brother Dala was a tempo driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/brothers-die-in-road-mishap-in-bhilwara/articleshow/80087790.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Nagpur||Civic chief says new strain suspects can go home after 14 days sans NIV report||Nagpur: In a fresh twist to the ongoing debate over discharging the new strain suspects who tested positive for Covid19, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) now plans to send home those testing negative twice after completing 14 days at GMCH’s special ward even if the NIV report is pending. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B told TOI that Covid positive persons, who are new strain suspects, can be discharged without waiting for the NIV report any further, subject to certain conditions. “If they have completed 14 days from the date of admission at GMCH and tested negative twice, they will be sent home, irrespective of the NIV result. We are thinking of discharging them but before that we will take the green signal from the state and the district task force,” he said. The civic chief said the matter has been referred to the district task force led by IGGMCH dean Dr Ajay Keoliya. The task force, comprising GMCH dean Sajal Mitra, medical superintendents of both medial colleges, a couple of well-known doctors, is likely to hold a meet on the issue with the civic chief on Monday. “They are going to seek the state task force’s views. As NIV reports have still not come, how long can we keep them? We can’t keep them for two or three months if the report doesn’t come till then. On Monday, the district task force will be taking it up with the state task force,” said Radhakrishnan. On January 2, the directorate of medical education and research (DMER) insisted a compulsory hospital stay for all new strain suspects till their NIV report is out. DMER director TP Lahane had said that the UK strain suspects shall continue in hospital till the NIV report is declared. Samples of all the eight new strain suspects admitted at GMCH are awaited. The first sample was sent on December 25. All had returned from European countries. Some suspects were already negative when they were admitted while the others had tested positive more than two weeks before being traced and shifted to the GMCH special ward. GMCH and civic officials feel the case of city flyers from affected nations don’t fit the mandate and hence, they must be allowed to go home. They said the policy needs to be amended as there is no separate line of treatment even if it is found that the suspects were new strain patients. On the other hand, the suspect and their relatives are worried about getting infected at GMCH due to the prolonged stay. Some task force members told TOI that they are ready to guide the NMC on the discharge of these new strain suspects. “As per the Epidemic Act and SOPs, the municipal commissioner is the final authority on deciding the fate of these eight persons. He should coordinate and decide early for the benefit of the patients and their families,” they said, adding that the task force is only an advisory council and has no administrative powers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/civic-chief-says-new-strain-suspects-can-go-home-after-14-days-sans-niv-report/articleshow/80086831.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 4, 2021||Pune||No streetlights, stray menace irk Baner-Balewadi residents||PUNE: Lack of streetlights and presence of a large stray population have become a bane of residents in Baner-Balewadi area. Residents said morning walkers have to arm themselves with sticks to protect themselves from strays, while lack of streetlights make it scary to step out at night. There have been isolated cases of dog bites in the area in the recent past. Animal lovers have appealed for funds for sterilisation of dogs. Siddharth Gangurde, a local resident, said that streetlights on the approach road towards his society on Pan Card road have not been working for 8-10 days now. “None of the lights on the approach road work. Most Vasundhara Abhiyaan volunteers who go up the Baner hill for tree plantation also use this road. They find it difficult to navigate the path early morning without the streetlights. Add to it the problem of stray dogs, and it is really scary,” said Gangurde. Tushar Gadgil, a resident who was bitten by a dog on Saturday, said, “There was a lady feeding the strays in a corner and I was walking by. Suddenly a fight broke out among the dogs and few of them ran towards me and one of them bit me. I screamed and they backed off. But they were still growling at me and tried to come near me. I somehow managed to get away from them and went to a hospital where I am getting shots,” said Gadgil. Sarang Wable, a resident of Baner, said that they are thinking of a signature campaign in all societies in the Baner-Balewadi area, demanding action from PMC. Wable said, “Even in places where there were no dogs, there are 6-7 dogs now. They have become a nuisance, especially for morning walkers and children. We understand the argument that dogs from a particular area cannot be relocated, but there are many dogs which are not from the area. If the PMC is sterilising dogs, how come there is no reduction in their numbers?” asked Wable. However, Preeti Pawar, a fashion designer and a volunteer for Canine Control Care, said instead of putting the onus on the authorities, people also need to take responsibility for the dogs in the area. “Dogs, and other strays are helpless creatures. The lockdown was hard on them as they could not get food from regular places. Organisations like CCC, RESQ, Karma Foundation try to help the street dogs, neuter them, treat the wounded dogs and even vaccinate them. Citizens can either volunteer for such organisations or help them with funding so that they can help more strays,” said Pawar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-streetlights-stray-menace-irk-baner-balewadi-residents/articleshow/80086824.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 4, 2021||Chandigarh||Take to natural farming: Baba Seechewal at Singhu border||Jalandhar: Noted environmentalist Baba Balbir Singh Seechewal urged the Union government on Sunday to concede to demands of farmers protesting at the Delhi border and repeal the three farm laws. The Padma Shri awardee also addressed protesting farmers from the Singhu border stage on Sunday and gave 200 tarpaulin sheets for protection of protesters from the rain. However, he said that the rain had strengthened the resolve of protesting farmers. Seechewal also took 10 quintals of groundnuts, apart from other material for langar, to Singhu border. Baba Seechewal urged farmers to adopt natural farming saying that there is great demand for organic products. He said farmers’ organisations should motivate farmers to turn towards natural and cooperative farming as the government would never form a policy for the purpose. According to him, while Punjab became the food bowl of the country, its natural resources were depleted and polluted, necessitating the shift to natural farming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/take-to-natural-farming-baba-seechewal-at-singhu-border/articleshow/80087794.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Jaipur||BJP calls Cong protest ‘drama’||Jaipur: Hitting back at the Kisan Bachao, Desh Bachao protest by the ruling Congress, BJP state president Satish Poonia reminded CM Ashok Gehlot of not fulfilling the promise of loan waiver for farmers promised in the assembly poll manifesto. “Before Gehlot speaks on three farm laws, he should clarify why they failed to grant loan waivers even after two years of coming to power,” said Poonia, who accused the Congress government of misleading farmers for political gains. Criticising the protest by Congress, he said though the government was elected by the people for the development, they were busy in protest and demonstration. “It is laughable that how Congress, whose job is provide relief to the people, is busy running their agenda in the state. They have never come up with a convincing argument against the three farm laws,” said Poonia. He termed the protest a ‘drama’ by the government to distract them from real issues being faced by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-calls-cong-protest-drama/articleshow/80086825.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Rules permit accelerated nod for Covid vaccines in special cases: Experts||HYDERABAD: Amid concerns over the Indian drug regulator granting EUA (Emergency Use Authorisation) approval to indigenous Covid-19 vaccine candidate Covaxin even as Phase III trials are underway, vaccine industry sources pointed out that there is a provision for accelerated approvals in special situations in the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019, published in The Gazette of India. The NDCT rules have specified special situations in which relaxation, abbreviations, omission or deferment of data can be considered for new drugs and biological products to be used to expedite the development and approval process in case of life threatening or serious disease conditions of special relevance to the Indian scenario or unmet medical needs. “This provision is intended to facilitate and expedite review of drugs so that an approved product can reach the therapeutic armamentarium expeditiously,” the rules state. “If the remarkable efficacy is observed with a defined dose in the Phase II clinical trial of investigational new drug for the unmet medical needs of serious and life-threatening diseases in the country, it may be considered for grant of marketing approval by the Central Licencing Authority based on Phase II clinical trial data. In such cases, additional post licensure studies may be required to be conducted after approval to generate the data on larger population to further verify and describe the clinical benefits, as per the protocol approved by the Central Licencing Authority,” the rules state. When contacted, a Bharat Biotech spokesperson said: “The product development and clinical trial data thus far has generated five publications, which have been submitted to international peer reviewed journals, four of which have been accepted and will be published soon.” “The publication of Phase II trial data is undergoing the peer review process. As part of our regulatory guidelines, all data has been submitted to DCGI and CDSCO,” the spokesperson added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rules-permit-accelerated-nod-for-vaccines-in-spl-cases-experts/articleshow/80087796.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
January 4, 2021||Goa||To build Congress in Goa, AICC wants membership drive: Digambar Kamat||PANAJI: In a bid to strengthen the party ahead of the 2022 state assembly polls, the Congress high command has asked the state leadership to focus on building up the party from the grassroots, said opposition leader Digambar Kamat after his meeting with AICC officials in Delhi. Kamat and state party president Girish Chodankar returned from Delhi on Sunday after meeting AICC general secretary K C Venugopal. Chodankar and Kamat, while speaking to TOI, said that the party would initiate a membership drive in Goa to strengthen Congress ahead of the coming elections. The two are also expected to speak to various local Congress office-bearers in the coming days. “There was a general discussion about the zilla panchayat elections and we have been asked to start a membership drive to strengthen the blocks,” Kamat said. The opposition leader was tight-lipped about Chodankar’s resignation, saying that the party high command did not discuss the issue. However, party functionaries said that a decision on the state party president’s post is likely after January 6 when the AICC will meet in Delhi. AICC officials are also waiting for the return of Rahul Gandhi before taking a decision about Goa. Party insiders said that despite earlier claims, attempts to rebuild the party organisation and increase membership have been in fits and bursts with no sustained efforts visible. Senior party functionaries in Goa have been vocal about the need to drop Chodankar before Goa elects a new legislative assembly. While an overhaul within the state Congress unit appears to be on the cards, the party faces a dilemma in picking his replacement. Kamat is seen as the best man for the job but may be asked to step down as the opposition leader. Four of the five Congress MLAs are former chief ministers and most of them cannot see eye to eye, party functionaries said. Former state Congress president Luizinho Faleiro is also said to be keen on the post despite his public denials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/to-build-cong-in-goa-aicc-wants-membership-drive-digambar/articleshow/80087878.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Bareilly||Duped of Rs 3 lakh on pretext of job with railways, 28-year-old man ends his life||PILIBHIT: Duped of Rs 3 lakh on the pretext of securing a permanent job for him with the Indian Railways, a 28-year-old man, Abhishek Kumar of Vijay Nagar village in trans-Sharda region of Pilibhit district, allegedly ended his life by hanging himself from a tree in his father’s farm around 3 pm on Sunday and left behind a video explaining the reason behind taking the extreme step. Police said they sent the body for autopsy and were collecting information about the accused. Police said Abhishek divulged in the video that three men hailing from Sultanpur and Lucknow duped him of Rs 3 lakh on the pretext of getting him a permanent job with the railways. Abhishek’s father Mewa Lal, a marginal farmer, had borrowed the money on a hefty interest, said police. “In the video, the victim begged pardon of his family members for taking the extreme step. He urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UP chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath to take stringent legal action against all such con-men to protect careers and lives of other youths,” said SHO Umesh Kumar Solanki. “Abhishek disclosed in the video that he had given money to two persons Jitendra and Avdhesh hailing from Lucknow about six months ago. They were mediators for key accused Sharif, a resident of Sultanpur district. After he failed to get a job and lost his money, too, he decided to end his life, saying he did not want to give more pain to his parents,” said the SHO. According to the victim, many influential people, including politicians and senior officers, were involved in the duping racket, said the SHO. The SHO said based on the video, police had begun collecting information about the accused. “We will register an FIR in this connection as soon as the family lodges a written complaint,” added the SHO. ReplyReply to allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/duped-of-rs-3-lakh-on-pretext-of-job-with-railways-28-year-old-man-ends-his-life/articleshow/80085168.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 4, 2021||Udaipur||Surveillance at waterbodies to check bird flu spread in south Rajasthan||UDAIPUR: Looking at the outbreak of avian influenza in some parts of Rajasthan, the forest department and animal husbandry department have planned an exhaustive surveillance in the coming days to prevent any possible spread of the virus among birds across South Rajasthan. With the bird season at peak and large number of migratory birds flocking the waterbodies, lakes and ponds in Udaipur, Chittorgarh, Banswara, Dungarpur, Pratapgarh and Rajsamand districts, officials have not only issued directives to the staff, but also embarked on a sensitisation campaign to spread awareness among residents to keep a watch and report any abnormal mortality of birds in their localities. So far, no cases of H5N1 have been reported here. “We are following the protocol as prescribed in the action plan for preparedness, control and containment of avian influenza, 2015. The staff in the entire Udaipur division have been asked for daily tracking, monitoring of waterbodies and update reports every 24 hours. If any sample is collected, it would be sent to the lab at National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal,” Rajkumar Jain, regional conservator of forests, said. Meanwhile, joint director of the animal husbandry department, Bhupendra Bharadwaj, said all measures were being taken to prevent any possible outbreak. “The main aim is to prevent the spread of the flu among domestic and migratory birds. Our department is taking care of the captive birds in poultry farms. Their health reports are being monitored regularly. We have also issued directions to report bird deaths and to dispose the carcasses safely so that no other animal eats it which could lead to the spread of the flu,” Bharadwaj said. Bird watchers, members of nature clubs too are being asked to keep tabs on bird deaths. “In Udaipur, large number of migratory birds are seen these days at Menar, Badwai, Kishan Karera, FatehSagar, Pichhola, Rundeda and Nagela ponds while in Banswara huge number of ducks, coots, showlers, pelicans and cranes can be spotted at places including backwaters of Mahi Dam, Survaniya dam, Koopda, Aasan Talab etc,” Kamlesh Sharma, a bird enthusiast said. pics- Birds like Common Teal, Spot billed ducks, Showlers, whistling ducks are seen in large numbers in Barodiya pond in Banswara Geetha Sunil Pillai||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/surveillance-at-waterbodies-to-check-bird-flu-spread-in-south-raj/articleshow/80086826.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Jaipur||True nationalism is to stand with farmers: Sachin Pilot||JAIPUR: Former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot made a scathing attack on RSS and BJP during the Congress dharna in support of farmers opposing the Centre’s three controversial farm laws here on Sunday. Pilot said true nationalism was not to lecture from Nagpur wearing half-pants, but to stand with the farmers. Pilot’s remarks were aimed at the smear campaign against farmers who were called ‘anti-national’, ‘Khalistani’ and ‘Naxal’ for opposing the Union farm laws. “Such words are being used because not a single Union minister is a well-wisher of the farmers. Today, the farmers are scared. If standing with farmers is politics, we will continue to stand with them,” Pilot said, addressing a day-long dharna at the Shaheed Smarak on MI Road. The Congress leader slammed the BJP-led central government for forcing the farm laws on agriculturists. “There are some turning points in every country’s history that become decisive. Unfortunately, the step taken by the Centre in bringing the three laws will have far reaching consequences. The arrogant and autocratic way in which the government passed the laws without consulting any state government, it cannot tell who demanded these,” Pilot said. “Centre’s attitude after winning the second election (2019) shows that the PM can take any decision to get his name recorded in history,” he added. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot, ministers and legislators from Congress as well as independents were present at the dharna. It was for the first time that Gehlot and Pilot came together for a party event since the latter rebelled with his loyalists against the CM last July-August. Even as they sat side-by-side at the dharna, the two leaders’ body language suggested they were yet to overcome the past bitterness. Both were repeatedly cheered by their supporters during their addresses. Gehlot in his address said the BJP-led central government was under the false impression that just Punjab and Haryana farmers were protesting the farm laws. “People across 6.5 lakh villages in the country are in farmers’ support; PM Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah’s misreading will be cleared when the time comes,” Gehlot said, adding that if the farmers started marching from every state, the Centre would be in trouble. Referring to the US elections, Gehlot said PM Modi would meet the same fate as Donald Trump. “Modi ji gave a slogan for the Trump government, but the people there rejected it. He has now messed up with the farmers; his condition will be the same as Trump.” The CM said the Centre was trying to kill time by repeatedly calling farmers for talks, but not agreeing to their demands. “It thinks the farmers will get tired and the issue will be over,” Gehlot said, adding that the government was “naakara, nikammi and samvedanheen” (worthless and insensitive). “Forty farmers have died in past 39 days, protesting in the open in chilling cold,” Gehlot said. Recalling Modi-government’s past decisions like demonetisation, Gehlot said the Union government was fascist and did not believe in democracy. “GST was introduced in Parliament at midnight; people are now unable to pay it. Article 370 was abrogated and triple talaq law was brought hoping that this will please the Hindus. Are decisions taken like this?” Gehlot stressed that a Muslim from India, barring Kashmir, was never caught for terrorist activities in J&K, but the BJP was trying to alienate the community. “They (BJP and allies) want to push the country towards a Hindu nation, but will never succeed.” PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra said, “Modi ji, you are not a fakir as you say, but a wazir of few industrialists.” Transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas targeted the Modi government for allegedly failing to provide free LPG cylinders to the poor under the Ujjwala scheme as promised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/true-nationalism-is-to-stand-with-farmers-pilot/articleshow/80086833.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
January 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Bharat Biotech also betting big on its intranasal Covid vaccine||HYDERABAD: Even as the country’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin has received Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) from the country’s drug regulatory authorities, its developer Bharat Biotech chairman and managing director Dr Krishna Ella is also very gung-ho about another vaccine candidate – an intranasal Covid-19 vaccine under development. According to him, it’s non-invasive, is a single dose vaccine, will be quicker and easier to administer, will offer faster, stronger and longer immunity and last but not the least, it will also be eco-friendly. “You just need to put one drop here (in one nostril) and another drop there (other nostril) you are done with the vaccination. We can put 20 doses in a vial and we are also looking at if we put it in dropper, there should not be any cross contamination with another individual…so we are putting other (dropper) tips… so that they can dispose of the small tip (after administering each dose). We can reach (people) faster with the nasal drop,” he had said earlier during a chat with Biocon founder Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw during the TiE global summit held late November. Bharat Biotech is working on two intranasal vaccines—one with the University of Washington School of Medicine at St Louis (WashU) and another with USA-based vaccine maker FluGen and virologists from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, Ella’s alma mater. Of these, the one being developed with WashU has shown extremely promising results in animal studies and is slated to begin Phase I/II human trials this month. The vaccine is expected to be ready for use by the third quarter of 2021, said sources. Bharat Biotech has already put in place a strategy to produce enough to vaccinate 500 million people with the single dose intranasal vaccine, Dr Ella had said earlier. In fact, Ella has on multiple occasions publicly called the intranasal vaccine a gamechanger and humankind’s best bet against prevention of Covid-19 as the disease is also transmitted through the nasal route. “The nasal vaccine is probably the ideal choice if you want to stop the infection and transmission (of Covid-19),” he said earlier this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bharat-biotech-also-betting-big-on-its-intranasal-vaccine/articleshow/80087850.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
January 4, 2021||Jaipur||Cops lathicharge, lob tear gas shells on Rajasthan farmers in Haryana||JAIPUR: Haryana Police lathicharged and used tear gas shells on Ganganagar-Hanumangarh farmers, who had crossed over to the state breaking the barricades four days ago, when a large number of protesters on Sunday tried to block the main road at Dharuhera in Haryana’s Rewari district, said police. According to locals, a fierce clash between farmers, who had set up tents at Haryana’s Dharukhera having crossed over four days ago from Alwar’s Shahjahanpur, and the police led to firing of tear gas shells and lathicharge. It resulted in a jam stretching up to five kms on Jaipur-Delhi highway. A couple of vehicles also caught fire which was later doused by the farmers. A large number of farmers from Haryana’s Tikari border had also reached the protest site on Sunday. Ganganagar Kisan Samiti leader Raju Punjabi said “the farmers’ movement will continue and they will respond to Haryana police’s barbarity in a peaceful manner”. Earlier, on Sunday, thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana reached Shahjahanpur border with 325 tractors under the leadership of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta) Ugrahan to extend their support to the farmers’ agitation going on in Rajasthan’s Alwar’s district. The farmers’ tractor rally were led by Shingara Singh Mann, Manjit Singh, Jagdev Singh and Gurpreet Singh from Haryana’s Tikri border. They were provided a safe passage by Haryana police through the border and were given a warm welcome by Sanyunkt Kisan Morcha at Alwar’s Shahjahanpur. There were about 325 tractors, 30 trolleys, 40 small vehicles in the rally. Apart from this, 30-35 women protesters led by PUCL president Kavita Srivastava and members of Rajasthan Women Workers’ Union also reached Shahjahanpur border on Sunday to support the farmers’ agitation. Box Congress’ protest is just hypocrisy: Beniwal Jaipur: Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) leader and Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal held a meeting with his supporters and party leaders at Alwar’s Shahjahanpur border on Sunday. He termed Congress party’s protest as “pretence and hypocrisy” on their part. “Congress is only pretending to be in favour of the farmers. People have seen this in the last two years of governance. Rajasthan government didn’t give any relief to the farmers in the state including waiving of farm loans. Congress party’s protest was nothing but hypocrisy on their part. They should have sat in the cold with the farmers at the border,” he said. Having withdrawn his support to NDA and resigning as members of three parliamentary committees, Beniwal discussed the future course of action in support of the farmers’ agitation. The leader had also threatened to resign as Lok Sabha member earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-lathicharge-use-tear-gas-shells-on-farmers-in-haryana/articleshow/80086836.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Kolhapur||Kalamba jail seeks Rs 50 lakh to beef up security||KOLHAPUR: The Kalamba jail authorities have sought Rs 50 lakh from the district planning and development council (DPDC) to install 68 closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras and 12 high mast lamp posts around the jail premise. In the past couple of weeks, banned-in-jail items like mobile phones, SIM cards, battery chargers and marijuana were found on the prison premises. The administration had taken a serious cognizance of incidents, and jail superintendent Sharad Shelke was shunted out. Currently, the jail has 73 CCTV cameras. The police are also investigating how the banned substances got inside. Primary investigation has revealed that the items were thrown from outside and, therefore, there is a need for stricter vigilance surrounding the jail spread across 24 acre. Chandramani Indurkar, the new jail superintendent, said, “We want to plug all the loopholes. We met the district authorities and submitted the proposal and requested them to grant the funds at the earliest. Along with the CCTV cameras and high mast lamp posts, we are going to set up two new checkposts outside the jail to keep watch on all suspicious activities.” There are around 130 police personnel deployed to manage the jail affairs. District collector Daulat Desai will put up the proposal before the meeting of the council. The council, which has public representatives and is headed by district guardian minister Satej Patil, has authority to spend funds released by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kalamba-jail-seeks-rs-50l-to-beef-up-security/articleshow/80086065.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Lucknow||UP: Vindhya range stones to fortify foundation of Ram temple||Ayodhya: Stones from Vindhya mountains in Mirzapur district will be used to fortify the foundation of the Ram temple as these stones are robust and harder than pink sandstone, which are being sourced from Bansi Paharpur in Rajasthan’s Bharatpur district. The new plan was hammered out after construction was delayed due to presence of loose sand and water under the ground. Sources in the Ram temple Trust said, work on the foundation is expected to start in the next 15 days. The stones from Vindhya mountain stronger and can easily bear the weight of temple structure, Prakash Gupta, office in charge of Ram Temple Trust told TOI. ‘The process of transporting stones from Mirzapur has begun’We have begun the process of transporting stones from Mirzapur and we will get the first consignment soon. These stones are easily available and will be used in the temple foundation,” said Gupta. The strength of the stones would be tested layer-by-layer by engineers from Larsen & Toubro and Tata Group before consolidating the foundation, said sources. Besides, experts from IITs, Hyderabad-based National Geophysical Research Institute will also be studying the soil at the site. Sources in the Trust told TOI that sandstone from Bansi Paharpur would be used for top storeys of the temple while stones from Vindhya range which can be easily transported would be used in the foundation. The Rajasthan government had recently decided to legalize mining of pink stone from Bansi Paharpur area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vindhya-range-stones-to-fortify-foundation/articleshow/80087854.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
January 4, 2021||Nagpur||8 booked for murder||Nagpur: Eight persons have been booked for murder of Akshay Donarkar, 22, following a court order. The offence was registered at Parseoni police station on Saturday. In March last year, Donarkar was found hanging at a school where he worked as an attendant. Police had found out that he ended life after failing in love, but Donarkar’s family approached court stating eight persons had conspired to eliminate him over a dispute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/8-booked-for-murder/articleshow/80086839.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Poola Anthony anointed fifth Archbishop||HYDERABAD: Archbishop Poola Anthony has become the new spiritual leader of lakhs of Catholics in Hyderabad Archdiocese that is spread over several districts in Telangana. Poola Anthony was installed as the fifth Archbishop of Metropolitan Archdiocese of Hyderabad in Catholic traditional rites and Holy Mass celebrated by several bishops and priests. Anthony took over the charge from outgoing Archbishop Thumma Bala, who was at the helm for ten years. The religious ceremony of installation was held at the St Mary’s High School grounds in Secunderabad. Hundreds of Roman Catholics, priests and nuns attended the event. New Archbishop Poola Anthony told the gathering that his focus would be on pastoral work, education, health services and social welfare activities. Anthony said, “Teachings of Jesus Christ such as love, brotherhood and service to the society will be implemented in letter and spirit. Sharing good news of Christ is my biggest duty. As the new shepherd of the church in Hyderabad, I will strive hard for attaining universal brotherhood.” The Archbishop said at this time of distress due to Covid-19, the Catholic church would stand by the people and serve the needy. At least 12 bishops from the two Telugu states attended the installation ceremony. Pope Francis had appointed Bishop Poola Anthony as Archbishop on November 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/poola-anthony-anointed-fifth-archbishop/articleshow/80087882.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Jaipur||Ashwin Goyal second from Jaipur to get 100 percentile in CAT||JAIPUR: Ashwin Goyal (20) has become the second boy from Jaipur to score 100 percentile in the Common Admission Test (CAT), the result of which was announced on Saturday. He along with IITian and city boy Jitesh Mittal were among nine students out of 1.9 lakh aspirants across the country to score centum in the exam. Goyal is in the third year of the five-year Integrated Program Management (IPM) from IIM-Indore. The success in CAT is likely to take him from IIM-Indore campus to his desired IIM-Ahmedabad campus. After class XII, he bagged admissions in NIT-Trichy and IPM in IIM-Indore leaving him to take a tough call of choosing an institute. “I reached out all experts I had known till then seeking their guidance. Finally, I took a call to go for my MBA programme from IIM-Indore. I owe my performance in CAT to my three years of journey in IIM-Indore where I have learnt and understood the basics of management,” said Goyal, who will quit his five years and will be awarded a graduate degree. Reacting on PM Narendra Modi’s statement that IIMs can turn local into global while laying the foundation stone ceremony of IIM-Sambalpur in Odisha, he said, “The pandemic has made it certain that our the economy has to be ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ or self-reliant.” Aspiring to build his career in finance, Goyal feels that current CEOs, policymakers and future managers have to focus on vocal for local to tap the immense potential Indian business acumen offers. “Our biggest asset is our blooming human resource which would make us a global leader in the service and manufacturing sectors. Here I see my role as a manager who would assess the potential of local business and provide them assistance like funds, IT and market,” said Goyal. A resident of Bapu Nagar, he studied from St Xavier’s School and is a son of a retired government employee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ashwin-2nd-from-city-to-get-100-percentile-in-cat/articleshow/80087883.cms||Shoeb Khan
January 4, 2021||Nashik||State-wide rally to update farmers about farm laws||Nashik: The Sanyukta Kisan Morcha Maharashtra (SKMM), in order to make the farmers aware of the farm laws, has decided to take out an awareness rally from Mumbai to Nanded. The rally will begin from the Azad Maidan in Mumbai on January 6 and then move to all the districts in the state and will finally conclude in Nanded. “The farmers have been protesting in Delhi against the three farm laws that were introduced recently by the central government. Some political parties have extended their support to the agitating farmers, but the fact is that most of the farmers in the state and even a section of political representatives don’t know about the provisions in the bills,” Yogesh Rayate, coordinator of SKMM, said. “Hence, there is a need that farmers should know what are the rigid provisions in the new farm laws. There have been some provisions that are in favour of the contract farming companies,” said Rayate. Rayate went on to add that the Centre has fixed the Minimum Support Price (MSP) for some agricultural crops, but farmers are not getting the price as per the MSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/state-wide-rally-to-update-farmers-about-farm-laws/articleshow/80086078.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Kodandaram on hunger strike||Hyderabad: Telangana Jana Samithi president M Kodandaram on Sunday took up a 48-hour hunger strike with the slogan “save livelihood of teachers and others, save Telangana.’ The 48-hour deeksha of KOdandaram is being held at TJS party office near MJ Market. He demanded that the state government immediately fill up vacancies by coming out with a recruitment calendar, extend MSP to farmers, ensure that managements of private educational institutions pay salaries to the teachers and that the state withdraw LRS. Kodandaram charged chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao of making a complete U-turn on the farm laws of the BJP government at the Centre after meeting PM Modi in New Delhi. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kodandaram-on-hunger-strike/articleshow/80087861.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 4, 2021||Chennai||Chennai has more CCTV cameras per sqkm than London, Beijing||CHENNAI: Chennai leads the world in terms of CCTV camera density. The city has the highest number of CCTV cameras per sqkm according to a recent study of 130 populous cities in the world by virtual private network (VPN) service provider Surfshack. Chennai has 657 CCTV cameras per sqkm, which is followed by Hyderabad that has 480 per sqkm. Chennai, however, has lower number of CCTV cameras (2.8 lakh) overall when compared to Hyderabad (3 lakh), Beijing (10.1 lakh) and London (6.6 lakh), which feature in the top-10 cities in the world in terms of CCTV density. The number of CCTV’s per 1,000 people is also lower in Chennai (25) than the other cities in the top 10 except Delhi (14 per 1,000). The spurt in CCTV numbers in the city was in the past three years as part of the government’s ‘third eye’ campaign aimed to bring the entire city under CCTV cover. Chennai police have been advocating installation of CCTV cameras by roping in residents’ welfare associations (RWA), traders’ associations and business enterprises. “We encourage large companies to indulge in their CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) activity by providing CCTV cameras,” a senior police officer said. According to the official, CCTV cameras act as a deterrent and help in tracing suspects in chain-snatching cases. In August-September 2020, more than 60 snatchers have been tracked down by CCTV cameras. Chennai police commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal said CCTVs help in maintenance of law and order, and traffic. “Now there are only standalone cameras where we collect footage and use it in solving a crime. Soon a live streaming facility will be added and help in prevention of crime. A command-and-control centre will be established where we will be able to receive alerts whenever there is a fight happens or snatching,” he said. Residents have supported CCTV revolution. “It has made the public feel safer. Most countries are using CCTV cameras as a tool to keep crime in check,” said V Sandhya, a resident of Anna Nagar. However, several residents TOI spoke to said in some neighbourhoods, CCTV cameras are a showpiece and are not maintained by police. Aggarwal said chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has emphasised on the maintenance of these cameras and the state government has sanctioned funds. Though everyone agrees that CCTVs are important, privacy rights activists raise concerns over access to footage, backups, monitoring process and transparency over installation locations. Advocate Henri P Tiphagne from NGO People’s Watch said in a city with such high density of CCTV cameras, there are hardly any efforts to install them in police stations. Tortures in police stations haven’t reduced because. Secondly, what police don’t say is that all of these have been collated by businessmen, he said. “Once these cameras are installed in public places like roads, then it becomes public property. As a citizen of India, you and I should be able to access the footage,” said Tiphagne. (Inputs from Ram M Sundaram)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-has-more-cctv-cams-per-sqkm-than-london-beijing/articleshow/80086840.cms||Sindhu Kannan
January 4, 2021||Nagpur||596 city schools set to reopen today; 25 staffers +ve, 32% still untested||Nagpur: Around 32% staff including teachers and non-teaching employees in 622 schools within the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) limits are yet to be tested even as most of the schools from Std 9th to 12th are scheduled to reopen on Monday. Twenty-five teachers and non-teaching employees have been found positive in the RT-PCR testing being done in the wake of reopening in the last one week. All the 29 civic-run schools will open while 26 of the 593 other schools preferred to further defer their reopening. Some will start this week itself after getting Covid tests reports while others are so far unable to convince parents. NMC education officer Preeti Mishrikotkar told TOI that 6,391 school employees have been tested while around 3,000 are lined up. “All 391 NMC school employees have been tested. Results of 50 are awaited. Without a negative result, they won’t be allowed to hold classes or report to work,” she said. Four NMC teachers and its two non-teachers are among the 25 positive persons. District education officer Chintaman Vanjari said the 26 schools affiliated to different boards are yet to take a call. “We are trying to convince them but parents from some schools are still fearful. Even if one student comes, the school can start,” he said. The schools would be governed by November 10 circular issued by the state education department, which leaves the final decision with the managements. Schools in rural parts are successfully operating since December 14 and attendance has shot up by 65% since then. Vanjari said one student per bench, sanitization, use of masks and distancing are compulsory. “To avoid crowding, schools have been instructed to keep an interval of half an hour between each batch,” he said. Hence, if Std 9th students walk in at 8am, the next batch of Std 10th will join at 8.30 and so on. They would also leave in a similar time gap, Vanjari said. BKVV principal Chhaya Chaturvedi said they are starting from January 7 as the test results of staff members are awaited. “Entire school staff was tested by NMC Dharampeth zone team on Sunday. School was on vacation so it was not done before and as per norms latest test report is needed. As per guidelines, we have sanitized the premises, asked all to use masks, teachers would escort students to classes,” she said. School headmasters charitable association president (SCHA) Zafar Khan welcomed the move. “It was important for schools to reopen. Physical classes are must. Online classes has reached only 30%. As per a survey, very few students had access to high speed internet and smartphones. We had been requesting that board exams must be held only after physical classes. The management and school admin must take all precaution,” he said. Khan added that as teachers would get only three to four months for classes, 50% syllabus must be cut. “Only 25% syllabus has been reduced. But they have not cut chapters. We still demand 50% syllabus and deletion of some chapters otherwise it will consume more time. Government must take a call on syllabus revision in next 15 days as we will have to teach from the beginning,” he demanded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/596-city-schools-set-to-reopen-today-25-staffers-ve-32-still-untested/articleshow/80086848.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 4, 2021||Dehradun||Days before Haridwar Kumbh, dispute between seer body office bearers over Kinnar akhada||Haridwar: Days before the Kumbh mela is to begin in Haridwar, a dispute has erupted between the president and general secretary of the Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP), the apex body representing the 13 akhadas (sects of seers) in the country, over the Kinnar (transgender) akhada. ABAP president Mahant Narendra Giri has point-blank refused to recognise the Kinnar akhada as a legitimate akhada saying that there are only 13 akhadas which have been in existence since the time of Adi Shankracharya and no new akhada will be recognised. Meanwhile, Narendra Giri’s deputy, Mahant Hari Giri, who is general secretary of the ABAP has come out in support of the transgenders. He told mediapersons that Kinnar akhada is associated with the Juna akhada (of the Naga sadhus) and it has a long history. “We cannot deny its existence,” Hari Giri said, adding that he was even ready to quit from the post of general secretary of the akhada parishad over the issue. Kinnar akhada was formed in 2018 and in 2019, took part in the Prayagrag Kumbh. Since then, the akhada has been associated with the Juna akhada. Even during the Prayagraj Kumbh, Narendra Giri had refused to acknowledge the Kinnar akhada as a legitimate akhada. Meanwhile, Hari Giri said that during the Prayagraj Kumbh, he had assured the Kinnar akhada that he will support them. “I cannot break my promise to them. If need be, I can quit from the akhada parishad over this issue,” the ABAP general secretary said. Laxmi Narayan Tripathi, head of the Kinnar akhada, said that kinnars have always been an integral part of the Hindu community. “The akhada parishad president’s statements are unfortunate. Transgender seers from the Kinnar akhada are part of the Juna akhada and should be recognised,” Tripathi said. Meanwhile, other seers also expressed dissatisfaction at the ongoing dispute between the two prominent office bearers of akhada parishad and hoped that the matter will be resolved soon. Baba Hathyogi, former spokesperson of ABAP told TOI, “It is correct that there is no basis for creation of a new akhada in the form of Kinnar akhada. By giving the new akhada sanctity, Juna akhada is trying to create problems. This could have been avoided.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/days-before-haridwar-kumbh-dispute-between-seer-body-office-bearers-over-kinnar-akhada/articleshow/80085525.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Rajdhani engine catches fire, all passengers safe||Hyderabad: The engine of a Rajdhani Express train caught fire at near Nawandgi railway station in Basheerabad mandal in Telangana’s Vikarabad district on Sunday. The incident took place around 9.40pm when the loco pilot of the Delhi-Bengaluru passenger train saw smoke and fire emanating from the train’s engine and applied brakes, following which the passengers got off. There was no report of any casualties. “We have sent one fire tender to the spot from Tandur immediately. Prima facie, it could have happened due to a short circuit. As per the information, we received from the location, the fire is restricted to the engine,” said G Venu, duty officer, fire department. A relief train was sent to the spot. Flames were doused by separating the coaches from the engine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rajdhani-engine-catches-fire-all-passengers-safe/articleshow/80087885.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 4, 2021||Nagpur||Nasik SE devises plan to make wannabe netas pay their dues||Nagpur: Farmers are the biggest defaulters of MSEDCL as they collectively owe over Rs40,000 crore to the company. Now a MSEDCL official has devised a method to make those having political ambitions pay up. Unfortunately, this exercise is not being carried out across the state. Pravin Daroli, the superintending engineer of Nasik circle, is making the most of the coming gram panchayat elections to make farmers pay up. As per the Election Commission of India (ECI) norms, candidate for any election should not owe any amount to power and water agencies. In a letter to his subordinates, Daroli said that farmers desirous of contesting gram panchayat polls clear their residential bills but don’t mention the farm pump arrears in their affidavits. The SE therefore talked to the Nasik district collector and urged him to provide the names of candidates to all sub-divisional engineers of MSEDCL. The collector readily agreed. Daroli has instructed all executive engineers and sub-divisional engineers to find out whether the candidates owe anything to MSEDCL. Names of the defaulters should be passed on to the revenue department. The SE has informed the media about this exercise as a result of which candidates know that if they submit false claims that they don’t owe anything to MSEDCL they will be disqualified. Daroli is hoping to recover lakhs this way. When TOI contacted MSEDCL’s chief spokesperson to know whether this exercise was being carried out throughout the state, he said that directors were discussing it. Leniency towards farmers by former energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule caused MSEDCL dearly as its arrears increased from Rs14,000 crore in March 2014 to a whopping Rs51,000 crore in March 2020. As many people have not paid their power bills during the lockdown period, the figure rose by another Rs6,000 crore after March 2020. Sources in MSEDCL said that of the Rs14,000 crore, about Rs10,040 crore were owed by farmers. Similarly, of the Rs51,000 crore, about Rs40,160 crore were due to agricultural consumers. Bawankule had issued a blanket ban on disconnecting meters of farmers even if they owe lakhs to MSEDCL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nasik-se-devises-plan-to-make-wannabe-netas-pay-their-dues/articleshow/80099027.cms||Ashish Roy
January 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Kavitha: Centre for Savitribai||Hyderabad: TRS MLC Kalvakuntla Kavitha on Sunday urged Union women and child minister Smriti Irani to name one of the centres in the universities after social reformer Savitri Bai Phule. Kavitha tweeted: “@smritiirani ji .. On the 190th birth anniversary of social reformer Savithri Bai Phule, I sincerely request her name to be added to the list of eminent women chairs to be established.” In January 2020, the women and child development ministry had announced chairs to be set up at universities in the name of 10 eminent women personalities. The list however missed out on Savitribai Phule, one of India’s most eminent reformers. January 3, 2021 marked the 190th birth anniversary of Savitri Bai, on the occasion of which Kavitha called for honouring Savitribai. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kavitha-centre-for-savitribai/articleshow/80087892.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 4, 2021||Jaipur||Kota: 11 oxen being smuggled for slaughter rescued, 3 held||KOTA: Police rescued 11 oxen tightly packed in two vehicles which were allegedly being transported to adjoining Madhya Pradesh for slaughter and arrested three persons at Ambala Circle under Sarolakalan police station of the district on Sunday noon. The operation was carried out by a special team formed by Jhalawar SP Kiran Kang Siddhu to check illegal transportation activities in the district. According to police, the drivers attempted to accelerate the vehicle when they saw the barricades, but police personnel managed to stop them, SHO Raghuveer Singh told. On unsatisfactory response by the drivers, police searchedthe vehicles and found the cattle tightly packed, the SHO said, adding the 11 oxen were rescued and sent to a local cow shelter. Police seized the vehicles and arrested Maan Singh Tanwar, 25, of Rajgarh in MP, Mukesh Tanwar, 22, and Brijraj Meena, 23, both residents of Jhalawar district, he added. The three were booked under sections of Rajasthan Bovine Act. Preliminary inquiry revealed that the cattle were being illegally transported as MP has no law on bovine protection and illegal transportation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/11-oxen-being-smuggled-for-slaughter-rescued-3-held/articleshow/80087894.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Finish Yadadri temple: Minister||Hyderabad: Roads and Buildings minister Vemula Prashant Reddy on Sunday directed officials to expedite the works on Yadadri temple complex and also announced that efforts were on to ensure that 10 of the new integrated collectorate complexes are inaugurated by month-end. The minister held a review meeting with the R&B officials and enquired about the status of works on the main temple, pushkarini, kalyana katta, presidential suites, villas and the ring road works. “Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is committed to make Yadadri as a world class pilgrim centre. Speed up the works and ensure that presidential suites and 13 VVIP suites are completed by January-end. Pushkarini and Kalyana Katta also should be completed early for the convenience of pilgrims,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/finish-yadadri-temple-minister/articleshow/80087893.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 4, 2021||Nagpur||NMC vaccination plan at 33 UPHCs and clinics to hit regular patients||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has shortlisted 33 urban primary health centres (UPHCs) and health posts for the Covid-19 vaccination programme. It is likely to adversely affect regular patients, especially pregnant women who are totally depended on these centres. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B in a press conference held on January 1 had claimed 56 centres were finalized for vaccination programme. As per list of 56 centres available with the civic body, 26 are UPHCs and seven are health posts. On Saturday, the team of NMC had successfully conducted Dry Run of vaccination at KT Nagar UPHC. NMC employees on the condition of anonymity told TOI, “A large number of patients visits UPHCs and health posts daily. Each vaccination centre has to administer vaccine to 100 beneficiaries in a day. It took two hours for 25 dummy beneficiaries in Dry Run where vaccine was not actually administered. They were health care workers from the same centre. Sub-district hospital, Kamptee, took 3.5 hours. For 100, it will take at least five or more hours,” they said. According to the employees, UPHCs are having maximum three rooms which are required for vaccination programme. “A few UPHCs are having two rooms. Civic chief has directed to add one more room where two beds will be made available. Also, staff of UPHC will be engaged for vaccination programme. It is clear regular patients cannot be accommodated at that time,” they said. Health posts are small in size and located in interior areas. The Garib Nawaj Health Post in North Nagpur selected for vaccination programme has only one room. As per guidelines of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), three rooms are mandatory of which one for waiting room where identification will also be checked, other for vaccination and third for observation. Around 31,014 health care workers have registered for phase-I. On Sunday, minister of health and family welfare Dr Harsh Vardhan announced addition of front line workers in phase-I. Earlier, front line workers including officials, employees of NMC, police and security personnel of central and state agencies were supposed to be administered vaccine in phase-II. Now, the number is likely to cross 60,000 for phase-I. It will take over 10 days if considered vaccination of 100 beneficiaries at each of 56 centres. Despite availability of large number of community halls and schools, the NMC has selected one community hall located at Tajbagh and seven schools located at Narsala, Rani Durgawati Nagar, Hanuman Nagar, Keshav Nagar, Endalwadi, Ganeshpeth and Untkhana. In a silver lining the civic body has finalized 15 hospitals, out of which five are its Covid Hospitals — Indira Gandhi Rugnalaya, Isolation Hospital, Pachpaoli Maternity Home, Sadar and KT Nagar, Datke Memorial Dispensary, Daga Maternity Hospital, GMCH, IGGMCH, AIIMS, Kingsway, Kunal, Mulchand Memorial Hospital, Government Ayurvedic College and KDK Ayurvedic College. These hospitals have more rooms than required and other services like cold storage, beds for admission, parking, wash rooms, sufficient number of staff etc. NMC officials said directives have been given to assistant commissioners and zonal medical officers of all 10 zones to identify five schools and community halls in each zone. “Pulse polio drive is scheduled from January 17 to 22, so chances of rolling out Covid-19 vaccination before this are bleak. Till then, we will ready centres in compliance with all guidelines of MoHFW,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-vaccination-plan-at-33-uphcs-and-clinics-to-hit-regular-patients/articleshow/80086880.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 4, 2021||Dehradun||22-yr-old B Pharma student of Noida institute found dead in Auli||Dehradun: A 22-year-old student, who travelled with a group of friends from Noida to Auli on January 2 and went missing later in the day, was found dead in a jungle on Sunday evening. Udyot Sharma, a resident of Udhampur, Jammu and Kashmir, was a final year B Pharma student at a private institute in Noida. A group of five friends had left for Auli from Noida on January 1 to celebrate the New Year. They reached Joshimath the next day and went on a trek to Gurson Top. Udyot got separated from the group and could not be found. “Four of the men returned and lodged a missing complaint at the local police station. A team of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) left for Garson Bugyal but had to halt their search as night fell. The next day, they found his body at an isolated hill, around 6km uphill from Auli,” said Satendra Singh, in charge of Joshimath police station. Police suspect hypothermia to be the cause of death. Uttarkashi has received heavy snowfall in the past couple of days. “The body will be brought down to Joshimath and sent for post-mortem. The deceased’s parents have been informed,” police said. A similar incident had taken place around a year ago, when a 25-year-old resident of Greater Noida, Mayank Gupta, was found dead near a temple ahead of Auli in February 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/22-yr-old-b-pharma-student-of-noida-institute-found-dead-in-auli/articleshow/80085542.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 4, 2021||Dehradun||Kumbh Mela Police finds UP govt’s under-construction hotel encroaching on ‘shahi snan’ route, writes to administration||Haridwar: The Kumbh Mela Police has written to the mela administration, alleging encroachment on mela land by an under-construction hotel being built by the Uttar Pradesh government on the banks of Ganga in the Belwala area. Kumbh circle officer (CO) Prakash Deoli told TOI, “A portion of the hotel has been built on the ‘peshwai route’ of akhadas, which is used by akhada seers while returning from Ganga after the shahi snan (royal bath).” The route lies close to the 100-bed hotel named ‘Bhagirathi’ for which Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had laid the foundation stone in 2018. The encroachment came to light during a recent inspection. “Not only has the peshwai route been obstructed, we no longer have space to build a police check post, necessary to maintain law and order situation in the area,” said Deoli. Talking to TOI, Kumbh Mela tehsildar Manjeet Singh, who is responsible for land allotment, said, “I visited the site and asked the construction agency to stick to the norms and undertake the construction within the agreed limits. We have asked the Uttarakhand irrigation department to also look into the mattter.” The under-construction Bhagirathi Hotel is close to Alaknanda Hotel, also run by the Uttar Pradesh government. An employee of the Alaknanda Hotel, who did not wish to be named, said that the construction of the new hotel was being undertaken by the Uttar Pradesh Rajkiya Nirman Nigam Limited (UPRNNL). Efforts to contact officials of UPRNNL proved futile.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kumbh-mela-police-finds-up-govts-under-construction-hotel-encroaching-on-shahi-snan-route-writes-to-administration/articleshow/80085532.cms||MS Nawaz
January 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Chilkur head priest calls for installing a new Rama idol at Ramatheertham||Hyderabad: Priests of the Chilkur Balaji temple urged the Andhra Pradesh Endowment Department to install a new idol of Lord Rama at Ramatheertham in Vizianagaram district. M V Soundararajan, the head priest and also the convenor of the Temple Protection Movement, on Sunday, made a plea to the AP Endowment authorities, in a one-minute video message. He spoke to the temple priests of Ramatheertham and advised them to install a new lord Rama idol at the place of the old one. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chilkur-head-priest-calls-for-installing-a-new-rama-idol-at-ramatheertham/articleshow/80087920.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala police’s new division to focus exclusively on social schemes||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state police have formed a new division that will deal exclusively with socially relevant schemes of the state police. The division titled social policing directorate, will supervise, coordinate and guide the implementation of all socially-relevant schemes that are being run by the police. The division has been created with its headquarters at the state police headquarters, and there would be individual divisions under it in each of the police stations across the state. It would be through the new division that the police would accept sponsorships, doing joint initiatives with NGOs and other organizations. However, the government has instructed that for availing sponsorships for various programs planned to be undertaken by the police, the sponsorship conditions should be examined and pre-approved by the state police chief. Also, prior sanction from the government should be taken for availing and accepting partnerships with international agencies including with Unicef or other UN organizations, for better design and implementation of such partnership programs. “The idea is to consolidate all the social schemes undertaken by the police under a single umbrella so that it can be run under the same implementation procedure without being left to the whims and fancies of individual officials. We are also preparing a standard operating procedure for all such schemes,” state police chief Loknath Behera said. The police department has also appointed IG P Vijayan as the director of the new division. He will continue to hold the charge of social policing division, even though he has been transferred to Kochi as IG (coastal police). Beginning with the idea of Janamaithri police which marked the beginning of community policing initiatives that helped bridge the gap between the police and the public and ensured the participation of the public in policing matters, the state police have been running a range of initiatives that are part of social policing initiatives. Launched in 20 selected police stations in March 2008, the Janamaithri Suraksha Project has been implemented in all 481 police stations in the state at present. Further, a number of initiatives such as establishment of coastal vigilance committees, road safety programmes, various initiatives for senior citizens, women and children etc are being implemented by the police based on the philosophy, principles and practices of community policing. With the success of the Janamaithri project, more and more number of voluntary organizations with new initiatives are approaching the police. “In the long run, community policing will merge with the social policing division,” Behera said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/polices-new-division-to-focus-exclusively-on-social-schemes/articleshow/80086160.cms||KP Saikiran
January 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana reports 394 new Covid cases, three deaths||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Saturday recorded 394 cases of Covid-19 and three deaths with Greater Hyderabad continuing to report higher numbers. While the total count of cases so far in the state stands at 2,87,502, the death toll has gone up to 1,549. So far, a total of 2,80,565 patients have recovered from the coronavirus infection while there are 5,388 active cases currently under medical supervision. The active cases are on a decline in the state, and the numbers have come down from 6,590 a fortnight back. The recovery rate in the state stands at over 97%, comparatively to the country average of 96%. The case fatality rate (CFR) is constant at 0.53%. The country average CFR is currently 1.4%. On Saturday, a total of 40,190 samples were tested for the coronavirus. With this, Telangana has completed testing 69.9 lakh samples and has reached 1,87,842 sample testing per million population. GHMC recorded 81 new cases, followed by Rangareddy (36) and Medchal Malkajgiri (31).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-reports-394-covid-cases-three-deaths/articleshow/80087921.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Several loan takers still harassed; recovery agents get more brazen||HYDERABAD: On Saturday, when a loan recovery executive of an instant financing app sent a defaulter a WhatsApp message in Hindi saying “I have all your relatives’ contact numbers. I will create a WhatsApp group and then you will face problem if you don’t repay the loan”, the loan taker replied: “I already filed a complaint against you people in cyber crime for harassment”. Much to the loan taker’s shock, the recovery executive replied with a defiant “No problem”. Despite the Telangana police cracking down on organisers of instant financing loan apps who have been shaming the defaulters for the past 15 days, the organisers continue to press their employees to recover the loan amount by shaming the defaulters—both by making telephone calls and sending continuous messages. Now that the police have arrested 29 persons and shut down several call centres, the harassment has come down. But many still get phone calls threatening to humiliate defaulters, with little care for police action. Read AlsoLoan apps scam: Police stunned by the Rs 21,000 crore loan racketSleuths probing the countrywide illegal instant loan app case, involving Chinese national, Zhu Wei said four companies run by him carried out Rs 1.4 crore transactions worth nearly Rs 21,000 cr. The scale of the racket can be gauged from the fact that Rs 21,000 cr is a total loss that the domestic“I continue to get phone calls. They are constantly harassing me. It not just me, I know several others facing the same problem,” a female software engineer, who requested for anonymity, told TOI on Sunday. But of late, the representatives of instant loan apps have started offering concessions. “I applied for a loan of Rs 5,000. I was sanctioned Rs 3,200. As I failed to return it within a week, I was levied a penalty of Rs 835. On Saturday they sent a message saying that there is a discount and offered to waive off the penalty of Rs 800 and asked me to pay the pending Rs 5,000,” one loanee said. Read AlsoLoan apps scam: Chinese held at IGI before flightThe Telangana police on Wednesday arrested yet another Chinese national from Delhi in the illegal instant loan app case. He was picked up in dramatic fashion from Delhi airport minutes before he was to board a flight to Frankfurt on his way to Shanghai. His Indian colleague was arrested from Delhi.With many call centres being shut down by the police, loan takers suspect that employees of the apps are working from home and continue to follow up with loanees. Recovery agents are sending different web links and asking the loan takers to repay money. Read Also‘Debtors troubled by pvt banks’ recovery agents’KOCHI: The Kerala Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) has recorded 60 incidents from people who face threat and harassment from recovery agents who are employed by banks and nonbanking financial institutions (NBFCs) for recovering loans. The chamber stated that they received around 200 callsNow, instead of VOIP calls, recovery agents are directly making calls using regular mobile phone SIM cards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/several-loan-takers-still-harassed-recovery-agents-get-more-brazen/articleshow/80087933.cms||Srinath Vudali
January 4, 2021||Goa||Now, factory licences will be auto-renewed||Panaji: In line with the Centre’s push towards ease of doing business, the inspectorate of factories and boilers has introduced automatic renewal of factory licences for a year. It has also permitted industrial units to maintain digital registers and records instead of multiple registers as required earlier under the provisions of The Factories Act, 1948. The auto-renewals will be valid for a year and subject to a self-declaration from the industrial units and payment of the annual fees. Last October, Goa’s major industry bodies had moved a joint representation to the state government asking for reduction in compliance fees and withdrawal of the need for renewal of licences on an annual basis. Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) and Goa State Industries association had called on the government to find ways to “become more efficient” instead of adding additional compliances on an “already burdened industry”. Though the government disregarded the suggestion, the move towards automatic renewal of factory licenses will be seen as a step in the right direction. The move to digital records is based on the recommendations issued by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, ministry of commerce & industry under the business reforms action plan for states. The auto-renewal will be based on the closure of the findings of central inspection system-based inspection, evaluation of risk factors, payment of all fees and if there is no change in the functioning of the factory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/now-factory-licences-will-be-auto-renewed/articleshow/80087947.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Jaipur||‘Many institutes which got land at cheap rates in Rajasthan violated govt norms’||JAIPUR: After carrying out physical inspection of 139 land allotments provided to beneficiaries at concessional rates, Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) has sent the report to the state government. Following urban development and housing (UDH) minister Shanti Dhariwal’s directions, the survey was conducted by the civic body. The department has compiled details of all allotments to ensure that those given at concessional rates were not being misused for other purposes. An official said, “We have conducted the survey and there are approximately 15 defaulters including hospitals, education, religious and social institutes who are not adhering to the norms. Cases have been forwarded to the state government.” Officials claimed that many private hospitals, which are beneficiaries of concessional land, have failed to abide by the terms and conditions of providing free medication to 25% patients from Below Poverty Line (BPL) category. “As per a mandatory provision, private hospitals, which have been allotted land at concessional rates, have to provide free medication to 25% BPL patients. Moreover, it is compulsory to fix an hour and provide free medical check-ups to poor patients at the outpatient department (OPD). Similarly, 10% beds should be reserved for the poor. However, majority of the hospitals have failed to fulfil the terms and conditions. The issue was also raised in the state assembly when the Congress was in opposition,” an official said. Similarly, some educational institutes are not adhering to the norms. A source said, “The department will forward the land details to the departments concerned to crack a whip as allottees are misusing the land. A joint operation will be carried out soon after a state’s direction.” A senior UDH official said, “Directions were given to the local bodies to carry out a survey as in the past several complaints were received that many institutes are using the land for commercial purposes. Also, they have rented out the place which is against norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-sends-report-to-govt-after-conducting-survey-of-concessional-rate-land-allotments/articleshow/80086916.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Bareilly||First phase of UP vulture census to be held on January 15||PILIBHIT: The first phase of vulture census in UP will be held on January 15 by the UP State Biodiversity Board (UPSBB) and the Institute of Wildlife Sciences, Lucknow University. The one-day exercise will be conducted across all the districts by foresters, NGO representatives and volunteers with avian expertise. Amita Kanaujia, a professor in the department of zoology at Lucknow University who is playing a key role in the census, said, “In this phase, we will work on the mapping of vultures’ nests with their precise GPS (global positioning system) location and collect information of the number of eggs, chicks or juvenile vultures in the nests, the presence of the parent vultures and their exact activities at the time of access of the census team to the nest. The requisite printed data forms have already been sent to the teams concerned.” These teams underwent prior training in mapping vulture nests in September. The volunteers will be working in Etawah and Bundelkhand division and terai region, added Kannaujia. There are nine species of vultures in India and eight of these are found in Uttar Pradesh, including the Himalayan vulture, Slender billed vulture, Long billed vulture, White-rumped vulture Gyps indicus, King vulture and Egyptian vulture. Four have been categorized as ‘critically endangered’, one as ‘endangered’ and three ‘nearly threatened’ by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). Of these, the ‘Gyps Indicus’ and ‘Egyptian Vulture’ are found in Bundelkhand division and the terai arc landscape, she said. Vultures, nature's scavengers, once spanned the entire country. Today, they are in danger of becoming extinct. Their numbers began to dwindle rapidly in the early 1990s, said Kanaujia. This trend was evident in the two census reports of 2011 and 2015, which projected their population in UP at 2,088 and 1,900 respectively, said Kanaujia. The decline of vultures in India is attributed to diclofenac poisoning. This anti-inflammatory drug is widely administered to cattle and the bird feeds on its carcass, ingesting the drug with fatal consequences. The fall in vulture numbers is also due to road accidents, electrocution caused by high tension electric lines, loss of habitat due to human interference and acute food scarcity, she said. Pawan Kumar Sharma, member secretary of UPSBB, said the second and the final phase of the census will be conducted in March. Thereafter, a detailed and final report of vulture estimation will be made an integral part of the official record. A copy will be sent to the ministry of environment forest and climate change, Sharma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/1st-phase-of-up-vulture-census-to-be-held-on-jan-15/articleshow/80084786.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 4, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala govt now eligible to avail Rs 2,400-crore additional loan||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government completed the implementation of 213 reforms in various departments as stipulated by the Centre as part of ease-of-doing-business. It has made the state eligible for borrowing an additional 0.25% of the gross state domestic product (GSDP) from the market, above the borrowing cap of 3%. Given that GSDP of the state for 2020-21 is projected to be Rs 9,78,064 crore, the state is now eligible for availing an additional loan of approximately Rs 2,445 crore. Of the 213 reforms listed by the Centre in different departments, only 163 applied to the state. Reforms had to be undertaken in three areas — implementation of district-level business reform action plan (DBRAP), auto-renewal of seven services, and implementation of central inspection system (CIS). The task of undertaking these reforms in 21 departments under the ease-of-doing-business (EODB) programme was handed over to Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) which is the nodal agency for the initiative. Under DBRAP implemented in 21 departments, the reforms pertain to services like granting no-objection certificates, issuing permits for undertaking various activities, change of land use, providing approvals, etc. Seven services were to be given auto-approval for the renewal that included registration under the Shops and Establishments Act, 1960, license for a contract under the provision of the Contracts Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970, registration under the Factories Act, 1948, registration of establishment under the inter-state migrant workmen (RE and CS) Act, 1979, registration under the Legal Metrology Act, drug manufacturing license, selling and storage license and trade license issued by municipal corporations. The CIS had to be brought in labour department, department of factories and boilers, Kerala state pollution control board, department of legal metrology and local self-government department. The KSIDC team led by executive director N S K Umesh and supervised by managing director M G Rajamanickam ensured timely completion of the reforms. “The chief minister was constantly monitoring developments to ensure timely completion of reforms. We are now compiling documents from various departments to be submitted to the Centre,” Rajamanickam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-now-eligible-to-avail-rs-2400cr-additional-loan/articleshow/80086170.cms||KP Saikiran
January 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Tortured, woman clubs husband to death in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Unable to put up with the daily harassment by her husband, a housewife allegedly bludgeoned him to death at Keesara on Saturday night. The deceased was identified as Shyam, 25, a watchman from Nagaram in Keesara. Shyam along with his wife Saroja and their three-year-old daughter was staying in the shed on a 1,600 square yard plot for the past three years. “Shyam was working as a watchman of the plot owned by K Dasarath, a businessman. On Sunday morning, Srinivas Reddy, president of Babuji Nagar Colony in Keesara, called Dasarath and informed about the death of Shyam,” Keesara inspector J Narender Goud said. Police rushed to the spot and found Shyam lying dead on the floor of the house. “Saroja said Shyam used to beat her up every night in an inebriated condition. On Saturday night, he came home drunk and started beating her and her daughter. Saroja picked up a pestle and hit him on the head,” the inspector said. Police registered a murder case and shifted the body for post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tortured-woman-clubs-husband-to-death/articleshow/80087937.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Ludhiana||Man found dead, colleague unconscious at photo studio||Ludhiana: An employee of a photo studio was found dead and his colleague unconscious under mysterious circumstances on Kacha Malik Road in Jagraon on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Amandeep Singh Happy, 25, of Sawaddi Kalan village and his colleague as Amandeep Singh Aman of Cheema village in Hathur. Police said five youths, Rama, Sunny, Anand, Aman and Happy, went to sleep at a room on the first floor of the studio after working till late Saturday night. Of them, Ram, Sunny and Anand left for work on Sunday morning and Aman and Happy kept sleeping. Ram told cops that when he went to work at 7am, he called up the two and Happy was awake at the time. A cop said, “As it was Sunday, the son of studio owner Dinesh Arora came there late, around 12.45pm. On noticing foul smell emanating from the room, he went inside and saw foam coming out of the mouths of the duo. He then called up his father.”The two were taken to a nearby hospital, where doctors declared Happy dead. Aman was unconscious.Sadar Jagraon police have shifted the body of Happy to a government hospital for the post-mortem.Police said a CCTV installed in the room was being scanned. SHO inspector Nidhan Singh said the post-mortem report would ascertain the cause of Happy’s death.“We are waiting for Aman to gain consciousness to record his statement,” a cop said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-found-dead-colleague-unconscious-at-photo-studio/articleshow/80086164.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Pune||Pune: Schools reopen to fresh routine with masks, spacing and alternate days||PUNE: Schools have a schedule for the students of standards IX to XII with many arranging alternate day classes for each section to follow safety norms. As many as 66 schools in the city, including 44 run by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) education board, have received the nod to start schools from Monday. The schools were inspected for their preparedness by the civic body before they were allowed to open. Schools said with just four sections allowed to function, classrooms were sufficient to make the six-ft arrangement to follow social distancing norms while arrangement for drinking water was being made within the classrooms to restrict movement. Division-wise wash rooms have been allotted to check unnecessary movement in corridors. Postgraduate teacher at Army Public School (APS), Kirkee, Madhu Lalotra, said students will be called on alternate days, with standard X and XII on one day and standards IX and XI on the other “We have sufficient classrooms to accommodate the children with social distancing norms. Drinking water arrangement is provided in the classroom itself to restrict unnecessary movement in school corridors with washrooms allotted divisionwise,” she added. The APS, Kirkee, has divided school timings in two shifts 7.30am and 10.30am and 11.30am to 2.30pm. The intervening period from 10.30am to 11.30am will be utilized for classrooms, school premises and washroom sanitization for the next shift and as a break for the teaching staff. The GG International School has been gearing up for reopening of the school for the past few months. and as soon as the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) issued guidelines for the reopening, their academic and administrative team started planning. Principal Bharti Bhagwani, said the school has been training its administrative team for the past few months on monitoring movement and practising social distancing at workplaces. “We have also organised a comprehensive teacher training for our staff on January 2, which will take them through the entry-exit plan, movement of staff, workplace settings and other necessary compliances to follow to ensure a Covid safe environment.” Bhagwani said small groups of students (not more than five) will be working with teachers for revision and doubt clearing while the other groups will be segregated for conducting practicals in school. Vidya Pratishthan's Magarpatta City Public School conducted an online parent-teacher meeting and took queries from parents and students regarding safety measures. Principal of the school, Chandrika Banerjee, said, “Thermal screening, pulse oxymeter will test the students, teachers and other staff members every day. Instructions regarding safe entry and exit of teachers and non-teaching staff and students have been planned. Students will observe a distance of six feet while walking in the school and classrooms have been arranged in such a way that social distancing is maintained.” Director of City Pride School in Nigdi, Ashwini Kulkarni, said, “We are happy that schools will be alive once again. We have to accept the fact that some day, we have to make a start. Risks will be there and we have to mitigate them as much as possible. This is the message we have given to our teaching and non-teaching staff.” They have been sanitising the premises and conducting thermal scanning for the teachers. “We will have half the children coming to school on two days while the remaining half will come on the other two days,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/schools-reopen-to-fresh-routine-with-masks-spacing-and-alternate-days/articleshow/80086945.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 4, 2021||Jaipur||1,200 from Jaipur took part in Covaxin trial||JAIPUR: The city has played its part in getting India’s indigenous Covaxin by Bharat Biotech a major boost as the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Sunday gave his nod to the vaccine along with one developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University for restricted emergency use. Over 1,290 persons from Jaipur and nearby areas showed courage by taking part in the clinical trial of the vaccine being conducted at a private hospital in Jaipur. The phase-3 trial of the vaccine is still undergoing in the city and 1,290 persons have received the first dose of trial vaccine till Sunday. The government’s approval to the vaccine for restricted use has given impetus to the trial of the vaccine as more people are showing interest in taking part in it. “We are receiving calls from medical professionals showing interest in taking part in phase-3 trial of Covaxin. So far, politicians, beuracrats, medical professional, journalists and people from other walks of life have got the trial dose,” said Dr Manish Jain, principal investigator of the vaccine in Jaipur. He said the nod of DCGI has come as a mojor boost to the vaccine. “Since no major side effect of the vaccine has been seen, the DCGI has approved it as it is safe. We have also submitted the data of 1,000 persons who have been given the trial doses. Except some mild symptoms such as bodyache, headache and pain, no major side efforts have been seen. The report of 1,000 recipients of the trial dose has been submitted and we are continuing it further and till date 1,290 persons have received trial doses,” said Dr Jain. The trial of the vaccine had started on December 17. It is the first vaccine trial happening in the state. The volunteers will receive two doses of the trial vaccine 28 days apart. Good news, says Gehlot about vaccine Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday tweeted, “DCGI has given its nod to Serum Institute’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, which is a good news. Hoping that vaccination will soon be started in Rajasthan following the protocols.” Health minister Raghu Sharma tweeted, “In New Year, country has received a major good news. DGCI has approved two vaccines for emergency use. I hope that the vaccines will be made available to the people of the state soon. The state is fully ready for the vaccine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-plays-it-part-in-covaxin-trial/articleshow/80086946.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Jaipur||December Covid positivity rate below 5% in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: More than 8.53 lakh people in the state got tested for Covid in December out of which 40,180 were found infected. As a result, the positivity rate last month was just 4.70% while the overall state average from March till date stood at 5.81%. Expressing satisfaction with improving pandemic situation in the state, chief minister Ashok Gehlot has appealed to people not to be careless. “The pandemic is under control in the state. Recovery rate has touched 96.14%. Active cases have gone below 10,000. Mortality rate is less than 1%. Despite conducting tests by reliable RT-PCR method, the positivity rate remained below 5% last month. All these are good signs,” Gehlot tweeted. He also tweeted, “But it does not mean that we start becoming careless. If people just like earlier do not remain alert, the situation may get affected. In people recovered from Covid, the post-Covid complications have continuously been seen. Ignoring such complications may become cause of problems.” Active cases in the state remained at 8,491, which were 28,758 (all time high) on November 29. Since, then it has been decreasing at regular intervals. Though the situation is imporving, five persons died of the virus on Sunday while 502 others tested positive taking the casualty count 2,710 and infection numbers to 3,09,821. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (81), Kota (46), Jodhpur (36), Nagaur (34), Bhilwara (33), Ajmer (32), Jhalawar (27), Dungarpur (20), Sirohi (17), Udaipur (17), Bundi (16), Sikar (16), Chittorgarh (15), Rajsamand (14), Pali (12), Alwar (10), Banswara (9), Baran (8), Churu (6), Jalore (6), Jaisalmer (5), Bharatpur (5), Jhunjhunu (5), Karauli (5), Hanumangarh (5), Dausa (4), Barmer (4), Tonk (4), Pratapgarh (4), Bikaner (3), Sriganganagar (2) and Sawai Madhopur (1). Jaipur reported its 504th Covid-19 death, Jalore and Barmer 51st, Rajsamand 41st and Chittorgarh reported it 39th Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-positivity-rate-goes-below-5-in-the-state/articleshow/80086943.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Ludhiana||City’s space enthusiast father, daughter counter NASA’s claims||MOON TALKLudhiana: A team of three space enthusiasts—including a retired professor from the city, his daughter and brother—has claimed that the lunar lander Vikram and rover Pragyaan of ISRO’s Chandrayaan 2 mission were not reduced to tiny pieces of debris by crashing into the moon as claimed by NASA. In their findings published by International Journal of Research-Granthalayah’s December 2020 issue, the team suggests that Vikram had landed safely on the moon in a single piece and successfully released the rover on the lunar surface.“The rover had moved away from the lander by more than a kilometre during the past one year and three months since landing, indicating that it was functional,” the team’s findings published in the journal suggest. The team—led by Dr Hari Mohan Saxena, a retired professor of immunology from Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana, and Rishi Nagar resident—included his daughter Priyanka Saxena, a PhD scholar at IIT, Jodhpur, and his brother Jag Mohan Saxena, a retired banker based in Bikaner.The team members say they have no academic or professional background in space science and they investigated out of curiosity to crack the mystery of the lander that had lost contact with the mission control of ISRO on September 6, 2019, at an altitude of 2km from the lunar surface just before landing.The team leader says their finding published in the December 2020 issue of the International Journal of Research-Granthalayah challenges the prevailing notion of the disastrous end of Vikram and shows the first pictures of the intact lander as well as the rover.“This discovery confirms the success of Indian Chandrayaan 2 mission of ISRO in delivering the lander and the rover successfully on the south pole of the moon for the first time in the world,” the team says.Dr Hari Mohan Saxena says sifting through the voluminous imagery of the lunar surface taken by the lunar reconnaissance orbiter camera (LROC) of NASA displayed on the LROC website, Jag Mohan stumbled upon the image of an object that he intuitively believed to be the lander.“However, the image was hazy and its structural details were not clear. He then shared the image with me and I processed it further using Matlab software with the help of my daughter Priyanka. The dehazing and denoising of the image revealed the outline of the shape of the object clearly displaying some features identical to those of the lander,” says Dr Saxena, who attended two-and-a-half months training on an international space training programme from MIT in the United States of America in 1988. He adds, “On further exploration, I located the rover Pragyaan intact and in a single piece at a short distance from the lander. The lander had descended at some distance away from the scheduled landing site planned by ISRO. The images clearly speak about their identities and can be seen in the imagery posted on LROC website.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/citys-space-enthusiast-father-daughter-counter-nasas-claims/articleshow/80086173.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Excise sleuths seize 102kg ganja||Hyderabad: Prohibition and excise sleuths of Medak arrested four peddlers who were transporting 102 kilos of ganja from Visakhapatnam agency area to Mumbai. Ateam of excise sleuths—under the supervision of assistant prohibition and excise superintendent D Gayatri—conducted vehicle check at Zaheerabad town near Reliance Petrol bunk. The excise team intercepted a bike, a car, an auto rickshaw. According to Deputy commissioner of prohibition & excise, KAB Sastry, the accused—Rathod Venkat, 34, Kethavath Pandu Naik, 22, Rathod Moti Ram, 30 and Rathod Mohan, 26—purchased the contraband from Darakonda village in Visakhapatnam agency area. The value of the seized ganja is about Rs 15 lakh on the street. “We have intercepted the peddlers while they were transporting the ganja to Mumbai. They purchased it in Darakonda for Rs 3,000 a kilo to sell the same to Mumbai gang for Rs 9,000 a kilo,” excise inspector Mohan Kumar said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/excise-sleuths-seize-102kg-ganja/articleshow/80087945.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Seized ganja often destroyed with court permission||HYDERABAD: As part of crackdown against drug peddling, law enforcement agencies have seized over 8,000 kilos of ganja in the city in 2020. After storing the seized contraband at the designated facilities as per court’s directions, the law enforcement agencies have been often going for pre-trial disposal of the narcotic substances. Amongst the law enforcement agencies, maximum amount of ganja was seized by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) sleuths. The central agency seized over 5,000 kilos of ganja in the city. Most of the ganja DRI teams seized was being transported from Visakhapatnam Agency area to Maharashtra and north Indian states like Uttar Pradesh. The DRI has a designated storage space in the city to keep the seized contraband and other items in safe custody. “After we produce the seized ganja before the court, we get directions to keep it in safe custody. It is stored in the designated storage facility at Basheerbagh customs office premises. The facility is under CCTV surveillance and records are maintained,” said a DRI official. Subsequently, after drawing samples of the seized contraband in the presence of the court and getting FSL test results for the same, the investigating agency files a plea before court. The stored ganja will be destroyed after obtaining permission from the court. “When I was posted at an excise station in erstwhile Rangareddy district, our team had seized 110 kilos of ganja. As per court’s directions, it was kept in the safe custody at the store in the excise station. In a span of six months, rats destroyed the entire seized contraband and the covers,” said an excise official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/seized-ganja-often-destroyed-with-court-permission/articleshow/80087941.cms||Mahesh Buddi
January 4, 2021||Pune||Half a term later, senior students eager to join classroom learning||PUNE: After nearly seven months, most students of standards IX , X, XI and XII are excited to hit the classrooms from Monday. With all precautions in mind and practice, students said the starting of physical classes had added vigour to their preparations for the board exams and clearing doubts would now be easier for them. Shubham Bumb, a standard IX student from a state board school, said he was preparing for the foundation to the board exams now and when teachers teach in classrooms, the impact is different in understanding concepts. “The efforts have been great by our school teachers in the virtual method as well, but it's the compatibility that is not perfect even after six months. So, even if it is with a bit of risk, we are excited to go back to classrooms and learn traditionally,” he said. Another student of standard IX, Ashika Agarwal, said she had missed her school friends all this while and apart from getting back to the classrooms, she was more happy that she could meet friends and get back to their normal routine. “There are some norms that we need to follow and we have decided among the classmates that there should not be any hindrance in the classroom sessions so each one will follow all safety precautions judiciously,” she said. Not All Are In Bhushan Mandke, a standard XII student, said he lives in an area which was in a containment zone for a long period. “There may still be a risk of infection so we carry our daily routine with a lot of caution especially because it is a crucial year for me. I am also preparing for the IIT entrance exam and I do not want to waste a single day with our preparation. So, my parents have not given the consent to send me to school yet. We will take a decision as the days progress after gauging the situation,” he said. Sharanya Choudhri, another standard X student, said she was happy to go back to school, but still had a cloud of doubt about cases erupting within the school. “The students come from different areas and will be travelling from various locations. The infection is still around though the rate of positive cases is low. Even if there is one case found in schools, then a lot of efforts taken by the school management, teachers, students and parents will be wasted. But, if we think positively, starting classroom sessions is always a good idea,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/half-a-term-later-senior-students-eager-to-join-classroom-learning/articleshow/80086956.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 4, 2021||Jaipur||Transport dept to make most processes online||Jaipur: The transport department has decided on a nearly ‘no human policy’ and is of the opinion that most permissions must be sought online.The department is even deliberating to issue learning licence online to avoid overcrowding. “Gradually, we will be digitalising the procedures followed by the department as it would ensure that people do not have to keep flocking to the offices. The pandemic has also emphasised this need as it is the time of social distancing and avoiding crowded places,” said an official of the transport department.The state transport department has also incurred losses due to the lockdown and is trying contemporary methods to ensure that more number of people can use its facilities to generate revenue.Elaborating further on the initiatives, the official added, “We are planning on making learning licence also online. When a person applies for a learning licence, he/she has to give a written examination for which there is no requirement to go to the office and the person can go just once when the driving test has to be given. The written exam can be given online.”The department is also conducting automated driving test track trial and unlike conventional driving tests where applicants are required to drive on a straight road and examined by a motor inspector, the automated test track simulates tougher driving conditions that assess an applicant’s driving skills. There is no human intervention in the tests. They are fully computerised and the slightest deviation is caught by sensors. Failure to clear any of these tests within the stipulated time means the applicant has to reappear. Officials claimed that with this track, the middlemen will have no role to play anymore and also there will no corruption along with the fact that a person would not be able to cheat in the test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/transport-dept-to-make-most-processes-online/articleshow/80086924.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Udaipur||MP man held with pistol in Udaipur for planning to kill lover||UDAIPUR: Acting on a tip-off, Udaipur police on Saturday arrested a man hailing from Madhya Pradesh (MP) who was found roaming around with a pistol inside his clothes with an intention to kill his girlfriend over break-up. The accused has been identified as Krishna Singh (28) alias Kana, son of Bhanwar Singh, a resident of Neemuch in MP. When cops took Singh into custody and asked about the reason for carrying the weapon, the accused said that he planned to kill his girlfriend who had broken up with him and her family had lodged an eve-teasing case against him in a police station. The Goverdhan Vilas police received an information about a man who had a pistol and was in lookout for bullets. Cops nabbed Singh who was riding a scooter on the Udaipur-Ahmedabad Highway near South Extension area. The police found the pistol hidden inside his jacket and arrested him under the Arms Act. IPS (probationary) Jitendra Singh Rathore said the accused had no criminal record. He told the police that after his father’s death in 2009, he came from MP looking for a livelihood in Udaipur and lived with a relative here. Later, he began a mobile repairing shop in Hiran Magri Sector-11 area. A school going girl from the neighbourhood became his friend and gradually they developed feelings for each other, Rathore said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/mp-man-held-with-pistol-for-planning-to-kill-lover/articleshow/80087946.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Ajmer||December Covid positivity rate below 5% in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: More than 8.53 lakh people in the state got tested for Covid in December out of which 40,180 were found infected. As a result, the positivity rate last month was just 4.70% while the overall state average from March till date stood at 5.81%. Expressing satisfaction with improving pandemic situation in the state, chief minister Ashok Gehlot has appealed to people not to be careless. “The pandemic is under control in the state. Recovery rate has touched 96.14%. Active cases have gone below 10,000. Mortality rate is less than 1%. Despite conducting tests by reliable RT-PCR method, the positivity rate remained below 5% last month. All these are good signs,” Gehlot tweeted. He also tweeted, “But it does not mean that we start becoming careless. If people just like earlier do not remain alert, the situation may get affected. In people recovered from Covid, the post-Covid complications have continuously been seen. Ignoring such complications may become cause of problems.” Active cases in the state remained at 8,491, which were 28,758 (all time high) on November 29. Since, then it has been decreasing at regular intervals. Though the situation is imporving, five persons died of the virus on Sunday while 502 others tested positive taking the casualty count 2,710 and infection numbers to 3,09,821. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (81), Kota (46), Jodhpur (36), Nagaur (34), Bhilwara (33), Ajmer (32), Jhalawar (27), Dungarpur (20), Sirohi (17), Udaipur (17), Bundi (16), Sikar (16), Chittorgarh (15), Rajsamand (14), Pali (12), Alwar (10), Banswara (9), Baran (8), Churu (6), Jalore (6), Jaisalmer (5), Bharatpur (5), Jhunjhunu (5), Karauli (5), Hanumangarh (5), Dausa (4), Barmer (4), Tonk (4), Pratapgarh (4), Bikaner (3), Sriganganagar (2) and Sawai Madhopur (1). Jaipur reported its 504th Covid-19 death, Jalore and Barmer 51st, Rajsamand 41st and Chittorgarh reported it 39th Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/covid-positivity-rate-goes-below-5-in-the-state/articleshow/80090844.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Jodhpur||December Covid positivity rate below 5% in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: More than 8.53 lakh people in the state got tested for Covid in December out of which 40,180 were found infected. As a result, the positivity rate last month was just 4.70% while the overall state average from March till date stood at 5.81%. Expressing satisfaction with improving pandemic situation in the state, chief minister Ashok Gehlot has appealed to people not to be careless. “The pandemic is under control in the state. Recovery rate has touched 96.14%. Active cases have gone below 10,000. Mortality rate is less than 1%. Despite conducting tests by reliable RT-PCR method, the positivity rate remained below 5% last month. All these are good signs,” Gehlot tweeted. He also tweeted, “But it does not mean that we start becoming careless. If people just like earlier do not remain alert, the situation may get affected. In people recovered from Covid, the post-Covid complications have continuously been seen. Ignoring such complications may become cause of problems.” Active cases in the state remained at 8,491, which were 28,758 (all time high) on November 29. Since, then it has been decreasing at regular intervals. Though the situation is imporving, five persons died of the virus on Sunday while 502 others tested positive taking the casualty count 2,710 and infection numbers to 3,09,821. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (81), Kota (46), Jodhpur (36), Nagaur (34), Bhilwara (33), Ajmer (32), Jhalawar (27), Dungarpur (20), Sirohi (17), Udaipur (17), Bundi (16), Sikar (16), Chittorgarh (15), Rajsamand (14), Pali (12), Alwar (10), Banswara (9), Baran (8), Churu (6), Jalore (6), Jaisalmer (5), Bharatpur (5), Jhunjhunu (5), Karauli (5), Hanumangarh (5), Dausa (4), Barmer (4), Tonk (4), Pratapgarh (4), Bikaner (3), Sriganganagar (2) and Sawai Madhopur (1). Jaipur reported its 504th Covid-19 death, Jalore and Barmer 51st, Rajsamand 41st and Chittorgarh reported it 39th Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/covid-positivity-rate-goes-below-5-in-the-state/articleshow/80090843.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Udaipur||December Covid positivity rate below 5% in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: More than 8.53 lakh people in the state got tested for Covid in December out of which 40,180 were found infected. As a result, the positivity rate last month was just 4.70% while the overall state average from March till date stood at 5.81%. Expressing satisfaction with improving pandemic situation in the state, chief minister Ashok Gehlot has appealed to people not to be careless. “The pandemic is under control in the state. Recovery rate has touched 96.14%. Active cases have gone below 10,000. Mortality rate is less than 1%. Despite conducting tests by reliable RT-PCR method, the positivity rate remained below 5% last month. All these are good signs,” Gehlot tweeted. He also tweeted, “But it does not mean that we start becoming careless. If people just like earlier do not remain alert, the situation may get affected. In people recovered from Covid, the post-Covid complications have continuously been seen. Ignoring such complications may become cause of problems.” Active cases in the state remained at 8,491, which were 28,758 (all time high) on November 29. Since, then it has been decreasing at regular intervals. Though the situation is imporving, five persons died of the virus on Sunday while 502 others tested positive taking the casualty count 2,710 and infection numbers to 3,09,821. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (81), Kota (46), Jodhpur (36), Nagaur (34), Bhilwara (33), Ajmer (32), Jhalawar (27), Dungarpur (20), Sirohi (17), Udaipur (17), Bundi (16), Sikar (16), Chittorgarh (15), Rajsamand (14), Pali (12), Alwar (10), Banswara (9), Baran (8), Churu (6), Jalore (6), Jaisalmer (5), Bharatpur (5), Jhunjhunu (5), Karauli (5), Hanumangarh (5), Dausa (4), Barmer (4), Tonk (4), Pratapgarh (4), Bikaner (3), Sriganganagar (2) and Sawai Madhopur (1). Jaipur reported its 504th Covid-19 death, Jalore and Barmer 51st, Rajsamand 41st and Chittorgarh reported it 39th Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/covid-positivity-rate-goes-below-5-in-the-state/articleshow/80090842.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Pune||Only 10% of buses & vans likely to hit streets for transporting pupils in Pune||PUNE: Even as physical classes are set to restart for Standard IX to XII students from Monday, the school bus operators believe that it will not bring an end to their financial woes. Members of the Pune bus owners’ association said less than 10% of the vehicles carrying students, which includes both buses and vans, were expected to ply from Monday. They said a majority of the bus owners will keep their vehicles non-operational. “How does one expect us to ply the vehicles when there is not even a single query from any of the parents or the schools? Even if we resume operations for some students, we cannot recover the costs incurred,” Sachin Panchmukh, who owns a fleet of 10 school buses, told TOI. Panchmukh said he hadn’t received any any queries from parents or schools to resume operations till Sunday afternoon. “If the schools were interested, they would have contacted me already. And even if they do, it will not be a profitable affair for us. We generally tend to ply in three shifts to meet breakeven. With Standard IX to XII to start, we are looking at very less students and recovering costs would be difficult for us,” he added. Rajan Junawane, vice-president of the Pune bus owners’ association, said, “The city has close to 4,500 school buses and vans. As per our calculations, not more than 450 vehicles will be plying from Monday. The lack of enthusiasm is understood as senior students usually get to schools in their personal vehicles and bicycles and demand is likely to be minimal.” Rohan Kadam, a resident of Kondhwa, who will start going to school from Monday, said his father recently bought him a bicycle. “I will cycle to the school as it is not very far away from my home,” he said. Raju V Latamble, who owns one among the biggest fleet of school buses in Pune, said, “School with their own bus and van fleet might start plying from Monday. But for us transporters who are in agreement with the schools, the bad days have not ended.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/only-10-of-buses-vans-likely-to-hit-streets-for-transporting-pupils/articleshow/80086988.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 4, 2021||Jaipur||PM Narendra Modi condoles death of Brijraj Singh||JAISALMER: Prime Minister Narendra Modi has expressed condolences by sending a message to the scion of Jaisalmer royal family Chaitanyaraj Singh on the demise of his father and erstwhile ruler of Jaisalmer Brijraj Singh. Brijraj Singh breathed his last on December 28 at Medanta Hospital in Delhi. Apart from Modi, chief minister Ashok Gehlot, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, former chief minister Vasundhara Raje and the Bhutto family from Pakistan and others have expressed condolences by sending messages and through Twitter. Apart from this, the former ruler’s in-laws, who are members of the royal family of Nepal, reached Jaisalmer to convey their grief. Rajeshwari Rajya Lakshmi, wife of Brijraj Singh, shared the condolence message of the Prime Minister on the social media page of the royal family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pm-condoles-death-of-brijraj-singh/articleshow/80087955.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Hyderabad||90 UK flyers skip Covid test, Telangana government scrambles to trace them||HYDERABAD: Nearly 90 UK returnees, out of the 1,216, who had returned to the state between December 9 and December 22 have evaded getting tested for Covid-19. These passengers have been on the radar of state authorities because of the possibility of them carrying the UK strain of the virus. The returnees have been giving the slip to health authorities by making excuses and evading calls. Many are even leaving home when surveillance teams reach their houses. Sources in the surveillance teams say they have been trying to find these tough nuts for over a week. “In many cases, some of the returnees kept their mobiles switched off. Others spoke in different languages to convince us the number was a wrong number. After many attempts, we were able to take samples of majority, but there are still those making excuses,” said a surveillance team member, adding the primary excuse given is that they are in some other state or holidaying. Some even say they are in Tirupati. Putting up strong resistance, some say that they had tested negative before flying out of the UK and that they doubt the local testing abilities. “We had to discharge many of the 21 returnees who had tested positive in two to three days as they were not cooperating with the hospital staff. One person refused to give a sample for genome sequencing. We are involving police in some cases,” said a health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/90-uk-flyers-skip-test-govt-scrambles-to-trace-them/articleshow/80087961.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 4, 2021||Kochi||New farm laws: Indefinite sathyagraha in Kerala to back farmers||PALAKKAD: Various organizations of farmers have decided to go on an indefinite sathyagaha in solidarity with the agitating farmers in Delhi against the Centre’s new farm laws. The protest will be inaugurated by P T John, south Indian coordinator of Rashtriya Kisan Maha Sangh at Palakkad collectorate at 9.30am on Monday. The farmers will also take out a march from the Martyrs Column of Fort Maidan to the collectorate, demanding that the central government withdraw the three agriculture marketing laws recently passed in Parliament as they will harm the interests of farmers in the country. Meanwhile, the tractor march taken out by Mar Thoma Yuvajana Sakhyam (MTYS), the youth department of the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church concluded in Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday. The march began from Kottayam on January 1 in solidarity with the agitating farmers in Delhi. Around 120 persons took part in the march. The tractor march was featured by candlelight protests at junctions where the members rested for night. The march concluded in front of Raj Bhavan. MLA V S Sivakumar, Janadhipathya Kerala Congress leader Antony Raju were present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/indefinite-sathyagraha-to-back-farmers/articleshow/80086192.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Ludhiana||16 returnees from UK are not infected with Covid-19||LUDHIANA: Here is some good news for the district. Sixteen out of 17 UK returnees have tested negative for Covid-19. And the latest report of the positive patient, too, has come negative. However, the report of her virus genome sequencing is awaited. It will confirm whether she was infected with the new virus strain in the UK or the one prevalent here. The health department officials said of the 18 passengers from the UK, including 16 Ludhianvis, samples of 17 were collected. Twelve were high-risk travellers sitting in close proximity to the positive patient—a 35-year-old woman —in the UK-Amritsar plane. Their sampling was done after the local health authorities managed to trace them. “The 16 UK returnees, who have tested negative, include those from Jagraon, Sidhwan Bet, Hathur and Manupur. The antigen test report of a woman UK returnee, who has returned to Pilibhit, Uttar Pradesh, has come negative. But we will consider her as non-infected only after her RT-PCR report confirms it,” said a health department officer. He added that although they had been tested at the airport, their sampling was necessary, as the incubation period of the virus can go up to 14 days. “All the returnees are in home quarantine. The patient who had tested positive is still admitted to Covid care centre of civil hospital,” the officer said. District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat confirmed that 16 UK returnees of Ludhiana have tested negative. “The report of the RT-PCR test conducted on the 11th day (January 1) on the Covid-19 positive woman came negative on Saturday,” he added. The officer said her samples would be taken twice after an interval of 24 hours each. “She will be consider not infected if the two other reports, too, come negative. Her Covid-19 genome sequence report is expected this week,” he added. The health department officials said after discharged from the hospital, the patient, whose condition was stable, may have to undergo home quarantine. The virus genome report, which was expected from a Pune laboratory this week, would make it clear whether she had been infected with the new mutated strain that is 70% more infectious or with the one already prevalent here. She was shifted to the Ludhiana civil hospital on December 26 after testing positive at the Amritsar airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/16-returnees-from-uk-are-not-infected-with-covid-19/articleshow/80086177.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 4, 2021||Bareilly||Workshops for 820 SHGs on sugarcane seedling producers to begin from Jan 15||Pilibhit: More than 9,000 women entrepreneurs engaged in sugarcane seedling production through as many as 820 self-help groups (SHGs) will be given training on the application of scientific methods in growing sugarcane seedling nurseries from January 15 under Mission Shakti for the spring season of sugarcane sowing.Additional chief secretary, sugarcane and sugar industry, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy has given directions to district cane officers across the state to complete all necessary preparations for the training in time.According to Bhoosreddy, the workshops will be conducted in 36 sugarcane-dominant districts of UP under 169 sugarcane development council areas.Bhoosreddy said the women entrepreneurs had so far developed a capacity to grow 3.71 crore seedlings and had generated Rs 9.87 crore during the previous sowing period by selling as many as 3.29 crore seedlings for gap filling in sugarcane fields.“We are striving to increase the growing capacity of the SHGs by providing them better facilities and promoting new women groups before the forthcoming sowing period,” said Bhoosreddy. The programme was launched to ensure the rural women with income generation point, to embellish their skills and to develop the spirit of entrepreneurship in them, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/workshops-for-820-shgs-on-sugarcane-seedling-producers-to-begin-from-jan-15/articleshow/80084791.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 4, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Govt contractors cry foul as Kerala Bank denies loans||Thiruvananthapuram: Government contractors’ association has alleged that the newly-formed Kerala Bank is denying loans to government contractors, and it has pushed the contractors into crisis. According to the association, the bank has taken an unofficial decision that government contractors need not be considered seriously for sanctioning loans, as they delay repayments. Because of this decision, hundreds of small-time government contractors have landed up in crisis, the association said. The association stated that it is natural that there would be natural delay in completion of government’s constructions, thereafter completing the paper-works, producing the bill and getting the payments released. But for undertaking the government’s works, the support of government’s institutions is also required. It said that once the payment is received, the loans are repaid. Denying loans in the name of delayed payments are unjustifiable, the association said. The association said that the main reason for the crisis is that government contractors are treated like other traders, and cannot repay loans on a daily or a monthly basis. The constructions in the country are a continuous process and if it has to continue seamlessly, the banks have to provide loans. If loans are denied to the contractors, it would adversely affect the constructions in the public sector, the association said. It further said that this unofficial ban on loans is a major hit to construction in public sector that is reeling under Covid-19 and the lockdown following it. With the demand to make the Kerala Bank more contractor-friendly, the association has decided to approach the chief minister and the cooperation minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-contractors-cry-foul-as-kerala-bank-denies-loans/articleshow/80086201.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Patna||JD(U) does not need RJD support, NDA intact in Bihar: RCP||PATNA: The ruling JD(U) on Sunday asserted that it did not need any support from RJD as the NDA in Bihar was intact and the party under the leadership of chief minister Nitish Kumar would move ahead on its own. Reacting to the statements made frequently by the RJD leaders suggesting Nitish to come back to the grand alliance (GA) and they will support him as the prime ministerial candidate in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, JD(U) national president RCP Singh said, “We have our own strength and the party will march ahead under the able leadership of CM Nitish Kumar, who is a leader of big stature. Who is saying what is immaterial for us.” The RJD has been trying to woo Nitish in the wake of a severe jolt received by JD(U) when its ally BJP merged six of its 7 MLAs into its fold in Arunachal Pradesh recently. Singh said, “We have not approached anybody for support. JD(U) doesn’t need support from the RJD.” The JD(U) chief’s statement came a couple of days after former CM Rabri Devi said the RJD top leadership may consider Nitish’s comeback to the GA. She, however, clarified that the matter would be discussed by the top functionaries of the party. Earlier, RJD leader Uday Narayan Choudhary had made a similar statement. In reply to a query, Singh said the coronavirus vaccines would be administered to the people of the state free of cost. “JD(U), in its ‘Saat Nischay Part II’, had promised this. Preparations are underway to accomplish the task,” he said. When told about former CM of Uttar Pradesh Akhilesh Yadav’s statement that the vaccines were of the BJP, he said the vaccines were not developed by any political party but by researchers of the medical science to check the virus. “The vaccines have nothing to do with any caste or religion. It’s for humanity. There shouldn’t be politics on vaccines,” he said, adding that the state government would ensure that the vaccines were administered to the people without any hassle. The Rajya Sabha member, however, claimed that the health services in the state were better than in the USA as far as Covid-19 pandemic is concerned. “The mortality rate in the state is far less than in the USA,” he asserted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-does-not-need-rjd-support-nda-intact-in-bihar-rcp/articleshow/80086204.cms||Ramashankar
January 4, 2021||Ludhiana||Relief for residents as Railways resumes some trains to Delhi||Ludhiana: In a partial relief to the city residents, especially businessmen facing difficulties in travelling to Delhi and beyond in the wake of farmers’ agitation, several trains have resumed. These were earlier not running due to the blocking of tracks near Amritsar. The resumed trains are being run by bypassing Jandiala (where tracks are still not clear) and diverted to and from Amritsar station via Tarn Taran. Vande Bharat Express, the fastest train between Ludhiana and Delhi that runs between Shri Mata Vaishno Devi, has also resumed from January 1 and is drawing a good response due to cancellation of both Shatabdi Express trains that ran in the morning and evening between Amritsar and Delhi via Ludhiana. Businessmen are demanding that railways should resume all the trains by using the diversion or short terminate and originate them at Ludhiana. Giving a lowdown on trains on Amritsar track that will operate from Monday via Ludhiana, a spokesperson of the railways said, “Due to farmers’ agitation in Punjab, several trains to and from Amritsar still remain cancelled and short terminated at Delhi and Chandigarh. But five are scheduled to run on this route on Monday and will operate via diversion. Train number 02904 Amritsar-Mumbai Central, train number 04650 Amritsar-Jay Nagar, train number 02026 Amritsar-Nagpur and train number 02926 Amritsar-Bandra Terminus will be diverted via Amritsar-Tarn Taran-Beas instead of Amritsar-Jandiala-Beas.”The Vande Bharat Express for Delhi has become popular and there is a waiting list for Sunday and Monday. Nitin Sharma, executive member of Auto Parts Manufacturers’ Association, said, “Resumption of several trains, especially Vande Bharat Express, is a good step as travelling to Delhi by road during the farmers’ agitation and foggy weather is not preferable. Trains are the most reliable medium to travel. But due to limited trains running, there is a fight for tickets. For Vande Bharat Express, I was unable to get a ticket for Sunday, so I had to change my travel plans and booked one for Monday, for which too I am in the waiting list.”Jagbir Singh Sokhi, president of Sewing Machine Development Club, said, “We are thankful to the railways for resumption of some trains. But it is surprising that trains, like both Shatabdi Expresses, Sachkhand Express, Rajdhani Express and Duronto Express, that are most sought after due to their speed are still suspended. When there is no blockage on tracks except at one spot in Punjab, then why is the railways hesitating from running these trains? When a few trains can be diverted via Tarn Taran then what’s the harm in doing the same for others as well and regularise the movement on the Amritsar track.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/relief-for-residents-as-railways-resumes-some-trains-to-delhi/articleshow/80086189.cms||Mohit Behl
January 4, 2021||Pune||One held for abusing cops in Bhosari||PUNE: The Bhosari police on Saturday arrested a 59-year-old man for abusing and pelting stones at two policemen on Dighi Road in Bhosari. “The arrested man, Prakash Shinde of Chakan, threatened the policemen saying that he had contacts and he would transfer them to Gadchiroli,” N J Talwade, sub-inspector of the Bhosari police, told TOI. Talwade said on Friday around 10.30pm, the police control room received a call about the man. Police marshal Uttam Bhatane and his colleague tried to prevent him, but the suspect abused Bhatane, threatened and pushed him and his colleague, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-held-for-abusing-cops-in-bhosari/articleshow/80087015.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Bareilly||Two Dalit among five booked under anti-conversion law in Shahjahanpur||BAREILLY: Five people, including two Dalit men, were booked under appropriate sections of the UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance for allegedly “pursuing" a man for converting to Christianity in UP’s Shahjahanpur. An FIR was lodged after right-wing activists claimed to have caught them with a musical keyboard, a portable sound system and a Bible when they were reciting prayers at the house of one of the accused in Kanshiram Colony in Shahjahanpur city. The man who was "asked" to adopt Christianity alleged that he was among nearly 15 people who were "lured with a job and a house" for changing their religion. Two accused named in the FIR hail from Tamil Nadu, but they have been living in Shahjahanpur, at present, said police. The accused claimed that they were only propagating the Bible’s message, but police "overlooked their statements". Shahjahanpur senior superintendent of police S Anand has, meanwhile, ordered a probe into the matter. “An FIR has been registered under the new law. We have not arrested the accused, as they don’t appear to have the capacity to fulfil the promise of a job and house as mentioned in the complaint. Based on the investigation report, we will take further action. Meanwhile, police are keeping a tab on the accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-dalit-among-five-booked-under-anti-conversion-law-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/80085617.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 4, 2021||Ludhiana||Hired 5 days ago, help flees with cash, jewellery||Ludhiana: Hired five days ago without police verification, a domestic help escaped with Rs 6 lakh, gold and diamond jewellery from a house in Sarabha Nagar on January 1. The house owner was not at home when the accused, along with his accomplices, executed the theft. The police registered a case against the help, Rahul, and his two unidentified accomplices on Sunday. Suresh Rana, 46, a hosiery unit owner, said in his police complaint, “My wife had gone to a relative’s house in Delhi and I, along with our children, was at home. As I was in need of a domestic help, I asked gardener Lalit Prasad, who works in our locality, to find one. On December 25, the gardener sent a help, a 14-year-old boy, to my house. As I was not satisfied with his work, I asked the minor to get another help.” On December 27, the boy came with a youth and introduced him as his elder brother, Rahul. “As Rahul was good in work, I hired him. On January 1, I went to my factory on Gaushala Road. In the evening, both my sons and daughter went out for shopping. When I returned home at night, I blew the horn, but nobody opened the gate. I alighted from the car and found the gate unlocked. The house was reeking of LPG. I turned off the stove knobs and found Rahul missing. When I entered the bedroom, the almirah was open. There was a locker in the almirah containing Rs 6 lakh, gold and diamond jewellery. Everything had been stolen,” he added.Assistant commissioner of police (West) Gurpreet Singh said, “CCTV cameras installed in the house have captured Rahul and his two accomplices escaping with the locker. All three were wearing masks. The employer is unaware about the address of Rahul and doesn’t even know if it is his actual name. Moreover, both the 14-year-old boy and Rahul were wearing masks and so, their faces have not been captured in the CCTVs.” The police questioned the gardener about the accused. “He said he found the boy roaming around in the locality, looking for work, and that he knew nothing else about them,” the ACP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hired-5-days-ago-help-flees-with-cash-jewellery/articleshow/80086197.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Goa||Carambolim bundh breaks, another nearby eroding||Panaji: A 10-metre breach to the Tollem-Sawat bundh in Carambolim has upset farmers and locals, as it means more agricultural land will be destroyed by salinity and houses in low-lying areas are vulnerable to flooding. The collapse of the 1.5-km bundh, which is also used as a pathway to connect eastern and western parts of the sprawling village, indicated how a huge breach in the Ofla-Domzo bundh is battering internal bundhs in the area. The Ofla-Domzo bundh is the main bundh on Cumbharjua canal that joins river Zuari. “The tidal flow due to the breach is flooding hectares of agricultural land and weakening internal bundhs,” a farmer said. The Tollem-Sawat bundh is being washed away in stretches due to strong tidal action for some time, but water resources department has not initiated any repairs so far, sources said. A few houses at Manxer - one of the low-lying areas in the vast khazan - are vulnerable to flooding “We are already facing problems but with the breach widening, we are apprehensive about our houses being totally flooded,” Domingo Vaz, a resident said The fishing rights of Tollem-Sawat sluice gate have been auctioned at a higher bid of Rs 4 lakh and residents are doubtful whether bundh repairs would receive priority over fishing. In nearby Azossim, a few stretches of Valado Divisoro bundh, an internal one have also been hit by massive influx from Ofla-Domzo breach. “After Tollem-Sawat, our bundh is also in danger. A 100-m stretch is on the verge of collapse,” Menino Dias, chairman, St Mateus Tenants Association, Azossim said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/carambolim-bundh-breaks-another-nearby-eroding/articleshow/80088050.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 4, 2021||Jaipur||Couple traces UK diplomat’s stolen shoes||JAISALMER: When shoes of a dilplomat were stolen in Jaisalmer, a couple came to his rescue. Diplomat officer Dominic Owen Stanton, who works with British High Commission, had come to Jaisalmer with his wife. They had gone to Lakshminath temple. But, after coming out of the temple, he found his shoes missing. An Italian tour escort in Jaisalmer Anand Shripat offered to help Stanton. He asked him to share photos of his shoes on WhatsApp. Shripat showed the photos to the cobblers sitting at Sonar Fort when his wife spotted a boy wearing the same pair of shoes. Shripat caught the boy and he admitted to stealing the shoes and returned them. The couple went to the hotel and returned the shoes to Stanton, who expressed gratitude and even offered a good amount to Shripat, but he refused. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/couple-traces-uk-diplomats-stolen-shoes/articleshow/80087986.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Hyderabad||CBSE board exam 2021: Schools likely to conduct multiple pre-boards||HYDERABAD: The CBSE class 10 and class 12 exams might be conducted in May this year, but there won’t be any change when it comes to pre-boards as many schools have decided to conduct the exams in January as per the schedule. Principals of some of the top schools in the city said that they are inclined towards conducting multiple pre-board exams between January and April to ensure that students are prepared well for the exams. “There won’t be any change in the schedule of pre-board examinations. We have decided to conduct a pre-board exam each month until May so that students start preparing from now instead of waiting till the nick of time,” said S Narasimha Reddy, principal, Hyderabad Public School, Ramanthapur and chairperson, Hyderabad Sahodaya Schools Complex. Reddy said that as they have also completed the practical examination syllabus, they now have ample time to prepare students for both practical and board examinations. Few schools have already started pre-board in the last week of December 2020 and added that they will conduct at least a couple more before the board examinations. “By the time board examination dates were announced, students were giving their pre-board as we started the examinations on December 28,” said Latha Shankar, principal, P Obul Reddy Public School. She said that they might conduct pre-boards, for both class 10 and class 12, again in February and April. She added they are planning to reopen schools for class 10 and class 12 students from January 17 for practical classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/schools-likely-to-conduct-multiple-pre-boards/articleshow/80090211.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
January 4, 2021||Madurai||South TN reports 116 cases, central TN 92||Madurai/Trichy:The 10 southern districts of the state reported 116 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday taking the tally to 1,33,773. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 92 new cases pushing the tally to 74,180, which include 824 active cases. Both the regions recorded no death, as per the bulletin. The number of fresh cases recorded in the southern region includes 21 in Virudhunagar and 20 in Kanyakumari and 19 in Madurai. Sivagangai (3) recorded the least number of cases, followed by Ramanathapuram (6), Theni (8), Dindigul (8), Tenkasi (8), Tuticorin (9) and Tirunelveli (14). The number of active cases increased from 156 on Friday to 161 on Saturday and 163 on Sunday. Total active cases in southern TN saw a marginal increase to 993 on Sunday from 976 on Saturday. Sunday’s addition of fresh cases resulted in the active cases in Virudhunagar going past 100 once again. This leaves five districts with less than 100 cases – Ramanathapuram (32), Tenkasi (56), Sivagangai (58), Theni (76) and Tuticorin (87). Trichy district is on top with 27 new cases on Sunday pushing the tally to 14,248. Thanjavur recorded 23 fresh cases taking the tally to 17,259. Karur district reported 16 new cases pushing its tally to 5,207. Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur districts recorded 10 new positive cases each on Sunday taking the tally to 8,192 and 10,958. Pudukottai recorded six new cases as its count touched 11,425. Ariyalur and Perambalur districts recorded zero new cases. With no deaths, the region maintained the toll at 928.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-reports-116-cases-central-tn-92/articleshow/80087988.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Pune||Pune: Call on new police stations today||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has called a meeting of senior government and police officials at Mantralaya in Mumbai on Monday for taking a final decision on the pending proposals of carving out new police stations from the jurisdiction of the some of the existing police stations in Pune city and rural areas. Additional secretaries to the departments of finance and planning, the director general and the additional director general of state police, Pune police commissioner and superintendent of police (rural), besides, MLAs Chetan Tupe, Sunil Tingre and Ashok Pawar are likely to attend this meeting. Considering the growing population and urbanisation of areas around Pune city, the police had moved proposals for new police stations. This includes carving out Wagholi, Uruli Kanchan and Nanded City police stations from the existing Lonikand, Lonikalbhor and Haveli police station areas, which are under the Pune rural police. Similarly, Baner, Kalepadal and Kharadi police stations could be carved out of the existing Chatushrungi, Hadapsar and Chandannagar police station areas. The proposal will also take up the merger of the Lonikalbhor police station with the Pune city police’s jurisdiction..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/call-on-new-police-stations-today/articleshow/80087087.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Dad used 2 knives to kill elder son: Kerala cops||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Safeer, the 32-year-old rickshaw driver, who allegedly killed his two sons and then committed suicide, murdered his elder son Althaf brutally, said police. The doctors who conducted the postmortem examination of the boy told police that he had attempted to slit the boy’s throat multiple times using two knives. There were multiple lacerated wounds on the 12-year-old boy’s throat. Kallambalam SHO inspector I Faroze, who is investigating the case said that Safeer used two kitchen knives to commit the crime. The police have recovered both weapons. It is assumed that Safeer made the first attempt with one knife and since it was not sharp enough, he fetched another one to finish the job. The postmortem examinations on the bodies of Safeer and younger son Alshad were also conducted on Sunday. After the postmortem examinations, the three bodies were brought to Vairamala, where Safeer’s wife lived. From there, the bodies were taken to Safeer’s village at Chullimanoor where the funerals were held.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/dad-used-2-knives-to-kill-elder-son-cops/articleshow/80086220.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Madurai||Madurai corpn plans to buy robot, earthmovers||Madurai: Madurai corporation has sent a proposal seeking Rs 15 crore under the 15th Finance Commission grant to purchase a range of vehicles and augment drinking water resources in summer for the city. Every year, a sum of money is allocated to local bodies under the finance commission grant to provide basic facilities like drinking water, roads and sanitation. The fund to be issued this year depends on how best it was utilized last year, officials said. “The proposal seeking Rs 15 crore to be spent on various heads has been sent and we expect it to be sanctioned at the earliest. The money would be spent for various purposes including purchase of vehicles, bio-mining of Vellaikkal dumping yard and augmentation of drinking water,” he said. It has been proposed to spend Rs 5 crore on various vehicles including eight earthmovers used for various purposes, 40 light motor vehicles and a tractor with trailer. The corporation is also planning to purchase a robot used for clearing blocks in sewer lines. “We have checked the performance of the robot and are satisfied with the operations. It has been purchased by a few corporations including Coimbatore municipal corporation. However, we feel that its price is a bit overrated and hence gone for only one for now. We will go for more after studying its utility. Meanwhile, we expect the price to come down,” said an official of Madurai corporation. He added that although manual scavenging has been curbed with the introduction of jet-rodding machines, some incidents take place without the knowledge of officials. If robots are inducted into work, they can completely eliminate manual scavenging. Officials said that Rs 1.6 crore will be spent on sinking borewells and pipeline connections to increase water availability during summer while Rs 8 crore will be spent on biomining of Vellaikkal dumping yard. The unsegregated waste dumped under the earth’s surface will be dug out and segregation will be done to claim the land for other purposes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-corpn-plans-to-buy-robot-earthmovers/articleshow/80088049.cms||V Devanathan
January 4, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Dead EICL staffer tested Covid +ve, family cry foul||Thiruvananthapuram: Prafullakumar, who was found dead under mysterious circumstances on the premises of English Indian Clays Limited, has been tested positive for Covid-19. Samples collected from his body was sent to National Institute of Virology in Alappuzha district after his family had raised doubts over the result of the test conducted at Thiruvananthapuram Medical College hospital here. The step was taken after the family members met tahsildar and expressed doubts over the result. Prafullakumar was found hanging in the rest room for staff in the English Indian Clays Limited premises in Kochu Veli on Saturday. He was employed there as a headload worker and had been part of an ongoing agitation of the employees after EICL shut down operations of their unit citing shortage of china clay. “We believe that there are attempts from the part of the factory management in influencing the police probe in this case. He was a perfectly healthy man with no symptoms of infection till the time he went missing. He lived with his 75-year-old mother and if he was infected, she too should have been infected as she falls under the vulnerable age category,” said Abi P M, Prafullakumar’s cousin. He said Prafullakumar went missing from Friday and the family had filed a complaint at Valiyathura police station in this regard. They wanted to check the factory premises but the management refused the request. “We have now demanded police to examine the surveillance camera visuals of the factory to find out how he ended up in the rest room,” Abi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/dead-eicl-staffer-tested-covid-ve-family-cry-foul/articleshow/80086217.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Kozhikode||Jumbo rescued from well dies, 2 others found dead||Kozhikode: The wild elephant which was rescued from a well after a 12-hour long rescue operation on Friday night at Muthappanpuzha near Anakkampoyil died on Sunday morning. Forest officials found the elephant around 100 metre away the well from which it was rescued. Kozhikode divisional forest officer M Rajeevan said that internal injuries sustained in the fall and dehydration would have led to its death. The 20-year-old mozha (tuskless male) elephant seemed to be healthy after it was rescued from the well and it had charged at the officials but it was found in a weak condition on Saturday. Forest officials led by chief forest veterinary surgeon Dr Arun Zachariah provided treatment, following which the elephant had started taking food. But the animal, which had walked a few steps on Saturday night, collapsed and died on Sunday morning. Forest officials said that they had tried their best to save the elephant and a lot of local people too had worked hard in the rescue operations. The elephant was found inside the well by forest department personnel who were installing fences along the forest boundary under Thamarassery range on Thursday evening. The state also witnessed two other elephant deaths on Sunday with a baby elephant found dead near the banks of the Kinnarampuzha under Kurichiad range of the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary. The forest officials have not been able to go near the dead elephant as the mother and the elephant herd were standing near the body. The forest officials burst crackers to disperse the herd but has not succeeded in the attempt. In another incident, a 26-year-old wild elephant was found dead in a private agricultural land at Karulayi in Malappuram. The department is looking into whether the elephant died due to electrocution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/jumbo-rescued-from-well-dies-2-others-found-dead/articleshow/80086225.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Pune||PMPML to start special service in core Pune parts||PUNE: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) plans to start a special bus service soon to enable commuters to travel for the entire day after purchasing a ticket costing Rs 10. According to PMPML officials, the service is expected to start in a phased manner from January 26. “This service will be available for only the city centre and gaothan areas in the city. PMPML launched Aligning Transit on All Lanes (ATAL) in October last year. Under ATAL, buses run on short routes (maximum 5 kms) and commuters must pay a fare of Rs5. This service is spread across the city, buses are available at intervals of five minutes. The new service is similar to ATAL but it will be available only for some specific areas. In these areas, the new service will replace ATAL,” Shankar Pawar, PMPML director told TOI. Hemant Rasane, another PMPML director, added, “We will try to launch it from January 26 in a phased manner.” According to Pawar, a person using the service will have to buy one ticket worth Rs10. “We aim to bring the fleet for the same to 50 buses in total. The Pune Municipal Corporation will be buying 9-meter-long midi air-conditioned buses with seating capacity of 24 for this purpose. In addition, eight people can stand in these buses. Once a commuter buys the ticket, it must be kept on person as long as they are riding to different locations under the specific service. The conductor should be shown the ticket during each travel. The ticket will remain valid from 6am until 12 midnight,” said Pawar. Another PMPML official said that the service was expected to start with the current fleet. “The procurement of new buses will take some time. Until then, service can begin with some existing midi buses run by PMPML. We are sure that the service will find takers. The specific routes will be announced soon,” the official pointed out. The PMPML launched the ATAL service in October and, based on the positive response to the service, it decided to add more routes. The service was started with 97 buses on five routes located in the core areas of the city in addition to specific routes on the outskirts of the city. In November, PMPML authorities identified an additional 40 routes on which the service would ply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-to-start-special-service-in-core-city-parts/articleshow/80087106.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Virtual assistants may speak in Telugu soon||HYDERABAD: Soon you may be able to interact with virtual assistants like Siri, Alexa and smart devices like Google Home in regional languages as International Institute of Information Technology-Hyderabad (IIIT-H) is working on a unique speech technology in Telugu. A year-long pilot project at a cost of Rs 1 crore has been granted under the central government’s National Mission on Natural Language Translation also known as ‘Bahubashak’ to the Language Technologies Research Centre at IIIT-H by the ministry of electronics and information technology. As part of this, a team of researchers have to develop speech datasets in Telugu. Currently, users can interact with smart devices such as Alexa only in English or Hindi in India. Researchers said this is primarily because there is not enough datasets available in other regional languages. By developing datasets in regional languages, the idea is to enable smart devices/assistants to remove language barriers in India. “Artificial intelligence completely depends on datasets. The more data is fed into the system, the more efficient it becomes. We will be collecting close to 2,000 hours in Telugu as part of this pilot project,” said Prof Prakash Yalla, primary investigator for the project, who would also be one of the advisor at the national level. The researchers would crowd-source conversations in Telugu to develop speech datasets. Not just that, it would also be a nodal agency to establish protocols and standards for other regional languages. “We have to set protocols and mechanisms to enable crowd-sourcing of content. So, we will be deciding on how to make people contribute their conversations, incentives, transcription, quality and privacy of such content,” Prof Yalla said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/virtual-assistants-may-speak-in-telugu-soon/articleshow/80088052.cms||Preeti Biswas
January 4, 2021||Madurai||‘Insulted farmer’ Palaniswami returns ‘rowdy’ jibe to Stalin||Tuticorin: Days after DMK president M K Stalin compared Edappadi Palaniswami’s claim of being a farmer to that of a “rowdy projecting himself as a rowdy”, the chief minister on Sunday dubbed the DMK president “a rowdy”.Addressing farmers in Tuticorin, the CM said: “What is wrong in me claiming to be a farmer? His comparison has deeply hurt hardworking farmers. Are farmers on a par with rowdies? What do you know about farmers?” he said.“Come to the field and work under the scorching sun to understand the farmers’ hardships,” EPS said. Terming Stalin’s comparison as ‘demeaning’, the CM asked the opposition leader to weigh his words. “I am making this appeal as a farmer, not as CM,” he said.DMK organising secretary R S Bharathi said Stalin was referring to a scene in a film where actor Vadivelu gets arrested by the police for claiming to be a rowdy, despite the police refusing to arrest him. “Vadivelu was not a real rowdy in the film. Stalin compared this scene to the CM’s claims that he is a farmer,” Bharathi said. “The CM should stop such misinterpretations or face retaliation,” he said.Recalling Saturday’s gram sabha meet in Coimbatore where a woman questioned Stalin, the CM said, “You should answer if you know, else what harm is there in comforting her? Instead she was attacked by DMK goons. And the AIADMK is accused of instigating her. If they are so arrogant when they are not in power, will they allow people to live peacefully when they come to power?” he said.EPS said several projects for farmers were in the pipeline. At Vilathikulam, he said: “CM is but an occupation. People order and we execute it. This government reflects the desires of the people. Stalin will come out only during elections, will release an attractive manifesto and disappear after the election,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/insulted-farmer-palaniswami-returns-rowdy-jibe-to-stalin/articleshow/80088061.cms||M K Ananth
January 4, 2021||Pune||Around 18,000 parents submit consent forms in PCMC areas||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Around 18,000 parents have submitted undertakings for sending their children to schools set to restart in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits from Monday, the education department officials said. According to the officials, there are around 92,000 students in 282 civic and private schools in the twin towns. The officials held that the low response was due to the lingering uncertainty about sending children to school amid Covid-19 outbreak. Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar told TOI that he was aware of the subdued response. “Parents are uncertain about sending their wards to schools and it is understandable. Taking into account their concerns, we allowed the private schools to restart physical classes as per their convenience. But, given that students enrolled in civic schools don’t have proper access to learning, we deemed it necessary to resume offline classes. The civic schools will certainly be resuming from Monday,” he said. Hardikar added that all safety protocols will be followed in the reopened schools. Around 5,000 teachers in 282 schools in the PCMC limits have been tested for Covid so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/around-18000-parents-submit-consent-forms-in-pcmc-areas/articleshow/80087117.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Pune||Pune: Firefighter rescues youth who fell 60ft into quarry||PUNE: A firefighter posted at Vetal Tekdi rescued a 16-year-old youth who had fallen into a quarry filled with water on Sunday morning. “There were many people on the hillock, but no one attempted to rescue the youth. He suffered a fracture on his right leg,” firefighter Sanjay Bhavekar told TOI. The Pune fire brigade department’s wireless tower is on the Vetal Tekdi, where Bhavekar’s was on duty on Sunday. “Around 8.45am, some youths who visit the hillock daily for practice, informed me about the incident,” Bhavekar said, adding, “The youth had fallen into the quarry from the height of about 60 feet. He was lying near the bank.” Bhavekar said he alerted the control room and sought reinforcements. “I, along with two more persons, descended towards the quarry. We reached the youth within 15 minutes,” he said. Bhavekar said the youth could not move. “He had a backpack which saved him from severe back injuries,” he said, adding the youth was carried safely to another part of the quarry by the time reinforcements arrived. “The team then carried the youth up with the help of a net,” he said. Bhavekar said the youth was immediately sent to a nearby hospital.  “The youth, who is from Vadgaon Dhayari, had come to Vetal Tekdi with two of his friends. The incidents shocked both of them and they could not tell us anything about what transpired,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/firefighter-rescues-youth-who-fell-60ft-into-quarry/articleshow/80087118.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: CBI books NBHC chief Vijay Kelkar in Rs 20 crore fraud case||HYDERABAD: Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Visakhapatnam unit, has booked a cheating case against Mumbai-based National Bulk Handling Corporation Limited (NBHC), its chairman Vijay L Kelkar and other officials in a Rs 20 crore fraud case. Vijay Kelkar is an eminent economist, a widely acclaimed academic and a former public servant, who was at the forefront of the liberalisation process. The case was booked based on a complaint filed by Punjab National Bank, Rajahmundry branch. Promoters of Surya Sree Cashew Products allegedly conspired with National Bulk Handling Corporation officials and replaced raw cashew stocks with empty cashew shells without repaying credit limits and caused loss of Rs 20 crore. Promoters of Surya Sree Cashew Products — T Surya Reddy, T Bhadravati, T Sudhakar Reddy, K Srinivas Reddy, residents of Pera Ramachandrapuram of Anaparthi mandal in East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh — were named accused and a case of criminal conspiracy, criminal breach of trust, cheating and criminal misconduct was slapped against them. The loans were taken between 2011 and 2015. Godown and stocks were under the custody of NBHC and the officials were responsible for the safety. The accused had in July 2019 replaced 13,573 bags of cashew products with shells in collusion with NBHC officials. In a separate case, CBI officials booked an FIR against promoters of Nice Marine Exports Limited based in Kakinada for Rs 5 crore loan fraud. CBI has named S Venkateswara Rao of Nice Marine Exports and M Srinivas, the mortgagor. Canara Bank officials had failed to do due diligence and offered loan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cbi-books-nbhc-chief-vijay-kelkar-in-rs-20-cr-fraud-case/articleshow/80088067.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 4, 2021||Vadodara||More discharges than fresh cases in Vadodara district||Vadodara: Vadodara on Sunday registered more discharges than fresh Covid-19 positive cases with as many as 120 patients going home and 86 more testing positive.With this, the total number of discharges since the beginning of the pandemic reached 19,975 while the total number of positive cases touched 21,494. Of the 21,494 cases that the city and district have registered so far, 6,671 are from Vadodara rural while the rest are from the four zones of VMC.Of the 120 patients, 16 were discharged from government hospital, 38 were discharged from private hospitals while 66 were discharged from home isolation.The 86 fresh cases were results of 3,622 samples that were tested since Saturday evening. Currently, there are 1,282 active cases in Vadodara city and district. The fresh cases were reported from Waghodiya Road, New Sama Road, Bapod, Mandvi, Diwalipura, Harni, Atladara, Sama, Fatehpura, Subhanpura, Vadsar, Gajrawadi, Jubilee baug, Chhani, Siyabaug, Panigate and Ramdevnagar areas within VMC limits. In Vadodara rural, the fresh cases were recorded from Manjusar, Karodiya, Padra, Karjan, Dabhoi, Shinor, Savli and Ranoli areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/more-discharges-than-fresh-cases-in-vadodara-district/articleshow/80085926.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Surat||Court tells DGVCL to make officer pay for ‘mistaken’ power connection||Surat: Navsari District Consumer Redressal Commission ordered state-owned power discom Dakshin Gujarat Vij Company Ltd (DGVCL) to recover Rs 20,000 from the officer concerned who had ‘mistakenly’ permitted connection to a handcart vendor (lariwala) in Navsari. As per the policy, power supply connection cannot be given to lariwalas.Kishor Patel, 52, a street vendor and a resident of Navsari town, runs a juice cart in the station area in Navsari town. He applied for a single phase connection for his cart which was granted in November 2017 and electricity was provided to him. However, four days later, DGVCL officials cut off his connection informing that it was against the policy.Patel then filed an application under Right to Information Act with DGVCL and came to know that the discom’s Navsari sub-division has given two similar connections. He then approached the Navsari Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission and lodged a complaint accsing the discom of unfair trade practices demanding his connection to be restored. He also sought compensation for the harassment it caused him.DGVCL argued that the permanent connection given to him was an error as the discom does not give such permissions as a policy. It explained that it did not do so as the land space is not owned by the cart owner who only does business there. Hearing both sides’ arguments, the court refused applicant’s plea to restore permanent power supply but observed that due the discom’s error by its staff made him suffer. However, it ruled that the company cannot be held responsible for negligence of its officers.“A compensation of Rs 20,000 be given to the complainant due to the harassment he faced during this process owing to the negligence of an officer of DGVCL. Therefore, the same amount should be recovered from the officer concerned,” the court ordered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/court-tells-dgvcl-to-make-officer-pay-for-mistaken-power-connection/articleshow/80086180.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur University finally starts exams for 5k external students||NAGPUR: After a delay of nearly eight months, Nagpur University has finally started conducting examinations of over 5,000 external students. The papers were delayed despite repeated requests from the aggrieved students to NU administration led by vice-chancellor Subhash Chaudhari citing the pandemic. TOI on September 15 had reported about the demand from students who apprehended losing an academic year. About 3,500 such students are enrolled in BA courses, some 700-800 in MA courses, and very few in LLM courses. “NU has made special arrangements at some specified colleges where these students can appear for their papers. The colleges include Annasaheb Gundwar, Mahila Mahavidyalaya, Dayanand Arya Kanya Vidyalaya, and Vasantrao Naik Government Institute of Arts and Social Sciences (erstwhile Morris College) among others,” pro-vice-chancellor Sanjay Dudhe told TOI. He defended the decision to entrust colleges with the task of conducting the papers and stated that otherwise, it would have two months for the university to schedule the exams as per the convenience of students. “The colleges had successfully held papers of final year failure students at their level. For the same reason, we have asked them to conduct exams even for non-final year failure students,” he said. After NU declared the timetable for final year examinations, the external students requested for conducting their papers simultaneously. When NU officials refused their appeal, they shot off a letter to state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant alleging injustice being meted out to them. The NU deliberately delayed the exams leading to the loss of entire academic year, they said. Endorsing the pro-VC, Board of Examinations and Evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable told TOI that NU had started exams for external students from December 28. “We have kept papers of those who filled up exam forms from NU departments at our Buddhist Studies centre. Even in other districts, we have identified colleges like JM Patel College in Gondia and Yashwant College in Wardha for conducting the exam,” he said. NU Exam Section officials defended the decision of not conducting exams of external students in October stating that their papers lacked practical components. The final year exams were held as per the 50:50 formula in which practical components were mandatory for clearing the subjects as per the directives issued by NU’s Task Committee for exams. “Hence, external students couldn’t be accommodated in the exam scheme for final year students,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-finally-starts-exams-for-5k-external-students/articleshow/80090310.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 4, 2021||Jaipur||Dhaba owner arrested for stealing diesel from oil tankers on highway||UDAIPUR: In a joint operation by the Chittorgarh special task force and Bhadsouda police station on Sunday, two men were arrested in different cases for stealing petroleum products from oil tankers. The men sneaked out the products and sold them secretly in the market. Police seized 550 litres of petroleum products filled in drums kept in a loading tempo for illegal transportation. Chittorgarh SP Deepak Bhargava told TOI that in a series of campaign to curb illegal activities on highway dhabas and hotels, police teams raided Chittorgarh-Udaipur highway and the cops came to know that one Raju Meghwal, son of Lehru, was stealing petrol-diesel from tankers that stopped at his dhaba. Additional SP Sarita Singh assigned the cops to verify the details. The cops raided the dhaba and caught the accused red-handed stealing petrol from a tanker. The team led by Shivlal Meena and SHO Bhadsouda Bhawani Shankar seized three drums containing 550 litres of diesel, empty drums and a loading tempo which was used to carry stolen petro products. Police came to know that Meghwal had entered into pacts with many of tanker drivers carrying products of the oil companies, who stopped at this dhaba to eat. They let him sneak out liquids which the accused sold secretly at a lower market price and made high profits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dhaba-owner-arrested-for-stealing-diesel-from-oil-tankers-on-highway/articleshow/80088070.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Chennai||‘Insulted farmer’ Edappadi Palaniswami returns rowdy jibe to MK Stalin||TUTICORIN: Days after DMK president M K Stalin compared Edappadi Palaniswami’s claim of being a farmer to that of a “rowdy projecting himself as a rowdy”, the chief minister on Sunday dubbed the DMK president “a rowdy”. Addressing farmers in Tuticorin, the CM said: “What is wrong in me claiming to be a farmer? His comparison has deeply hurt hardworking farmers. Are farmers on a par with rowdies? What do you know about farmers?” he said. “Come to the field and work under the scorching sun to understand the farmers’ hardships,” EPS said. Terming Stalin’s comparison as ‘demeaning’, the CM asked the opposition leader to weigh his words. “I am making this appeal as a farmer, not as CM,” he said. DMK organising secretary R S Bharathi said Stalin was referring to a scene in a film where actor Vadivelu gets arrested by the police for claiming to be a rowdy, despite the police refusing to arrest him. “Vadivelu was not a real rowdy in the film. Stalin compared this scene to the CM’s claims that he is a farmer,” Bharathi said. “The CM should stop such misinterpretations or face retaliation,” he said. Recalling Saturday’s gram sabha meet in Coimbatore where a woman questioned Stalin, the CM said, “You should answer if you know, else what harm is there in comforting her? Instead she was attacked by DMK goons. And the AIADMK is accused of instigating her. If they are so arrogant when they are not in power, will they allow people to live peacefully when they come to power?” he said. EPS said several projects for farmers were in the pipeline. At Vilathikulam, he said: “CM is but an occupation. People order and we execute it. This government reflects the desires of the people. Stalin will come out only during elections, will release an attractive manifesto and disappear after the election,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/insulted-farmer-palaniswami-returns-rowdy-jibe-to-stalin/articleshow/80088069.cms||M K Ananth
January 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Traditional Gujarati art forms reinvented||Ahmedabad: What if the traditional dhabla – quilt or blanket made of weft and warp of coarse fabric made by artisans in Kutch – are designed as un-stitched draped garment? Or namda, the art of felt on the sheep wool, is employed to wear saddle or stationery? These were some of the concepts explored by the students of National Institute of Fashion Technology, Gandhinagar (NIFT-G), as part of their graduation projects. The group of students worked closely with the clusters of traditional artisans from Kutch, Surendranagar, and Banaskantha districts to reinvent the traditional art in contemporary fashion. Sumita Agarwal, assistant professor at NIFT-G, said that it’s part of the master students of textile design course curriculum annually. “This year it was different as the batch of 32 students could not work directly with the artisans due to Covid-19. Thus, in a first, they connected over phone calls, video calls and exchange of images took place and came up up with the concepts and executed them,” she said. Apart from the dhabla makers and namda artisans, the groups also worked with woven craft of tangaliya from Surendranagar and dabu clay resist hand block printing from Banaskantha among other forms such as Batik. Rupali Pandit, associate professor at NIFT-G, said that the students decided on the products to be developed based on the contemporary buyers/ markets, cost-effectiveness and ease of making for the artisans. “It was also a learning for the students and artisans – a group of students designing batik sarees found it challenging to conceive ideas as they had never worn a sari themselves! They raided their mothers’ wardrobes to understand the drape,” she said. For the artisans, it was a journey in completely different direction. Haribhai Padhiyar, a dhabla weaver from Khanderai village in Kutch, said that he collaborated with the students over WhatsApp video calls. “We know weaving – it’s in blood due to generations of practice – but the students came up with new ideas which were challenging. But I understand that to improve our visibility and sale, such experiments are necessary,” he said. It was an amalgamation of new technology and age-old art; artisans understanding their weft and warp and students wielding online sketching software, said NIFT-G officials. “We are hopeful that the collaboration would help the students understand how the artisans work and artisans how the new marketplace works,” said Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/traditional-gujarati-art-forms-reinvented/articleshow/80092348.cms||Parth Shastri
January 4, 2021||Goa||Goa govt to decide future of traffic sentinel scheme||PANAJI: The home department has moved a proposal to the state government on the traffic sentinel scheme, on whether to make it operational or scrap it. The government had decided to re-introduce the traffic sentinel scheme in a revised format, capping a traffic sentinel’s returns, starting January 1, 2021. The decision had been approved in the cabinet meeting held in July. A senior official said that the file is currently with the chief minister’s office. “It is up to the government to take a final call,” the official said. Officials said that the decision to keep the scheme on hold was taken as it was felt that the substantial financial liability incurred in its implementation would affect its self-sustainability in the pandemic situation. Ministers and MLAs had also demanded that the scheme be kept in abeyance based on complaints from the public Introduced in November 2017, the traffic sentinel scheme aimed at reducing traffic violations with active participation of people, and to create traffic sense among various sections of road users through community policing. It also aimed at penalizing traffic violators through violations reported on the traffic sentinel app by enrolled traffic sentinels. Though introduced with a noble motive, the scheme soon became a source of controversy. Complaints poured in about mischief by some sentinels and of people being persecuted for minor violations. Soon there was growing demand that it be dropped completely Officials said the decision to revise the scheme was taken after it was noticed that for some sentinels, the scheme had turned into a means of earnings, with them accumulating reward points entailing substantial amounts of money. According to the scheme, sentinels can get reward points for reporting traffic violation such as driving against the flow of traffic, parking on footpaths or zebra crossing, triple riding, improper number plate, driving without seat belt, riding without helmet, using vehicle with tinted glasses, using phone while riding or driving, red light jumping and dangerous driving.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-to-decide-future-of-traffic-sentinel-scheme/articleshow/80088078.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Nagpur||City ready to face challenges, grab opportunities||Looking at the current scenario, I personally believe that despite of the problems faced in 2020, Nagpur and its people are striving hard to achieve their goals for themselves and the city. The pandemic has changed a lot of things and almost every sector is experiencing stagnancy. So, what can we expect in 2021? Will the New Year bring new opportunities or new challenges? A SWOT analysis of Nagpur city done under Smart City Mission identified the following strengths for the city: * Nagpur being at the geographical centre of the country potentially makes it the key logistics hub in Central India. * With 35 engineering colleges, three government medical colleges and a host of research and professional education institutions, Nagpur has emerged as the educational hub of Central India. * Nagpur is the key access point for reaching various tourist locations which adds to the city’s economic potential. * Asiaʼs largest industrial estate on a land in Butibori can propel industrial growth of Nagpur Metropolitan Region These strengths can be worked up on in 2021. Involvement of citizens, who need to grab opportunities coming their way and contribute towards achieving goals for the city, can certainly prove out to be a game changer. With Mihan playing a key role, Nagpur has the potential to become a multimodal logistics hub. We as citizens can also contribute in developing an employment hub for the youth of the city. Performing our duties and taking up responsibilities at personal and society level will remain the primary factor in growth of each and every sector. With a background of studying crime, I feel priority this year should be on reducing crime rate as it majorly affects the liveability of a city. The focus areas should include everything ranging from developing a smart living environment to creating a poly centric city rooted in inclusion — to the ensuring of economic vitality by building on the education and health hub of Nagpur. The goals should revolve around making Nagpur a sustainable carbon neutral city, thus making it more eco-friendly. Through online essay competitions and discussions around 10.58 lakh citizens have been directly engaged in co-creating a vision for Smart Nagpur. We can say that the city is prepared to face challenges and opportunities in 2021. Lastly, we need to adapt to the new normal to safeguard the future of our city and make 2021 the turning point in its development. (The writer is a forensic scientist, was selected as national youth delegate, India (Commonwealth Secretariat), and a public speaker who has been awarded by the PM)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-ready-to-face-challenges-grab-opportunities/articleshow/80087148.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||KCZMA to verify alleged CRZ violation in resort||Thiruvananthapuram: Contradictory reports furnished by Kottukal panchayat and LSGD town planning (vigilance) regarding alleged CRZ violation in the construction of a resort at Vizhinjam have forced Kerala coastal zone management authority to do an independent verification. The environment department had forwarded reports of town planner (vigilance) LSGD and Kottukal gram panchayat pertaining to the construction of a beach resort at Chowara in Kottukal village. It was pointed out that both reports were contradictory in nature regarding the construction of beach resort in CRZ area. LSGD town planner (vigilance) reported that the construction was in violation of panchayat building rules and hence, it was unauthorised. The report stated that a lift building was being constructed in CRZ-3 without CRZ clearance and without obtaining building permit from the panchayat. The gram panchayat, however, reported that no illegal construction could be spotted in the beach resort during an inquiry. In the wake of contradictory reports from the local body and vigilance wing of town planning, LSGD, the environment department requested the coastal zone management authority to furnish a report based on an inquiry on whether any CRZ violation had been made during the construction of the beach resort. The proposal for the construction of the resort was earlier placed in the meeting of KCZMA. The authority had decided to recommend the proposal to ministry of environment, forests and climate change. In 2008, the Union ministry had recommended the project for approval. The beach resort has a plinth area of 2,335 sqm. KCZMA is learnt to have constituted a two-member team comprising a technical officer and KCZMA member for conducting a site inspection at the beach resort to do away with the contradiction in reports submitted by LSGD town planner (vigilance) and Kottukal gram panchayat. The city corporation had identified a total of 122 constructions built in violation of CRZ (coastal regulation zone) notification 2011 under four zonal areas where CRZ norms are effective. The list had been prepared in the wake of violations being identified in various coastal districts in the state. As per the latest list submitted by the city corporation, the buildings are categorised as residential, special residential and commercial. Vizhinjam zonal had reported the highest number of CRZ constructions done in violation of CRZ notification, 2011. The list included beach resorts, shops, textiles, short stay homes and tourist homes. Some of the buildings against which the corporation had initiated demolition but had to withdraw owing to local protest were also included in the list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kczma-to-verify-alleged-crz-violation-in-resort/articleshow/80086257.cms||Aswin J Kumar
January 4, 2021||Meerut||Man injured by after lightning falls on house while he was sleeping||Bijnor: A man was injured after lightning fell on his house in Bijnor, and a wall collapsed on him, while he was sleeping in the verandah on Sunday. Other family members were sleeping inside the house and he was alone sleeping outside.The incident occurred at Simala village under Mandawar police station in the early hours on Sunday. The injured, identified as Lakshman Singh (50), was admitted in a private hospital, where his condition is stated to be stable.There was inclement weather on Sunday. It was drizzling when lightning fell on the house. According to officials, 12mm rain was recorded in Bijnor on Sunday, which has hampered sugarcane harvesting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-injured-by-after-lightning-falls-on-house-while-he-was-sleeping/articleshow/80085650.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 4, 2021||Nagpur||More cases than recoveries for 3rd day in a row||Nagpur: Vidarbha region reported more new cases of Covid-19 than the number of patients recovered in a day for the third consecutive day on Sunday. While 774 new cases were reported, 660 patients recovered in a day. This has increased the number of patients under treatment in the region to more than the 7000-mark once again. Total Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha reached 2,54,492 while recoveries reached 2,40,839. Recovery rate remained constant at 94.6% which is higher than state’s but less than the national average. The region reported 16 deaths. Nagpur reported 8 of them. These include 3 from Nagpur city, 2 from Nagpur rural and 3 from other districts/states. Chandrapur reported 3 deaths while Bhandara, Amravati and Wardha reported 1 death each. Washim, after 30 days, reported 2 deaths. Now, total death toll of Vidarbha has escalated to 6,605. Case fatality rate of the region is 2.59%. Nagpur reported 403 cases on Sunday, which is the highest in the last 14 days. The number of cases rose to 5,652 on Sunday as the teaching and non-teaching staff of city schools are getting tested for Covid-19. The number of tests increased in most districts of Vidarbha on Sunday. Bhandara: Out of 170 samples of Covid-19 suspects tested in the last 24 hours, 34 tested positive in Bhandara on Sunday. This took the total number of cases in the district to 12,476. On the other hand, 52 patients recovered in a day, taking the total number of recoveries to 11,825. Now, Bhandara's recovery rate is 94.78%. The district has conducted 1,06,182 tests till date. The overall sample positivity rate in Bhandara is still more than 11%. Total 358 patients are under treatment. Gondia: The district reported 22 new cases while 58 recovered on Sunday. Now, the district has 13,721 cases and 13,305 recoveries. Total 238 patients are under treatment. Out of them, 118 are in home isolation. While no death was reported on Sunday, the total toll remained 178. Gondia's recovery rate is 96%. Total 11,7346 tests for Covid-19 have been conducted in Gondia so far. This means, sample positivity rate is more than 11%. Gadchiroli: The district recorded 15 new cases of Covid-19 which took the total cases to 9,088. On the other hand, 35 patients recovered which took recoveries to 8,806. No death was reported on Sunday. Now, Gadchiroli has 102 deaths due to Covid-19 and 180 patients under treatment. Recovery rate is 97%. Akola: Out of 443 reports of RT-PCR tests and 50 Rapid Antigen tests conducted in last 24 hours, 50 have tested positive for Covid-19 in Akola. This took the total number of cases to 10,584. With 22 patients recovering in a day, total 9,821 have recovered. Akola's recovery rate is 93%. No death was reported on Sunday. Total 440 patients are still under treatment. Buldhana: The district received reports of 717 Covid-19 tests on Sunday out of which 69 tested positive. On the other hand, 17 patients were discharged. Now, Buldhana has 12,679 cases with 12,232 recoveries. No death was reported on Sunday. Death toll due to Covid-19 is 152 till date. Now, 295 patients are under treatment. Washim: The district reported 2 deaths. These deaths had happened in last 7 days and were reported on Sunday. It took the total toll of Washim to 150, second lowest in Vidarbha after Gadchiroli. The district reported 13 new cases, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases to 6,702. Eight patients recovered on Sunday taking their number to 6,417. Washim has 134 patients under treatment which is lowest in Vidarbha. Yavatmal: Out of the 1,291 tests, 43 were found positive. Currently, there are 361 active positive patients undergoing treatment. With no deaths on Sunday, the toll remained 405. Amravati: With the death of a 64-year-old women from Gopal Nagar, the district toll reached 399 on Sunday. New cases and recoveries remained identical at 60. Chandrapur: While 46 tested positive, 57 recovered on Sunday. Three deaths took the toll to 371. The caseload has risen to 22, 402 with recoveries 21, 642. There are 389 active patients now. Wardha: A 65-year-old man from the city died on Sunday while new 24 cases were detected from 700 test reports, taking the caseload to 9,182. Meanwhile, 39 patients were discharged and recoveries reached 8,628.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/more-cases-than-recoveries-for-3rd-day-in-a-row/articleshow/80087144.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 4, 2021||Madurai||Veerapandiya Kattabomman on 262nd birth anniv celebrated||Tuticorin: Leaders of various political parties paid homage to freedom fighter Veerapandiya Kattabomman on his 262nd birth anniversary on Sunday. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, who was campaigning in the district, paid floral tribute to the portrait of the freedom fighter.Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam president M K Stalin paid a floral tribute to Kattabomman’s portrait and shared it on social media with a message hailing him as one with a small army but a high degree of self-esteem and self-confidence with which he fought the British. Stalin recalled that the brave leader from Panchalankurichi in Tuticorin district embraced death by hanging for the freedom of his country.Offering his respects, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam founder T T V Dinakaran tweeted that Kattabomman was a nightmare for the British. He added that the king who refused to fear power and held his head high in the battle field against the British should be respected for his sacrifice for the country.The birth anniversary was celebrated in a grand manner at the Panchalankurichi Fort in Tuticorin district. Descendant of the freedom fighter, Veemaraja alias Jagaveera Pandiya Subramania Kattabomman Durai garlanded the statue of his forefather at the fort. Prayers were offered at the Veera Sakka Devi Amman Temple in the fort. The temple committee, officials from the revenue and tourism department and villagers in large numbers paid tribute to the freedom fighter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/veerapandiya-kattabomman-on-262nd-birth-anniv-celebrated/articleshow/80088080.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 4, 2021||Madurai||TN govt must protect forest from neutrino project: Vaiko||Madurai: The Tamil Nadu government should not allow the central government to go ahead with the neutrino project on the Tamil Nadu - Kerala border, which the latter will declare a protected area, MDMK leader Vaiko has said.He said in a statement that the Kerala government had declared Mathikettan sholai forest on the border as a protected area. The eastern region of this park comes within the Tamil Nadu border. Now, in a move to further protect this region, the Kerala government sought that it be declared an environmentally sensitive area. The central government accepted the proposal and declared it an eco sensitive zone, excluding the one kilometre radius in the eastern side of the park.This is a move to obtain permission for the neutrino project in Ambarappar hill in Pottipuram in Theni district which is highly objectionable, he said. The NGT had suspended the environmental clearance for the project following the case filed in 2017 as it was submitted that it was 4.5 kms away from Mathikettan Shola park in Kerala, and one kilometre from the Tamil Nadu-Kerala border and falls under category `A’ in EIA. According to rules, a 10 kilometre radius from an ecosensitive zone can be declared protected, but Kerala government has declared only one kilometre radius from its border as protected. The Tamil Nadu government should take steps to protect the region and the Mullaperiyar dam, he has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-govt-must-protect-forest-from-neutrino-project-vaiko/articleshow/80088075.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||EDII launches initiative to support artisans||Ahmedabad: City-based Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India (EDII) launched Hand-Made in India (HMI) initiative to support the artisans hit by the pandemic. The pan-India project included Bhuj and Surendranagar clusters from Gujarat. Other clusters included Kamrup, Bargarh, Maheshwar and Salem. In all, the project covered 3,000 weavers and artisans. Professor Raman Gujral, director (projects) at EDII, said that the interventions are based on six result areas including credit management, design development, market linkage, business development, capacity building, and enterprise development. “A major impact of the intervention was digital linking of their art with the global market, ensuring them the right price and assuring the customers the genuine product,” he said, adding that the initiative would be able to save permanent shift of the next generation of artisans in other sectors due to financial issues. While Kanchanben, a Patola weaver from Katariya village of Surendranagar, learnt to make a tie from patola material and design to cater to a new market, Lalji Marwada, a resident of Zura village near Kutch explored the online market for his weaving products. Several artisans trained under the initiative are now taking their orders online, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/edii-launches-initiative-to-support-artisans/articleshow/80092458.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Nagpur||Leopard found dead in well, paws missing||Nagpur: Close on the heels of four tigers dying due to poisoning of cattle in Umred-Karhandla-Paoni wildlife sanctuary in the district, carcass of a leopard with two paws missing was dumped in a well in Goregaon range under Gondia forest division. A blue bull was also found dead near the same spot. According sources, an unidentified caller informed officials about a leopard carcass floating in a well in Tilli (Mohgaon) village. A carcass of a blue bull was also found with its only skull and legs left. The farm well and agricultural field where the animals were found belongs to Deochand Sonwane. Sources said it seems to be another case of electrocution in which both the animals may have died. To destroy evidence, paws of the leopard may have been removed and nilgai body for bushmeat. No arrests have been made yet. Earlier, on November 16, 2020, a decomposed carcass of a tiger with body parts strewn was found in Chutia village in Gondia forest division. Investigations found that the tiger was electrocuted. On November 20, National Tiger Conservation Authority had issued a special advisory to intensify patrolling in view of wild animal deaths due to electrocution in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. “Things have failed to change. Maharashtra and MP top the chart in deaths due to electrocution,” said former honorary warden of Gondia, Sawan Bahekar. Meanwhile, the tiger poisoning case accused Divakar Dattuji Nagekar from Navegaon Sadhu village was sent in magisterial custody remand till January 15. The officials had sought forest custody remand for 15 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/leopard-found-dead-in-well-paws-missing/articleshow/80087153.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 4, 2021||Madurai||MP seeks NRB recruitment centre in TN||Madurai: Madurai MP Su Venkatesan has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking a recruitment centre in Chennai for filling up vacancies in the Nuclear Recycle Board (NRB). The MP pointed out that the advertisement (no 1/2020) issued by NRB of Baba Atomic Research Centre had called for applications to fill up a total of 156 vacancies at Tarapur in Maharashtra and Kalpakkam. The vacancies include 50 in the stipendiary trainee category-I (Group B) and 106 in the stipendiary trainee category-II (Group C) at the two locations. “Surprisingly the written examinations for the recruitment would be conducted only in Mumbai despite vacancies in Kalpakkam. In the past, Chennai was an examination centre for NRB recruitment,” the MP said. Venkatesan added that the examination centre in Mumbai would put candidates in a lot of hardship during the Covid pandemic. Travelling all the way to Mumbai and the expenses incurred towards accommodation will also make it difficult for candidates from economically marginalised sections, he said, adding it will also result in eligible candidates not taking the test. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mp-seeks-nrb-recruitment-centre-in-tn/articleshow/80088088.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 4, 2021||Kolhapur||Kolhapur detects 22 new patients, number of active cases dips to 50||KOLHAPUR: The district reported 22 fresh cases of Covid and no deaths on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 49,563. The number of active patients in the district has reduced to 50, which is the lowest so far. As many as 15 patients were discharged after recovering on Sunday. With this, 47,804 patients have recovered from the contagion. Sangli adds 11 casesSangli district reported 11 fresh Covid cases and one death due to the infection on Sunday. The district has 184 active patients. Of the total 47,638 patients, 1,734 have succumbed to the infection while 45,720 have recovered. 61 cases in SataraSatara district reported 61 fresh cases of Covid and one death on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 55,006. The death toll has now risen to 1,794 while there are 1,121 active cases. Solapur city reports 22 casesSolapur city reported 22 cases and no death while the rural areas added 43 cases and one death on Sunday. The active cases in the city have increased to 409 while in rural areas it has reached 507. The city has 11,112 Covid cases, including 600 patients who succumbed to Covid. Solapur rural has reported 38,240 patients, of them, 1,131 have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-detects-22-new-patients-number-of-active-cases-dips-to-50/articleshow/80085663.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Jaipur||Opium worth Rs 30 lakh seized, 2 arrested in Kota||KOTA: A team of Central Bureau of Narcotics here on Saturday seized 3 kg of opium worth Rs 30 lakh and arrested two persons in this regard. The accused were produced before a court on Sunday. The court sent one accused to judicial custody and handed over another accused to the department for three days for interrogation. Central Bureau of Narcotics deputy commissioner (Kota) Vikas Joshi said that acting on a tip-off, a special team led by superintendent R C Saha carried out action under the bridge on NH 27 Kota-Jhalawar road and seized 3 kilogram of opium from two persons. The accused have been identified as Vishnu Kumar Dhakad (38) and Pradeep Kumar Bhramen (27), both residents of Ramganjmandi area of the district. The drugs were packed in a cloth bag and one of the two accused was carrying it in his hands, he added. Joshi said the two accused were booked under sections of NDPS Act and were produced before residential court on Sunday that ordered to hand over one of the accused Vishnu Dhakad to the bureau remand till January 6 for interrogation. It sent Bhramen to jail under judicial custody. Dhakad is notorious history-sheeter and a drug peddler, he further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/opium-worth-rs-30l-seized-2-arrested/articleshow/80088090.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Madurai||Class X, XII students hail delayed CBSE board exams||Madurai: With the CBSE board exams for Class X and XII slated to be held in May, students and teachers have started gearing up for the exams. They welcomed the postponement of the exams this year considering the Covid-19 pandemic and are looking forward to school reopening. “We have almost completed the portions and the 30% reduction in the syllabus will be beneficial for students. Online tests are also being conducted regularly to help students prepare well. There is ample time for students to prepare for the exams, but it is necessary for the schools to be reopened as soon as possible,” said M Gnanasundari, principal, Sri Aurobindo Mira CBSE School. The principal further said that it is a must for students to have physical classes at least for a few months, especially there is a new pattern for exams this year. “Since the exams are in May, we will get more time to plan and prepare. But, in online classes, we can expect only around 50% of students who already study well to learn their lessons properly. There will always be around 10% of students who will not pay attention, take leave and even parents will not be co-operative. For such students, physical classes are necessary to guide them,” said L Selvakumari, principal, Kenbridge CBSE School. Teachers also noted that though tests are being conducted, the effectiveness is questionable as the students are often unsupervised. T Krithika, a Class XII student, said that the announcement of the board exam date has relieved some students. “There is more clarity now and we still have sufficient time and are looking forward to school reopening. But, we are worried about practicals, as we have not even set foot inside a laboratory this year,” she said. A Class XII chemistry teacher from a private CBSE school said that at least for the practical work, students must be allowed to come to schools, maybe in batches. “If schools are not reopened, there is no point in this schedule. Students can never do practical without learning it in a lab,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/class-x-xii-students-hail-delayed-cbse-board-exams/articleshow/80090252.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
January 4, 2021||Udaipur||Showers push mercury up in Rajasthan, Met says cold wave will return in two days||JAIPUR: Mild to moderate showers were witnessed at many places in the state on Sunday which elevated the humidity levels and guided the mercury to take an upward swing. However, late in the evening cold breeze was witnessed indicating that cold wave conditions would revive in the state in the next couple of days. Mount Abu in the hills and Phalodi in the plains remained coldest in the state where minimum temperatures of 0°C and 6.2°C respectively, were recorded. Attributing the continued rise in the mercury to the active upper air cyclonic circulation and western disturbances, Jaipur Met office stated that from Monday onwards mercury will take an upward swing. Likewise from Tuesday onwards the cloud cover from the state would completely vanish and northerly winds would revive cold wave conditions in the state. People in Jaipur woke up amid showers which started during early morning hours. Many areas in the city witnessed mild showers including Mansarovar, colonies near Ajmer road, Khatipura road and other parts of Jaipur. However, a minimum temperature of 13.5°C was recorded in the city. Fog and mist in the morning also affected road, rail and air traffic from Jaipur. At least three early morning flights got delayed while four early morning trains arrived late at Jaipur railway station. The traffic on the highways connecting Jaipur to Agra, Jaipur to Ajmer and Jaipur to Sriganganagar was chaotic due to poor visibility during the early morning hours. It was followed by a chilly afternoon as a minimum temperature of 22.1°C was recorded. Likewise, many places in the state including Dausa, Alwar, Karauli, Sawai Madhopur, Ajmer and Bhilwara witnessed mild to moderate showers. However, by the evening cloud cover vanished and cold breeze started. Mount Abu and Phalodi were followed by Jaisalmer with a minimum temperature of 6.4°C, Bikaner 7°C, Sriganganagar 7.3°C, Barmer 9.3°C, Udaipur 9.5°C, Pilani and Jodhpur 10.2°C each, Jaipur 13.5°C, Sikar 14°C, Ajmer 14.7°C and a minimum temperature of 14.9 °C was recorded in Chittorgarh. In its forecast, Jaipur Met office stated that mild to moderate showers will occur at some places in the eastern and northern Rajasthan. However, mercury will take an upward swing in the state in the next 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/showers-push-mercury-up-in-raj-met-says-cold-wave-will-return-in-two-days/articleshow/80090403.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Jodhpur||Showers push mercury up in Rajasthan, Met says cold wave will return in two days||JAIPUR: Mild to moderate showers were witnessed at many places in the state on Sunday which elevated the humidity levels and guided the mercury to take an upward swing. However, late in the evening cold breeze was witnessed indicating that cold wave conditions would revive in the state in the next couple of days. Mount Abu in the hills and Phalodi in the plains remained coldest in the state where minimum temperatures of 0°C and 6.2°C respectively, were recorded. Attributing the continued rise in the mercury to the active upper air cyclonic circulation and western disturbances, Jaipur Met office stated that from Monday onwards mercury will take an upward swing. Likewise from Tuesday onwards the cloud cover from the state would completely vanish and northerly winds would revive cold wave conditions in the state. People in Jaipur woke up amid showers which started during early morning hours. Many areas in the city witnessed mild showers including Mansarovar, colonies near Ajmer road, Khatipura road and other parts of Jaipur. However, a minimum temperature of 13.5°C was recorded in the city. Fog and mist in the morning also affected road, rail and air traffic from Jaipur. At least three early morning flights got delayed while four early morning trains arrived late at Jaipur railway station. The traffic on the highways connecting Jaipur to Agra, Jaipur to Ajmer and Jaipur to Sriganganagar was chaotic due to poor visibility during the early morning hours. It was followed by a chilly afternoon as a minimum temperature of 22.1°C was recorded. Likewise, many places in the state including Dausa, Alwar, Karauli, Sawai Madhopur, Ajmer and Bhilwara witnessed mild to moderate showers. However, by the evening cloud cover vanished and cold breeze started. Mount Abu and Phalodi were followed by Jaisalmer with a minimum temperature of 6.4°C, Bikaner 7°C, Sriganganagar 7.3°C, Barmer 9.3°C, Udaipur 9.5°C, Pilani and Jodhpur 10.2°C each, Jaipur 13.5°C, Sikar 14°C, Ajmer 14.7°C and a minimum temperature of 14.9 °C was recorded in Chittorgarh. In its forecast, Jaipur Met office stated that mild to moderate showers will occur at some places in the eastern and northern Rajasthan. However, mercury will take an upward swing in the state in the next 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/showers-push-mercury-up-in-raj-met-says-cold-wave-will-return-in-two-days/articleshow/80090404.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Ajmer||Showers push mercury up in Rajasthan, Met says cold wave will return in two days||JAIPUR: Mild to moderate showers were witnessed at many places in the state on Sunday which elevated the humidity levels and guided the mercury to take an upward swing. However, late in the evening cold breeze was witnessed indicating that cold wave conditions would revive in the state in the next couple of days. Mount Abu in the hills and Phalodi in the plains remained coldest in the state where minimum temperatures of 0°C and 6.2°C respectively, were recorded. Attributing the continued rise in the mercury to the active upper air cyclonic circulation and western disturbances, Jaipur Met office stated that from Monday onwards mercury will take an upward swing. Likewise from Tuesday onwards the cloud cover from the state would completely vanish and northerly winds would revive cold wave conditions in the state. People in Jaipur woke up amid showers which started during early morning hours. Many areas in the city witnessed mild showers including Mansarovar, colonies near Ajmer road, Khatipura road and other parts of Jaipur. However, a minimum temperature of 13.5°C was recorded in the city. Fog and mist in the morning also affected road, rail and air traffic from Jaipur. At least three early morning flights got delayed while four early morning trains arrived late at Jaipur railway station. The traffic on the highways connecting Jaipur to Agra, Jaipur to Ajmer and Jaipur to Sriganganagar was chaotic due to poor visibility during the early morning hours. It was followed by a chilly afternoon as a minimum temperature of 22.1°C was recorded. Likewise, many places in the state including Dausa, Alwar, Karauli, Sawai Madhopur, Ajmer and Bhilwara witnessed mild to moderate showers. However, by the evening cloud cover vanished and cold breeze started. Mount Abu and Phalodi were followed by Jaisalmer with a minimum temperature of 6.4°C, Bikaner 7°C, Sriganganagar 7.3°C, Barmer 9.3°C, Udaipur 9.5°C, Pilani and Jodhpur 10.2°C each, Jaipur 13.5°C, Sikar 14°C, Ajmer 14.7°C and a minimum temperature of 14.9 °C was recorded in Chittorgarh. In its forecast, Jaipur Met office stated that mild to moderate showers will occur at some places in the eastern and northern Rajasthan. However, mercury will take an upward swing in the state in the next 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/showers-push-mercury-up-in-raj-met-says-cold-wave-will-return-in-two-days/articleshow/80090405.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Over 100 standing committees to be headed by women in dist||Thiruvananthapuram: This time, women will be heading 109 standing committees in gram panchayats, 17 in block panchayats and two in district panchayats in Thiruvananthpuram. Development standing committee and health/education standing committee have been reserved for women in district panchayat. The election to various chairperson’s positions of standing committees in local bodies will be held in any of the following dates — January 7, 8, 11 and 12 — as per the directions of the state election commission. In four municipalities, 10 standing committees will be led by women chairperson. In Nedumangadu and Attingal municipalities, development, health and education standing committees would be headed by women. In Neyyatinkara and Varkala, women chairpersons will head welfare and works standing committees. In city corporation, development standing committee, health, town planning and education committees will be headed by women. In 2010, V S Padmakumar, who was the chairman of works standing committee, was also the parliamentary party leader then. This time, D R Anil may be given dual responsibilities in the same line. CPM councillors Shajida Nazar, Gopakumar, Salim are likely to be considered for head positions of standing committees. In case there arises a problem of plenty, LDF may go for split period tactic by which head positions will be shared amongst councillors for a specific period. In the previous council, welfare standing committee, education and works committees were shared among CPM councillors. Palayam Rajan, who has experience leading welfare committee, may also be given another chance. CPM, which went for a young mayor, may repeat the ploy in selection of heads of standing committees as well. LDF wants to be at the helm of all standing committees and doesn’t wish to give any space for BJP. BJP, which had harboured hopes of winning two standing committees, finds it difficult to live up to the target with three independent candidates also joining LDF. Simi Jyothish, Manju, Karamana Ajith, Girikumar, V V Rajesh, Ashok Kumar and Anil Kumar too stand equal chances of contesting in election to heads of standing committees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/over-100-standing-committees-to-be-headed-by-women-in-dist/articleshow/80086265.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Jaipur||Showers push mercury up in Rajasthan, Met says cold wave will return in two days||JAIPUR: Mild to moderate showers were witnessed at many places in the state on Sunday which elevated the humidity levels and guided the mercury to take an upward swing. However, late in the evening cold breeze was witnessed indicating that cold wave conditions would revive in the state in the next couple of days. Mount Abu in the hills and Phalodi in the plains remained coldest in the state where minimum temperatures of 0°C and 6.2°C respectively, were recorded. Attributing the continued rise in the mercury to the active upper air cyclonic circulation and western disturbances, Jaipur Met office stated that from Monday onwards mercury will take an upward swing. Likewise from Tuesday onwards the cloud cover from the state would completely vanish and northerly winds would revive cold wave conditions in the state. People in Jaipur woke up amid showers which started during early morning hours. Many areas in the city witnessed mild showers including Mansarovar, colonies near Ajmer road, Khatipura road and other parts of Jaipur. However, a minimum temperature of 13.5°C was recorded in the city. Fog and mist in the morning also affected road, rail and air traffic from Jaipur. At least three early morning flights got delayed while four early morning trains arrived late at Jaipur railway station. The traffic on the highways connecting Jaipur to Agra, Jaipur to Ajmer and Jaipur to Sriganganagar was chaotic due to poor visibility during the early morning hours. It was followed by a chilly afternoon as a minimum temperature of 22.1°C was recorded. Likewise, many places in the state including Dausa, Alwar, Karauli, Sawai Madhopur, Ajmer and Bhilwara witnessed mild to moderate showers. However, by the evening cloud cover vanished and cold breeze started. Mount Abu and Phalodi were followed by Jaisalmer with a minimum temperature of 6.4°C, Bikaner 7°C, Sriganganagar 7.3°C, Barmer 9.3°C, Udaipur 9.5°C, Pilani and Jodhpur 10.2°C each, Jaipur 13.5°C, Sikar 14°C, Ajmer 14.7°C and a minimum temperature of 14.9 °C was recorded in Chittorgarh. In its forecast, Jaipur Met office stated that mild to moderate showers will occur at some places in the eastern and northern Rajasthan. However, mercury will take an upward swing in the state in the next 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/showers-push-mercury-up-in-raj-met-says-cold-wave-will-return-in-two-days/articleshow/80088093.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Kolhapur||Maratha students unsure of how to get EWS certificate||Kolhapur: Confusion persists among students and parents of the Maratha community over the undertaking that is to be submitted before the tehsildar to get a certificate for economically weaker section (EWS) category.Recently, the state government, citing orders of the Bombay and Aurangabad benches of the high court, had asked the tehsil authorities to provide EWS certificates to Maratha youths only if the youths submit, in writing, that they will not seek benefit under the socially and educationally backward category (SEBC) reservation. Under the SEBC, they were entitled to the quota for jobs and educational institutes until the Supreme Court stayed its implementation in September 2020.The SC is going to start its final hearing on the Maratha quota later this month. Upon strictures from the high court, the government extended the EWS reservation to the Marathas with certain conditions.The students and their parents said there is no fixed format for the undertaking and tehsildars in various talukas are making their formats. For instance, a youth from Islampur in Sangli district said the tehsildar’s office has asked him to surrender his SEBC certificate to get EWS certificate, citing that the SEBC certificate will not be valid henceforth in his educational career. Pradip Patil, a student, said: “The format of the undertaking mentioned that to get the EWS certificate, I have to surrender the original copy of my SEBC certificate, which I withdrew to get the reservation benefit that is now stayed. The government has time and again said that the Maratha youths will get additional benefits. However, if we surrender the SEBC certificate, we will be deprived of such benefits.”Islampur tehsildar Ravindra Sabnis told TOI that such a condition was put in the undertaking before the recent government resolution was issued. “Condition of surrendering the SEBC original certificate was put up at our level before the recent GR. If the practice is continued, I will have to check. As per my understanding, such a condition should not be there as there is no such specific mention in the recent GR,” he said.The Maratha leaders have appealed to the government to fix the format of the undertaking at the earliest. They have also appealed to the Maratha students to bring to their notice such practice followed in other tehsildar offices.When TOI searched for the official format issued by the government, nothing was found and it was different for every tehsildar office TOI approached.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/maratha-students-unsure-of-how-to-get-ews-certificate/articleshow/80085690.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Madurai||Dengue cases rise to 45 in Madurai dist in December||Madurai: The number of dengue cases witnessed a steady rise over the last few weeks in Madurai. While only 14 dengue cases were recorded in November, as many as 45 cases were reported in December. Health officials said that the number is still less compared to last year but asked the public should remain vigilant to prevent spread. Intermittent rains that lashed Madurai district in December was attributed as the reason behind the rise in number of cases.“In December, there is usually a rise in dengue cases due to the intermittent nature of rains, which often is favourable for mosquito-breeding. In 2020, we had only 45 cases in December as compared to around 140 cases the previous season. Last season, we saw cases gradually decline to around 100 by January and we are hoping for a similar decline to happen now,” said a senior health official. In September and October 2020, only nine dengue cases were reported in Madurai district. In January, no new cases have been reported in the last three days.Health officials further said that there are no clusters as such so far and that preventive measures have also been carried out in affected areas. Dengue cases were reported in both rural and corporation areas. Among the cases reported, there have been several cases of children, who are at higher risk of developing a severe form of dengue called dengue haemorrhagic fever, which can lead to death. “There is a possibility of there being more dengue cases in January so there is definitely a need to be vigilant. Public are also urged to co-operate in dengue prevention by keeping their houses and surroundings clean and free of mosquitoes,” said a city health official.As many as 1,086 domestic breeding checkers (DBCs) are engaged in dengue preventive measures across the district. Spraying of abate solution and sprinkling of bleach powder is also being carried out as preventive measures. Fogging is being done periodically once in 15 days to cover all areas across the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dengue-cases-rise-to-45-in-madurai-dist-in-december/articleshow/80088096.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
January 4, 2021||Ajmer||Villagers thrash woman in Nagaur for 'witchcraft'||AJMER: A 68-year-old woman of Bai Baisar village in Nagaur was beaten by a few people for allegedly practising witchcraft. She was abused and people also threw stones at her. Police took the victim to medical check and registered a case against the accused. The incident came to light after an old woman reached the Kotwali police station bleeing profusely. According to the report, a woman alleged that her husband died five years ago and her son with his family works in Hyderabad. She lives alone in Tausar hamlet of Bai Basar village near Nagaur city. She alleged that the accused threatened her to leave the village and threw stones at her. A case has been registered under Rajasthan Prevention of Witch Hunting Act and under some IPCs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/woman-beaten-for-witchcraft-case-registered/articleshow/80088095.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Nagpur||Cops take to tracking all 7,764 criminals in rural Nagpur||Nagpur: With the city outskirts and rural Nagpur becoming increasingly crime prone, Nagpur rural police have adopted a unique criminal surveillance system (CSS) to closely monitor movement of offenders involved in various crimes including property, body, arms act, NDPS and those externed. As a part of this exercise, the rural police led by SP Rakesh Ola are keeping a watch on movement of 7,764 criminals in the district every month. In the district there are about 176 suspect sheet holders and around 711 body offenders. Explaining the system, crime branch PI Anil Jittewar said the rural police has prepared a data of history sheeters, property offenders, those involved in body offences, bootlegger, arms Act, NDPS Act, externees from 22 police stations across Nagpur rural. Every police station has been given the task to visit the home of criminals at least once a month. Apart from Jittewar, API Shyam Gavhane and other teams of crime branch are very active in controlling crime in the rural areas of the district. As per CSS records, Katol has the highest number of alleged criminals staying in its jurisdiction. There are around 936 offenders staying in this part of the district, followed by Khaparkheda with 917 offenders, Kanhan 524, Saoner 496, Narkhed 485 and Ramtek 483. A cop from the concerned police station visits the area or the house of suspect-sheeters and takes a selfie on their cell phone to certify that the offender was present at home. The system also keeps details like what the criminal was doing to earn a livelihood, whether he had gone outstation etc. “This also gives real time monitoring and accountability to the CSS,” said the PI. “We get updates on the whereabouts of regular offenders daily and that is how we have been able to keep tabs on them,” Jittewar added. The new system to monitor criminals has also helped in curbing serious offences like body offence, NDPS etc. Theft and robbery cases have witnessed a steep decline by almost 85 and 23 fewer cases than 2019. Similarly, dacoity and housebreaking thefts too witnessed southward trend. The rural police have registered 5 and 17 fewer cases during this calendar year. Proactive policing by rural police also increased prohibition and gambling cases. Rural police registered 309 prohibition while unearthing 33 gambling dens in the district this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-take-to-tracking-all-7764-criminals-in-rural-nagpur/articleshow/80087160.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 4, 2021||Patna||First hilltop monastery found in Gangetic Valley in Bihar||PATNA: The first hilltop Buddhist monastery of the Gangetic Valley has been found at Lal Pahari in Lakhisarai, its excavation team director Anil Kumar told TOI on Sunday. The 11th-12th century common era (CE) monastery has some unique features rarely found elsewhere in the country and certainly not in Bihar. Besides wooden votive tablets found, it is the first Buddhist monastery which had a woman monk named Vijayashree Bhadra as its chief. She used to receive donations from Pala queen Mallika Devi. A large number of metal bangles have been found and all its cells had doors, something unusual for the Buddhist monasteries excavated so far, suggesting that either it was exclusively for woman monks or a mixed one. The two burnt clay seals recovered from the site record the name Srīmaddharmahāvihārik āryabhikṣusaṅghasya (the council of monks of Śrīmaddhama vihāra). The language used is Sanskrit and the script is Siddhamātṛkā of about 8th-9th century CE. The name is equally significant as it indicates how much prestige the Mahāyāna Buddhism enjoyed in early medieval Magadha. The wooden votive tablets of 5.3x2.3cm each have the figure of a person, probably Buddha, sitting in Padmasana in Bhumisparsha mudra. The lintel at the entrance of the main sanctum sanctorum represents the two Bodhisatvas -- Manjushri and Avlokiteshvara. Anil, who is the head of the ancient history and archaeology department at Visva-Bharati in Santiniketan, said it’s the first ‘vihara’ in the state, which probably gave Bihar its name, as those found at Nalanda, Vikramshila and Telhara were ‘mahaviharas’. Also, after Nalanda and Telhara in Bihar, any monastic sealing has mentioned the monastery name. While a number of mahāvihāras and in one instance a vihārikā is known from epigraphic and archaeological records of eastern India, no evidence of a ‘vihara’-level monastic architecture has been so far discovered from any part of Bihar. The only parallel evidence is found in a monastery excavated at Jagjivanpur in northern Bengal, he said. These findings will be significant in the understanding of the history of monastic Buddhism in early medieval Magadha in general and the history of the historically identified Kṛmilā region in Lakhisarai in particular. This evidence clearly proves that the monastery atop Lal Pahari at Jaynagar was a ‘vihāra’, he explained. He said the interconnected cells, wooden door frames, three huge bastions on each side of the monastery, discovery of dozens of wooden inscribed seals/sealings and the evidence of application of red, green, yellow, white and black colours on lime-plastered floors make the architecture of this monastery the first of its kind among the eastern Indian Buddhist establishments. Anil said this was the first excavation project completed within 3 years in Bihar after getting licence from the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and signing a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Bihar government in 2017. CM Nitish Kumar had inaugurated the Lal Pahari excavation site on November 25, 2017. “We have documented 500 sculptures lying all around the site and brought 200 of them to Lakhisarai. The state government should urgently preserve these sculptures as Lal Pahari is one of the five protected monuments of Bihar government in Lakhisarai. The other four are Satsanda, Bichhwe, Ghosi Kundi and Lai. The 6th site at Nongarh is also being considered for inclusion in the list,” Anil told TOI. Besides Anil, the other members of the excavation project were Bijoy Kumar Chaudhary, Suchira Roychoudhary, Tanmoy Mondal, Shweta Singh, Nishant Zodape, Siddhartha Saha, Rahul Nag and Eshan Harit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/first-hilltop-monastery-of-gangetic-valley-found-in-lakhisarai/articleshow/80086276.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
January 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Health experts affirm segregating super-spreaders is right||AHMEDABAD: In what appears as a model of public health strategy to curtail the frantic spread of Covid 19, the Ahmedabad district Covid management, based on segregation of patients based on viral load between June 10 and July 7, has come into focus of community medicine experts. The model hinged on a simple strategy that cases with low viral load--determined by cycle threshold or ‘Ct value’ identified during RT-PCR tests-- may be quarantined at home with standard precaution whereas patients with higher viral load (super spreaders) are to be quarantined in institutions--hospital or separate premises away from family. The study was led by department of community medicine, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS),West Bengal, and Kalinga Institute of Medical Sciences, Bhubaneswar . The scholars, Paramita Sengupta and Bidisa Sarkar examined how during the peak Covid period Ahmedabad health authorities witnessed a drop in cases while other districts witnessed an increase. The strategy was suggested by ICMR-National Institute of Occupational Health (NIOH), Ahmedabad. As of July 7, 2020, even though the number of new cases in Gujarat was a record-breaking 778 yet number of new cases in Ahmedabad district was 187. Ahmedabad city alone witnessed a total case of less than 200 cases on 30 June, which happens to be the lowest in the past 60 days. The study suggests that the segregation also involved contact tracing of previous five days of the Covid cases with higher viral load (high & moderate) since transmission starts on an average 4 to 5 days prior to first appearance of symptoms. But how does one recognize Covid-19 cases with a high viral load? The NIOH, Ahmedabad team had claimed in May that the value was generated while doing reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests to confirm Covid-19 cases. “The Ct value is inversely proportional to the viral load of patients,” claims a senior health official. If Ct value of a Covid-19 patient is between 17 and less than 24, it is a high viral load. Ct values between 24 and less than 31 indicate a moderate viral load, while Ct values between 31 and 38 indicate a low viral load. “It has been estimated that 10% patients with high SARS-CoV-2 viral load are responsible for spreading 80% of all local transmissions,” the research published in November in Journal of Family Medicine and Primary Care claims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/health-experts-affirm-segregating-super-spreaders-is-right/articleshow/80088108.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Bareilly||SP leadership stands with Azam, his family, says Sumaiya Rana||Rampur: Famous Urdu poet Munawwar Rana’s daughter and anti-CAA activist Sumaiya Rana who recently joined the Samajwadi Party (SP) met Rampur MP Azam Khan’s wife and MLA Tazeen Fatma at her residence in Rampur on Saturday in an effort to put to rest rumours that “senior party leaders are not supporting Azam and his family after they were sent to jail”. Rana told TOI, “My visit was intended to put all such rumours to rest. After joining the SP, I had a brief discussion with party president Akhilesh Yadav over the Khans, and he told me that the entire party and the leadership were with Azam Khan and his family in this crisis. I conveyed the party president’s message to Tazeen Fatma.” Azam Khan and his family members were being targeted because they are Muslim leaders, alleged Rana. Rana, who also visited Muhammad Ali Jauhar University, said, "By opening a university here, Azam Khan has worked for the betterment of the community.” Rana, who actively participated in anti-CAA protests, said the party president had assured that “after the SP forms a government in the state, all cases against anti-CAA protesters will be withdrawn”. Recently, local SP workers had alleged that senior party leaders were not supporting Azam and his family after they were sent to jail. They had also uploaded a few pictures and videos of the Khans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sp-leadership-stands-with-azam-his-family-says-sumaiya-rana/articleshow/80085695.cms||Nazar Abbas
January 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Won’t allow 50 persons or more on terrace, says Nitin Patel||AHMEDABAD: Deputy chief minister Nitin Patel said on Sunday that while the government will issue detailed guidelines on celebration of the Uttarayan in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, permission will not be granted for 50 persons or more to assembly on a terrace to fly kites. Speaking to reporters in Ahmedabad, Patel said, “People will be allowed to fly kites on their terraces. How many people will be allowed and what kind of rules will apply will be discussed and decided at the core committee meeting and the state government will announce this soon.” He added, “However, at the moment, the government is of the opinion that a family of about five to seven people, who stay together, eat together and do all their activities together, can fly kites together on their terrace. But permission will not be given for 50 persons or a large number of members of a society to assemble on a single terrace.” Patel said the state government has already announced cancellation of the international kite festival which is held at the Sabarmati riverfront. “The kite festival has become a distinguishing feature of Gujarat and kitists from across the world participate every year. We have cancelled this festival to check the pandemic,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wont-allow-50-persons-or-more-on-terrace-says-dycm/articleshow/80088109.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Nagpur||84 motorists fined every hour for traffic violations in 2020||Nagpur: The Nagpur traffic police fined almost 84 motorists every hour in 2020. This roughly translates to penalizing 2,015 motorists every day. In 2020, the city witnessed a 61.75% increase in general traffic violations as compared to 2019 when 4,55,402 violators were made to cough up a fine of over Rs8.49 crore. Last year, 7,37,434 motorists paid over Rs10.9 crore in fine for various traffic related offences.According to DCP (traffic) data, the highest 1.12 lakh motorists were caught in Sitabuldi zone for various violations pertaining to Motor Vehicles Act. It was followed by Cotton Market zone, which penalized 96,937 violators. In MIDC zone, 82,040 motorists were penalized for ignoring traffic rules.Sadar zone, which comprises Civil Lines having a large presence of government offices and police headquarters, too caught 76,914 violators.The data revealed that there was better traffic discipline under Ajni Zone. Here, the traffic police caught 56,374 motorists. Similarly, Sonegaon zone caught 58,233 violators.Expressing concern over the rise in traffic violations, traffic expert Vinay Kunte said, “It exposes how citizens are becoming careless about traffic rules.”He stressed the need for consistency in traffic police action against violators. According to him, combing operation from one square to another is the need of the hour to inculcate traffic discipline among motorists.Citing example of Dubai, he said people there never dare to jump any traffic signal or commit any violation even in the absence of police personnel. “They know even a challan generated from CCTV cameras can penalize them heavily. But here, cameras installed at intersections have failed to meet the basic purpose of reducing traffic violations,” he said. DCP (traffic) Sarang Awad said 2021 will see stricter implementation of Motor Vehicles Act. “We will also take a holistic approach to bring discipline and safety on the streets,” he said. He further said traffic police will work closely with all stakeholders like NMC, MahaMetro, PWD, NHAI for improving existing road infrastructure to reduce accidents, jams etc. “Better coordination will help ensure smooth traffic as many infrastructure works are going on in the city,” he said.The DCP also urged the NMC to implement the policy for curbing haphazard parking. “In absence of parking fees, people tend to park vehicles anywhere and everywhere. NMC will have to implement the parking policy without further delay if people are to be discouraged from using private vehicles. Instead promote public transport,” he said.ALARMING RISEYear — Violations---Fine2020---7,37,434----10.93 2019---4,55,402---8.52018---3,16,928---7.5(Fine in Rs crore)TOP 5 VIOLATIONS OF 2020Without helmet --- 1,84,950Without seat belt --- 44,297Fancy number plate --- 38,073Using mobile phone --- 36,048Red light jumping --- 31,542Zone---Violations---FineMIDC---82,040---1,17,19,000Sonegaon---58233---78,75,700Sitabuldi---112179---1,81,72,850Sadar---76914---1,07,86,100Cotton Market---96937---1,59,12,750Lakadganj---65379---1,00,17,100Ajni---56374---79,03,550Sakkardara---59744---93,82,550Indora---62789---85,48,600Kamptee---66845---89,45,100||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/84-motorists-fined-every-hour-for-traffic-violations-in-2020/articleshow/80087161.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Kite enthusiasts welcome decision||Kite enthusiasts of Ahmedabad, especially those in the Walled City areas where Uttarayan has an altogether different charm, have welcomed the government decision not to allow crowding of terraces during the kite festival. Jagdip Mehta, owner of Heritage House in Khadia said that in any case, Uttarayan this year is not going to be as exciting as it would be in normal times. “I think it is a good thing to control overcrowding during Uttarayan,” he said. Rajiv Patel, owner of French Haveli in the Walled City also agreed that the government is correct in considering curbs on overcrowding during the upcoming Uttarayan festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kite-enthusiasts-welcome-decision/articleshow/80088114.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 15 arrested for duping people on pretext of providing sex workers||JAIPUR: Several people from various parts of Rajasthan, Delhi and other states were cheated by a gang of conmen from Sriganganagar on the pretext of providing them sex workers. Sriganganagar police busted the gang and arrested 15 people including four mobile phone dealers who were providing free PayTm and other UPI accounts to the gang members for getting the money from clients. Senior police officers of Sriganganagar stated that for past a few months they were getting inputs from their sources on the syndicated racket of conmen who were cheating people by giving a false promise of providing sex workers. "The conmen included youths mainly from Govindsar and Suratgarh areas of Sriganganagar. They used to live in rented accommodation in Sriganganagar from where they started sending pictures of girls randomly to various mobile numbers with a promise to provide sex workers. When interested people approached them, they would ask them to pay Rs 3,000 to Rs 5,000 by electronic transfer of money through UPI apps," Rajan Dushyant, SP, Sriganganagar, told TOI on Sunday. Elaborating the modus operandi, the SP said, "After getting money transferred through PayTM and other UPI accounts, the conmen disappeared and remained untraceable to the clients. Also the mobile numbers used by them have been purchased through unfair means." "While busting the gang, we have arrested 11 conmen and five mobile shopowners who were providing free sim cards to these youths," Dushyant added. When contacted, Prafful Kumar, inspector general of police, Bikaner Range, said, "We have not received a single compliant in the matter as the victims feared being defamed. So, we took the matter as suo motu and took action. Apart from the 15 arrests so far, many other accused are named in our FIR at various police stations." After Srigangnagar police started the arrests since December last year, many victims are approaching the police. "These victims would be used as witnesses for evidence in the court," he added. In fact, these conmen had no sex workers. "They were sending pictures of various girls and women on mobile phones and some social networking platforms to allure people," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/15-arrested-for-duping-people-on-pretext-of-providing-sex-workers/articleshow/80088104.cms||Ashish Mehta
January 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||City records 2nd highest weekly drop||Ahmedabad: Analysis of the Covid-19 positive cases trends in four major cities of Gujarat reveal continuous drop — however, the share of the eight municipal corporations has remained between 57% to 61% in the past two weeks. Overall, in three weeks between December 14 and January 3, Gujarat recorded drop of 29% in the weekly cases. Among the cities, Rajkot recorded the biggest drop of 36.1% (from 662 to 423), followed by 30% in Ahmedabad (from 1562 to 1087). Surat and Vadodara recorded 18% and 6% drop respectively. Out of 148 deaths of positive patients recorded in Gujarat in the past three weeks, 126 were recorded from the four major cities. It included 83 from Ahmedabad, 34 from Surat, six from Rajkot, and three from Vadodara. As of January 3, Ahmedabad had 2,900 active patients, followed by 1,654 in Vadodara, 1079 in Surat, and 999 in Rajkot. Cumulatively, the four districts account for 72% of the active cases in Gujarat. The four districts also claim the majority share for Covid-19 testing, said experts. “Factors such as high density, more movement and use of public transport are some of the factors that make cities more vulnerable to the viral infection. While the measures such as night curfew are yielding result, we would require a more permanent solution to reduce cases,” said a city-based epidemiologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-records-2nd-highest-weekly-drop/articleshow/80088115.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Nagpur||Centre plans 50 driving schools in Maha: Gadkari||Nagpur: Central government plans to set up 50 driving schools across the state to meet the demand as at present the country is facing a shortage of approximately 22 lakh drivers. Setting up such schools will also increase employment opportunities for the youth, said Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari. He was speaking at the inauguration of Nagpur Rural RTO and sub regional transport office, Nagpur (East) building here on Sunday. Similarly, an Institute of Driving Training and Research (IDTR) is also being set up at Godhani. “Pollution is the biggest cause for concern today. With the increase in the number of diesel and petrol vehicles on roads, there is an extreme rise in pollution. Adapting to environment-friendly vehicles and technology can do wonders in preventing more deterioration in the health of the citizens,” he said, encouraging the public to go for electric or green fuel vehicles. Minister of transport and parliamentary affairs Anil Parab, Maharashtra energy minister Nitin Raut, state animal husbandry minister Sunil Kedar, along with MPs, MLAs including Vikas Mahatme, Girish Vyas, Parinay Fuke, Krushna Khopade, Mohan Mate, Ashish Jaiswal, Vikas Kumbhare, Avinash Dhakane, Prakash Gajbhiye etc were present on the occasion. “Nearly 5 lakh accidents take place in the country every year, causing a large number of deaths and permanent disabilities to many. The major cause of this is unscientific road engineering,” he said. “A committee was formed in the city to study the causes behind accidents. After the committee highlighted 26 black spots and the authorities took necessary steps, the number of accidents has gone down by nearly 25% last year,” said Gadkari. “Online services related to RTO have already begun and we are seeing its benefits too. Now, there is less crowd and almost zero human contact in the process. More than having a licence, better road sense needs to be instilled among the public, which can reduce the number of accidents,” said Parab. Bajrang Kharmate, RTO, Nagpur Rural, detailed the dignitaries about the facilities in the new building. Special disabled-friendly arrangements too have been made while planning the office apart from introducing e-facilities, he said. The programme was moderated by Renuka Deshkar and the vote of thanks was given by RTO Vinod Jadhav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/centre-plans-50-driving-schools-in-maha-gadkari/articleshow/80087166.cms||Anchal Bhatia
January 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Zydus gets DCGI nod for phase-3 vaccine trials||Ahmedabad: City-based pharmaceutical major Zydus Cadila has received the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI)’s approval for conducting the phase-3 clinical trials of its plasmid DNA vaccine to prevent Covid-19. With this permission, Zydus Cadila will now begin the third phase trials of its vaccine candidate called ZyCoV-D, which is India’s first indigenously developed DNA vaccine against Covid-19. The company will be initiating the phase-3 clinical trial with about 30,000 volunteers. “ZyCoV-D was found to be safe, well tolerated and immunogenic in the first and second phase clinical trials,” the company said in a statement. The phase-II study had been conducted in over 1,000 healthy adult volunteers. The vaccine candidate has been supported by the National Biopharma Mission (NBM) under the aegis of Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC) and the department of biotechnology, government of India. On Saturday, the subject expert committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) recommended granting permission to Zydus Cadila to commence phase-III clinical trials of the vaccine. “We are reaching a critical milestone in our vaccine development programme and towards our goal of helping people fight the pandemic with an indigenously discovered, safe and efficacious vaccine,” said Pankaj Patel, chairman, Zydus Cadila. “The launch of the phase-III trial will determine the efficacy of our vaccine in preventing Covid-19, which continues to pose a major threat across the world,” he added. Zydus Cadila currently manufacturers other vaccines at its Zydus Biotech Park located in Changodar, Ahmedabad. The facility was visited by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi in November to take stock of the vaccine development. Zydus Cadila is also in the process of ramping up the vaccine production capacity at the facility as it aims to reach a capacity of 100-150 million doses per annum. The group hopes to start the production of the novel vaccine after successful completion of the third phase. The group is also conducting the phase-III clinical trials with its biological therapy — Pegylated Interferon alpha-2b (PegiHep) — in Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/zydus-gets-dcgi-nod-for-phase-3-vaccine-trials/articleshow/80088112.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Kolhapur||Nails removed from trees in Kolhpur city||Kolhapur: Nails, strings and billboards were removed from over 100 trees in the Kolhapur city on Sunday as part of a campaign — Free Trees From Nails — launched by district guardian minister Satej Patil. Over 50 organisations participated in the campaign, which will now be held regularly. Volunteers of the organisations and the locals participated in large numbers in the drive on Sunday. They removed nails, strings and billboards from big and old trees. Many used metal cutters to cut the strings and nails embedded deep into the trunk of the trees. Patil said, “The campaign has been launched to save trees and create awareness among citizens over the importance of trees. It is legally punishable to inflict any sort of injury to the trees. I have asked the civic administration to launch the drives regularly and fine those putting nails and strings.” Similar campaigns have been carried out in big cities. Patil said he is going to appeal to people across the state to undertake the campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/nails-removed-from-trees-in-kolhpur-city/articleshow/80085698.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Nagpur||‘Hello, I am an almond tree. Other trees are also waiting to talk to you’||Nagpur: Have you ever heard of talking trees? If not, visit Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) in Amravati district where the trees will not only welcome you but also speak with you. The visitor will experience it through an app developed by MTR under project ‘Talking Tree’ with expertise from Sarang Sahebrao Dhote, an assistant professor with the chemistry department at JD Patil Sangludkar Mahavidyalaya, Daryapur. “Trees in Melghat will speak to you after you download the app from Google Play Store and complete some basic formalities like preferred language and name. We have put QR codes and select numbers on the trees. Once you scan the QR code, the trees will welcome you and start speaking with you,” said MS Reddy, APCCF & field director of MTR. “On a pilot basis, the project has been launched in Chikhaldara forest garden where 200 tree species including some shrubs have been given QR code and a unique number. After scanning the QR code, the trees will welcome you and start speaking to you,” said Reddy. Dhote, who has conceptualized the app, said, “After scanning the QR code, the tree (app) will say, “Hello! Welcome to Melghat Tiger Reserve. Glad to see you today”. If you scan QR code or select the number on an almond tree, it will say “I am an almond tree. My botanical name is Prunus amygdalus. I am belonging to the Rosaceae family. I am native to Iran and surrounding countries” and give other information about it. It will also say other trees in the garden are also waiting to talk to you.” According the field director, the project will be replicated at tourist complexes at Semadoh, Kolkhas, Sahanoor, Gullarghat and Harisal. Dhote said he came up with idea for this app after his mother was deeply hurt by large-scale felling of trees for road widening in Daryapur. “She said how better it would have been if these trees were able to speak,” said Dhote. “Another motive was to tell the next generation about these tree species. In a forest we can identify only popular trees like banyan, papal, neem, mango, etc. But how will the next generation know about other tree species? Hence this app,” Dhote told TOI. Former Amravati honorary wildlife warden Vishal Bansod said they approached Dhote as he had developed a similar app for trees in his college premises on Science Day on February 22 last year. About the Talking Tree app, he said guides have also been trained to tell tourists about the app and how to use it. “The app is generating a lot of interest among visitors in Chikhaldara botanical park. The trees also talk about taking selfies,” he said. Dhote has a doctorate in science but has developed many software and Android applications for research and environmental science. The app developed by him in February is registered for copyright.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hello-i-am-an-almond-tree-other-trees-are-also-waiting-to-talk-to-you/articleshow/80087197.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 4, 2021||Madurai||Rs 222 cr allocated for Pongal hamper in Madurai: Min||Madurai:An allocation of Rs 222 crore has been made for distribution of Tamil Nadu government’s Pongal gift to 8.9 lakh card holders in the district through 1,398 ration shops. The distribution of Pongal hamper, including cash of Rs 2,500, rice,sugar, sugarcane, raisins, cashew nut and cardamom for making pongal, was formally inaugurated in Madurai at Jaihindpuram by minister for co-operatives Sellur K Raju on Sunday. This distribution through ration shops would start from January 4. Speaking at the event, in the presence of district collector T Anbazhagan and corporation commissioner S Visakan, the minister said that an 8.9 tonnes each of rice and sugar, sugarcanes and 17 tonnes each of cashew nut and raisins and 4.4 tonnes of cardamom was kept ready for distribution. These would be distributed in cloth bags. The hamper would be distributed through ration shops for 200 cards per day from January 4 to 12, those who do not receive the gift can avail it on January 13. He said that the state government had enhanced the cash dole from Rs 1,000 last year to Rs 2,500. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rs-222-cr-allocated-for-pongal-hamper-in-madurai-min/articleshow/80088117.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||GTU offers storage assistance for vaccine||Ahmedabad: Gujarat Technological University (GTU) has come forward to offer its assistance to the state health department for storing Covid-19 vaccines that require storage at very low temperatures. The varsity has offered its storage facility and other relevant laboratory equipment for this purpose. Vice-chancellor of the university, Navin Sheth, said the varsity had ordered the storage facility from Germany ahead of the countrywide lockdown in March. He said that a proposal has been given to the health department for using their system that can store over 15,000 units at a time. It can store the vaccine at temperatures ranging from minus 20 to 80 degrees celsius. Many Covid vaccines are required to be stored in minus 40 degrees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gtu-offers-storage-assistance-for-vaccine/articleshow/80088123.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Shimla||Over 300 tourists stranded near Atal Tunnel rescued||MANALI: Over 300 tourists stranded at the south portal of Atal Tunnel following fresh snowfall were rescued in an operation lasting over six hours. As many as 250 tourist vehicles had reached the Atal Tunnel early on Saturday morning and were sent back by Lahaul-Spiti police as it was snowing heavily in the valley. Tourists then stopped at the south portal and Dhundi to enjoy snowfall. As the snowfall intensified, Kullu police stopped tourist movement towards the tunnel and restricted it till Palchan village. With over 15cm snow piling up on roads, vehicles started skidding and many were involved in collisions. Also, as drivers found it difficult to keep vehicles from falling off the edges, it led to road blockade. Police swung into action on Saturday evening after receiving information about tourists being stranded near the tunnel even as the BRO started clearing snow from the road. The rescue operation continued after midnight as tourist vehicles were freed and brought to Manali one by one. Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said more than 300 stranded tourists were rescued by teams of Manali police station, Atal Tunnel unit and local four-wheel drive vehicles. “Tourists had crossed the tunnel early in the morning. Weather turned inclement suddenly and it started snowing. As the vehicles were stuck in snow, tourists were stranded. The rescue operation continued till late night amid heavy snowfall,” he said. As many as 82 vehicles of tourists stuck in the snow at night were evacuated on Sunday, he added. While Lahaul-Spiti administration has made it mandatory for all vehicles to obtain prior permission before entering the valley, Kullu administration on Sunday issued an advisory, urging tourists not to go towards the tunnel for the next few days. “There is a forecast of heavy snowfall in the area. The road is slippery,” Kullu DC Richa Verma said. This is the first incident of tourists being stranded near the Atal Tunnel after its opening on October 3, 2020. Earlier tourists used to visit Kothi and Gulaba for snow in January. Similar rescue operations have been launched earlier at Gulaba, Marhi and Rohtang Pass areas. The Solang-Atal Tunnel stretch is very prone to avalanches and the area receives very heavy snow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/over-300-tourists-stranded-near-atal-tunnel-rescued/articleshow/80087167.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Nagpur||Vid leaders to gain from state legislative secretariat’s new office, says Thackeray||Nagpur: After the opening of the Maharashtra Legislative secretariat’s permanent office at Vidhan Bhavan on Monday, dignitaries said that it would usher in a new era of democratic reforms in Vidarbha and strengthen the democratic system across the state. The new office, inaugurated by legislative council chairman Ramraje Nimbalkar, speaker Nana Patole, deputy speaker Narhari Zirwal and deputy chairman Neelam Gorhe, would function throughout the year from the second floor of Vidhan Bhavan with a 16-member staff. While the speaker and his deputy were present, Nimbalkar and Gorhe joined them online. A plethora of dignitaries also attended the event online, including chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, deputy CM Ajit Pawar and home minister Anil Deshmukh. Parliamentary affairs minister Anil Parab, guardian minister Nitin Raut and animal husbandry minister Sunil Kedar shared the dais with Patole and Zirwad. Local BJP MLAs and MLCs were conspicuous by their absence. Dignitaries lauded the efforts of former MLC Prakash Gajbhiye for demanding such an office in the city and following it up rigorously. Thackeray said his government wouldn’t allow any injustice against Vidarbha. “The office would function throughout the year and would immensely benefit legislators from the region. Former and current members of the assembly could get references and suggestions at the new office and also submit their queries and calling attention motions for the session. Earlier, they used to come to Mumbai office all the way for such works. For the 62 MLAs, 9 MLCs and MPs from the region, this would be their own office,” said Thackeray. Terming the event as ‘historic’, Patole said efforts were being made for setting up a similar facility in Pune for the benefit of leaders and citizens from that region. “We will have a good library which could be accessed by students of Vidarbha,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-leaders-to-gain-from-state-legislative-secretariats-new-office-says-thackeray/articleshow/80099391.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 4, 2021||Chandigarh||Man thrashed by cops, BRO personnel, video viral||Manali: A video of a cop and Border Roads Organisation (BRO) personnel beating up a tourist inside Atal tunnel, while dozens of vehicles in a long queue stand still, went viral on Sunday. The incident happened on Saturday and the tourist was accused of creating nuisance inside the tunnel. The video shows a man being made to bend over while a security agencies personnel hits him with a stick couple of times. Another man comes and slaps the man bending over. Police sources said five tourists from Haryana were driving rashly inside the tunnel and overtaking other vehicles on the single lane road at about 11am on Saturday. They were allegedly drunk, playing music loudly and smoking hookah in the tunnel. The person being punished in the video is the driver of that vehicle. Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said one of the persons in video is a police constable and others were identified as BRO staff. “An inquiry has been initiated,” he added. On social media, some criticised police and BRO for this incident, others supported them as many young tourists have continued to create ruckus in the tunnel by rash driving, loud music, dancing and stopping the whole traffic movement. Some said this was the suitable treatment for unruly persons, while others said this brutal action was against the law. According to sources, police had taken the matter seriously as it tarnished the image of the state police. Police arrested 25 tourists and realised fine of Rs 50,000 from 10 tourists in the last week of December between Christmas Day and New Year for dancing and stopping traffic movement in tunnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-thrashed-by-cops-bro-personnel-video-viral/articleshow/80087176.cms||---
January 4, 2021||India||Vaccine approvals shot in arm for self-reliant India: Modi, Shah||NEW DELHI: PM Modi and other senior BJP members, including home minister Amit Shah and defence minister Rajnath Singh, on Sunday said the approval of two vaccines is a decisive turning point in the fight against the Covid-19 and a major step towards "Make in India" and "self-reliant India" campaigns. "A decisive turning point to strengthen a spirited fight! DCGI granting approval to vaccines of Serum India and Bharat Biotech accelerates the road to a healthier and Covid-free nation," Modi tweeted soon after the drug controller confirmed the decisions. A decisive turning point to strengthen a spirited fight! DCGI granting approval to vaccines of @SerumInstIndia an… https://t.co/FiyDOOaJHZ— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1609652831000Terming the nod for the two vaccines as a momentous achievement for India, Shah said talented and hardworking scientists have made India proud. "Congratulations to PM Modi ji for striving towards a Covid free India. Visionary leadership can make a huge difference," Shah said. Congratulating "hardworking scientists and innovators", the PM said it would make every Indian proud that the two vaccines that have been given emergency use approval are made in India. "This shows the eagerness of our scientific community to fulfil the dream of an Aatmanirbhar Bharat, at the root of which is care and compassion," Modi said. The PM further said, "We reiterate our gratitude to doctors, medical staff, scientists, police personnel, sanitation workers and all Corona warriors for the outstanding work done, that too in adverse circumstances. We will remain eternally grateful to them for saving many lives." The home minister said time and again it has been witnessed that a new India is eager to innovate and help humanity during crises. "The approval to Made in India vaccines will prove to be a game changer in boosting PM Modi's vision of an Aatmanirbhar Bharat," Shah said as he thanked scientists, doctors, medical staff, security personnel and Corona warriors. Singh congratulated Modi for strengthening India's national resolve to fight against Covid-19. "His vision for 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' has helped in coming up with indigenous solutions in India's fight against the global Pandemic," Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vaccine-approvals-shot-in-arm-for-self-reliant-india-modi-shah/articleshow/80088945.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Trichy||Waste burned near highways||Trichy: Lapses in the door to door waste collection has led to residents and sanitary workers burn garbage in vacant spots adjacent to the highways, which has resulted in dense smoke engulfing highways in the city. Although no residential settlement is situated near the vacant space on Odathurai road near Trichy-Chennai NH, there is waste accumulation. While bulk waste generators were suspected for dumping huge quantity of waste, sources said that people arriving at the spot in vehicles also dump their domestic waste wrapped in covers. Most of them are office goers who have not been able to hand it over to the waste collection vehicle. As waste collection vehicles are allegedly irregular in Karumandapam, Ponmalai and Thiruverumbur localities, all residential settlements situated close to the Dindigul, Madurai and Thanjavur national highways, residents dump their waste in vacant sites near the highways, which is set on fire. “Waste mounds are burnt in vacant plots near Ponmalaipatti daily. The smoke suffocates the residents nearby and even irritates the two-wheeler riders,” said KC Neelamegam, a resident of Ponmalai added. A senior official with Trichy corporation said that penalisation drive will be intensified to prevent the burning of waste in vacant sites near highways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/waste-burned-near-highways/articleshow/80087202.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Shimla||After 1,400 birds found dead, Himachal Pradesh district suspends tourism in lake area||SHIMLA: After more than 1,400 migratory birds were found dead till Saturday due to an unexplained cause in the Pong Dam area of Kangra district in Himachal Pradesh, the local administration has suspended all tourism activities in the reservoir’s precincts till further orders. Wildlife authorities have sent samples taken from the carcass of the birds for testing at the High Security Animal Disease Laboratory (HSADL) in Bhopal to ascertain the cause of death. On December 29, the field staff of the Pong Dam lake wildlife sanctuary was ordered to search the entire area for more dead birds. As many as 421 migratory birds were found in Majhar, Bathari, Sihal, Jagnoli, Chatta, Dhameta and Kuthera areas of the wildlife range at Dhameta and Guglara area of Jawali Beat in Nagrota. On subsequent days, more birds were found. Kangra deputy commissioner-cum-district magistrate, Rakesh Kumar Prajapati, in orders issued under Section 34 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, said no human and domestic livestock activity would be allowed in around a one-km periphery of the Pong Dam reservoir till further orders. The area has been declared as an Alert Zone. Further 9 km area around it is the Surveillance Zone, in which all departments are keeping a strict vigil on bird deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/alert-issued-after-1400-birds-die-in-pong-dam-area/articleshow/80087193.cms||Anand Bodh
January 4, 2021||Madurai||M K Stalin will never become CM, I will ensure that: His brother M K Alagiri||MADURAI: Amidst slogans hailing him ‘anjaa nenjam (brave heart)’, M K Alagiri on Sunday declared war against his estranged brother and DMK chief M K Stalin, saying: “Stalin can never become the chief minister. My supporters and I will ensure it.” The former Union minister and elder son of M Karunanidhi, who convened a meeting to discuss his future course of action ahead of the assembly election, said he would announce his next move soon and that his supporters should accept his decision. “To this day, I do not know what I did wrong to be dismissed from the DMK. Stalin betrayed me,” said Alagiri. In what clearly appeared to be a show of strength, Alagiri arrived in a campaign vehicle to a marriage hall in Madurai as supporters from the city and southern districts gathered in large numbers. The gathering of Alagiri supporters that included DMK workers brought traffic to a standstill on the inner ring road in Madurai. People came in hundreds of vehicles, and the marriage hall near Pandikoil, one of the biggest in Madurai, burst at the seams with cadres standing outside to watch the proceedings on a giant screen. Accusing Stalin of being jealous of his growth, Alagiri said, “I don’t know why I was betrayed.” Alagiri said, “I only wanted to be a cadre working for the party and had never hankered after party posts. We turned Madurai, which was MGR’s fortress, into a DMK’s fortress.” “There are always posters calling you (Stalin) future CM but that’s not going to happen. My followers will never let you become future CM,” Alagiri said. Read AlsoDMK will waive education loans if voted to power: StalinERODE: The DMK would waive education loan taken by students for higher studies once the party comes to power. The DMK president and Leader of the Opposition in the Tamil Nadu Assembly M K Stalin made this statement on Sunday while addressing a gathering at V Mettupalayam village in Erode westStalin was being compared with Karunanidhi, said Alagiri. “A DMK district secretary said Stalin had done even better than Kalaignar (Karunanidhi). I feel ashamed to hear this. How can they compare Stalin with Kalaignar?” he asked. Alagiri said he had never wanted to work for the Thirumangalam byelection as he had been upset with his family. “But Stalin, Dayanidhi Maran and other DMK leaders met me and urged him to take up the responsibility. Kalaiganar kept calling me every hour and I took up the responsibility and helped the party win the byelection by a margin of 40,000 votes as I had predicted,” he said. Alagiri said he had been DMK’s “saviour” on several occasions even while Stalin used him to get party posts. He said senior DMK leaders had come to his house to recommend Stalin for the party treasurer’s post. “Another day, when Stalin and his wife visited my house during the Thirumangalam election, my wife and I assured him he would be the leader of the DMK after Kalaignar,” said Alagiri. Whenever he was given a posting, Stalin sought higher postings, he said. “I was silent for seven years. My supporters want me to float a party. I will take a decision. But whatever decision I take, I want you to accept it,” he said. His supporters, including P M Mannan, M L Raj and P Chinnan, while addressing the gathering, said Alagiri should be re-inducted into the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/will-ensure-stalin-never-becomes-cm-alagiri/articleshow/80088159.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
January 4, 2021||Hyderabad||TSRTC to run 4,981 festival special buses||HYDERABAD: At least 2.5 lakh seats have been made available in festival special buses to be operated by Telangana State Road Transport Corporation for ensuing Sankranti. Of the total seats, nearly a lakh seats are available in buses being operated to various destinations in Andhra Pradesh alone. Despite the occupancy ratio in the buses not coming back to pre-Covid average of 70% and hovering around 65% in the districts and 45% in Greater Hyderabad, TSRTC has decided to operate 4,981 festival specials. More specials would be operated depending upon the rush of passengers. These specials would be operated between January 8 and January 14. However, passengers have to shell out 50% more as bus fares in these specials. “The fare is 50% more because these are festival specials being operated in addition to existing daily services. Almost all the time, these specials return empty to depots because there is hardly any occupancy in the return direction during festivals,” TSRTC regional manager, Rangareddy, Vara Prasad told TOI. Of 4,981 festival specials, as many as 1,600 buses would ply to 30 towns and cities in Andhra Pradesh, including Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram, Guntur, Kadapa, Chittoor, Nellore and Tirupati. These festival specials are mostly being drawn from Greater Hyderabad region, where only 50% of the fleet is being operated presently. Of the festival special buses, as many as 3,380 buses would be operated to various destinations within Telangana and other neighbouring states, and another 1,600 to Andhra Pradesh alone between January 8 and January 14. To avoid traffic jams at Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station, Koti and Jubilee Bus Station in Secunderabad, these specials would be operated from various route destinations in the city including Old CBS, , Lingampalli, Miyapur X Road, KPHB, Ameerpet, Telephone Bhavan, LB Nagar, Aramghar, ECIL X Road, Jeedimetla, Tarnaka and Uppal X Roads from January 9 to January 12 when the festival rush is expected to peak. “Over 200 officers and employees will monitor operation of these specials from various destinations and facilities have also been provided at these points for the convenience of the passengers,” Vara Prasad said and appealed to the people to make advance reservations to avoid last-minute rush. Passengers could book their tickets in advance for “to and fro” journey from bus stations and authorised ticket booking agents located in different places in the city and also online at www.tsrtconline.in .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsrtc-to-run-4981-festival-spl-buses/articleshow/80087201.cms||Roushan Ali
January 4, 2021||Trichy||Waste collection hit in Trichy, only 800 houses covered daily||Trichy: Waste collection in the city has not been effective as the corporation has not been able to meet the target household and commercial establishments assigned for waste collection vehicles every day. Mini-trucks assigned for waste collection have been given a target of 1,200 houses per day, but with ineffective source segregation and inadequate workforce only 800 houses are covered per day. Trichy corporation has 213 mini-trucks each with a capacity to collect 2T of waste. The vehicles include 155 owned by the corporation and 58 hired. As per the solid waste management practice, each vehicle is supposed to cover 1,200 units (both commercial and residential) per day. Although the 213 mini-trucks are adequate to cover the 2.5 lakh units in the four zones, poor waste segregation at source by residents causes sanitary workers to spend time in segregation. The process makes the vehicle spend 30 minutes on an average in a street. However, sanitary workers and residents play blame game at each other. “We have been segregating waste at source to a maximum possible extent. But waste collection vehicles arrive on alternative days or once in 3 days,” said V Nadaraja, a residents’ welfare association representative from VOC road. Residents added that it is getting difficult to separately store the waste accumulating for days. As another reason for not covering the targeted households is that workers deployed per vehicle has been reduced from three to two member per truck, sources add. “At times, we have only one worker to collect and segregate the waste, that is the reason why we miss collecting waste from several houses,“ a driver of waste collection truck said. The workers also raised apprehension over the possibility of reducing vehicles hired for waste collection. Trichy Corporation has said they are buying 27 new vehicles to replace the trucks hired from private players. “We have no intention to reduce the strength of the waste collection vehicles. A new set of mini-trucks will join the waste collection process before Pongal and the quality of source segregation will be improved,” a senior official with Trichy corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/waste-collection-hit-in-trichy-only-800-houses-covered-daily/articleshow/80087194.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 4, 2021||Goa||15 UK returnees, contacts test -ve for new virus strain||Panaji: A total of 15 UK returnees and their contacts have tested negative for the new virus strain after their reports were sent to the NIV, Pune. They have been discharged from ESI hospital where they were isolated. There are currently 47 UK returnees and their contacts still isolated in the hospital who are awaiting their results from NIV Pune. Isolation in ESI began on December 25. Meanwhile tracing and testing of the 979 passengers who arrived from UK continues. The swab samples of those who test positive are collected an sent to the NIV, Pune for genomic testing. The state reported two Covid related deaths over the past 24 hours. A 59 year old man from Velim died after nine days of treatment at GMC. He had diabetes and died of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) after contracting Covid-19 pneumonia. A 75 year old man from Mapusa with ischemic heart disease (IHD) and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) also passed away after eight days of treatment at GMC. He too died of ARDS after developing Covid-19 pneumonia. The two deaths took the cumulative death toll to 742. The state reported under 100 new Covid infections for the fifth consecutive day with 65 new cases on Sunday. A total of 29 persons were hospitalised and 33 opted for home isolation over the past 24 hours. Eighty three patients also recovered over the past 24 hours taking the recovery rate to 96.8 %. There are currently 901 active cases. After more than a week of staying below 100, Margao’s active case load has crossed the 100 mark again. Margao urban health centre continues to be the health centre reporting the highest active Covid cases in the state. Panaji, Ponda and Vasco have more than 50 active cases each. Close to 60 percent of the active cases were detected in South Goa. North Goa reported 372 active cases compared to 525 reported in South Goa. Four travellers were found positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/15-uk-returnees-contacts-test-ve-for-new-virus-strain/articleshow/80087199.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Goa||GFP hits out at govt, bats for online exams||Panaji: Questioning the government’s rationale of conducting college and school examinations when health minister Vishwajit Rane has warned of a second wave, Goa Forward Party urged the government to either conduct online exams or take a cue from the CBSE and postpone the exams to a later date. The party has repeatedly warned of a second wave due to the state government’s lax protocols and felt vindicated after Rane warned of a surge in cases due to the violation of public health measures during New Year’s Eve celebrations. “How can the government even have the heart to continue with offline exams in the midst of a rising surge and expected one in Goa as predicted by the health minister, while the rest of the country, including the CBSE, is postponing offline exams,” said Goa Forward Party president Vijai Sardesai. Sardesai also called on all anti-BJP forces to come together and take on the BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-hits-out-at-govt-bats-for-online-exams/articleshow/80087206.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 4, 2021||Trichy||Locals want paid darshan to Srirangam temple scrapped||Trichy: Arangan Pathukappu Peravai, a federation comprising residents of Srirangam working towards the betterment of Arulmigu Ranganathaswamy temple, has demanded the cancellation of paid darshan at the temple. Criticising the collection of Rs 250 for special entry, the members said that the temple management can generate revenue through other means by utilising the land and properties of the temple such as leased cultivation and pilgrim retiring centre. Conducting a consultation meeting here recently, Arangan Pathukappu Peravai has sought priority for locals residing in Srirangam to worship the deities.“People from other parts of the state and country are spending to their capacity for a peaceful darshan. Whereas, we residing close to the temple face difficulties in worshipping the deity. Separate entrance for Srirangam residents should be facilitated,” Anandapadmanabhan added. The federation also batted for appointing locals in the board of trustees. The group also sought the state government to ensure the implementation of the rituals and traditions in the temple as framed by Sri Ramanujacharya, a renowned Vaishnavite saint. Stating that only the local people can understand the rituals and traditions associated with the Ranganathaswamy temple, they sought the HR&CE department to appoint trustees, all of them belonging to Srirangam with a better understanding of Vaishnavite belief. “Srirangam temple is not adhering the traditions reformed by the saint Ramanujacharya. His practice and method of management in governing the temple’s daily activities is being ignored,” said V Anandapadmanabhan, founder of the federation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/locals-want-paid-darshan-to-srirangam-temple-scrapped/articleshow/80087205.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Nagpur||Hooligans set three 4-wheelers on fire||Nagpur: Unidentified mischief-mongers set three vehicles parked by the roadside on fire in Untkhana near Medical Square in the early hours of Sunday. Curiously, only the vehicles which had covers on them were targeted. City police chief Amitesh Kumar visited the locality later in the day along with additional CP, crime, Sunil Phulari, and Zonal DCP Akshay Shinde to inspect the crime scene and meet the residents. Kumar has instructed compulsory patrolling in the locality now, it’s learnt. Two youngsters, one from Bihar and another native of Gondia, have been rounded up by crime branch sleuths based on CCTV footage in the Command and Control Centre. The duo, after consuming liquor, is learnt to have set the cars on fire just to have “fun”, it's learnt. Police still verifying their statements. A few residents of Untkhana woke to some noise early on Sunday morning only to find three four-wheelers engulfed in flames. Cars, belonging to Amol Patil, Nyaybindu Taksande and Sankalp Wankhede, all parked in front the owners’ residences were targeted between 1.30am and 1.45pm. Some match boxes were also spotted near the vehicles. Wankhede said they were alerted by neighbours following loud noises of tyre bursting due to flames. “CCTV installed in the area has captured movement of a suspect, who had not covered his face,” he said. “My neighbour Patil, who had purchased the vehicle only three month ago, was severely damaged,” he added. Wankhede said there had been frequent bickerings over parking with the employees and visitors of the nearby mall. “We cannot rule out the involvement of someone who was miffed by our confronting them to park vehicles in front of our houses,” he said. Zonal DCP Akshay Shinde, who was present at the spot, said police are trying to track the perpetrators. “Some of the visitors to the NIT garden in the area too could be behind the incident,” he said. An offence has been registered at Imambada police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hooligans-set-three-4-wheelers-on-fire/articleshow/80087227.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Submit expenses or be disqualified: SEC||Hyderabad: The state election commission (SEC) has warned candidates who contested in the GHMC elections and have not submitted the election expenditure to submit the expenditure, stating that candidates who do not submit the expenditure will not be eligible to contest elections in future. The SEC will hold a meeting with 30 election observers on January 8 to take stock of the situation and table the number of candidates who are yet to submit the poll expenditure. The observers will serve notices to the candidates who have not submitted the expenditure. “If candidates fail to submit the expenditure then they will be disqualified. During the meeting we will get to know how many people are yet to submit the final expenditure,” SEC commissioner C Partha Sarathi said. The SEC also stated that names of elected members of GHMC council will be published in the gazette soon. “The names will be published after January 10. If the names of elected members are published in the gazette before January 11, 2021 then the first meeting of new GHMC council would be held before February 11, 2021,” said a GHMC official. As per the rules, the candidates are supposed to submit their poll expenditure within 45 days from the date of declaration of results. Over 2,000 candidates, who had contested in the urban local body (ULB) polls in 2014 and GHMC polls in 2016 failed to submit their poll expenses and were debarred from contesting polls for three years. The expenditure observers compared the final expenditure submitted by candidates with the daily report filed by shadow teams and tabled the reports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/submit-expenses-or-be-disqualified-sec/articleshow/80087204.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 4, 2021||Goa||Divar islanders drive away cyclists flouting Covid norms||Panaji: While Covid-19 safety norms of wearing face masks and maintaining physical distance are being rampantly flouted in public spaces across Goa, some locals from Divar sent back a group of 40 cyclists for not adhering to the requirements. The visitors on wheels were passing through a part of the island when a section of the locals gathered after being irked at the blatant violation of norms. “We told them they are not welcome here without proper protection and asked them to leave immediately,” a Divar resident said. Hordes of visitors, tourists and cyclists swarm the streets from early morning till dusk. “They cycle into the island wearing even helmets but not the very important protective gear. Very few of the cyclists and tourists who come in buses use masks,” Fr Jose Dias, parish priest of Our Lady of Piety Church, Divar said. The church compound was packed with visitors flouting the rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/divar-islanders-drive-away-cyclists-flouting-covid-norms/articleshow/80087210.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Coimbatore||Frontline workers on top of the world||Coimbatore: Day 2 of Coimbatore Vizha was all about thanksgiving and bringing smiles on the face of frontline workers who were battling Covid virus for the last nine months.Dubbed Wings of Change, the frontline workers were taken on helicopter rides to give an aerial view of the city. The organisers said that about 100 frontline workers, comprising doctors, nurses, sanitary workers and paramedics were taken in the chopper from the helipad near Ganga College of Nursing at Vattamapalaipalayam and were flown over Marudhamalai temple and Adi Yogi statue at Isha Yoga Centre, all along being given a glimpse of the city from the skies. The ride lasted for about 15 minutes and in each ride, six people were taken.The frontline workers were elated after the ride. Most of them had never flown before. Some of them were initially anxious, but soon the anxiety gave way to joy as the chopper took off and gathered speed. “We wanted to thank them differently for the fight they have been putting up for the past nine months and for the struggle they would face in the coming months as Covid is not yet gone. We wanted to make the trip memorable for them. From their feedback, we are sure that we have achieved what we set out to,’’ said a member of the organizing team.Another event of the day was a virtual heritage tour, where a walkthrough video of 30 iconic places in the city was hosted on the Coimbatore Vizha portal. The video shows several important places, along with voiceover of historian Rajesh Govindarajulu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/frontline-workers-on-top-of-the-world/articleshow/80087203.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Two NIT Warangal students, five alumni secure over 99 percentile in CAT||HYDERABAD: Two students of the National Institute of Technology (NIT) Warangal and five alumni of the institute secured over 99 percentile in the Common Admission Test (CAT), results of which were released on Saturday. While Sagar Kundani of the 2017-21 batch secured 99.95 percentile, Pranav Agarwal of the 2015-19 batch secured 99.79 percentile in CAT 2020. “I would like to pursue MBA from IIM Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, or Kolkata. If I fail to secure a seat in one of the three institutes, I will take up the offer I received in the campus placement,” Sagar, who is pursuing final year civil engineering, told TOI. Sagar said that he secured a job in a multi-national company as an analyst. Explaining the reason behind appearing for the CAT examination, Sagar said that he realised that he is not interested in the civil engineering field during his one-month internship. “I did a month-long internship on the Naya Raipur project. That’s when I realised that I don’t like this field. I was more inclined towards business and started learning more while working with my dad, who runs his own business,” he added. Abdus Samad, another final year student from the institute, who managed to secure 99. 14 percentile, said that he will take the final call on whether to pursue an MBA or consider the job offer depending on the call letters he receives from IIMs. “I worked hard at improving my speed and accuracy and I am happy that I secured good percentile in CAT. I will wait for call letters and see if I can secure a seat in one of the top IIMs. I feel that my strength is in managerial roles than in core engineering and want to get into the energy industry,” said Abdus Samad, a final year student of mechanical engineering. Giving a tip to students, he said that it would be wise to work on speed and accuracy. “I feel most engineers are familiar with sections and topics in CAT. Speed and accuracy are two things that will get one through the exam,” he added. Another final year engineering student, VKR Sai Prashanth, who secured 98.8 percentile, said that it is important to appear for mock tests. “I have appeared for the exam without any preparation. I was not even aware that there will be three sections in the paper,” he said, adding that for now he will accept the job offer and will again appear for CAT in a year or two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-nit-warangal-students-five-alumni-secure-over-99-percentile-in-cat/articleshow/80087208.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
January 4, 2021||Agra||Covid-19 vaccine dry run at 6 centres in Agra on January 5||AGRA: The dry run of Covid-19 vaccine will be conducted in Agra on January 5. Full rehearsal will be carried out at six centres in Agra district. The health department has called 150 individuals to participate in the dry run. Besides deep freezers for storage, arrangement of around 3.60 lakh syringes has been made to administer the vaccine. Chief medical officer Dr RC Pandey said, “All required arrangements have been made for the dry run of Covid-19 vaccine on Tuesday. In this regard, doctors and heath staffers have been assigned duties at six centres. Except administering the actual vaccine, the entire process of vaccination will be rehearsed. The exercise is aimed to avoid loopholes in the actual vaccination process.” The dry run of Covid-19 vaccine will take place at SN Medical College, Pushpanjali hospital and community health centre at Naraich, Achnera, Khandoli and Baroli Ahir. According to the health department, supply of the vaccine is likely to start in the second week of January. For this, a storage facility has been developed at the CMO office. Four deep freezers have been installed. Around 25,000 doses can be stored in each one of them. In the first phase, a total of 16,901 doctors and healthcare staffers will be vaccinated. Their data has been compiled. Maximum 100 people will be vaccinated at each of the 10 centres in the district every day. “The people who will take the shot will be kept under observation of doctors for at least 30 minutes. Each vaccination team will have six members including a doctor, nurse, supporting staff and volunteers. Police will ensure strict security arrangements at the vaccination centres,” CMO said. Spot registration for vaccination will not be done. After medical staff, people above 50 years of age and those with co-morbidity will be vaccinated. State government will be issuing detailed orders regarding vaccination, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-at-6-centres-in-agra-on-january-5/articleshow/80085731.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Use Patent Act, ensure jab to all: Asad||Hyderabad: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday said that Prime Minister Narenda Modi should use provisions in Patent Act to ensure Covid-19 vaccination for all people in the country. “@PMOIndia if India has to ensure vaccines for all, then we’ve to procure more vaccines & at a cheaper cost. Pharma Cos are unlikely to agree. S.92 of Patents Act gives Central govt the power to bypass them & issue compulsory licenses to generic manufacturers. Use it. Act NOW,” tweeted Owaisi. He also mentioned that rich countries with 14% of world population have bought up 53% of vaccine supplies globally. Pointing to the quantity of vaccines procured by countries that are economically strong, he said the existing supply is unlikely to meet India’s needs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/use-patent-act-ensure-jab-to-all-asad/articleshow/80087211.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 4, 2021||Madurai||2 arrested in separate sexual assault cases||Madurai: The Madurai police, on Saturday, arrested a 22-year-old man from the city for sexually assaulting a 15-year-old girl. The accused was identified as Azhagu Anand, from Paramakudi in Ramanathapuram district. According to police, he was in a relationship with the 15-year-old girl from Madurai city. The girl’s parents learnt about the affair and warned him. In this backdrop, the accused eloped with the girl to his native place, where he sexually assaulted her. Based on a complaint from the girl’s mother, a case was registered with the Madurai south all women police station on Saturday. The accused was arrested on the same day. In a separate incident, a 17-year-old was arrested for sexually assaulting a girl, also 17. Police sources said that the two were in a relationship with each other for a couple of years. The boy married the girl four months ago and had sexual relations with her. Based on a complaint from the minor girl, a case was registered with the Madurai south all women police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/2-arrested-in-separate-sexual-assault-cases/articleshow/80088165.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 4, 2021||Dehradun||Champawat cop suspended for threatening SHO||Rudrapur: A constable posted with the Pancheshwar police station of Champawat district was suspended after he allegedly threatened the station house officer (SHO) over the phone. The SHO had called him after finding the constable absent from duty without information. According to the district's Superintendent of Police (SP), Lokeshwar Singh, constable Mahesh Chandra, a resident of Chakarpur in district Udham Singh Nagar, was found absent from duty on December 28. SHO Anurag Singh called him to find his whereabouts. In his complaint with the SP, SHO Singh alleged that Chandra not only misbehaved with him but also threatened to kill him. The constable was in an inebriated state when the fellow policemen apprehended him. He was asked to visit the police station but the constable kept on arguing and misbehaving. Subsequently, his medical examination was conducted and on Sunday, SP Singh put him under suspension. A departmental inquiry has been initiated against the constable. Manish Khatri, SHO of Lohaghat police station, has been handed over the probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/champawat-cop-suspended-for-threatening-sho/articleshow/80085725.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Two abducted by man deep in debt, freed by cops||AHMEDABAD: The city crime branch on Sunday rescued Samir Hudda (aka Pintoo), 20, and Samir Vadhvani, 18, from kidnappers led by Vadhvani’s relative, Salim Hudda alias Sikander. The kidnappers initially wanted Rs 1 crore for the Surendranagar duo, but later scaled down their demand to Rs 40 lakh. The cops let the handover of the money take place to ensure that Pintoo and Samir were not harmed. Then the cops discreetly followed the kidnappers till they reached one in a series of barricades set up especially for the operation. The cops have recovered the money given as ransom. Pintoo and Samir were freed near Ampad village on the Borsad-Vadodara Road. Sikander had planned the kidnapping to pay off his debts. He has been arrested. Joint commissioner of police, crime branch, Amitkumar Vishwakarma said Vipul Aal, Dharmendra Parmar, and Nilesh Bar of Surendranagar have also been held in the case. Assistant commissioner of police, crime branch, D P Chudasama said that the kidnapping drama began unfolding on the morning of December 31, 2020. Pintoo and Samir along with Sikander and their driver Jagdish Maharaj set off from Surendranagar for Ahmedabad. “Pintoo had to buy clothes and Sikander pretended that he had to procure spices for his business in Surendranagar,” added Chudasama. According to inspector A Y Baloch of the crime branch, at about 1.30pm on December 31, Samir’s father Salim Vadhvani called Pintoo’s father Azad Hudda and told him that his son’s phone was switched off. Salim suggested that Azad call Pintoo to find out where the two boys were. But Pintoo’s phone was switched off too. “Then at about 5pm that day, a girl called Pintoo’s sister Reshma to say that he had been picked up by police,” Baloch said. “Right after that, an employee of Azad’s saree store called her up to say that both Pintoo and Samir had been taken to Aslali police station in Ahmedabad. But the news turned out to be false.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kidnapped-by-kin-freed-by-cops/articleshow/80086324.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Trichy||AIADMK-BJP alliance guarantees DMK front’s victory: P Chidambaram||TRICHY: Senior Congress leader and former finance minister P Chidambaram has said that the DMK-led alliance comprising the Congress is poised for victory in the Tamil Nadu assembly elections. Speaking at Pudukottai on Sunday, he said Congress-led alliances had managed to win assembly elections in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Chattisgarhh, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Goa and Manipur in 2018 when the BJP-led government was in power at the Centre. “But BJP stole the verdict by false means and toppled our governments in a few states.” In Tamil Nadu now, he said, “The moment the AIADMK-BJP alliance was confirmed for the assembly election, the victory of the DMK-led alliance, in which Congress is a partner, was confirmed.” According to him, the BJP-led government is operating in a rogue manner where there is no importance for Parliament, its debates or the people. He said farmers were protesting for the last 40 days and an equal number of them had died during the agitation. But the BJP government was refusing to budge. “BJP continues to be adamant like it was on demonetisation, GST and handling of Chinese intrusion. On the farmers’ protest, the government continues to remain inflexible,” he said. The veteran Congress leader said a controversy was artificially created at a grama sabha meeting of DMK president and opposition leader M K Stalin on Saturday. Recalling the incident of an AIADMK woman member creating a flutter at the meeting in Coimbatore by posing certain questions to Stalin, he said it is usual for political parties to meeting the public ahead of elections. There is no room for controversy in a political party leader meeting people. On the economy, he said exports have come down again, urban unemployment has risen from 9.1% and MGNREGA scheme is the only livelihood for the poor. He termed as a joke the BJP claiming to announce the CM candidate of the AIADMK-led alliance. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/aiadmk-bjp-tieup-guarantees-dmk-fronts-victory-pc/articleshow/80087209.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Local body elections: AAP publishes first list of candidates||AHMEDABAD: Aam Aadmi Party on Sunday announced the first list of its candidates for the forthcoming local body elections. These include candidates for municipal corporations, municipalities, district panchayats and taluka panchayat elections. “It will not be wrong to say that the list of Congress candidates is prepared in the BJP office. The BJP uses money power and threatens use of agencies against Congress, which gets intimidated and does not put up a real fight. People of Gujarat want change and AAP is presenting an alternative,” said Atishi Singh, national spokesperson, AAP. She added that not just the forthcoming local body polls, AAP will contest all forthcoming elections in the state including the 2022 assembly election. “People of Gujarat want a change, but they had no alternative until now. AAP will bring about transparency and honesty in Gujarat’s politics,” she said. AAP Gujarat president Gopal Italia said that AAP is the only party which has declared its candidates a month and a half before the local body elections. “Unlike the BJP and Congress, which name their candidates in the eleventh hour, AAP has decided to let people know our candidates well and make an informed decision when they vote. If there are any serious allegations against any of our candidates, we will investigate these and even replace them if there is merit in the allegations,” he said. Atisihi Singh and other leaders of AAP also held at business conclave in the city on Sunday afternoon, where representatives of various industries listed out their problems. The party also held a public meeting at Naranpura and national office bearers met retired armed forces personnel as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/aap-publishes-1st-list-of-candidates/articleshow/80086352.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Chennai||Storyteller who brought magic into Tamil movies||By V S Krishnan“When the bugles blow, there is a great show." With these words, Gemini Studios founder Subramaniam Srinivasan, popular as S S Vasan, brought to Tamil culture the magic of celluloid he promised would go beyond entertainment to become an experience of a lifetime. The curtains may have long come down on the iconic film studios on Mount Road, but his legacy lives on through the films he made. A journalist, writer, translator and filmmaker, the multi-hyphenate’s contribution to cinema set Tamil films on a new path. He created Gemini Studios as a world in miniature where every aspect of human activity was in dramatic form. Artisans, scholars, musicians, costume and set designers, lab technicians and actors were all groomed as a unit that came together for grand narratives on screen. Vasan got involved in every aspect of filmmaking and created an empire that raised the standards of visual storytelling.But his beginnings were humble. Born in a village in Thanjavur district on January 4, 1904, he came to Chennai for his college studies. He began working at a printing press and took to designing and printing and did odd jobs to earn money. But it was weaving stories that fascinated him and he began writing short stories for local magazines and translating works. Taking over ‘Ananda Vikatan’ when its publisher, having incurred some losses, offered it for sale, he re-launched it and a new ‘Ananda Vikatan’ regaled Tamil readers with humour, wit and infotainment. It was Vasan who found Kalki Krishnamurthy in the 1930s and gave Tamil literature one of its gems.After his novel ‘Sati Leelavati’ was made into a film and was appreciated, Vasan saw a new avenue and stepped into filmmaking. When a fire damaged Motion Picture Producers Combine, Vasan purchased it. He rebuilt and renamed it Gemini Studios, after his wife’s zodiac sign. Its first production, ‘Madanakama Rajan’ became a trendsetter, and Vasan didn’t look back.Digital technology and animation movies had not appeared yet, but Vasan’s magnificent creations were on a par with today’s tech wizardry. His magnum opus, ‘Chandralekha’, was designed, researched and executed with much precision. The cost of building huge sets was huge, but Vasan never compromised on quality. According to reports, it took more than two months to film the scene where more than 100 boys and girls danced over a giant drum from which warriors emerged to rescue captives. This scene, which needed aerial photography, was shot with eight cameras from different angles. Having used all his savings and having borrowed from all available sources, he reached a dead end before completing the film after pledging with his family jewellery.But it wasn’t just grandeur that attracted Vasan. When he heard stories of saint-woman Avvayar, he planned a film on her. Eyebrows were raised as a film without a baddy was inconceivable. But Vasan felt the audience interest went beyond human conflict and took cinema to a higher level where love, visual treat, beauty of animals like tuskers and horses, art, architecture and music all created human interest.His decisive choice for the most important character was K B Sundarambal (KBS), a stage artist who was making waves by rendering devotional songs in a captivating voice. The songs of KBS appealed to the people because she blended music with devotion. The scene where King Chola arranges a mammoth procession of artisans, saints, scholars, singers and dancers to accord a grand reception to Avvayar at the border and lead her to the royal court considered to be with few parallels. A commentator compared it to American filmmaker Cecil B deMille’s ‘The Ten Commandments’.A visionary, Vasan knew how to spot and groom talent. Among many such stars was R Ganesan who joined the studio in 1946 as a production assistant. Vasan recognised his potential and offered him a prime role in ‘Miss Malini’. Ganesan’s performance in ‘Vanjikottai Valiban’ made him the talk of the town. The ‘Gemini’ prefix stuck and a star was born. But unlike all Gemini movies that witnessed a happy ending, when the curtains of Gemini studio fell, it was with a sad note. Vasan’s death in 1969 following his illness took out the wind from his film empire as well. He was a towering leader and the vacuum he left could not be filled. Gradually, the scene shifted from institutional level to individual level, where directors and actors called the shots. Digital technology transformed conventional methods and the mega sets disappeared. Films became more about closet dramas such as ‘Pasa Malar’ and ‘Palum Pazhamum’, made either within four walls of the house or in gardens.Vasan’s family had to focus on ‘Ananda Vikatan’ which was getting more popular. The studio and its surrounding locations, which used to brim with activities, gradually came to a standstill. The logo of two small boys playing a pipe, which the people of the bygone era identified with Gemini Studios, and the mastery of Vasan have now mere memories. While Gemini, the premier institution Vasan built, has paled into history, the other institution he created ‘Ananda Vikatan’ continues to be a household name in Tamil Nadu.(The writer is an author of spiritual books)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/storyteller-who-brought-magic-into-tamil-movies/articleshow/80087162.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Trichy||Farmers hail Rs 600 cr input relief announced by CM||Trichy/Chennai: Farmers have welcomed chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s announcement of Rs 600 crore input relief to 5 lakh farmers who lost their crops in the Nivar and Burevi cyclones. The assistance would benefit farmers who lost agricultural and horticultural crops on 3.11 lakh hectares under the National Disaster Relief Fund guidelines. The farmers also appreciated the fact that the assistance would be given to all farmers irrespective of their land holding. According to the announcement, farmers who get Rs 13,500 per hectare as input subsidy for rain-fed and assured irrigated paddy crops would get Rs 20,000 a hectare. Similarly, the input subsidy of Rs 7,410 per hectare given for all rainfed crops (except paddy) has been enhanced to Rs 10,000 and to Rs 25,000 from Rs 18,000 for perennial crops. “The relief amount will be credited in the bank accounts of the farmers from January 7 onwards,” Palaniswami has said. “The CM’s announcement was timely as we have been demanding enhanced input subsidy for a long time. Unlike earlier norms, all those holding even more than two hectares would get relief as input subsidy this time.,” said All Farmers Association's Coordination Committee, P R Pandian. He also appealed to the government to release the list of beneficiaries at village level and ensure there are no irregularities in disbursal of the relief. The state government has urged the Union government to extend financial aid of Rs 3,750.4 crore and Rs 1,514 crore for the damage caused by the cyclonic storms, Nivar and Burevi respectively. Following the memorandum from the state, the Union government deputed an inter-ministerial central team twice to assess the damage and the relief work done by the state government to render financial assistance. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-hail-rs-600-cr-input-relief-announced-by-cm/articleshow/80087221.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Dehradun||Farmers take out protest rally against farm laws||Roorkee: To protest against the three new farm laws, local farmers, under the banner of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), took out a protest rally in Roorkee on Sunday. The farmers, about 150 in number, intended to march to Delhi to join the ongoing farmers’ protest. However, the local police convinced them to stop their rally while telling them about Covid-19 regulations. Later, the farmers gave a memorandum of their demands to the local administration. “We postponed our march towards Delhi as the local administration assured us that our demands will be communicated to the Centre at the earliest. If the three new laws are not revoked immediately, we will certainly march towards Delhi,” Padam Singh Rod, Uttarakhand BKU head. Meanwhile, SP (rural) Swapn Kishore Singh said, “After a long conversation, we managed to convince the farmers to not march to Delhi. Their message will be conveyed to the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/farmers-take-out-protest-rally-against-farm-laws/articleshow/80085727.cms||Tapan Susheel
January 4, 2021||Coimbatore||Man arrested for molesting 2-yr-old girl||Coimbatore: A 53-year-old man was arrested for sexually assaulting a two-year-old girl in a village near Annur on Saturday.The arrested person was identified as R Sampath of Annur, a labourer. “The girl was playing with other children on Saturday evening. Her mother heard her screaming in pain in her neighbour’s house and rushed to the place to find Sampath sexually assaulted her daughter. She took the girl to the government hospital in Annur,” a police officer said.Based on the mother's complaint, the Annur police registered a case and arrested Sampath on Saturday night. He was booked under sections 3 (b), 4, 5 (m), read with 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-arrested-for-molesting-2-yr-old-girl/articleshow/80087223.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Goa||Relief for Ponda patients as OPDs resume at sub-dist hosp||Ponda: Patients from Ponda who require medical service at out patients departments (OPDs), laboratories and wards will heave a sigh of relief as all OPDs that were shifted to Dilasa Palliative Care Centre at Farmagudi will now be relocated to Ponda sub-district hospital from Monday. The hospital has already brought back its casualty wing on Sunday. The state government had converted the Ponda hospital into a full-fledged second Covid-19 facility from August 10, 2020. However, it had largely affected Ponda patients who need emergency aid, including victims of vehicle accidents. Only the casualty services and some OPDs were made available at Dilasa, the palliative care centre run by the Indian Medical Association Charitable Trust Ponda, at Farmagudi, located about 3km away from the sub-district hospital. With the decision to convert the Dilsasa centre into a hospital without putting proper arrangements like X-ray machine for emergency aid, accident victims had to bear pain for longer periods as they had to move either to Dharbandora primary health centre at Piliyem, which is 15km away from Ponda, or be driven for 30km to Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMC) at Bambolim to get an X-ray. Dr Vikas Kuwelkar, medical superintendent of the Ponda sub-district hospital, said that the hospital will function as it was prior to August 10. Kuwelkar said they have already shifted the casualty wing and all the OPDs will commence as usual from Monday. “We have stopped admitting Covid patients since last week and have duly sanitised the Ponda hospital,” he said. Chairman of the Indian Medical Association Charitable Trust, Dr Santosh Usgaonkar, said the Ponda hospital authorities have vacated Dilasa from Sunday. “However, neither they have handed it over to us nor the government has paid the amount of the facilities used by them for last four months,” Usgaonkar said. All the facilities, including ambulance, were used by the hospital authorities and an amount of Rs 5 lakh per month was agreed to be paid to Dilasa by the health department, Dr Usgaonkar said. Director of health services Dr Jose D’Sa said the government has not issued any order to shift the OPDs and casually to the hospital. “But since the admissions of Covid-19 patients have been stopped, the earlier facilities have been relocated to the Ponda hospital,” D'Sa said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/relief-for-ponda-patients-as-opds-resume-at-sub-dist-hosp/articleshow/80087212.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
January 4, 2021||Hyderabad||GHMC to restart drive to rehabilitate beggars||Hyderabad: After keeping the project to rehabilitate beggars in cold storage for a year, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has finally decided to kick-start it now. Though the civic body in February 2020 had rolled out a plan to implement the project, it was halted mid way amid Covid fears then. In November 2017, when US President Donald Trump’s daughter Ivanka Trump visited Hyderabad for Global Entrepreneurship Summit (GES), the civic body had rehabilitated hundreds of beggars. Since then, there were hardly any measures taken. The onus of ensuring the underprivileged are shifted to shelter homes lies with GHMC’s urban community development (UCD) wing. For the past two weeks, denizens have been ruing about people spending nights on streets. They have also complained that unlike earlier, more number of people were spotted near junctions and busy stretches. Their apathy was aired on Twitter too, but in vain. “Children are forced into begging. Children and toddlers suffer the most as they are used a prop. Compared to earlier times, I can see more number of people begging on the roads now,” Aneesh Waghray, a business analyst with an IT firm, said. People were found begging at Hi-Tec City flyover, Road Number 10, Banjara Hills (near government quarters), Telugu Talli Flyover (near Secretariat site) and Kukatpally Housing Board (KPHB) Colony and were not rehabilitated by GHMC. Civic officials said measures were being taken to ensure begging on streets was stopped completely. “We have already identified beggars across the city. Rehabilitation has also been taken up in parts of the city, GHMC deputy project officer, UCD wing, Rajendranagar circle, Radha Rani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-to-restart-drive-to-rehabilitate-beggars/articleshow/80087218.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 4, 2021||Trichy||47% candidates in Trichy skip TNPSC group-I exam||Trichy: Almost half of the candidates, who had registered for TNPSC group – I preliminary examination, did not appear for the examination that was held in 36 centres across Trichy city on Sunday. Total 5,698 candidates appeared for exam in Trichy on Sunday of the 10,765 candidates, who had registered for the examination in Trichy district. About 47% of the students were absent. The preliminary exam was for various posts including deputy collector, deputy superintendent of police and assistant commissioner in commercial tax department. Those who clear the exam will appear for mains examination, which will be descriptive format followed by an interview. Due to lack of preparation during the Covid-19 lockdown as many of the coaching centres were shut may be one of the reasons for candidates not turning up for the exams, said P Srinath, one of the aspirants from Srirangam, who appeared for the exam on Sunday. Some of the aspirants told TOI that they found the exam to be moderate in terms of difficulty level. Saying that the syllabus was slightly changed this year, another aspirant said that earlier, around 50 questions were asked from mathematics. However, this time it was reduced to 25. Further, Thirukkural-related questions were added this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/47-candidates-in-trichy-skip-tnpsc-group-i-exam/articleshow/80087213.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Biodiversity wing to set up 8 theme parks in Secunderabad||SECUNDERABAD: Soon, a rainwater harvesting (RWH) theme park will come up in Secunderabad. The park will be built on the lines of RWH Park, already set up by Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) on road no. 51, Jubilee Hills. Apart from this theme park, the officials of Urban Biodiversity (UBD) wing of Secunderabad zone, have also planned to develop seven theme parks in different areas on themes such as ‘Seven Wonders, ‘Patriotism’, and ‘Swachatha,’ The civic body is developing a total of 50 theme parks across the city as part of beautification works, with an outlay of Rs 134.23 crore. “The designs to develop theme parks in all five GHMC circles including Begumpet, Secunderabad, Musheerabad, Amberpet and Malkajgiri have been prepared already and the decision to implement them will be taken,” a senior official from GHMC UBD wing in Secunderabad Zone told TOI. In Secunderabad zone, there are a total of 24 parks being maintained by the GHMC and another 99 parks being taken care by colony residential welfare associations (CWA). The remaining 20 parks have been allotted to contractors for maintenance by the civic body, said the official. Apart from six theme parks, the beautification also be taken up at two parks in Barkatpura and at Mothe Nageswara Rao Park in Secunderabad, added the GHMC official. The GHMC has targeted to complete these theme parks within three months, added the civic body official. Besides this, the UBD wing is also planning to develop nurseries in the parks. A variety of saplings will be grown in these nurseries and distributed to residents in colonies free of cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/biodiversity-wing-to-set-up-8-theme-parks-in-secbad/articleshow/80087224.cms||Sunil Mungara
January 4, 2021||Goa||Goa: Desi tourists aplenty, but industry bets on foreign visitors for long haul||COLVA: Over the past few weeks, hordes of domestic visitors have been driving up the numbers in a tourist season that has been rather subdued due to the Covid-19 pandemic. While this trend could be encouraging for tourism, stakeholders point out that a mix of both desi and foreign visitors is needed to keep the wheels of the sector moving. With international flights yet to commence, foreign visitors were unable to land in Goa this year. And in the absence of charter arrivals, stakeholders are quick to point out the difference. Desi tourists enjoying New Year at Benaulim shack. Cruz Cardozo, president of the Shack Owners’ Welfare Society, said that there is a flipside to having a domestic tourist-centric industry in Goa. “Just 30% of domestic tourists are heavy spenders, while another 30% are not so lavish. The rest come to Goa for the liquor which is comparatively cheaper than in their home state. There are also those who come with their rations and cook their own meals by the roadside,” said Cardozo. Hordes of Desi tourists at Colva beach on New Year's dayHe said that hotels have attracted domestic tourists by offering packages inclusive of breakfast, lunch and dinner. In such a scenario, shacks and restaurants don’t benefit much from such tourists, Cardozo said. Edwin Baretto, who operates a 40-room hotel in Cavelossim, said that he does not see how domestic tourists can sustain tourism in Goa. “Domestic tourists book rooms either over the weekend or for three nights, while charter clientele visit Goa for 3-7 months,” he said. However, the effect of domestic tourist footfalls cannot be ignored. A quick survey indicates that starred and medium-sized hotels have been filled to capacity, while shacks along the Salcete coastal belt have been doing brisk business. Rent-a-car and bike operators have also been busy, while sales in provisional stores and wholesale alcohol outlets are unprecedented since tourism activities resumed. A wholesale liquor store owner pointed out that since October, especially in December, the alcohol sales graph has been on an upward trend. But this is a temporary phase, he added. A manager of a popular chain of provisional stores along the Salcete coastal belt also shared a similar experience. He said that they registered bumper sales of provisions and liquor during the festive season. Shack owner Roger Fernandes said feels that tourism can be sustained with domestic visitors. “What foreigners spend in two weeks at a shack, domestic tourists do the same in three days,” he said. However, he emphaised on having foreign tourists as it adds colour to the season and tourism overall. Travel and Tourism Association of Goa past president Savio Messias said Goa’s tourism needs both domestic and foreign visitors. “The tourism industry has grown so large because of the charters, and hence tourism in Goa cannot be sustained with domestic tourists alone. If Goa does not get foreign visitors, domestic tourists will also decline. The current influx of domestic tourists is for a temporary period, and even though starred hotels are doing well, the smaller ones are still affected.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/desi-tourists-aplenty-but-industry-bets-on-foreign-visitors-for-long-haul/articleshow/80087219.cms||Nisser Dias
January 4, 2021||Madurai||Ganja seized, six arrested in separate cases in Madurai||Madurai: The SS Colony police in Madurai seized 29 kg of ganja hidden in a motor room and arrested two persons. The accused were identified as K Mahendran from MM Nagar in Ponmeni Main Road and M Prakash from Chittalatchi Nagar in Mahaboobpalayam. Police said that they received a tip-off that the duo were involved in peddling ganja. A team followed the accused and found that they had hidden ganja in a motor room in an agricultural field in Kalaimuthu Nagar. The police team seized the ganja hidden and arrested Mahendran and Prakash from the spot. Based on a complaint from sub-inspector Vijayakumar a case was registered with the SS Colony police station.  In another incident, four kg of ganja was seized and four people were arrested. The Avaniyapuram police received information that ganja was being sold at a spot behind Gurnathan Temple in Chinthamani. A team reached the place on Saturday and arrested the accused and seized the ganja from them. They were identified as P Bagawathi, P Prabakaran, P Karuppu and K Saravanakumar. Police are on the lookout for three more people related to the case.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ganja-seized-six-arrested-in-separate-cases-in-madurai/articleshow/80088173.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 4, 2021||Hyderabad||BJP to hold protests||Hyderabad: State BJP chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar said that the party will soon hold protests against the problems of teachers, employees and pensioners. Addressing a press conference on Sunday, he said teachers are suffering due to lack of promotions. “As there are no salaries for drivers in villages, sarpanches are driving the tractors and acting as drivers too,” he said, and added that the state is not releasing funds to gram panchayats. Nizamabad MP Dharmapuri Arvind said KCR has lost people’s confidence. “If TRS leaders are saying that KCR makes no good CM candidate it implies that KCR is not fit to be CM,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-to-hold-protests/articleshow/80087237.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Meerut||2 mutilated bodies foundnear rail tracks in M'nagar||Muzaffarnagar: Two mutilated bodies were recovered from near the railway tracks of the Mansoorpur area in Muzaffarnagar district on Sunday.The bodies of the two youngsters are said to be of a man and a woman - both aged 20. The man was supposedly studying in Class 12 and working in a factory. Police are now awaiting the postmortem report.Mansoorpur SHO KP Singh said, "No police complaint has been filed yet. We are trying to find the reason behind the incident. We will register a case once any member of their families file a complaint."The local village chief said that both belonged to the same caste and were found dead on the railway track.The man had a relative in Ajamatgarh village where the woman used to live, but it is not known whether they knew each other, according to sources.Police have launched a probe to find out whether it was an accident, suicide or there was any involvement of foul play.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/2-mutilated-bodies-foundnear-rail-tracks-in-mnagar/articleshow/80086360.cms||Mohd Dilshad
January 4, 2021||Nagpur||Heritage walk shows essence of Ajni Colony||Nagpur: Sunday saw a heritage walk organized by citizens at Ajni Van area. Around 100 young and old citizens of Nagpur participated in a walk which showcased the heritage of Ajni Colony built over a century ago. Conservation architect Sandeep Pathe, who has researched immensely on the area enlightened the curious citizens about the features of the area. In a walk lasting about two hours in the morning, people were informed about the uniqueness of structures at Ajni amidst the chirping of various species of birds who have made the area filled with trees their homes. It was interesting to note and see the original railway station number 1 at Ajni which was built around 1880 circa almost 30 years before Nagpur main railway station was created. Ajni was the central point of what was then the Bengal Nagpur Railway. The colony is a living example of excellent neighbourhood planning having ample space for green pockets, houses with fore and background spaces, schools, places of worship, gardens, playgrounds, technical railway workshops, roads which are pedestrian and cycle friendly even today. The quarters were planned correct and has taken all context specific strategies which respond to the Ajni as a context. In its older time quarters were connected to conservancy lanes and it had a proficient management system of solid waste also the garbage and other waste was disposed from a far corner of quarter. The quarters are not just houses but narrates a saga of a micro civilization in itself, where people employed with railways lived a healthy lifestyle. What is important is that even during those times the planners had kept in mind the environment aspects before construction. For example adequate spaces were left for trees which were planted and is seen in form of huge entities supporting the numerous bird lives till date. The trees also gave shade regulating the temperatures in summer. Special places were earmarked for disposal of solid waste which was situated at a corner of the colony. Hospital was built symbolic of Gond architecture. Drainage created 100 years ago still prevents water from accumulating during rains in Ajni while rest of Nagpur has seen waterlogging increasing day by day. Proper planning of development always has space for nature and environment. The heritage walk at Ajni highlighted the fact that it is very important to protect the last remaining vestiges of green as well as cultural heritage which is under tremendous pressure of being sacrificed in the name of infrastructure projects. Organizers and citizens are demanding the relocation of IMS Ajni project to Khapri or any other alternative site to save this rich heritage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/heritage-walk-shows-essence-of-ajni-colony/articleshow/80084546.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Dehradun||Father-son die in road accident in US Nagar||Rudrapur: A father-son duo was killed in a road accident in Sitarganj town of Udham Singh Nagar district on Saturday night. The bike they were riding on was hit by a speeding tractor-trolley near Bawanpuri village. The deceased have been identified as Chandrama Tiwari (45) and his son Alok Tiwari (12), residents of Baruabagh village near Sitarganj industrial area. The police said that the sand-laden tractor-trolley involved in the accident was impounded but the driver managed to flee the spot. The bodies were handed over to the bereaved family after post-mortem. Police have started searching for the accused driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/father-son-die-in-road-accident-in-us-nagar/articleshow/80085735.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 4, 2021||Hyderabad||Labourer, son killed by live-in partner in Telangana||HYDERABAD: A 30-year-old labourer and her one-and-half year old son were killed by the former’s live-in partner at Ghanpur forest area in Nizamabad district.  The victims were Sujatha, 30, and her son Ramu, of Humnapur village in Nizamabad. For the past two years, Sujatha was in a live-in relationship with Ch Ramulu, 22, of Ghanpur village. Recently, Ramulu started suspecting that Sujatha was having an affair with another man and started harassing her. On December 31, Ramulu took Sujatha and Ramu to a forest to collect firewood. However, he returned to the village alone. Sujatha’s kin confronted Ramulu and lodged a plaint with Varni police on Sunday. Ramulu confessed to committing the murders. Ramulu was taken into custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/labourer-son-killed-by-live-in-partner/articleshow/80087238.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Agra||Farmers fear crop loss after rainfall, freezing weather in parts of west UP||AGRA/MEERUT: Rainfall along with hailstorms in parts of western Uttar Pradesh on Sunday have not only intensified the cold wave, but also caused harm to potato and vegetable crops, according to the farmers. Agra and Meerut regions witnessed rainfall. It was much more in Aligarh and Etah districts as compared to Agra. There was hail and thunderstorms in Aligarh as well. The maximum temperature in Agra was recorded 17.7 degrees Celsius - five degrees less compared to normal. In Aligarh, maximum temperature was recorded 15.8 degrees Celsius. Signs of blight in potato and vegetable crops were also noticed. In Fatehabad, Etmadpur and Bichpuri and Khandoli blocks of Agra district, farmers found "leaves of plants covered with layers of ice". Rain and hailstorm have caused crop loss in Iglas sub-division of Aligarh district and the agriculture department should conduct a survey of the damage and start its proceedings to provide compensation, Mohan Singh Chahar, regional president of Bharatiya Kisan Sangh, said. Besides, farmers in other districts of Agra region have also reported signs of blight in potato and vegetable crops, he added. “The weather conditions are not suitable for potato crops. Ground frost can cause a lot of damage. Farmers from different villages have reported signs of late blight in crops. We are assessing the situation," Ram Pravesh Verma, Agra district agriculture officer, said. "Farmers can save their crops by controlled spraying of permitted chemicals. Any use of urea should be avoided,” he added. The Agra region is likely to witness dense fog in morning and evening for the next five days, according to the Met department. Mild sunshine can be seen in the afternoon. With partly cloudy sky, there is a possibility of one or two fresh spells of rainfall, the Met added. In Meerut, the maximum and minimum temperatures on Sunday were 15.7 degrees Celsius and 10 degrees Celsius, respectively. The maximum and minimum humidity levels recorded in the district were 98% and 89%. While the maximum temperature was six degrees Celsius below normal, the minimum temperature was three degrees Celsius above normal. The district recorded 22 mm of rainfall on Sunday. “Heavy rainfall is predicted this week and temperatures may fall further in Meerut and other adjoining districts of western UP,” Brij Mohan, Met in-charge of Meerut, said. Meanwhile, the Air Quality Index (AQI) in Agra was recorded at 334 or "very poor" category by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Sunday. Particulate matter 2.5 (with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) remained a prominent pollutant in the city of Taj. The maximum level of PM 2.5 was recorded at 372 milligrams per cubic metre. Meerut recorded an AQI of 315 in the "very poor" category as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/farmers-fear-crop-loss-after-rainfall-freezing-weather-in-parts-of-west-up/articleshow/80085756.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 4, 2021||Madurai||Tension as toll plaza staff, DMDK workers scuffle||Madurai:Tension prevailed at Kappalur toll plaza on Sunday when a few DMDK members and toll plaza employees entered into an altercation following which police tried to arrest the party cadres. Police sources said that around 200 DMDK workers gathered near the toll plaza to welcome party deputy general secretary L K Sudhish. He was on his way to Kayathar in Tuticorin district to garland the statue of freedom fighter Veerapandiya Kattabomman on his 262nd birth anniversary. The DMDK men from Theni district unit led by district secretary Krishnamoorthi assembled there. As they were waiting for Sudhish, rain started and the partymen ran towards the toll plaza to take shelter. As the crowd swelled at the plaza, it caused inconvenience to the passing vehicles. Irked toll plaza employees asked the party workers to leave the place. Police personnel on duty there also joined in support of the employees. The cadres refused to leave the place leading to an altercation. As tension mounted, a team led by Thirumangalam deputy superintendent of police Vinothi was dispatched to the spot. With the party workers refusing to leave the place, police started picking up the cadres into a vehicle. In protest, the cadres lay a siege to the plaza. A few more cadres, who came on two-wheelers, also joined them. Meanwhile, Sudhish, who came to Madurai by flight, reached the toll plaza in a car on the way to Tuticorin. He urged police to leave the cadres and refused to leave the place until they were freed. Sensing trouble, police allowed the cadres to leave. Traffic movement on Madurai-Kanyakumar stretch was affected for about 30 minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tension-as-toll-plaza-staff-dmdk-workers-scuffle/articleshow/80088178.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Trichy||SR urged to resume train services||Thanjavur: Thanjavur District Rail Users Association has urged the Southern Railways to resume operation of all the trains that were running on the Mayiladuthurai - Trichy main line before the lockdown. The plea by the association is to meet the passenger demand in view of Pongal festival. The 57th annual general body meeting of the association was held at Kumbakonam on Sunday where a number of resolutions were adopted. Apart from demanding the immediate resumption of service of all the trains on the Mayiladuthurai-Trichy main line, the railway authorities were urged to providing stoppage at Papanasam for the Chennai Egmore-Thiruchendur Express and the Mayiladuthurai-Mysore Express trains. Another resolution urged the railway officials to take necessary steps to convert all diesel engines running on the Villupuram-Mayiladuthurai-Trichy, Mayiladuthurai-Tiruvarur and Karaikal-Thanjavur-Trichy lines into the electric engines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sr-urged-to-resume-train-services/articleshow/80087243.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Cop threatened over mask rule||Ahmedabad: A 50-year-old man from the Mirzapur area of the city was booked by cops for allegedly not wearing a mask and getting into a scuffle with cops near Delhi Chakla police chowky on Saturday. Police sub-inspector S M Sisodia states that the accused Saeedkhan Pathan, resident of Lallu Rayji no Vando in Mirzapur, was talking on his cellphone and did not wear a mask when he was riding his scooter near Delhi Chakla. Sisodia stopped him, but Pathan allegedly began abusing the PSI in a loud voice, and threatened to kill him.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cop-threatened-over-mask-rule/articleshow/80086361.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Coimbatore||Guest worker arrested for murdering wife||Coimbatore: A guest worker was arrested for murdering his wife at his rental house at Kallapalayam near Sulur on Sunday evening. The deceased was identified as a 23-year-old woman from Odisha. Sudarsan, 25, the victim’s husband, was a daily wage labourer. Police said the couple has five children. Three of their children were residing in Odisha while other two are living with them at Kallapalayam . The woman developed an extra marital affair with Ranjith, 22, another guest worker from Bihar.On Sunday evening, Sudarsan returned home from work and found his wife along with Ranjith. He took an iron rod and assaulted his wife and Ranjith. His wife suffered severe head injuries and died on the spot while Ranjith suffered severe injuries on his head and was admitted at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). The Sulur police registered a case against Sudarsan and arrested him on Sunday night. He was booked under sections 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/guest-worker-arrested-for-murdering-wife/articleshow/80087230.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Coimbatore||Mill worker found dead at RS Puram||Coimbatore: A 37-year-old man was found dead at a mill quarters near Thadagam Road here on Sunday morning.Police said G Shanmugam, a native of Thirucengode in Namakkal district, was working in NTC mills at RS Puram before Covid. The management decided to reopen the mill on December 29 and Shanmugam rejoined the work on that day and stayed in the mill quarters. “Shanmugam was last seen on New Year day when he consumed alcohol and went to sleep in his house. The house remained locked for the past three days. Meanwhile, a bad smell started emanating from the house on Sunday and neighbours informed to the police,” a police officer said. The police reached the spot and broke open the door of the house and found Shanmugam dead. The body was sent to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mill-worker-found-dead-at-rs-puram/articleshow/80087239.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man fled with car on rent, vehicle seized||AHMEDABAD: Partikkumar Mishra, 37, of Meghaninagar, who works as a fleet manager in a car rental company lodged a complaint with Airport police station on Saturday, that a man who’d identified himself as one Amit Jadav of Pune in Maharashtra had taken their car on rent on December 16, 2020, for a day and had disappeared with the vehicle. “His real name is Khivraj Godra of Jodhpur in Rajasthan. He had messaged on WhatsApp that some cars of the company similarly stolen from Mumbai office were lying at Matoda police station in Rajasthan and the car stolen from Ahmedabad was also there,” said a police official. This is the second incident in recent times in which a car had been taken on rent and then stolen. A similar incident happened in Satellite about two months ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-fled-with-car-on-rent-vehicle-seized/articleshow/80086357.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Erode||Tamil Nadu: M K Stalin hurls corruption charges at transport minister||KARUR/ERODE: Continuing his offensive against the AIADMK government over alleged corruption, DMK president M K Stalin on Sunday asked transport minister M R Vijayabhaskar to be ready for inquiry into various irregularities in his department. Taking part in the people’s grama sabha meeting at Kuppuchipalayam in Karur district, he alleged that Vijayabhaskar was involved in corruption in award of fitness certificate to vehicles by way of fixing speed governor and reflector stickers as well as GPS equipment. DMK would submit the second list of corruption charges against ministers to the governor. The party had last month submitted a 97-page complaint listing corruption charges against ministers including the chief minister. Later, at a gram sabha meeting at Vellode panchayat in Erode district, he assured that the DMK government would cancel education loans and increase the number of MGNREGA working days from 100 to 150 when it returns to power. Recalling the tragic suicide of a farmer in Tuticorin on Sunday over crop loss, Stalin said it reflects the sorry state of farmers under AIADMK rule. Seeing thousands of people gathered at the grama sabha, especially women, both at Kuppuchipalayam and Vellode, he said the meeting appears more like a conference of women’s wing. He said the DMK had fulfilled several schemes exclusively for women including self-help groups when it was in power. On MGNREGA, he said, “We are also discussing issuance of coolie (payment) on the same evening after work hours instead of giving them every weekend,” he said. Stalin said the ruling party did not conduct gram sabha meetings properly. “The people in power imposed a ban on our gram sabha meetings, but DMK conducted more than 12,000 meetings during the last parliamentary election,” he said. The DMK president talked to several people at the Vellode meeting. Sri Varthini, a student, said that her elder sister could not get admission to medicine even after she secured 1,184 marks in class XII board examination because of NEET. Stalin assured that he would fulfil all their demands. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/stalin-hurls-corruption-charges-at-transport-min/articleshow/80095449.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: M K Stalin hurls corruption charges at transport minister||KARUR/ERODE: Continuing his offensive against the AIADMK government over alleged corruption, DMK president M K Stalin on Sunday asked transport minister M R Vijayabhaskar to be ready for inquiry into various irregularities in his department. Taking part in the people’s grama sabha meeting at Kuppuchipalayam in Karur district, he alleged that Vijayabhaskar was involved in corruption in award of fitness certificate to vehicles by way of fixing speed governor and reflector stickers as well as GPS equipment. DMK would submit the second list of corruption charges against ministers to the governor. The party had last month submitted a 97-page complaint listing corruption charges against ministers including the chief minister. Later, at a gram sabha meeting at Vellode panchayat in Erode district, he assured that the DMK government would cancel education loans and increase the number of MGNREGA working days from 100 to 150 when it returns to power. Recalling the tragic suicide of a farmer in Tuticorin on Sunday over crop loss, Stalin said it reflects the sorry state of farmers under AIADMK rule. Seeing thousands of people gathered at the grama sabha, especially women, both at Kuppuchipalayam and Vellode, he said the meeting appears more like a conference of women’s wing. He said the DMK had fulfilled several schemes exclusively for women including self-help groups when it was in power. On MGNREGA, he said, “We are also discussing issuance of coolie (payment) on the same evening after work hours instead of giving them every weekend,” he said. Stalin said the ruling party did not conduct gram sabha meetings properly. “The people in power imposed a ban on our gram sabha meetings, but DMK conducted more than 12,000 meetings during the last parliamentary election,” he said. The DMK president talked to several people at the Vellode meeting. Sri Varthini, a student, said that her elder sister could not get admission to medicine even after she secured 1,184 marks in class XII board examination because of NEET. Stalin assured that he would fulfil all their demands. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/stalin-hurls-corruption-charges-at-transport-min/articleshow/80087240.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Pune||As vaccines deploy globally, confidence grows at home||PUNE: The Covid vaccination of healthcare workers in western countries is helping to build vaccine confidence among their counterparts in Maharashtra, prompting many doctors hesitant earlier to decide in favour of taking the jab when the priority vaccination of healthcare workers begin in the state. “Many doctors who were earlier not willing to register for the vaccination are now enquiring on the process to get registered. When probed, many admitted that vaccination of healthcare workers in western countries had cleared their hesitancy. This is being seen primarily in Maharashtra and in other parts of the country,” said Sanjay Patil, the national joint secretary of the Indian Medical Association (IMA)’s College of General Practitioners (CGP). Ravi Wankhedkar, the former national president of the IMA, said, “Lot of exchange of thought is happening between doctors practising in Maharashtra and the Indian doctors working in other countries. Since many of our Indian doctors working abroad have got the Covid-19 shot, it is boosting the confidence-level among their counterparts in Maharashtra and in the other states.” State immunisation officer Dileep Patil of the state health department said, “The vaccination drives currently under way in many countries outside India has bolstered the confidence among healthcare workers. We are noticing a surge, especially from private doctors, who want to get registered now. Hence, we have kept the registration process open-ended. We want maximum doctors to register for the vaccine.” Medical expert Neeta Patil, who practises in Arizona in the US and took the Covid shot, told TOI, “How many people worldwide got sick because of Covid-19, suffered and still suffering, and the loss of human lives was enough a reason for me to roll up the sleeve and get the Covid vaccine.” In Maharashtra, many doctors are registering for the vaccine after the registration deadline has been extended. So far, details of over 7.4 lakh healthcare workers from Maharashtra have been uploaded on Cowin, the central software, for the priority vaccination. Of them, as many as 4.1 lakh healthcare workers are from the public sector and the rest are from the private healthcare sector. An estimated 12 lakh healthcare workers are deployed in public and private healthcare units in Maharashtra. They include not only doctors and paramedics, but also non-medical staffers involved in cleaning, security and administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/as-vaccines-deploy-globally-confidence-grows-at-home/articleshow/80087216.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 4, 2021||Coimbatore||Tamizhaga Naidu Peravai’s plea to parties||Coimbatore: Tamizhaga Naidu Peravai has decided to extend its support to the parties that allot maximum seats to members of their community in the 2021 assembly election.“Our community members are spread across 35 districts in the state. We expect the parties to give due respect to our community in the assembly election,’’ state president of Naidu Peravai D Gunasekaran Naidu said here on Sunday. He urged the political parties to allot adequate number of tickets to members of the community. “We will extend our support to parties that give us more seats,’’ he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tamizhaga-naidu-peravais-plea-to-parties/articleshow/80087241.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Trichy||6L frontline workers to get first dose of vaccine||Trichy:The state government has identified six lakh frontline workers in the state to administer the first dose of the two vaccines for which the state has obtained approval from the Union government, said health minister C Vijaya Baskar in Pudukottai. Covaccine and Covishield, has come as a hope for people as it has got approved after several rounds of trials. Saying that the state is well equipped to store and handle around 2.5 crore vaccines, he said cold chains and mobile cold chains are kept ready for the purpose. Stressing on the importance of wearing masks and following Covid-19 norms, Vijaya Baskar said that unless the vaccine is available for all, it is very important to ensure that we don’t reach the peak in terms of Covid-19 spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/6l-frontline-workers-to-get-first-dose-of-vaccine/articleshow/80087248.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Coimbatore||Robbery cases declined in Salem district in 2020||Salem: The number of cases related to road accidents and robberies had declined in 2020 compared to 2019 in the district, said superintendent of police Deepa S Ganigar.Talking to reporters in the city on Sunday, Ganigar said 1,206 road accident cases and 12 robbery cases were registered in 2020 while 1,637 road accident cases and 29 robbery cases were registered in 2019. “Fatalities in road accidents also dropped in 2020. It was 286 in 2020 and 316 in 2019,” she added.Besides, in 2020, 70 burglary cases were registered while it was 74 in 2019. Police had recovered around Rs 4 crore worth of stolen ornaments, other items and cash in 2020 and handed over the items to the respective owners.As many as 23 people had been detained under the Goondas Act in 2020. Similarly, a total of 6,912 cases had been registered by the prohibition enforcement wing. “We also had registered cases against 3,474 people for selling ganja, banned tobacco items, lottery tickets, smuggling sands, gambling and possessing country made guns in the district,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/robbery-cases-declined-in-salem-district-in-2020/articleshow/80087247.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Coimbatore||City corpn to waive rent of lockdown-hit shopkeepers||Coimbatore: The city corporation has decided to waive the rent of 2,600 shops and 31 other establishments, which bore the brunt of lockdown, for two months. “In September, the state government announced that it would waive rent of the shopkeepers occupying government-owned buildings, for April and May. Subsequently, the corporation directed zonal assistant commissioners to identify such people,” said a corporation official.The commissioners identified 2,600 shops and 31 leased establishments like slaughter houses, parking lots, gyms, cloakrooms and toilets. “The corporation would waive as much as Rs 2.50 crore on the shops and Rs 55 lakh on the leased establishments,” the official added. The civic body collects Rs 19 crore as rent per year and Rs 5 crore as lease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-corpn-to-waive-rent-of-lockdown-hit-shopkeepers/articleshow/80087256.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Pune||Finding 17 mutations confirms sample has UK strain: NIV scientists||PUNE: A total of 17 mutations need to be detected in the genetic make-up of the SARS-CoV-2 virus before experts can confirm it's the new UK variant. Scientists who have been carrying out genome sequencing at the Pune-based Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Virology (ICMR-NIV) said they, on Saturday, became the first lab to successfully isolate and culture the variant, from the sample of a Covid-positive UK returnee. "We need to detect all 17 mutations to confirm it's the UK strain. To do so, we have to map the whole genome of the virus and not just the spike gene. The UK variant has multiple mutations in different genes," scientist Varsha Potdar, head of the National Influenza Centre (NIC) at the NIV said. Scientist Pragya Yadav played a key role in the culturing of the UK strain at the NIV's biosafety level four (BSL-4) laboratory in Pune. A set number of clinical samples, found to be positive for Covid via RT-PCR, are now being sent to the NIV for whole genomic sequencing to rule out infection by the new strain. Focus is on samples with a cycle threshold (CT) value of 30 or less. The CT value is the number of cycles an RT-PCR device has had to run to amplify viral RNA - for it to reach detectable levels. A CT value of 30 or less indicates high viral load in a sample. So far, the mutated variant has been found in 29 UK returnees, all from different parts of the country. The NIV's officiating director Sarah Cherian, who termed the UK strain a "variant of concern", said, "It is too early to say how the strain will play out in our population. But considering it's a variant of concern, enhanced molecular surveillance is certainly necessary." The country has been split into six regions to hunt for the new strain. Ten regional labs — fully capable of genome sequencing — will look for the strain in samples RT-PCR kits have picked up as positive. The Central Surveillance Unit (CSU) has also been asked to ensure an adequate number of samples are sent for genomic surveillance — particularly from cities that may have had a high number of incoming international passengers. When asked if it was possible to develop a test to detect new mutations, Cherian said, "Since mutations in the UK strain are in multiple genes, only mapping the whole genome can ascertain the strain type." The NIV scientists also said the existing network of RT-PCR tests are fully capable of picking up the virus, irrespective of mutations. "So far the detection of SARS CoV-2 is based on multiple genes and not on the basis of a single gene. We haven't had any reports of the new variant negatively affecting RT-PCR or rapid antigen detection tests," Potdar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/finding-17-mutations-confirms-sample-has-uk-strain-niv-scientists/articleshow/80087231.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 4, 2021||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu is getting ready for change: Kamal Haasan||SALEM: Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan said Tamil Nadu was getting ready for a political change. “I could sense this after seeing the huge crowd,” the actor-turned-politician, who launched his fourth leg of election campaign in Salem on Sunday, said. Addressing the gathering at Alagapuram in the city, Kamal said, “I am assuring you all that MNM would give a pure governance.” He requested those who had gathered at the meeting to pass on MNM’s objectives to at least 100 people. Kamal later went to Yercaud and conversed with coffee plantation workers. Addressing among them, Kamal said that he would give 50% reservation for women in his ministerial when MNM formed the government. He urged people to chase the corrupted politicians from politics like how freedom fighters chased British through the ‘Quit India movement’. Kamal said his government would privatize the administration of Tasmac shops. “At the same time, we would take education and health in the government’s control,” he said. He assured that he would lay good tar roads across Yercaud taluk within six months after MNM formed the government. “A sanctuary would be formed in Yercaud to protect Indian gaur and juice factories would be formed for fruits cultivated in Yercaud,” he assured. Kamal later visited Ayothiyapattinam, Reddipatty areas in the district . He will continue his campaign in Salem district on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tamil-nadu-is-getting-ready-for-change-kamal-haasan/articleshow/80087249.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Salem||Tamil Nadu is getting ready for change: Kamal Haasan||SALEM: Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan said Tamil Nadu was getting ready for a political change. “I could sense this after seeing the huge crowd,” the actor-turned-politician, who launched his fourth leg of election campaign in Salem on Sunday, said. Addressing the gathering at Alagapuram in the city, Kamal said, “I am assuring you all that MNM would give a pure governance.” He requested those who had gathered at the meeting to pass on MNM’s objectives to at least 100 people. Kamal later went to Yercaud and conversed with coffee plantation workers. Addressing among them, Kamal said that he would give 50% reservation for women in his ministerial when MNM formed the government. He urged people to chase the corrupted politicians from politics like how freedom fighters chased British through the ‘Quit India movement’. Kamal said his government would privatize the administration of Tasmac shops. “At the same time, we would take education and health in the government’s control,” he said. He assured that he would lay good tar roads across Yercaud taluk within six months after MNM formed the government. “A sanctuary would be formed in Yercaud to protect Indian gaur and juice factories would be formed for fruits cultivated in Yercaud,” he assured. Kamal later visited Ayothiyapattinam, Reddipatty areas in the district . He will continue his campaign in Salem district on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tamil-nadu-is-getting-ready-for-change-kamal-haasan/articleshow/80090820.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Bhopal||Imarti Devi, Giriraj Dandotia’s resignation accepted ahead of rejig||BHOPAL: A day before the third cabinet expansion, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan accepted the resignations of Imarti Devi and Giriraj Dandotia, who had lost by-elections in November, but were still ministers. Sources said that they are likely to be appointed as head of a board or corporation soon, but a final decision is yet to be taken. “Imarti and Giriraj had submitted their resignations on November 24. Their resignations have been accepted ahead of the cabinet expansion. An official notification in the regard has also been released,” disclosed a senior official in Raj Bhawan. Imarti Devi, who was woman and child welfare minister, suffered a shock defeat in Dabra assembly seat of Gwalior. She lost the seat to her relative and Congress rival Suresh Raje by a margin of 7,971 votes. Giriraj Dandotia, former MoS for farmer welfare and agriculture development, lost the Dimani seat in Morena district. He was defeated by his Congress rival Ravindra Singh Tomar by a huge margin of 19,712 votes.Both Imarti and Dandotia, considered to be trusted aides of Jyotiraditya Scindia, had joined BJP in March 2020. They were appointed ministers on July 2 last year. However, the two leaders lost the by-elections in November, but refused to submit their papers. According to the Constitution, a minister can remain in office for six months after taking oath. If Imarti and Giriraj had won the bypolls, they could have continued in office. Sources in BJP said that there is pressure on the state leadership to accommodate the two leaders in any board or corporation and accord them a cabinet minister status too. However, a decision in this regard is likely only after the approval of the central leadership. Apart from the two, former minister Aidal Singh Kansana and several senior BJP leaders and former ministers are also eyeing a plum position in the government, either a ministry or a post of chairman in any board or corporation. However, after the third rejig, a further expansion or appointment in the public sector bodies is unlikely before the budget session of the state, said sources in BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/imarti-girirajs-resignation-accepted-ahead-of-rejig/articleshow/80087233.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Coimbatore||Shop owner mows down business rival||Tirupur: Police on Saturday arrested a 38-year-old Thumbalapatti village resident for killing his business rival.The deceased was identified as K Lakshimi, 55, of Thumbalapatti, who was running a grocery shop. She was returning from the Kundadam market on her moped on Saturday when a car mowed her down on the Dharapuram – Palladam road near Rudravathi. Though she was rushed to the Dharapuram Government Hospital, doctors declared her dead.District superintendent of police Disha Mittal, Dharapuram deputy superintendent of police Jayaram and Kundadam police inspector Suresh inspected the crime spot. Police investigation revealed that P Mayilsamy of Thumbalapatti village, a grocery shop owner, was driving the car.Mayilsamy told police that he killed Lakshimi over business rivalry. The two used to have frequent quarrels, police sources said.Mayilsamy was remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/shop-owner-mows-down-business-rival/articleshow/80087251.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Coimbatore||Check noise pollution in Uppilipalayam, green tribunal tells city police||Coimbatore: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the city police to implement the provisions of the Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000 to prevent noise pollution in Uppilipalayam.K Udhayakumar, a resident of Uppilipalayam, had approached the tribunal in 2019, against three temples near his house that were using cone-shaped loudspeakers to play devotional songs.“The temples play songs at high volume twice a day – between 4 and 7.30 in the morning and between 6.30 and 8.45 in the evening. The noise pollution is affecting us, especially my son, who is preparing for the civil service examination. We have been facing the problem since 1996 and it got worse after 2010. I had requested the temple management to reduce the volume and had even sought the intervention of police and the city corporation,” said Udhayakumar. The tribunal last year directed the city corporation, police commissioner and the Tamil Nadu pollution control board to form a joint committee and submit a report. The committee was formed and officials from the pollution control board visited Udhayakumar’s house on October 22 to conduct ambient noise level survey. Noise level was recorded at the study room, bedroom and hall, which was just 13 feet away from a temple. The survey revealed that the parameters were exceeding the standards prescribed by the board. “The noise level was found to be between 58 and 68dB. As per the Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000 the permissible noise limits during day time in residential areas should be 55 dB,” the report said. “The city police commissioner has issued notices to the temples and assured to closely monitor the use of loudspeakers. As per the norms, a penalty of Rs 10,000 should be slapped on the temple managements and loudspeakers should be seized.”While disposing the case, the tribunal directed the police commissioner to take follow-up action and steps to prevent noise pollution in the locality. It also directed the officer to strictly implement the provisions of the Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/check-noise-pollution-in-uppilipalayam-green-tribunal-tells-city-police/articleshow/80087257.cms||Nivedha Selvam
January 4, 2021||Rajkot||Drowning Bengaluru family rescued at Somnath beach||Rajkot: A family of four including two children from Bengaluru was rescued from drowning after their boat capsized in the sea at Somnath on Saturday evening.According to local sources, the family had gone to the beach on Saturday after offering prayers at the Somnath temple. Although the district collector’s notification prohibits venturing into the sea, the family went boating. A while later, a huge wave hit their boat and it capsized. The boatman managed to swim towards the shore, while the four passengers were struggling to stay afloat. Luckily, snack stall owners and others at the beach noticed and rushed to their help in another boat. All four persons were brought to the shore safely. Water recreational activities are prohibited at Somnath beach as the depth of the sea suddenly decreases. However, a few locals have started boating facilities for tourists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/drowning-bengaluru-family-rescued-at-somnath-beach/articleshow/80086436.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Pune||Number of cybercrime cases doubled in Pune in pandemic year||PUNE: The number of cybercrime cases doubled in the city in 2020 as compared to the previous year, with more people taking to online services while working from home in the wake of the Covid-19 spread and resultant lockdown. The Pune police recorded 14,759 cybercrime cases till December 30, 2020, as compared to 7,795 cases in 2019. “Of the 14,759 cases this year, as many as 8,712 matters are related to online cheating and fraud. Such cases stood at 4,740 last year. People used online payment services and applications during the pandemic year, which resulted in more cases,” senior inspector Rajkumar Wakchaure of the cybercrime police said. Cases related to online business frauds also recorded a spike in 2020. “In 2019, we had registered 1,840 cases of online business fraud. This number increased to 2,693 in 2020,” Wakchaure said. The officer said the only consolation was that the number of cheating cases pertaining to a website where old goods are traded reduced in 2020, though marginally. “In 2019, we had registered 1,331 cases of fraud pertaining to this website as against 1,200 in 2020. The slide happened after the website started demanding geographical location of the advertisers when they attempted to upload an advertisement,” Wakchaure said. He said the police had provided the list of locations to the website, urging the owners to not allow uploading of advertisements from these particular areas. “As the website did not entertain advertisements from the selected areas, the number of frauds reduced,” the officer said. Wakchaure said police had successfully refunded Rs9.45 crore to the victims of 800 cybercrime fraud cases. “We are accepting all complaint applications from people approaching us and are investigating them. In some cases, we also realized that the victim has not shared his bank or UPI application credentials with the fraudsters. Despite taking all safety measures, money was siphoned off from their accounts. In such situations, we communicated with the banks concerned and arrange refund to the victims,” Wakchaure added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/number-of-cybercrime-cases-doubled-in-city-in-pandemic-year/articleshow/80087244.cms||Gitesh Shelke
January 4, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Rumours precede every vaccine known to world, Covid-19 is no exception either’||Ludhiana district has been one of the hot spots of Covid-19 pandemic in the state. As the number of cases reach nearly 25,000 and as the number of Covid-19 deaths are about 30 less than 1,000 mark, the health department faces a challenge to ensure that there is no major jump in cases and deaths. The new civil surgeon Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar, who joined recently, has a major role as the head of the health department, in not only controlling the pandemic but also in the vaccination roll out. He talks to TOI’s Shariq Majeed on various issues related to Covid-19 in the district. What is the present scenario of pandemic in the district? Do you see a chance for second surge in the district? The number of cases, including active ones is low and so have the number of deaths decreased. With government allowing two vaccines for emergency use, we expect the number to decrease further. So we don’t see much chance of second surge. Are fatalities a major concern as Covid-19 deaths are being reported even now? As compared to before, fatalities have decreased significantly in Ludhiana. Recently, there were three deaths in a day but today one death has been reported. Case fatality rate has decreased and will try to bring it down further. We are requesting people to get themselves tested immediately after symptoms like fever, breathlessness and persistent cough appear in them. Apart from infecting other members of family, a positive patient also puts his life at risk by reporting late so reporting immediately and getting oneself isolated. Case fatality rate (CFR) increases as patients report late. Also those with co-morbidities, like hypertension, heart disease, diabetes, kidney disease and cancer should not wait at all and get themselves hospitalised immediately. What is being done to maintain constant touch with those patients with co-morbidities? We had got a survey of such people done and have their data, which has their addresses and contact numbers. We have deputed nodal officers who remain in constant touch with such persons and ask about their well being. How big is vaccination a challenge given the large population in the district? That is why it is being done in phases. In the first phase we will be vaccinating health care workers, in next stage frontline workers, including police, municipal corporation workers, security forces, army and civil administration will be covered. In the third stage, 50-year-plus persons will be covered whereas below 50 years with co-morbidities will be vaccinated in fourth phase and general population will be covered in fifth stage. We expect that the vaccination process of healthcare workers will be started in about a week. Hopefully, the vaccine will reach general population in two months. There are rumours among few people about vaccines that may prove an obstacle for vaccination. How will be take on this challenge? Such rumours are there before every vaccination process. It has happened before polio vaccination started, it was there before small pox vaccination and there was major problem at the time of MR (measles and Rubella) vaccination when there were rumours about child turning sterile after getting jab. It happens every time and there are few who trade such rumours. In other countries, same vaccines are being given already. There are rumours about these vaccines which is totally wrong. We will start an awareness drive on this aspect as well and our health education branch frequently tell people about Covid-19. How was the recent dry run? It was successful. We have system in place to ensure proper vaccination and after vaccination a person will be kept under observation for half an hour. We also have made arrangements post vaccination, if, god forbid, any person has adverse reaction, we can tackle even that. We have whole system in place. There seems to be a fatigue creeping in among people as large number of people are not wearing masks and are not maintaining social distancing. Do you plan something to address such issue? We plan to start a social media drive once or twice a week which will be addressed by specialist and tell facts to people. Also specialist can answer questions from people and clear their doubts. We can start it from next week. Sampling has decreased. What are you doing to increase sampling in the district? We will start drive and tell people to get their sampling done so that they can save themselves, their family members and those in their neighbourhood. What is your message to residents? Wear masks, maintain social distancing, wash hands frequently and avoid crowded places. Also, I want to tell them to take adequate sleep, do meditation to check stress, take balanced diet, have fruits and vegetables, avoid smoking and drinking alcohol. This will help in increasing immunity. Those above 50 years with health related issues should go out when it is sunny and they should spend maximum time under the sun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rumours-precede-every-vaccine-known-to-world-covid-19-is-no-exception-either/articleshow/80085770.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Dorms not alone in B-school revamp plan||Ahmedabad: “I made all these buildings answerable to each other even though the scale of the house and the school is so different,” said Louis Kahn. He was quoted saying this in a book “Louis I Kahn: Complete Works 1935-1974” by Sharad Jhaveri and Heinz Ronner. All this may soon change, at least scale-wise — because the dormitories are not the sole structures that have been proposed for reconstruction! The institute is also working on a plan to reconstruct faculty and staff houses designed by Kahn that were later executed by architects B V Doshi and Anant Raje after Kahn’s demise. The master plan for the reconstruction was finalized a few years ago and the work of rebuilding faculty houses has been given to ARCORP Associates Private Ltd, said a person aware of the matter. The 2014 master plan of IIM-A’s ‘Heritage Campus’, which consists of Kahn’s buildings and designs, does not mention any proposal to demolish the dormitories and build new ones in their place. The plan is posted on the website of HCP Design, a firm that was earlier roped in as the master architect for the campus. Its term ended about two years ago. “The proposed new development includes much needed additional learning spaces, student dormitories, faculty and staff housing, sports facilities and an auditorium,” according to HCP website. “As Master Architect, we have proposed a series of design and planning guidelines to ensure that all new development is suitably located, of an appropriate scale and of the highest architectural quality.” According to HCP plans, 52 faculty residences and 100 staff apartments are to be added in the first phase. The plans also envisage constructing 380 new rooms in student dormitories. In all, over a period of 25 years, 200 new faculty apartments and 292 staff apartments are to be built. The construction activity on some of the staff and faculty apartments has already begun, said a source aware of the matter. TOI could not reach ARCORP for comment. “ARCOP has been entrusted with the responsibilities of designing the new faculty, staff and student residential buildings,” according to the company’s official website. “It is by design that all additions to the campus are sensitive and respectful to the form and massing, the existing material pallet and the finishes of the existing campus and its buildings.” The Board of Governors of IIM-A had recently reversed a decision to invite EOI for demolishing most of the dormitories. A final decision on the future course of action for these buildings is yet to be taken. Working with the master architect and conservation architect, the institute has developed a phased master plan for both the heritage and new campuses. This agreed master plan provides for the institute’s growing needs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dorms-not-alone-in-b-school-revamp-plan/articleshow/80088264.cms||Maulik Pathak
January 4, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal Express gets Linke Hofmann Busch coaches now||BHOPAL: Bhopal Express now boasts of red, state-of-the-art Linke Hofmann Busch (LHB) coaches which offer best of the amenities to make the train journey comfortable for the passengers. LHB are the passenger coaches of Indian Railways that have made by Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala. They have been used since 2000 on the broad gauge network of Indian railways. Initially, 24 air-conditioned coaches were imported from Germany for use in the Shatabdi Expresses, after which the Rail Coach Factory started manufacturing them post technology transfer. These coaches are designed for an operating speed up to 160 kmph and could go up to 200 kmph. The tare weight of the AC chair car was weighed as 39.5 tonnes.They are considered to be ‘anti-telescopic’, which means they do not flip in case of a collision (mainly head-on). They are made of stainless steel and the interiors are made of aluminium which make them lighter compared to conventional rakes. Each coach also has an ‘advanced pneumatic disc brake system’ for efficient braking at higher speeds, ‘modular interiors’ that integrate lighting into ceiling and luggage racks with wider windows. The improved suspension system of LHB coaches ensures more riding comfort for the passengers compared to conventional rakes. The air-conditioning system of these coaches is of higher capacity compared to the older rakes and is controlled by a microprocessor which is said to give passengers better comfort than the older coaches during summer and winter seasons. They are relatively quieter as each coach produces a maximum noise level of 60 decibels while conventional coaches can produce 100 decibels. The train has a total of 22 coaches including 1 air-conditioned first class, 2 air-conditioned second class, 5 air-conditioned third class, 10 sleeper class, 2 general class and 02 SLR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-exp-gets-lhb-coaches-now/articleshow/80087246.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Vijayawada||AP: Merger of villages to boost Mangalagiri as model town||GUNTUR: In line with the promise to develop Mangalagiri as a model town, the state government has merged 11 neighbouring villages into the urban civic body. The merger of the villages is aimed at the expansion of urban infrastructure to rural areas close to Mangalagiri town and is likely to place growth in areas adjoining Vijayawada on the fast track. Sources said that the government is also planning to upgrade Mangalagiri into a mega municipal corporation by merging both Mangalagiri and Tadepalle municipal towns. Urban planners and experts have long been batting for the creation of a big city in between Guntur and Vijayawada in order to spread development and finally make Vijayawada and Guntur metro cities in the state. According to an ordinance issued by the state government, Atmakur, Nowluru, Bethapudi, Yerrabalem, Chinakakani, Nidamarru, Nutakki, Kaza, Peda Vadlapudi, China Vadlapudi and Ramachandrapuram villages would be part of Mangalagiri municipality. All these villages are now part of Mangalagiri mandal. Similarly, Krishnayapalem, Neerukonda, Kuragallu villages would be part of Amaravati Metro Region Development Authority (AMRDA). The merger of 11 villages would take the total population of Mangalagiri town to nearly 3.2 lakh. Sources said that the municipal authorities would initiate the process of delimitation of municipal wards very shortly taking the merger of villages into consideration. The existing 32 municipal wards would go up to 45 in the new design. The state government had merged 10 villages in Tadepalli municipality, which would also become a big town on the banks of the Krishna. According to the ordinance issued by the government, Vaddeswaram, Praturu, Penumaka, Ippatam, Mellempudi, Chirravuru, Gundimeda, Undavalli, Kunchanapalle and Kolanukonda villages would now be part of Tadepalli municipality. “The merger of villages into fast growing towns is aimed at spreading equal development to all sides of the town. This would give the middle-class, the poor and migrant workers settling in the outskirts access to better urban infrastructure including roads, drinking water, sanitation, drainage, street lighting,” said Mangalagiri legislator Alla Ramakrishna Reddy. The legislator said the government is taking up development in Mangalagiri and Tadepalle towns in a systematic manner and is committed to the development of all areas, adding that chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has a vision for development of all areas. Interestingly, the state government had merged nine village panchayats under Bapatla municipality through an ordinance. The move comes ahead of Bapatla becoming the district headquarters after the bifurcation of the districts. According to the ordinance, Kondrubhotlapalem, Asodivaripalem, Maruproluvaripalem, Maddiboyinavaripalem, Muttayapalem, Chintavaripalem, Machavaripalem, Valluvaripalem and Suryalanka would be part of Bapatla town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/merger-of-villages-to-boost-mangalagiri-as-model-town/articleshow/80085761.cms||Samdani MN
January 4, 2021||Agra||96% of 10,000 Covid patients recover in Agra district||AGRA: Amid concerns of cases of a new variant of the coronavirus detected in the UK rising in the country, Agra reported recovery of about 96.72% of the 10,286 patients from the infection. The number of active Covid cases also reduced to 167 on Sunday. Ten patients were discharged on Sunday. RC Pandey, chief medical officer, said, “The current sample positivity rate has reduced to 2.34%. So far, 9,866 people have been cured of the infection. People who had come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened. Random testing is being conducted in different parts of the city. People are advised to wear face masks as much as possible and strictly adhere to social distancing”. Meanwhile, 14 new Covid positive cases surfaced in Agra till Sunday evening, taking the district’s tally to 10,286. The patients included two staffers of the health department and one of Agra Municipal Corporation. A total 10 people were tested positive in random testing conducted by the health department, added Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/96-of-10k-covid-patients-recover-in-agra-district/articleshow/80085769.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Meerut||Rishikesh akhada abbot accuses helper of stealing Rs 4.51 lakh from his account||MUZAFFARNAGAR: The maha-mandaleshwar (grand abbot) of Digambar Akhada in Rishikesh, on Sunday, arrived in Muzaffarnagar with several followers to register a police complaint against his sewadar (helper) of fraud at the office of the city’s deputy superintendent of police (DSP). He alleged the sewadar had transferred Rs 4.51 lakh from his bank account without informing him. Maha-mandaleshwar Maharaj Dyraram Das added the sewadar, after winning his trust, had opened a bank account jointly with him, and then emptied the account without informing him. According to sources, some months ago, when Sanjay Kumar of Muzaffarnagar’s Anandpuri approached the maharaj at his akhada in Rishikesh and begged to be allowed to live there and serve as a sewadar, Das permitted him. Soon, after winning the maharaj’s trust, the accused opened a bank account on the pretext of transferring money from his family, and put the maharaj’s name as joint holder, said sources. Months later, he handed over the bank passbook to the maharaj before leaving the akhada, promising to return after spending some time with his family in Muzaffarnagar. The maharaj added, “Meanwhile, I used the bank account several times to deposit money. But when I approached the bank to withdraw some cash, I found Rs 4.51 lakh had been withdrawn by the account’s primary holder.” When the maharaj called Sanjay and asked him to return the money, the latter refused, alleged Das, adding he believed even Sanjay’s father Somdutt is involved in the fraud. Muzaffarnagar DSP Kuldeep Singh said, “Local police was instructed to look into the matter. Action is being taken.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/rishikesh-akhada-abbot-accuses-helper-of-stealing-rs-4-51-lakh-from-his-account/articleshow/80086431.cms||Mohd Dilshad
January 4, 2021||Coimbatore||TNPSC introduces changes to prevent malpractices||Coimbatore: To prevent irregularities, the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission (TNPSC) brought in several changes in the OMR sheets of the Group-1 examination that was conducted across the state on Sunday. Speaking to reporters, TNPSC chairman K Balachandran said they have introduced an additional option ‘E’ for all the questions. “If the candidates feel that the question itself is wrong or if they don’t know the answer for the question, then they can choose the option ‘E’ so that all 200 questions would be answered at the end of the exam,” he said.“Besides, the candidates were instructed to count the number of questions for which they had selected the option A, B, C, D and E each at the end of the exam and enter it in the OMR sheet. The hall supervisor will have to verify and sign it. If there is a mismatch in the numbers, five marks would be deducted for that particular candidate,” he said. “Unlike the previous years when the candidates will enter their details on the top of the OMR sheet, this year, they entered their details in the side of the sheet and it was separated at the hall itself. The candidates will also have to put their thumb impression on the OMR sheet. This will prevent irregularities after the OMR sheets are submitted,” the chairman said. The candidates were given 15 minutes extra time to do these things, he added. The candidates were told to use only black ballpoint pen and question papers with different serial numbers were given to the candidates sitting close by.About 2.56 lakh candidates had enrolled for the examination in the state and of which, 1.61lakh had downloaded the hall tickets as on Friday. The examination took place at 856 centres across the state. In Coimbatore, out of 11,888 applied candidates, 5,109 candidates took the exam at 40 centres. In Tirupur, 2,064 of 4,501 registered candidates wrote the exam across 16 centres. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the candidates were allowed inside the hall only after screening their temperature and providing them hand sanitizers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tnpsc-introduces-changes-to-prevent-malpractices/articleshow/80087267.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Woman murders hubby, posts status on Facebook; tries to kill self||NEW DELHI: A 36-year-old woman stabbed her husband to death, updated about the murder on social media and then tried to kill herself in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur Extension on Saturday night. DCP (South) Atul Thakur confirmed the developments. The woman, Renuka, belongs to Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh, while her husband, Chirag Sharma (37), was from Yamunanagar in Haryana. Sharma was in the sales department of an insurance firm, while Renuka worked in the same company in the operations department. They didn’t have any children. They had a love marriage around eight years ago. They had been living on the first floor of a two-storeyed building in Chhatarpur Extension since March 2013. Police said their relationship had soured of late and they quarrelled frequently. On Saturday night, the woman picked up a kitchen knife and allegedly stabbed her husband multiple times in the belly and chest. She then apparently tried to cut her vein. The landlord alerted police saying that the tenants were not opening the door. In the meanwhile, the PCR got a call about a woman posting about her husband’s murder on Facebook. Cops broke open the doors and found the couple unconscious. “Chirag had stab wounds and was on the floor, while Renuka was on the bed. Blood splatter on the floor and walls suggesting a violent scuffle between them,” said a senior officer. The couple was taken to a hospital where the husband was declared dead on arrival and the woman was admitted for treatment. She is stable, but under observation. Police said they would interview the woman once she was fit for giving a statement. The couple’s families and friends would be quizzed to ascertain the reason behind the extreme step. The neighbours and landlord have been interviewed. Police are scanning the social media profiles of the couple to get clues. Watch Delhi: Woman stabs husband, updates the crime on social media||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/woman-murders-hubby-posts-status-on-fb-tries-to-kill-self/articleshow/80087279.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Kochi||Pettimudy landslide: Govt to distribute aid tomorrow||Idukki: Electricity minister M M Mani will distribute compensation to the immediate kin of Pettimudy landslide victims at a function to be held at Munnar panchayat hall on Tuesday. The district administration had identified 50 cents for constructing eight houses at Kuttiyar Valley near Munnar. Eight families were selected for the rehabilitation process based on a report by a team led by Munnar special tahsildar Binu Joseph. “Work of the houses is expected to be over before January 15. The district administration plans to hand over the keys to the families in a function on January 26,” said district collector H Dineshan. The landslide at Pettimudy on August 6, 2020, claimed 66 lives and four people are still missing. ‘Ready to provide help for search’: Devikulam sub-collector S Premkrishnan said that the district administration is ready to provide assistance to conduct one more search in the landslide site as per request of Shanmukhanathan, a resident of Munnar. Nearly five months after the tragedy, Shanmukhanathan is still searching for his son Dineshkumar’s body. He had lost both his sons in the tragedy. “We have informed him to arrange facilities to conduct the search when the weather turns favourable in the region,” said Premkrishnan. “I will continue my search to find the body of my son. I had submitted a memorandum to Devikulam sub-collector, Munnar deputy SP and fire force officials seeking assistance to conduct one more search in the site,” said Shanmukhanathan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pettimudy-landslide-govt-to-distribute-aid-tomorrow/articleshow/80085310.cms||Sandeep Thomas
January 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘Restored library building was worst-affected’||Ahmedabad: The Vikram Sarabhai library building at Indian Institute of Management – Ahmedabad, which won a Unesco award for conservation, was found to be the worst-affected among all buildings on the campus, with the ceiling revealing signs of spalling and exposed reinforcement bars, and mortar repairs done on the slab in patches. This was written by Brinda Somaya, principal architect of SNK Consultants in 2018 in a journal titled ‘Louis I. Kahn – The Permanence’ where various experts from different parts of the globe shared their experiences about Kahn and his works. In her article she said that Kahn’s buildings were not easy to look after.“There is complexity both in the detailing and the structure. Besides there’s also a huge change in today’s needs. At a time these buildings were built, systems such as plumbing and electrical services were quite different and there was no internet, services that have now become such an important part of the construction did not have the same importance at that time,” she said in the article. Therefore, intervention started to happen over the years, with later consequences, it further read. SNK Consultants was appointed in 2014 as the conservation architects for the project of preservation, restoration and upgrade of IIM-A, designed by Kahn.Even though the school building was constructed later (1968-75), the construction issues seen in the dormitories were noticed there too, it says.Excessive damage was found at the terrace slab with numerous cracks and water leakage issue in the library building, faculty blocks and the classroom complex.“The library was found to be the most affected, with the ceiling revealing signs of spalling and exposed reinforcement bars, and mortar repairs done on the slab in patches,” it said. During the 2001 earthquake part of the parapet of the classroom complex was severely damaged and had to be demolished. As part of the building restoration process the parapet will be rebuilt, it further stated. Dorm 15, one of the oldest buildings, showed a high level of architectural and structural distress as compared to others and hence was taken as a pilot project. The conservation plan of D15 entailed architecture and structure renovation, retrofitting (including seismic requirements) and mechanical, electrical and plumbing upgrade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/restored-library-building-was-worst-affected/articleshow/80088282.cms||Maulik Pathak
January 4, 2021||Rajkot||Accused office bearers lost money in land dealings||Rajkot: The three office-bearers of a credit cooperative society, who have allegedly siphoned hard-earned money of 4,000 members, invested in land dealings and lost huge money, investigations have revealed.The three accused - Sanjay Dudhagra, chairman of Rameshwar Sarafi Sahkari Mandli, Gopal Raiyani its vice-chairman and the manager Vipul Vasoya, were remanded to police custody for 10 days by a local court on Sunday. They are accused of swindling at least Rs 60 crores of the society depositors. Police said that prima facie it turns out that they had invested crores by purchasing land parcels. However, the prices of the land devalued drastically due to which they lost money. “Our investigation is still under way to know where else they had diverted the money. We will also be informing the court about the purchase of land parcels,” said JD Zala, the investigating officer. They were running the cooperative credit society for the last six years and lure small investors by promising a higher returns on investment in a short time and monthly, quarterly and yearly deposit schemes. The members of the society hail from Rajkot city, Padadhari taluka and from Kalawad and Jamjodhpur talukas of Jamnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/accused-office-bearers-lost-money-in-land-dealings/articleshow/80086442.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Meerut||Gzb trucker’s bullet-ridden body found in Meerut||Meerut: The body of a Ghaziabad-based pickup truck driver with bullet wounds was found near a school in Rohta area here. Attempts were also made to mutilate it, suspect police. Shameem Ahmed had come to Meerut to deliver a consignment. His truck was found parked near the spot where the body was found. He had bullet wounds on his body and most likely stray animals tried to feed on it, said Keshav Kumar, superintendent of police (rural areas). “Ahmed had left home on Saturday evening. His pickup truck was booked by an unknown customer. His body was found on Sunday,” he added A case has been registered and several teams have been formed to solve it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/gzb-truckers-bullet-ridden-body-found-in-meerut/articleshow/80086440.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Delhi||Delhi govt notifies Tamil Academy to promote language||NEW DELHI: Delhi government on Sunday set up and notified Tamil Academy to promote the language and culture. “Delhi is a culturally rich city where people from all parts of the country live and work. It is this diversity that forms the city’s vibrant and cosmopolitan culture. The capital has a large population of people from Tamil Nadu and we want to present a platform to Delhiites to get the taste of the art and culture of the state,” said deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the charge of the art, culture and language department. Delhi government has appointed former municipal councillor and current member of Delhi Tamil Sangam, N Raja, as the vice-chairman of the academy. The institute will soon be allocated an office space with all the necessary infrastructure, a statement from the department said. Delhi government will also celebrate and organise cultural festivals for the people of Tamil Nadu. “Tamil language and culture feature prominently in Indian as well as Delhi history. With the formation of this academy, we will kick-start a new journey of preserving the language in Delhi and promote it too,” said Raja, who is also a member of the Malai Mandir Trust, and has held the position of MCD councillor of ward no 64 twice, from 2007 to 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-notifies-tamil-academy-to-promote-language/articleshow/80087285.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Agra||Two killed, 5 injured in accident on Agra-Lucknow expressway||AGRA: Two persons, including a woman, were killed and five others were injured when a private sleeper bus in which they were travelling rammed into a truck while overtaking it near milestone 44 on Agra-Lucknow expressway in Firozabad around 1 am on Sunday. The bus was heading towards Raebareli from Gurugram. The truck driver fled from the spot after the accident, police said. The deceased were identified as Kulkanti (32) and assistant driver Avdhesh (40); both hailed from Raebareli. The mishap took place around 1 am under Matsena police jurisdiction, said police. Station house officer Vinay Misra said the bus, carrying 35 passengers, was speeding and the driver lost control while trying to overtake the truck. He said that seven people sustained serious injuries and were rushed to hospital where two were declared brought dead. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem, and their family members have been informed, said the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-killed-5-injured-in-accident-on-agra-lucknow-expressway/articleshow/80085780.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Bhopal||Less than 50 patients in Covid-care centres when closure order was given||BHOPAL: As the state government has now shut down the Covid Care Centres (CCC) where patients with mild symptoms or those asymptomatic were kept in the initial days, sources from the health department say that a majority of these CCCs were vacant and there were less than 50 patients as on December 31, when the order for closure was issued. All those patients, who were in CCCs, were shifted to district hospitals and community health centres (CHCs), said sources. There were around 200 CCCs, which were operational till December 31. Though there were no patients in these centres, there were stationary expenses like deployment of staff and ambulance at those places etc, which were unnecessary, added sources. For example in a big CCC in Indore, there were only two patients, but five people were deployed there, apart from other stationary expenses, added sources. If there is any need in any district in future, it could be opened following permission from the department, sources said. Even during the peak in Covid cases in September last year, there was hardly any occupancy in the CCCs, as people with mild symptoms were home isolated and patients with severe symptoms were in the dedicated hospitals, said sources. As per the government order dated September 9, the total bed occupancy of the CCCs was only 3.4%. There were around 260 CCCs which were operational at that time and they had more than 22,000 beds, but there were only around 550 patients, said sources. Till May, there were around 400 such CCCs, which were operational, but since the home isolation protocol came into force from May end and June when Unlock 1.0 started, the bed occupancy in these centres started declining, said sources. Some of these centres were in educational institutes and colleges like MANIT in state capital. As there was no or minimum bed occupancy, these were closed, added sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/less-than-50-patients-in-covid-care-centres-when-closure-order-was-given/articleshow/80087269.cms||Amarjeet Singh
January 4, 2021||Kolkata||4 held, car seized after Tripura bizman robbed on EM Bypass||KOLKATA: A 51-year-old man, who hails from Tripura and owns guest houses in Kasba and Anandapur, was allegedly robbed of cash and valuables while travelling in a shuttle car on EM Bypass in the wee hours of December 25. After a nine-day probe, cops arrested four persons, Raju Majhi (32), Santosh Poddar (24), Sk. Biki (25) and Arpan Sen (32), residents of Picnic Garden and Tiljala. The car used by the gang for the robbery was also seized. The victim, Anjan Biswas, also co-owner of a musical band performing at some pubs off EM Bypass, alleged that the four had offered him a lift from outside a pub near Panchannagram off Bypass around 2am. He boarded the car to be dropped at his house in Kasba’s Narkel Bagan. As the car reached Laskarhaat near Bypass, one of the passengers got down on the pretext of attending to nature’s call. While boarding the car, he requested the victim to sit in the middle of the car’s rear seat. When the car started moving, other passengers blindfolded the victim forcefully, compelling him to lie down on the floor of the car. “The accused pulled away his gold chain and Rs 25,000 cash that he was carrying with him. They took his ATM card and forced him to share the password. Subsequently, they withdrew Rs 40,000 more from an ATM kiosk. The complainant could not see it as he was blindfolded. Finally, they dropped the victim at Dhalai Bridge near Garia after an hour and fled in the car,” said DCP (southeast) Sudip Sarkar. However, the incident has again exposed the risks of taking lifts at night. “We want to remind people that taking such lifts, especially those opting for shared rides, at night can invite trouble,” said a divisional commissioner. Cops said they used CCTV footage on EM Bypass to identify the car and then nabbed the accused. “We took technical support and used local sources to trace the accused,” said an officer. Hundreds of office-goers travel to and from Sector V, Bantala and various areas off EM Bypass to various parts of the city in shuttle cars everyday, though the trend has dipped since the advent of app-based taxis, bikes and buses. Cops have asked the passengers to be careful while taking such rides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/4-held-car-seized-after-tripura-bizman-robbed-on-em-bypass/articleshow/80086443.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 4, 2021||Chandigarh||Steel manufacturers of city condemn further hike of raw materials||Ludhiana: In a big jolt to the industrialists, specially those into the manufacturing of goods like bicycle parts, sewing machine parts, auto parts and other such engineering components, several steel raw material producing companies have hiked their rates. According to city businessmen, they are already reeling under huge pressure as the rates of steel raw material have witnessed huge increase in the last few months and the new hike will prove to be disastrous for the industry. Inderjit Singh Navyug, former president of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) said, “The rates of steel raw material of different types is at all-time high in India and for the last three months there has been no respite. If this was not enough, some private steel plants have hiked the rates of hot rolled (HR) coil by Rs 7,500 per tonne. The hike has come into effect from January 1 and these companies have been sent us the communication in this regard citing the reason that there has been increase in their input cost due to increase in rates of raw material used for making HR coil. With this hike, the rates of HR coil have reached Rs 72,000 – Rs 75,000 per tonne now. I don’t think bicycle industry will be able to absorb such a big shock, as already our cost of production is at its peak. Due to fear of losing out on customers, we have not increased our rates because of which we are incurring huge losses. At this juncture nothing except government intervention would work and if the rates of steel raw material do not come down by at least 20 to 30 percent we will have to suspend productions in our factories.” According to Amarjit Singh Swan, president of Ludhiana Sewing Machine Industries Association (LSMIA) , “The rates of pig iron, which is the most used steel raw material by both sewing machine and parts manufacturers are soaring day by day and despite our repeated requests to the government, no corrective measures have been taken by ministry of steel. Already, over a period of three months, the rates of pig iron have increased so much that the cost of production of a sewing machine has increased by Rs 250-Rs 300 but we are forced not to pass on this increase to our customers as it was after almost six months that demand for the parts and complete machine has picked up in India. But with no control over the rising rates and the pig iron rate breaching Rs 41,000 per tonne mark already, it is very likely that we will have to suspend production for few days as we have already reached the limit of absorbing this hike.” Coming out heavily against central government, Narinder Bhamra, president of Fastener Manufacturers Association of India, said, “Central government and specially ministry of steel has failed to dispense their duties and as a result now the situation has become such that be it HR coil, TMT bar, CR sheet and pig iron rates are touching the sky. With no check on the rate hike during the last six months, even after knowing that production of finished components in the factories has fallen to record levels due to lockdown in India, the Centre did not intervene. We have no hopes from the government now, therefore we have decided to call a meeting of all the leading business associations of Ludhiana to take a call on what action should be taken by Ludhiana’s industry to combat this situation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/steel-manufacturers-of-city-condemn-further-hike-of-raw-materials/articleshow/80085773.cms||Mohit Behl
January 4, 2021||Chandigarh||6 booked for abetment to suicide of 45-year-old man||Ludhiana: Allegedly harassed by a group of people, a 45-year-old farmer of Bhutta village in Dehlon had committed suicide by jumping into the Kaind canal on January 1. After his body was recovered from the power grid near Gurudwara Falahi Sahib, the Dehlon police on Saturday have registered a case against six accused for abetment to suicide. According to the kin of the deceased, the accused had grabbed the plot of victim and were also threatening him. The deceased has been identified as Gurmeet Singh. The FIR has been lodged on the complaint of his father Mohan Singh, 66, against Jaswinder Singh and Sukhwinder Singh Nambardar, residents of Gill village, Sikandar Singh of Bhutta and their three unidentified accomplices. In his complaint, the father stated that he had bought a 298 square yard plot in Gill in partnership with Sukhdev Singh of the same village. The accused Jaswinder Singh and Sukhwinder Singh Nambardar and Sikandar Singh along with their accomplices had grabbed the plot and threatened them. His son was under mental depression due to this, as they had bought the plot with life savings. According to the father, on December 31, 2020, Gurmeet left the house in their car to reach DMC hospital to meet his maternal uncle, who was admitted there. However, Gurmeet did not return. On January 1, he called Gurmeet’s mobile phone, but it was switched off. When they were looking for him, some village residents told him that Gurmeet’s car was parked near Kaind canal bridge. The father with other village residents reached there. The car was recovered however, there was no clue of Gurmeet. By late night the body of Gurmeet was recovered from the nearby power grid. He alleged that due to the harassment of the accused, his son has committed suicide by jumping into the canal. Investigating officer from police station Dehlon inspector Bhishan Dev, said an FIR under sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of IPC has been lodged against the accused who will soon be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/6-booked-for-abetment-to-suicide-of-45-year-old-man/articleshow/80085779.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 4, 2021||Vijayawada||‘Finish waste to energy plant at the earliest’||Guntur: Municipal administration and urban development principal secretary Y Srilakshmi has directed the district administration to ensure the completion of Jindal waste-to-energy plant at the earliest possible. Srilakshmi expressed displeasure at the executives of Jindal firm for not meeting deadlines despite several extensions. District collector Samuel Anand Kumar and GMC commissioner C Anuradha have been directed to closely monitor the progress of the plant. Srilakshmi inspected the under-construction waste-to-energy plant and fuel-from-garbage plants in the city on Sunday. Jindal is constructing the project that will generate about 15MW of power from 1,200 tonnes of garbage collected on a daily basis from Guntur and Vijayawada cities and Tenali, Sattenapalle and Mangalagiri towns. The project was initiated almost five years ago at an estimated cost of Rs 300 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/finish-waste-to-energy-plant-at-the-earliest/articleshow/80085775.cms||Samdani MN
January 4, 2021||Meerut||Two injured as two groups clash,open fires over irrigation pipeline||Bijnor: Two people were injured after two groups clashed and allegedly opened fires at each other when one of the groups “removed” an underground water pipeline from their farm disrupting the water supply to another group's farms in Takipura village under Nahtaur police station on Sunday. Police, meanwhile, arrested two people in this connection. Both the groups had been fighting for a long time over the underground pipeline that affected the neighbouring farms as well, said police. Superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh said, “Devendra Singh had laid a water pipeline passing through the field owned by another farmer Kamal Singh a few years ago. When Kamal on Sunday morning removed the pipeline from his farm, Devendra objected to it. This led to a confrontation between both groups, and they opened fires at each other. Two persons sustained injuries in the clash. Police have detained two persons, while others fled the scene. A case is being registered against both the groups under relevant sections.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-injured-as-two-groups-clashopen-fires-over-irrigation-pipeline/articleshow/80086446.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 4, 2021||Pune||Covid-19: Pune metropolitan region recoveries cross 3.5 lakh mark||PUNE: As many as 534 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Pune Metropolitan Region on Sunday, while 681 people recovered from the contagion. With this, the region’s progressive caseload (the total number of cases reported so far) stood at just under 3.65 lakh, while the number of recovered patients pushed past the 3.5 lakh mark, as per the daily report issued by the district health office. Pune Municipal Corporation reported 290 new positive cases, taking the case tally in its jurisdiction to 1.72 lakh. Pimpri Chinchwad had 109 fresh cases (tally 96,960), while the rural areas, municipal councils and cantonments together added 144 cases. Ten people succumbed to the contagion in the 24 hours till 8pm on Sunday — PMC limits accounted for seven of those fatalities, while three people breathed their last in the rural areas. This took the overall death toll in the region to 8,844. At 420, Pune Municipal Corporation areas also accounted for the highest number of recoveries on Sunday. Ninety-six people were discharged in Pimpri Chinchwad. As of Sunday, there were 5,749 active cases in PMR — 1,934 patients were being treated in various hospitals across the region, while 3,815 people were under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-recoveries-cross-3-5l-mark/articleshow/80087258.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Leisure travel bookings for January-February put on hold||PUNE: Rough estimates put forth by tour companies and Travel Agents Association of India (TAAI) have revealed that nearly half the leisure travel plans and tour bookings for January and February have been put on hold after confirmation of the UK variant of SARS-CoV-2 virus being detected in India. Travellers, who had booked tours to destinations within the country, have been calling tour companies to stall or postpone bookings after recent reports of the coronavirus variant having entered India. Representatives of tour companies said that a major fear among tourists is the belief that flights from the United Kingdom (UK) were only recently banned but travellers from the country have been coming into India for a while, even before November 25, when the government began tracing UK travellers to India. Rishikesh Pujari, director of Vihar Travels, said, “State governments are imposing additional restrictions on travellers, upping surveillance in states in the backdrop of the new SARS-CoV-2 mutant, which has also been instilling fear among travellers. Prospective travellers have been calling us to keep booked tours on hold and postpone existing flight bookings. They feel that there must have been travellers from UK to India before November 25, who would have been moving around but have not been traced yet. A lot of people have already paid the advance amount to tour companies but they are still placing the bookings on hold.” Pujari’s firm had about 68 leisure travellers for destinations like Kerala, coastal Karnataka and Delhi expecting to travel in January and February. As of now, 50% of the travellers have put the trips on hold. Director at Hasmukh Travels Vijay Thakkar said, “Barring Goa, Mahabaleshwar, Lonavla and tourist spots within the state, people aren’t going any further after reports of the new coronavirus variant in India. Enquiries for bookings for Kerala and Kashmir for the first and second week of January have now been put on hold. Around 15 travellers with our firm have put their plans on hold due to this reason. They have been saying that they would first observe the situation on ground and then take a call regarding the trips.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/leisure-travel-bookings-for-jan-feb-put-on-hold/articleshow/80087254.cms||Neha Madaan
January 4, 2021||Kolkata||Mini truck hits min Rajib Banerjee’s SUV||Kolkata: Forest affairs minister Rajib Banerjee met with an accident around 2.30pm on Sunday after his car was hit by a mini truck near Rajdanga Nabapally crossing on the Rashbehari Bypass Connector. The minister, who was on his way from Gariahat to Bypass, and his co-passengers were reportedly unhurt, though the car was damaged badly. The driver of the stone chip-laden truck, Vinod Mishra (35), a resident of Ballygunge, was arrested from the spot. Cops said he resorted to reckless driving to overtake the minister’s convoy. “My car had slowed down at the crossing when the truck rammed into it. The looking glass of my SUV broke. When my co-passengers caught the driver, he claimed that his brake was not working. Cops will find it out,” said Banerjee. The minister, though, refused to speculate anything on the incident. “But I want to say that I am safe and road accidents can happen at times. There is nothing more to this,” Banerjee told the media. “The truck was seized and a case of rash and negligent driving was registered against the driver. The minister’s car was damaged in the accident and had a major dent on its right side,” said DC (south suburban) Rashid Munir Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mini-truck-hits-min-rajib-banerjees-suv/articleshow/80086477.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 4, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Six Andhra Pradesh districts report single-digit Covid cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 232 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,83,082. The toll increased to 7,115 as four more people succumbed to the pandemic. As many as 352 patients were declared cured. There are currently 3,070 active cases with 8,72,897 cumulative recoveries and 7,115 fatalities. Chittoor reported 56 new infections on Sunday. The remaining 12 districts recorded less than 50 cases. For the first time in months, six districts posted single-digit case numbers. Other than Krishna (510 active cases), the active caseload is below 500 in the remaining 12 districts. Active cases are less than 100 in Kurnool (61), Prakasam (86), Srikakulam (69) and Vizianagaram (36). Five districts have achieved a 99 per cent recovery rate. The state conducted 40,177 Covid-19 tests on Sunday and detected 232 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of less than 0.6 per cent. The positivity rate has decreased to 0.6 to 0.8 per cent range in the last two weeks. The state is gradually increasing the quantum of tests done through RT-PCR method. Of the 40,177 tests conducted on Sunday, about 32,000 tests were conducted through RT-PCR and the remaining through rapid antigen kits. The state has so far conducted 1.2 crore Covid-19 tests with an overall case positivity rate of 7.4 per cent. The average national positivity rate is 5.9 per cent. The state’s mortality rate remained stable at 0.8 per cent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/six-districts-report-single-digit-cases/articleshow/80085782.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Chandigarh||Man booked for opening fire, injuring his 2 neighbours||Ludhiana: Following an argument over parking the car, a man opened fire at his two neighbours in Jainpur village on December 31. The victims, who are brothers, have suffered injuries on their shoulder and leg and are admitted to hospital. The victims have been identified as Paramjit Singh, 28, of Jainpur and his brother Sikandar Singh, 31, are both farmers. The PAU police on Sunday have lodged an FIR against accused Gurjant Singh, 36, also a farmer, who is on the run. Paramjit Singh stated that on December 31, his friend Balkaran Singh had come to their home regarding a deal of a piece of the land. Balkaran had parked his vehicle outside their house. Meanwhile, their neighbour Gurjant turned up there and raised objection over parking of the vehicle. On hearing the voice of Gurjant, his mother came out and said the vehicle was parked outside their main door and he should not object to it, but the accused started abusing his mother. Thereafter, both Paramjit and Sikandar rushed out. They all indulged in an argument after which Gurjant flashed a gun and opened fire on them. One of the bullets hit Paramjit in his shoulder and another bullet hit his brother in his thigh. After the incident the accused managed to escape. Balkaran rushed the duo to the hospital. Inspector Paramdeep Singh, station house officer at PAU police station said the accused Gurjant has main rivalry against Balkaran as he had defeated him in Panchayat elections. During elections also the brothers had supported Balkaran. When Balkaran came to the victim’s house, he deliberately made an issue of car parking to enter their house, added the police. According to the SHO, FIR under section 307 (attempt to murder) of IPC and Arms act is lodged against the accused who is absconding. The police will also probe to know if Balkaran was the actual target of Gurjant or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-booked-for-opening-fire-injuring-his-2-neighbours/articleshow/80085784.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 4, 2021||Kochi||Jacobite faction attempts to enter churches again||Kochi: The Jacobite group of the Malankara Church on Sunday again tried to enter several churches across the state that were taken over by the rival faction. Priests and laity approached churches en mass only to be stopped by police at the gates. Members were blocked by cops outside Piravom Valiyapally, Pazhamthottam St Mary’s church, Vadavukode St Mary’s church, Puthencruz St Peter’s and St Paul’s church, Kanniattunirappu St John’s church, Thrissur Chalissery St Peter’s and St Paul’s church, Thrissur Mannamangalam church, among others. A Jacobite faction member from Piravom said this marks the fourth consecutive Sunday of them being denied the right to worship at churches. “We went to pray at our parish and at the cemetery where our ancestors are buried but the police prevented us from entering. This is a denial of our right to worship,” he said. Following the police action in Piravom, members led by senior priest Mikhael Rambaan staged a sit-in in front of the gates. They dispersed after conducting prayers. Similar protests were reported at over 50 churches. The Jacobite faction meanwhile continued its satyagraha in front of the state secretariat demanding an ordinance to nullify the court ruling against it. Priest trustee of the faction, Sleeba Paul Vattuvelil, said an ordinance must be passed in the present assembly session. “We will decide on our stand in the coming election based on the promptness of the present assembly in passing an ordinance to give us our right. We will continue our sit-in near the secretariat till the ordinance is passed. We will not budge even if it takes years,” said Fr Vattuvelil. The faction is also preparing to prevent a possible takeover of the Kothamangalam Marthoma Cheriyapally with the help of central forces. Kothamangalam matha maithri samrakshana samithi, a local group formed to oppose the possible takeover of the church, announced a protest at around 10.30am on Monday against use of the Central Reserve Police Force to seize the church. The protest would be held at Kothamangalam Pallithazham. Meanwhile, Mylapore diocese of the Jacobite faction on Sunday held a demonstration at Coimbatore St Mary’s church to express solidarity with those protesting in the state demanding an ordinance. Mar Osthatheos Issac, metropolitan of the diocese, led the demonstration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/jacobite-faction-attempts-to-enter-churches-again/articleshow/80085324.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Pune||Region gets 21 deep freezers & ILRs; more in a month||PUNE: The Pune region last month received 21 deep freezers and ice-lined refrigerators (ILRs), while another big lot would reach in a month. The region currently can store over 59 lakh vaccine doses. Officials said if 50% of it was used for routine immunization vaccine storage, the space was enough to store 25 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses for Pune, Satara and Solapur. A senior regional health department official said the Government of India was dispatching deep freezers and ILRs for vaccine storage. “The 21 additional deep freezers and ILRs received in December were distributed to Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and Solapur municipal corporations. This number excludes the region’s existing infrastructure.” Anticipating the flexible nature of the Covid-19 vaccine supply in terms of mixed products with different storage temperature ranges, the Union government has put a plan in place for supplying additional cold chain equipment. States have been asked to identify sites for installation of walk-in coolers and walk-in-freezers as per the distribution plan of the Centre for effective strengthening of the cold chain network. States have also been told to identify the district and sub-district stores requiring additional cold chain equipment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/region-gets-21-deep-freezers-ilrs-more-in-a-month/articleshow/80087281.cms||Neha Madaan
January 4, 2021||Bareilly||Probe on in Bareilly ‘stalking case’, no proof of conversion yet, say cops||BAREILLY: A day after police in Bareilly decided to reportedly drop sections of the anti-conversion law and "released" three Muslim men, the married nursing college student, 22, in her 161 CrPC statement told cops on Sunday that her "friend continued to follow her even after her marriage and reached her home on December 21". The police are now looking into her fresh allegations of "stalking", and added that "there was no proof yet that she was being coerced to convert". The woman, in her statement, claimed that when her husband and in-laws came to know about her past "affair", they sent her back home within 15 days of her marriage. She also said that she was forced to lodge a complaint against her "friend" to bring her married life back on track as "he was frequently stalking her". Based on her statement, Bareilly SSP Rohit Singh Sajwan said, “The incident mentioned in the FIR by the woman was found incorrect and she in her statement has also accepted that she was forced to file this complaint because the man came to her husband’s house against her permission and that incident has affected her marital life." "The fresh allegation of stalking is found correct, but there was no proof, so far, that she was being coerced to convert. She will be produced before the court to record her statement under section 164 of CrPC. We have suggested that she may register a fresh FIR with correct details or wait for the court to take a decision," the SSP added. The woman had earlier reportedly eloped with her Muslim "friend" in September and was recovered by her uncle, according to police. She was "married to a relative in Bareilly on December 12".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/probe-on-in-bareilly-stalking-case-no-proof-of-conversion-yet-say-cops/articleshow/80085311.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 4, 2021||Pune||Covid effect: 53% plunge in passport verifications||PUNE: The coronavirus pandemic and subsequent travel restrictions caused a sharp drop in the number of passport applications verified by the Pune police in 2020. As per data available with the police, as many as 62,859 applications were submitted for verification last year — a 53% decrease from the 1,32,906 applications verified the previous year. Joint police commissioner Ravindra Shisve said he was personally monitoring the police verification process during the pandemic, and has urged personnel and people to follow Covid-19 safety protocol while applying for a passport and during verification. “The number of applications we received for verification in 2020 was low, mostly because of the Covid-19 lockdown and restrictions imposed by various countries,” deputy commissioner of police (special branch) Mitesh Ghatte said, adding, “Due to these restrictions, we received 72,047 fewer passport applications.” Police sources said they had suspended the passport verification process for three months once the nationwide lockdown was first imposed last March. The procedure again resumed in the first week of July, police said. A senior special branch officer said the resumption did not really drive up the number of applications. “At all 30 police stations in Pune city, very few people actually visited for verification. The lower footfall could be attributed to the fear of contracting the infection,” the officer said. The officer added that a majority of the nearly 63,000 applications were submitted for verification in the last quarter of 2020. “There were few international flights and not many countries open for tourism, business and employment. Owing to these reasons, people appear to have postponed their passport applications,” the officer said. Special branch officers said it generally takes 11 to 14 days to process one passport verification application. But in the current scenario, an officer said, if an applicant walks into the police station with proper documents, it is executed within seven days. Citizens said the process of applying for a fresh passport or renewal was smooth because of fewer applicants during the pandemic. For some, the process — from application to verification to delivery — was done in a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-effect-53-plunge-in-passport-verifications/articleshow/80087272.cms||Gitesh Shelke
January 4, 2021||Bhopal||Upper Lake ‘Smart’ solar panels damaged before inauguration||BHOPAL: Solar panels installed along the Upper Lake have already started showing signs of wear-and-tear, even before the formal inauguration of the project. Installation of 750 KW solar power project at Upper lake front is a Bhopal smart city project. Earlier in 2019, BMC had signed MoU with Solar Energy Corporation of India for the installation, with MP Urja Vikas Nigam Limited. Solar panels have been installed on the lake front in a stretch of almost a kilometre. The much-hyped project was supposed to be completed in early 2019, but it was delayed. “Trial run of the project has begun. Power generated from the solar panels is being used to power the BMC water pumping station at Karbala. If the panels are broken or damaged, they would be replaced. The operation and maintenance of the project has been outsourced for five years,” said a BSCDCL official, requesting anonymity. The official claimed that power from the installation is generating energy worth Rs 70,000 to Rs 90,000 per month. Energy efficiency is a major component of the ambitious plan and implementation of the solar-powered project is expected to generate 750 KW. The solar power when used to its projected capacity, would save about Rs 40 lakh annually. Karbala Raw Water Pumping Station has two 750 HP pumps. One would be powered by solar energy for lifting water to Idgah Hills filtration plant, which would save around 13,000 units of electricity.  As per the water supply energy audit report of Bhopal, there are 21 pumping stations with 126 pumps pumping water to the entire BMC area. In Bhopal, water supply loss amounts to as much as 15-30 per cent - combining overhead losses, treatment losses and distribution losses. Energy bill for supply of water per month is about Rs 50-70 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/upper-lake-smart-solar-panels-damaged-before-inauguration/articleshow/80087284.cms||Jamal Ayub
January 4, 2021||Chandigarh||Furious over PSPCL’s 8% power hike proposal, bizmen call for meeting on Jan 10||Ludhiana: Angered by the proposal mooted by Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to hike the power charges for by 8%, Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM) said it will gherao the houses of ministers and MLAs of state if the PSPCL does not withdraws its proposal. The association has also called for meeting in Ludhiana on January 10. In its annual revenue requirement (ARR) petition filed before Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) recently, PSPCL has sought a hike in power charges to compensate for the shortfall in its revenues of current year. Sunil Mehra, state general secretary of PPBM, said, “Because of lockdown, trade and industry have not been able to function to their full capacity since April. PSPCL has been levying fixed charges and putting burden on us under one pretext or another and even then its coffers are empty and its ready with yet another hike, that too a 8% hike. What is more shocking that state government is silently watching PSPCL commit this atrocity on us. We have had enough of this and we have now decided that if PSPCL does not withdraws its proposal to hike power tariff within next two weeks we will start organising protests against MLAs and ministers of the ruling party.” According to Pawan Lehar, chairman of PPBM, “In the wake of ongoing recession, even a hike of 1 paisa in the power tariff will kill Punjab’s industry and PSPCL is thinking of hiking the tariff by 8%. This will impact the businesses all over Punjab, therefore we have decided to call a state level meeting of our association on January 10 in Ludhiana so that corrective measures to block this move of PSPCL could be taken.” Arvinder Singh Makkar, another businessman, “Before last assembly elections, Congress and chief minister Amarinder Singh had promised that after coming to power the rate of electricity for industry will be fixed at Rs 5 per unit. But Congress and its leaders have not only forgotten their promise conveniently, but have even chosen to remain mum on the stubbornness of senior PSPCL officials who are taking one after another decision to hit the trade and industry in Punjab. But this practice has to end and all eyes are now on the January 10 meeting when the next course of action will be taken by us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/furious-over-pspcls-8-power-hike-proposal-bizmen-call-for-meeting-on-jan-10/articleshow/80085783.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 4, 2021||Amaravati||Six Andhra Pradesh districts report single-digit Covid cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 232 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,83,082. The toll increased to 7,115 as four more people succumbed to the pandemic. As many as 352 patients were declared cured. There are currently 3,070 active cases with 8,72,897 cumulative recoveries and 7,115 fatalities. Chittoor reported 56 new infections on Sunday. The remaining 12 districts recorded less than 50 cases. For the first time in months, six districts posted single-digit case numbers. Other than Krishna (510 active cases), the active caseload is below 500 in the remaining 12 districts. Active cases are less than 100 in Kurnool (61), Prakasam (86), Srikakulam (69) and Vizianagaram (36). Five districts have achieved a 99 per cent recovery rate. The state conducted 40,177 Covid-19 tests on Sunday and detected 232 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of less than 0.6 per cent. The positivity rate has decreased to 0.6 to 0.8 per cent range in the last two weeks. The state is gradually increasing the quantum of tests done through RT-PCR method. Of the 40,177 tests conducted on Sunday, about 32,000 tests were conducted through RT-PCR and the remaining through rapid antigen kits. The state has so far conducted 1.2 crore Covid-19 tests with an overall case positivity rate of 7.4 per cent. The average national positivity rate is 5.9 per cent. The state’s mortality rate remained stable at 0.8 per cent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/six-districts-report-single-digit-cases/articleshow/80089545.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Push to adventure tourism in Tajangi||Visakhapatnam: With an aim to promote adventure tourism and in keeping with the new tourism policy, various adventure activities have been planned at Tajangi reservoir near Lammasingi in Visakhapatnam district. Currently, visitors can experience zip lining across the reservoir and trampoline put up by Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA). Within a month or two, other adventure sports including paramotoring, bungee jumping and boating will commence. Speaking to TOI, Chetti Shankar Rao, chairman of Tajangi Reservoir Adventure Tourism Association said, “Already ITDA has given permission for paramotoring, for which trials have also been completed. It is expected to start soon. Boating, both speed and paddle boats, are supposed to operate from this month. Another activity, bungee jumping, is also in the pipeline.” Zip lining, which commenced in December 2019, has turned out to be a popular activity. As per adventure activity organisers, 200 to 250 tickets are sold every day, each priced at Rs 200 while trampoline tickets cost Rs 20 each. “It is done at a height of around 60 feet from the ground and the activity lasts for 30 to 45 seconds depending on the weight of the individual. We need more staff for operating the zip line given the demand. Also, other upcoming adventure activities will also require more staff to be employed,” added Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/push-to-adventure-tourism-in-tajangi/articleshow/80085789.cms||Sulogna Mehta
January 4, 2021||Bareilly||Two Dalit among five booked for ‘luring man to adopt Christianity’ in Shahjahanpur||Bareilly: Five people, including two Dalit men, were booked under appropriate sections of the UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance for allegedly luring a man for adopting Christianity in UP’s Shahjahanpur. An FIR was lodged after right-wing activists claimed to have caught them with a musical keyboard, a portable sound system and a Bible when they were reciting prayers at the house of one of the accused in Kanshiram Colony in Shahjahanpur city.The man who was lured to adopt Christianity alleged that he was among nearly 15 people who were lured with a job and a house for changing their religion. Two accused named in the FIR hail from Tamil Nadu, but they have been living in Shahjahanpur, at present, said police.The accused claimed that they were only propagating the Bible’s message, but police overheard their statements.Shahjahanpur senior superintendent of police S Anand has, meanwhile, ordered a probe into the matter. “An FIR has been registered under the new law. We have not arrested the accused, as they don’t appear to have the capacity to fulfil the promise of a job and house as mentioned in the complaint. Based on the investigation report, we will take further action. Meanwhile, police are keeping a tab on the accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-dalit-among-five-booked-for-luring-man-to-adopt-christianity-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/80085329.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 4, 2021||Aurangabad||Arboreal, passerine birds flock to Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: Apart from aquatic and shore birds, different arboreal and passerine birds, that visit Aurangabad every winter, have started arriving causing much excitement among the environmentalists here. While arboreal birds are feathery bipeds adapted for living and moving about in trees and woody vegetation, passerine birds are largely perching winged creatures. Eurasian wryneck, rosy starlings, red-throated flycatcher, ultramarine flycatcher, verditer flycatcher, canary flycatcher, kestrel, black-headed bunting, grey necked bunting, tree pipit, rosefinch, sulphur bellied warbler, tickell's leaf warbler, booted warbler, chiffchaff, whitethroat and blue throat are some of the birds that migrate to Aurangabad. The Gautala-Autramghat wildlife sanctuary and the Sarola sub-forest area, Himayat Bagh, the campus of the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu), WALMI premises, the mountain range from Satara to Nakshatrawadi and, different green belts and local gardens serve as habitats for these birds. Pankaj Shakkarwar, an ornithologist, said, “Right from Europe, western Alaska and Siberia to the Himalayan range and north India, migratory birds come to Aurangabad for the winter.” He said the ongoing road works around Aurangabad and stone quarries in the fringe areas were rapidly destroying the habitats of migratory and other birds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/arboreal-passerine-birds-flock-to-aurangabad/articleshow/80086053.cms||Prasad Joshi
January 4, 2021||Kochi||Gender Park to host international meet||Kochi: The Gender Park in partnership with UN Women is organizing the second edition of International Conference on Gender Equality (ICGE-II) at Kozhikode in February. The three-day conference, beginning on February 11, will be held at The Gender Park’s Kozhikode campus in a partially-digital (hybrid) format, given the prevalence of Covid-19. The focal theme is ‘Gender in Sustainable Entrepreneurship and Social Business: The Mediating Role of Empowerment’, seeking to throw light on the critical linkages between entrepreneurship, economic growth and poverty reduction. Minister for health, social justice and women and child development K K Shailaja announced the conduct of ICGE-II by releasing the brochure. Present on the occasion were UN Women deputy country representative Nishtha Satyam, social justice and women and child development secretary Biju Prabhakar and Gender Park CEO P T M Sunish. The IGCE-II will enable various stakeholders to engage with different aspects of sustainable entrepreneurships and social businesses. These include meanings, models, scope of the concepts and the challenges in the pandemic-induced scenario with an objective to locate gender in these elements, besides sharing of experience from across the globe. Around 50 speakers, primarily industry experts and academics, will address the event featuring several delegates who include budding entrepreneurs and social innovators from national and international quarters. Shailaja said the conference envisages an initiation of policy-level dialogue and gender-sensitive interventions for socially-inclined entrepreneurship models. “We hope these conversations will contribute to making positive shifts in sustainable development,” she added. CEO Sunish said ICGE-II aims to look at sustainable entrepreneurship and social business as livelihood opportunities that generate income. “Kerala is uniquely positioned to hold this conference given the history of our innovative approach to development,” he said. ICGE is a platform for discussion and advocacy of gender and developmental subjects. The agenda is to move towards an equality that recognizes the different needs and priorities of the genders. Further, conference seeks to ensure that all genders have equal opportunities in realising their rights and enjoy the same access and opportunity to contribute to and benefit from development. The Gender Park had, in November 2015, hosted the first ICGE in association with UN Women. It was supported by United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA). The 2013-established Gender Park is an initiative of the Government of Kerala to strengthen gender equality in the state. Last week, The Gender Park entered into an equal partnership with UN Women. The pact facilitates an up scaling of the Gender Park as a South Asian hub for gender equality, besides institutionalizing a Gender Data Centre within the International Institute for Gender and Development. UN Women is set to collaborate with the Gender Park in its prestigious projects such as International Women’s Trade Centre, Women in Sustainable Entrepreneurship Fellowship Programme and ICGE-II.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/gender-park-to-host-international-meet/articleshow/80085327.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Ready for vaccination rollout, says Delhi minister Satyendar Jain||NEW DELHI: With the approval of the Drugs Controller General of India to the vaccines by Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech, Delhi government on Sunday said it is ready to roll out its vaccination programme. Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain told reporters that in the first phase, 500-600 vaccination centres will be made, which will be further scaled up to 1,000. “Delhi government is completely ready for the roll-out. A dry run was conducted yesterday in three different types of centres — government hospitals, private hospitals and government dispensaries. Storage facilities are also ready,” he said. Jain said that Delhi government is making all arrangements for the administration of the vaccine. “As per the protocol, healthcare and frontline workers, people over 50 years of age or with co-morbidities will get the shot in the first phase. The city has three lakh healthcare workers and six lakh frontline workers. The vaccine will be first rolled out to these nine lakh people,” he said. Delhi government officials said that the dry run carried out at the three sites on Saturday was successful and helped them iron out the kinks in the protocol, improving crowd management and ensuring that everyone has the correct documents before being sent in batches for immunisation etc. “We trained everyone involved in the process, from the doctor in-charge at vaccination centres to primary healthcare workers and Delhi Police officers. We are training whosoever is involved in the process, right from the delivery of the vaccine to cold chain training and from booth management to waste disposal at vaccination centres,” said Dr Suneela Garg, who is leading the capital’s vaccination programme and is the director professor at the department of community medicine in Maulana Azad Medical College, University of Delhi. “We are making everyone well-versed in the process. People have been called from all 11 districts and there are standardised modules for all of them, which includes showing innovative films to depict a real time scenario and power point presentations. Healthcare workers will then sensitise them,” she said. Dr Garg said that a dry run is like a pilot phase before the main project. “One of the needs that was felt during the dry run was to deploy one more person to observe for adverse reactions after vaccination. This will serve two purposes — assuring people and instilling confidence in them and also ensure those who are vaccinated are monitored and don’t leave before the stipulated time,” she said. The doctor is also the National President of Indian Association of Preventive and Social Medicine and a public health advisor to Indian Council of Medical Research.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ready-for-vaccination-rollout-jain/articleshow/80087292.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Pune||Schools in PMC, PCMC areas reopen today for senior classes||PUNE: A new routine brought on by the Covid-19 pandemic will engulf schools in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad from Monday as they begin classes for standards IX , X , IX and XII. Schools have ensured that all safety norms to prevent any spread of the disease are in place. Many have devised a new way to work with alternate classes, shifts and water arrangements inside classrooms to restrict movement. As many as 66 schools in Pune, including 44 run by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) education board, have received the nod to start from Monday. There are 600 schools here. PMCs education officer Shivaji Daundkar said, “Gradually, more schools will start reopening once they are ready with all precautionary measures and tests of the staff members are held On the first day, according to our records at least 66 schools will reopen. Many more are waiting for the Covid test reports before they begin.” In Pimpri Chinchwad, civic schools will start from Monday. There are 282 school in the jurisdiction of the civic body, but private schools can open when they are ready, the civic body said. “Students from civic schools do not have good access to online learning. Offline learning will help them for the upcoming exam season,” civic chief Shravan Hardikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/schools-in-pmc-pcmc-areas-reopen-today-for-senior-classes/articleshow/80087290.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: CPM set to get poll ball rolling||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: CPM will undertake a statewide house-to-house campaign from January 24 to 31 in to keep its poll machinery warmed up in preparation for the assembly election later this year. After the state committee meeting, here, on Sunday, state secretary A Vijayaraghavan said CPM leaders and the party’s elected representatives of local bodies would organize the visits to drive home the message of comprehensive development, social security and secularism. Vijayaraghavan alleged that UDF has adopted the strategy of communal polarization. On the one hand it is engaged in trading votes with BJP, while on the other it backed the pre-poll understanding between Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and Welfare Party. By harking on the reservation issue, IUML also tried communalize the election. A party like Congress, with secular credentials, should not have supported this, Vijayaraghavan said. He said UDF’s fate was sealed when KC (M) Jose K Mani faction left the front. LDF that bagged the people’s mandate in the recent local-body election would utilize it to undertake welfare measures. Vijayaraghavan also said he expects more parties to leave UDF for LDF. The state committee has decided to undertake measures to attract more people to the party, he said, adding that the committee has also decided to throw its weight behind the three-day farmers’ protest to be held before Raj Bhavan in support of the national agitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cpm-set-to-get-poll-ball-rolling/articleshow/80085336.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Bar crooner killed, ‘murder-admission’ text message sends police looking for car driver||KOLKATA: Cops are looking for a young car driver who sent a text message to his employer on Saturday morning, admitting that he had killed his girl friend at their rented house at Baguiati. The employer, Sk Ajijul from Rahara in North 24 Parganas, alerted the police who broke open door of the house, situated at Mother Teresa Sarani in Baguiati, and found that Sarbjeet Kaur (22), crooner of an Ultadanga nightclub, was lying unconscious on the ground with froth coming out of her mouth along with blood stains on face. Cops rushed the woman, called Sweety, to a nearby private hospital where doctors said she might have died several hours ago. “Ajijul alleged that that his driver, Sourav Chakraborty, had sent him a WhatsApp text at 7.48am, stating that he had killed the woman, with whom he had been living in at the Baguiati address for the last six months. He also mentioned the address of the Baguiati house, from where the woman’s body was recovered,” said an officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate. Prima facie, cops suspect she was suffocated with a pillow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bar-crooner-killed-murder-admission-text-message-sends-police-looking-for-car-driver/articleshow/80086478.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Vijayawada||TDP MLC B Tech Ravi arrested at Chennai airport||TIRUPATI: Telugu Desam Party (TDP) MLC M Ravindranath Reddy, known as B Tech Ravi, from YSR Kadapa district was arrested at Chennai airport on Sunday. Ravi was an accused in the violence that took place in Poola Angallu area in Pulivendula town in 2018. A warrant had been issued for his alleged involvement in rioting and attempt to murder. The incidents were triggered by challenges and counter challenges issued by TDP and YSRC functionaries on the development of Pulivendula constituency, after which workers of both parties gathered at the spot on January 4, 2018. However, the situation turned out of control once workers from both parties started hurling stones at each other. Cases were eventually booked against 253 persons. A sub-inspector Chiranjeevi sustained injuries in the incident, following which police booked a case under section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC against B Tech Ravi and 63 others. Superintendent of police KKN Anburajan said the MLC had been arrested in case 117/2018 registered in Pulivendula police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mlc-b-tech-ravi-arrested-at-chennai-airport/articleshow/80085797.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
January 4, 2021||Delhi||Facial software helps Delhi cops nab history-sheeter||NEW DELHI: When cops at a barricade in southeast Delhi’s Jamia Nagar stopped a bike for checking, they found no papers on the rider. While they could have just issued a challan or impounded the bike, they decided to use facial recognition software (FRS) on the rider, which identified him as a history-sheeter of the area. The suspect, Suhail Ansari (27), was a resident of Batla House and had committed snatchings in south and southeast Delhi. DCP RP Meena said, “The biker was stopped around 7.30pm on January 1 at Sailing Club Road. He was found involved in 18 cases. Our teams had been instructed to use FRS and stolen vehicle tracking system applications.” After Ansari failed to show the papers, police used the FRS installed on the “e-beat book” to run a check on him. The software showed cases of robbery, snatching, theft and under Arms Act registered against him. When the vehicle match software was run on the registration number, the cops found the bike to be a stolen one. During interrogation, Ansari disclosed that he had stolen the motorcycle with the help of an associate, who is currently being tracked. FRS was procured by Delhi Police a few years ago under the Smart City initiative. The software can receive feed from CCTV cameras through a control room after which the videos can be matched with the police records. “The software raises an alert if the face matches with any criminal record. An image enhancing feature can help identify a face even from a blurred image,” said an officer. The system is being used extensively in investigations. In the Delhi riots probe, FRS helped police identify dozens of rioters seen on mobile footage, pictures and CCTV footage. The software is also being used in the probe for missing children. Sometime ago, FRS was used on 45,000 children living in different shelter homes. Of them, 2,930 were recognised within just four days.  “FRS stores the facial features of children and matches them with photographs and the database of the Track Child portal. In this manner, the identity of the child is instantly established,” the officer said. National Commission for Protection of Child Rights has also advocated the use of such software to help trace missing children and reunite them with their families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/facial-software-helps-cops-nab-history-sheeter/articleshow/80087295.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: CPM set to get poll ball rolling||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: CPM will undertake a statewide house-to-house campaign from January 24 to 31 in to keep its poll machinery warmed up in preparation for the assembly election later this year. After the state committee meeting, here, on Sunday, state secretary A Vijayaraghavan said CPM leaders and the party’s elected representatives of local bodies would organize the visits to drive home the message of comprehensive development, social security and secularism. Vijayaraghavan alleged that UDF has adopted the strategy of communal polarization. On the one hand it is engaged in trading votes with BJP, while on the other it backed the pre-poll understanding between Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and Welfare Party. By harking on the reservation issue, IUML also tried communalize the election. A party like Congress, with secular credentials, should not have supported this, Vijayaraghavan said. He said UDF’s fate was sealed when KC (M) Jose K Mani faction left the front. LDF that bagged the people’s mandate in the recent local-body election would utilize it to undertake welfare measures. Vijayaraghavan also said he expects more parties to leave UDF for LDF. The state committee has decided to undertake measures to attract more people to the party, he said, adding that the committee has also decided to throw its weight behind the three-day farmers’ protest to be held before Raj Bhavan in support of the national agitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cpm-set-to-get-poll-ball-rolling/articleshow/80089454.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 4, 2021||Goa||Mapusa municipal shops to stay shut on Jan 7||Saligao: The Mapusa Merchants Association, at a meeting held on Sunday, has decided to shut all municipal shops on January 7 and protest at the Azad Maidan, Panaji, against the recent ordinance promulgated by the government regarding municipal shops and properties. The association said that the ordinance will be “a death knell to the traditional Goan merchants”. The members said that under the ordinance it is evident that the government has given itself power to seal, repossess and even re-auction municipal shops and commercial spaces. The ordinance lays down a new procedure for regularisation of premises and also stringent punishment for subletting of municipal properties President of the New Market Traders’ Association Vinod Shirodkar said that instead of being sympathetic towards the merchants’ community, the government is out to finish Goans in business and trading. “We will also meet the Mapusa MLA and urge him to take part in the agitation at Azad Maidan,” he said. President of the Curchorem Market Association Rocha Pereira also appealed to presidents and secretaries of other associations to fight the ordinance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusa-municipal-shops-to-stay-shut-on-jan-7/articleshow/80087301.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Delhi||HC tells Delhi University to release timeline for results and marksheets||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court has directed Delhi University (DU) to provide a timeline for declaration of results, issuance of marksheets and holding convocations on an annual basis for students. Justice Pratibha M Singh said, “In order to ensure that there is a comprehensive, streamlined procedure for declaration of results, issuance of transcripts, marksheets and degree certificates, etc., DU ought to have a prescribed timeline….” The court was of the opinion that students shouldn’t be inconvenienced every semester and be compelled to move court for obtaining their transcripts, marksheets and degree certificates. A previous affidavit filed by the university in this regard had turned out to be unsatisfactory for the court, which noted that it had no specific timelines for the issuance of digital degree certificates and for transmission of data to ‘DigiLocker’ in addition to being “quite cryptic”. The court also asked it to provide the timeline for issuance of digital transcripts for those students who are planning further education or employment besides for transmission of data relating to marksheets/transcripts to DigiLocker after the same has been announced by DU. The varsity will have to file the affidavit within six weeks with the hearing scheduled for February 17. Earlier, the high court had directed DU to issue within seven working days digital degree certificates to students who have already graduated and urgently require the documents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-tells-du-to-release-timeline-for-results-and-marksheets/articleshow/80087296.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Louis Kahn kin object to IIM-A’s brick remark||AHMEDABAD: American architect Louis Kahn’s fascination with bricks is well summed up in the title of the annual management symposium organized by IIM-A — ‘The Red Brick Summit’. Kahn had earlier used brick as veneer; in IIM-A, he used it as structural material. The IIM-A director earlier this month had suggested in a letter to the alumni that the dormitories had to be razed as they were unsafe and made of second-class material. The family of Kahn, among others, have contested the statement. “You also take issue with the quality of the bricks used in the original construction. But these are the same bricks used in the library, and very effective measures have been developed by challenges encountered,” wrote Sue Ann Kahn, Alexandra Tyng and Nathaniel Kahn, the children of the well-known architect. The institute director’s letter came a day after the children of Kahn wrote to IIM-A to reconsider the reconstruction decision. IIM-A had earlier this month announced its plans to reconstruct all 18 dormitory buildings designed by Kahn as all efforts to conserve them had failed. The director’s letter on December 23 saw a shift in the stance when he wrote that four of the buildings will be restored and remaining will be reconstructed. “With all due respect, we find the arguments for demolition of the dormitories at IIM-A, put forward in your letter to the alumni and in your response to us, to be illogical and misleading,” according to the letter. TOI has reviewed a copy of the letter. Dormitory Number 15 which was taken as a prototype was to be restored along with three others, in line with the revisited plans. “You attempt to make the case that the dormitories are a lost cause, yet you have already restored one of the dorms (D-15) and have announced intentions to restore three more,” the Kahn children stated in their letter. “This is a contradictory position.” The institute had last year received an award from Unesco for the restoration of the Vikram Sarabhai Library. That project was given to the same firm which is engaged in the restoration of the dormitories. “If the problem is money, please just say so,” the letter says. “In addition to the many IIM graduates that revere the Kahn buildings, there are organizations and individuals the world over who support the cause of preserving great architecture.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kahn-kin-object-to-iim-as-brick-remark/articleshow/80088292.cms||Maulik Pathak
January 4, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: 424 new coronavirus cases in 24 hours, lowest in 231 days||NEW DELHI: Delhi reported 424 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours on Sunday, lowest in 231 days and the second consecutive day that the figure remained below the 500 mark. The latest cases were detected following 68,759 tests, including 39,217 RT-PCR tests, with a positivity rate of 0.6%. “For the first time in the last seven and a half months, the number of cases has gone below 500. After May 17, 2020, this is the lowest number of cases,” health minister Satyendar Jain said on Sunday. Jain said that while the positivity rate has been below 1%, testing is still being conducted on a large scale. “The outbreak in Delhi is quite contained but I will still urge you all to wear masks and follow all precautions. In the last one and a half months, Delhiites have diligently followed all the instructions and it is because of their continued support that we have been able to achieve this state,” he said. “We had done de-escalation in Delhi a few days back. Under this, we reduced 2,500 beds in Delhi government hospitals and 5,000-6,000 beds in private hospitals. The occupancy currently is less than 2,000. Earlier, we had 18,800 beds available, but even after de-escalation, we still have 10,500-11,000 beds,” Jain said. He said Delhi government will be repeating the exercise of de-escalation next week. “We are closely reviewing the situation, but we are treading very cautiously. We are over-cautious,” Jain said, when enquired about the shutting down of Covid centres. He said that keeping in view the new strain, it is better to remain on the safer side. Jain had said on Saturday that 40 cases with the new strain have been traced and have been admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital. He said that four private hospitals have been authorised and Delhi government is prepared to combat any situation. The total number of Covid-19 positive cases reached the figure of 6,26,872 on Sunday, with 708 patients recovering from the disease in the last 24 hours, the total number of those who have recovered stands at 6,11,243 – a recovery rate of 97.5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/424-new-cases-in-24-hours-lowest-in-231-days/articleshow/80087300.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Dehradun||UBSE mulling to hold exams in May||Dehradun: Days after the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announced to conduct board exams for the 2020-21 batch in May this year, the Uttarakhand Board of School Education (UBSE) is also planning to follow suit. According to TOI sources, it is likely that the UBSE practical exams will be held in April and the theory papers will start from May. To finalise dates for the board exams, the board will conduct a meeting this month itself. It is worth mentioning that board exams for some of the subjects had got postponed due to the outbreak of Covid-19 in March 2020. While the CBSE had decided against conducting board exams for the remaining subjects, the UBSE held the examinations in June while taking all Covid-19-related precautions. Meanwhile, the state education department has decided to transfer the money to government school students for books and uniforms through direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme. Earlier, the department was planning to deliver books at doorsteps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ubse-mulling-to-hold-exams-in-may/articleshow/80085798.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 4, 2021||Bareilly||My father sacrificed his life: Son of farmer who killed self||BAREILLY: “My father couldn’t bear the pain of the farmers and sacrificed his life for the movement,” said the son of elderly farmer Kashmir Singh, who was found hanging in a makeshift toilet at the UP Gate protest site on Saturday morning. More than 2,000 farmers from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand took part at the farmer’s funeral at Pasiyapur village of Rampur district under heavy police presence on Sunday. Local Sikh leaders had issued a warning to the local MLA and minister of state Baldev Singh Aulakh to stay away from the village. However, the BJP leader was present at the ceremony. Kashmir Singh, 71, used to live in a joint family with his father Ram Singh, 101, and his brothers Amarjeet Singh and Jeet Singh. Kashmir Singh is survived by three sons, Partap, Lakhwinder and Satnaam Singh. Lakhwinder Singh told TOI, “The district administration and police continuously pressured us to cremate the body on Saturday evening but we refused. Several police vehicles followed the ambulance in which we brought my father’s body home. We felt like we were carrying the body of a terrorist. My father had always served people and even at the age of 71, he used to serve ‘langar’ at a Gurdwara in Uttarakhand for the pilgrims.” “Baldev Singh, the local MLA and minister, is a government puppet and we allowed him in the funeral only because he belongs to the Sikh community. But none of us speak to him. His attitude made it clear that the BJP is not affected by the sacrifice of our father. Our family members will continue to protest against the farm laws imposed on us,” Lakhwinder Singh added. On his part, Aulakh said, “I had known Kashmir Singh personally for the past 30 years. He was also a resident of my constituency. No one could have stopped me from attending his funeral. The family didn’t speak much because they were mourning. I will speak to them on Monday.” Kashmir Singh’s father Ram Singh, who retired from the Indian Army as a havildar, said, “I was always ready to sacrifice my life for the nation when I was in the Army. I am proud that my son has sacrificed himself for the cause of the farmers. If needed more members of my family will sacrifice themselves for the movement.” Additional superintendent of police Arun Kumar Singh said, “Heavy police force was deployed considering the law and order situation in the village. Efforts were made to ensure that no one could misuse the situation and ignite violence.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/my-father-sacrificed-his-life-for-farmers-movement-son-of-elderly-farmer-who-killed-self-at-up-gate/articleshow/80085349.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 4, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh to focus on power sector transformation||VISAKHAPATNAM: The government will focus on power sector transformation in 2021-22 to change the scenario of the sector and make it the best in the country, said secretary for energy Srikant Nagulapalli. Addressing a webinar on the ‘priorities of the government during 2021-22’, the secretary said the major objective of the government is to extend quality, affordable and uninterrupted power supply. “The power utilities would lay more focus on daytime, free power supply for nine hours to the agriculture sector. For the first time in the country, the government is establishing 10 GW solar projects for providing daytime, free power to farmers, for which tenders have already been called for. The state government is making all efforts to pull the discoms out of the red. The government had released Rs 17,904 crore in 2019-20 towards clearing subsidy arrears of the discoms,” said Srikant. The energy secretary added that utilities have set a target of reducing annual power purchase cost by Rs 700 crore. “The government has already asked the utilities to procure cost effective power. The utilities have focused on adapting cutting-edge technologies to achieve this. Deploying the day-ahead energy forecast system was one of the steps towards this objective,” said Srikant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-to-focus-on-power-sector-transformation/articleshow/80085808.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Kanaka Durga temple sees fall in 2020 hundi collection||VIJAYAWADA: Revenue through hundials (donation boxes) sharply fell in 2020 at the Kanaka Durga temple. From Rs 34.50 crores in 2019 to Rs 18.90 crores in 2020, the closure of the temple during the lockdown and the impact of Covid-19 on devotees has been the prime reason behind the dip in revenue. Till the first week of March 2020, the temple received steady revenues through donation boxes and other sources. When the temple was reopened on June 10, only 2,000 devotees were permitted initially. The temple also received poor revenues during Dasara. Only 10,000 devotees were permitted every day during Dasara, translating into a revenue of Rs 4.57 crores. Revenues started to increase again in tandem with the decline in number of Covid-19 cases. Meanwhile, the Kanaka Durga temple is gearing up for Bhavani Deeksha Viramana from January 5 to 10. Lakhs of devotees are expected to visit the temple to relinquish their 40-day-long Bhavani deeksha. This year, in keeping with Covid-19 protocols, Giri Pradakshina, holy dip in the Krishna river and tonsuring have been cancelled. “Safety of devotees is our priority. Our teams are sanitising all places regularly. We have increased the number of relinquishment counters and arranged Homagundams to accommodate the crowd. Prasadam counters are arranged at multiple locations,” said temple EO Suresh Babu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/durga-temple-sees-fall-in-20-hundi-collection/articleshow/80085811.cms||Venu Lanka
January 4, 2021||Delhi||Stalker held for shooting woman dead month ago in northeast Delhi||NEW DELHI: A month after a woman was shot dead and her daughter severely injured by gunmen who had barged into their home at Mansarovar Park in northeast Delhi, the daughter’s former boyfriend-turned-stalker has been arrested. The accused man has been identified as Bilal Malik (27), a resident of Nand Nagri. Police have arrested three hired killers as well. Malik was allegedly earlier involved in two cases of thefts and possession of illegal weapons. “Malik’s associate, Abdul Salam (32), is an accused in a murder case registered in Seelampur in 2006. The other two men are Sahil and Kamil who don’t have a past record,” DCP (Shahdara) Amit Sharma said. On November 30, the cops were alerted about a murder in MS Park. They found the body of a woman named Shama Khan and the PCR van rushed her daughter, Mehad, to the hospital. A case was registered on Mehad’s statement, who alleged that her ex-boyfriend and three unidentified men got into an argument with them over her breakup. After a heated exchange, the men opened fire at them. Police conducted raids at the Malik’s hideouts but could not find him. A few days ago, the cops received a tip-off that he was was going to be present in Bhopura road area near Loni. A trap was laid and Malik was arrested. A pistol and five bullets were seized from him. During interrogation, Malik said that the mother-daughter duo was unaware that he was already married when he started a relationship with Mehad. However, she ended it in August 2020 after getting to know about his marital status. While Mehad moved on, Malik became obsessed with her and kept insisting on marrying her, but was rejected. Malik told cops he had met the accused trio at a relative’s marriage in UP and became friends. He sought their help and offered Rs four lakh in exchange. On November 30, the accused went to Mehad’s home and insisted she marry him. He offered to divorce his current wife, but when the proposal was spurned by the women, the men opened fire, killing Khan and injuring Mehad. Malik subsequently led the cops to his associates, who were arrested from Chandpur near Bijnor, UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/stalker-held-for-shooting-woman-dead-a-month-ago/articleshow/80087304.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand HC set to resume physical hearings today||Nainital: Almost 10 months after the Covid-19 pandemic forced the Uttarakhand high court (HC) to switch to virtual hearings, normal proceedings are finally set to resume at the court on Monday with health protocols in place. TOI had earlier reported about the HC registrar general’s letter to the bar association informing them about the decision to reopen the court for physical hearings in January. Officials said that thermal screening and mask would be mandatory for those entering the court. Welcoming the decision, advocates practising in the HC said that the move would help them argue cases in detail and eliminate hurdles posed by internet connectivity issues. HC bar association secretary Jaywardhan Kandpal said, “Though online hearing was necessary to keep courts running during the pandemic, most of the advocates have welcomed the decision as it is difficult otherwise. Lawyers have been demanding this for long and it’s good that the court has finally decided on it.” Echoing similar sentiments, advocate Kartikey Hari Gupta said, “Uttarakhand high court is one of the few courts in the country to start physical hearings. Even though there are risks, advocates are willing to take a chance as online hearings can’t yet replace normal judicial proceedings.” Meanwhile on Sunday, the Uttarakhand State Legal Services Authority organised a farewell for the outgoing acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath. Speaking on the occasion, Justice Malimath — who has been appointed as the chief justice of Himachal Pradesh high court — said that the legal fraternity should ensure justice to the last man standing. The newly-appointed chief justice of Uttarakhand high court Justice RS Chauhan is likely to assume office on January 6. Governor Baby Rani Maurya would administer the oath of office and secrecy to Justice Chauhan in Dehradun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-hc-set-to-resume-physical-hearings-today/articleshow/80085807.cms||Prashant Jha
January 4, 2021||Vijayawada||Krishna river board office to be shifted to Visakhapatnam||AMARAVATI: The stage has been set for the relocation of the office of the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) from Hyderabad to Visakhapatnam. Chief secretary Dr Adityanath Das confirmed the government has requested the KRMB to relocate to Vizag. The government has meanwhile requested KRMB chairman A Paramesham to take steps to shift the office to Andhra Pradesh. Sources said the government has directed engineer-in-chief (ENC) Narayana Reddy to identify a suitable building in Vizag to house the KRMB office. Sources said senior officials initially proposed that the office be relocated either to Kurnool or Srisailam. But while Visakhapatnam does not command any area of the Krishna river basin, it was decided to shift the office here in view of logistical reasons and reservations expressed by some senior officials in KRMB. “It has been decided to locate KRMB in Vizag keeping in view its connectivity and convenience,” said a senior official. As per the AP Reorganisation Act, the KRMB should be housed in Andhra Pradesh and the Godavari River Management Board (GRMB) in Telangana. However, both boards have been continuing in Hyderabad since bifurcation. Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy had raised the issue of relocation of the KRMB office at the Apex Council meeting on inter-state water disputes chaired by Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in October 2019. The Union minister had agreed on relocating the board. All existing projects would be brought under the purview of the respective river boards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/krishna-river-board-office-to-be-shifted-to-vizag/articleshow/80085819.cms||Samdani MN
January 4, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand BJP begins booth-level training at 2,400 ‘Shakti Kendras’||Dehradun: The week-long training of more than 54,000 booth-level Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers and ‘panna pramukh’ (in-charge for every page of the electoral roll) started in all the 13 districts of Uttarakhand from Sunday. According to TOI sources, the booth workers are being trained on ways to approach voters and explain the schemes and achievements of the state government to locals. The training programme will be headed by district BJP presidents and senior leaders of the party. The training will continue till January 10. Manveer Singh Chauhan, media in-charge of BJP, said that booth-level workers were shown PowerPoint presentations on the achievements of the party so that they can understand the schemes, its objectives, and beneficiaries. “The idea was mooted by BJP’s national president JP Nadda during his visit to Uttarakhand in the first week of December. The national president had directed the ministers to visit their constituencies with such PPTs and show them at public platforms. He specifically stressed on advertising the achievements of schemes like Jan Dhan Yojana, Ayushman Bharat, Saubhagya Scheme, and Greeb Kalyan Yojana, among others,” said Chauhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-bjp-begins-booth-level-training-at-2400-shakti-kendras/articleshow/80085810.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 4, 2021||Goa||After cop body & Lokayukta, info panel turns inoperative||Panaji: After the state government rendered the police complaints authority defunct and the Lokayukta remains non-functional, the Goa state information commission has become the next quasi-judicial body to bite the dust. Its last commissioner, Pratima Vernekar, demitted office on Thursday. She was the officiating chief information commissioner after the incumbent, Prashant Tendolkar, demitted office in February last year. The other commissioner, Juino De Souza, retired in July. Thus, the three-member commission, which decides appeals pertaining to non-answered RTI applications and complaints against non-release of information, now has no commissioner to hear cases. More than six months after the chief information commissioner retired and two months after De Souza retired, the government advertised for two posts — of state chief information commissioner and state information commissioner at a fixed monthly salary of Rs 2.25 lakh each. More than 50 applied, including a retired speaker of the state assembly, journalists, former IAS officers and advocates. “The process for their appointment is on, but the three-member committee comprising the chief minister, cabinet minister and leader of opposition is yet to meet and finalise the appointment of the two commissioners,” a government official said. Director of information and publicity Sudhir Kerkar told TOI a meeting of the three-member committee has been scheduled for Monday morning. “The government has already initiated the process but we want to finalise the state information commissioner at the earliest and start the online RTI portal in Goa for filing RTI applications and appeals along with normal filing. If this doesn’t happen, we will approach the court, as we had done the last time for the appointments of Lokayukta and commissioner,” said secretary, Goa RTI forum, Ganpat Kurtikar. There are currently 200 cases pending before the commission. The institution of the Goa Lokayukta, too, is defunct at the moment, and the state government recently sought more time to appoint a successor to justice P K Misra, who retired in September last year. The Goa RTI forum had earlier stated that one SIC and one CIC would be sufficient to handle the cases at the commission, which receives fewer than 200 cases each year. The forum stated that an extra SIC would be a burden on the public exchequer. The term of the commission has been reduced to three years from five years. As per the recent amendment to the RTI Act, the posts have been downgraded to the rank of principal secretary with a fixed salary of Rs 2.25 lakh per month for both the chief and state information commissioners, De Souza said. “The government must spell out the terms and conditions of the appointment in the appointment letter, and specify what the new commissioners will be entitled to, so that there is no ambiguity and no misinterpretation of law. This is necessary to avoid any disputes regarding pensionary benefits, etc, and to ensure that there is no big financial burden on the exchequer,” De Souza said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-cop-body-lokayukta-info-panel-turns-inoperative/articleshow/80087329.cms||Lisa Monteiro
January 4, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Police crackdown on illegal hookah bars||NEW DELHI: Two clubs operating in violation of Covid-19 restrictions and illegally serving hookah to customers were raided by Rohini district police and 65 people, including four managers and owners, arrested. Cops also seized 22 hookahs and other ingredients from the spot. According to DCP (Rohini), PK Mishra, a special team was directed to keep a close tab on the hookah bars in Rohini and take appropriate action against the owners and users, if found violating regulations. Cops were deployed in plainclothes around establishments and several informers were also mobilised. On January 1, police received a tip off about one such joint named Uptown Cafe in sector 9, Rohini, and carried out a raid. Twenty-two people were found dancing and smoking hookah in blatant violation of Covid-19 norms. Four people serving hookahs to customers were also arrested. The owner of the bar was identified as Sahil, 23, from Alipur. Similarly, acting on another tip-off, cops raided a pub named Mud Bousr in sector 8 and apprehended 32 people, including three minors. “All three owners of the bar namely Amit Dhankar, Sanjay Aggarwal and Pardeep Singhal, have been identified and appropriate legal action has been initiated against them,” the DCP said. Cops also invoked section of Juvenile Justice Act in the FIR, apart from the Epidemic Diseases Act and Cigarettes and Other Tobbacco Products Act (COTPA). Earlier on Saturday, a fire had broke out at an illegal hookah bar in west Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-crackdown-on-illegal-hookah-bars/articleshow/80087331.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Delhi||Private schools in Delhi keen on nursery admissions this year||NEW DELHI: Parents seeking nursery admissions will have to wait for another month for answers, as Delhi government is still holding consultations over it. However, after a meeting among themselves, private schools have decided that the admissions will take place this year. Delhi government has proposed deferring admissions this time in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, with a view that admissions for both nursery and kindergarten can take place in 2022-23. “We are still holding consultations and examining the pros and cons of the policy. Schools have concerns regarding teachers and other issues. In a month’s time, we would be able to take a decision,” said a senior education department official, adding that holding another year of online classes for nursery did not seem feasible. At present, the consultations are taking place at individual levels, and the government is yet to engage with larger bodies representing schools and parents. Meanwhile, principals of different private schools have already held meetings among themselves and resolved that deferring admissions is not a solution. “We have not received any formal directions yet from the government. However, our arguments and proposals are ready too. Principals have decided that admissions need to happen this year,” said a principal on condition of anonymity. Schools are hoping that the decision is conveyed soon as they are receiving many queries from parents. “Not holding admissions is not an option as it will be difficult to bridge the learning gaps. If children are enrolled, at least schools can engage them and keep them occupied. We have conducted registrations online earlier as well, so the same process can be repeated this time,” said another principal. Usually the registration process for the entry-level classes — nursery, KG and Class I — commences by this time of the year. The midst of the waiting lie the concerned parents. “As vaccines have received approval and will be rolled out soon, I don’t see any reason in not conducting admissions, even if it happens in July-August,” said Nistha Kashyap, a parent of a three-year-old child. If the admission process is deferred, it will also reflect for over 300 Delhi government schools, which have classes from nursery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pvt-schools-in-city-keen-on-nursery-admissions-this-yr/articleshow/80087335.cms||Shradha Chettri
January 4, 2021||Goa||Goan officer who served as CRPF chief passes away||Panaji: Former director general of CRPF, Padmakar Ganpat Halarnkar passed away at a Bengaluru hospital on January 2 after battling a brief illness. The Goan origin IPS officer, who also served as the commissioner of Bengaluru City Police, grew up in Goa when the state was under Portuguese colonial rule. Known to be a disciplinarian and a stickler for principles, Halarnkar’s body was donated to a medical institute as per his final wish. He rose to the post of chief of the paramilitary force and served in Delhi and after his retirement he returned to Bengaluru where he had settled down with his family. “My father, P G Halarnkar, former commissioner of Bengaluru City Police and the former DGP CRFP, made his final journey last night. A life of honour, duty and utmost honesty. He shunned ritual and donated his body to medical science. His religion was his uniform, his duty and his country,” said Samar Halarnkar, announcing his father’s death on social media. The former IPS officer was 88 when he passed away. Halarnkar studied law and became a clerk at the government secretariat in Bombay, before qualifying for the Indian Police Service. He was among the longest serving commissioner of Bengaluru City Police, holding the post for three years and nine months. Opposition leader and former chief minister Digambar Kamat expressed his condolences at the death of Halarnkar. “Deeply pained by the passing away of ex commissioner of Bengaluru and former DGP of CRPF P G Halarnkar. He was a Goan who performed his duty with honesty and dignity. My condolences to his family,” Kamat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goan-officer-who-served-as-crpf-chief-passes-away/articleshow/80087343.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 4, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Greater Visakhapatnam civic body to recycle scrap material for selfie points||VISAKHAPATNAM: In the run up to the Swachh Survekshan (SS) 2021, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has planned a variety of garbage-free initiatives to place itself in a strong position in the competition. The civic body would set up five selfie points at various parts of the city, including Beach Road, by converting iron waste and other scrap material into sculpture and other works of art. The GVMC has sought the help of Andhra University Fine Arts department for this initiative. Meanwhile, the GVMC has tied up with a private agency to collect hazardous waste from households of the city, which is estimated to be around 80 tonnes per day. The same agency is already involved in management of the hazardous waste being generated at the city hospitals. Dr V Sanyasi Rao, GVMC additional commissioner, said that the civic body is also planning to embark on dry waste processing initiative. “We would launch dry waste processing in two zones of the city on a pilot basis before extending it to all parts of the city. We are promoting the concept of 3R – reduce, reuse and recycle of waste to achieve the goals of Swachh Survekshan and sustainable development. The focus is on reducing the amount of waste finally being transported to the dumping yard,” said Rao. The GVMC has identified a school in Gajuwaka to train the students on repurposing the discarded paper, scrap and other objects into various art projects. Subsequently, the GVMC would conduct exhibitions with these recycled art items and the money raised through these exhibitions would go back to the school. The GVMC would supply all the needed material for this initiative. As part of the Swachh Survekshan-2021, a new category, namely ‘Prerak Dauur Samman’, has been introduced to classify the cities on six indicators. The cities will be categorised as ‘Platinum’, ‘Gold’, ‘Silver’, ‘Bronze’, and ‘Aspiring’ cities based on the performance of the cities in select indicators from SS-2021 ‘Service Level Progress’. The new parameters will make the cities focus on developing infrastructure that may provide end-to-end solution for sanitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gvmc-to-recycle-scrap-material-for-selfie-points/articleshow/80085825.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
January 4, 2021||Goa||Goa: From drugs in rose water to asking buyers for Aadhaar cards, dealers up their game||MAPUSA: Ingenuity is the name of the game. In a bid to outwit authorities, drug dealers and peddlers are employing unique ways and exploiting loopholes in existing laws to keep the wheels of their trade moving. With usual smuggling techniques now known to the police, it is not uncommon for drug dealers to mix narcotics with other substances like rose water to evade alert cops. “Earlier, postal delivery or courier service was used for the drugs trade, but, now that such tactics are known to the police, new methods are being employed, like trying to pass off the narcotics as rose water,” said a police official. However, what has flummoxed authorities is that peddlers are now delivering even larger consignments of contraband to customers by packing the narcotics in smaller quantities. A police source said that peddlers are also demanding that the Aadhaar card of the customer be sent over Whatsapp to help them verify the identity and avoid a potential police trap. However, drug dealers aren’t the only criminals using Aadhaar cards to secure clients. Pimps operating along the North Goa beach belt too demand potential clients’ Aadhaar cards before supplying call girls, to ensure they aren’t police decoys. An officer said that drug peddlers are treading a cautious path fearing possible crackdowns, and hence insist on making deliveries of smaller quantities. Police sources said that smaller consignments allow peddlers to easily walk free in the event of an arrest, rather than attract a harsher punishment for possessing commercial quantities of narcotics substance that could run into kilos. Under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act the quantum of punishment depends on whether the quantity of drugs involved is small, less than commercial (variable) or is commercial. Small and commercial quantities for each drug have been notified by the government of India. “Even if clients demand a larger quantity of drugs, peddlers will nevertheless supply it in smaller installments, even if it takes them two to three days. In many cases, police have posed as decoy customers, only to find a very small quantity on the peddler, which would barely stand the chance of winning a conviction in court,” said a police official. Police said that such instances only frustrate the authorities as meticulous paperwork has to be completed that eventually leads to bail for the accused, while the drug trade continues to flourish. “When we work on specific and reliable tip-offs about drug deals, we have noticed in recent times that after the contact is made between the buyer and seller, the seller will only provide the quantity of that drug specified as minor by law. This means they are soon bailed out in the event of an arrest,” said a senior police officer who has served in the coastal belt. “Under existing laws, tracking cases involving minor quantity of drugs results in lenient punishments for the accused. Police waste a lot of time working on the tip-off, laying the trap, investigating the cases, making the case in court and fighting it out legally,” another senior police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/from-drugs-in-rose-water-to-asking-buyers-for-aadhaar-cards-dealers-up-their-game/articleshow/80087334.cms||Keshav Naik
January 4, 2021||Goa||Our small contribution to science has gone a long way: Goan Oxford vax volunteer||Panaji: UK-based Goan doctor Vikram Talaulikar, who was a participant in the human trials for the Covid-19 vaccine developed by the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca, is ecstatic at its approval. “It was a moment of pride for all of us who volunteered in the trial, as our small contribution to science has gone a long way. I believe research can only succeed if there are enough volunteers willing to take part,” 39-year-old Talaulikar told TOI. He received the first dose of the vaccine in June, followed by a booster in August last year. “When we signed the consent form to participate in the phase three trial in May, there were many uncertainties: Would the vaccine work? Will there be any side effects? Will it be possible to complete the trial on time? Today marks the end of all those uncertainties, as the vaccine is ready for use and has been proven to be safe and effective. We must salute the scientists who made this possible within 12 months of the onset of the pandemic,” Talaulikar said. “Neither me nor any of the trial participants experienced major side effects. One case of neurological inflammation, which was reported in the media, was found not linked to the vaccine after thorough investigation,” he said. Over the past year, Talaulikar was expected to keep a close watch on any unusual symptoms and signs, attend specific trial appointments for completing health questionnaires, swabs, blood tests and general health checks. Since monitoring for the trial continues, he still has to provide weekly nasal/oral swabs and monthly blood tests and notify any changes in his health and wellbeing to trial authorities. As a volunteer, he will continue to participate as long as the trial objectives are completed, which is expected to be around a year. Then, depending on a review of data at that stage, the next stage of follow-up will be planned if required. He must avoid donating blood while participating in the trial but must follow public health guidelines, which include wearing of masks, using hand sanitisers, and social distancing. “We (trial participants) have to follow the same public health guidelines as other citizens. This is because it is still not known whether vaccination prevents the spread of virus from asymptomatic carriers and how long the immunity lasts following vaccination,” he said. Comparing the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine to others, Talaulikar said it is “equally safe and effective as other vaccines”. “It has an additional advantage in that it can possibly prevent the transmission of the virus from a person who is asymptomatic or has mild infection. It is also cheaper and can be stored between 2- and 8-degree C, so easier to transport and administer around the country,” he said. Talaulikar said he is happy Indian authorities have acted swiftly to provide emergency conditional approval for the vaccine. “I am hoping the vaccination starts as soon as possible over the next few weeks, so that we can start putting an end to this pandemic,” he said. Talaulikar was born in Panaji and moved to the UK more than a decade ago after completing his MD in gynaecology from Goa Medical College. He is currently an associate specialist in reproductive medicine at University College London Hospitals, and honorary senior clinical lecturer at University College London.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/our-small-contribution-to-science-has-gone-a-long-way-goan-oxford-vax-volunteer/articleshow/80087337.cms||Lisa Monteiro
January 4, 2021||Goa||GCA finds new way to catch online frauds||Panaji: The Goa Chess Association tried to beat restrictions due to coronavirus pandemic with online tournaments. With the pandemic showing no signs of going away, or even slowing down, GCA has been forced to look at alternatives. Initially, the association experimented with a three-minute game format. The move worked, but left the door open for online frauds. That's when Goa's arbiter Sanjay Kavlekar came up with a new plan to organise tournaments on Tornelo.com, a portal allowing officials to keep an eagle-eye on the proceedings. "I played in the Fide tournament and then thought of implementing a 25-minute game tournament in Goa. I shared my views with GCA secretary Kishor Bandekar and after lots of discussions, GCA decided to go ahead. “The beauty of the portal is that, as an official, we can view the players. The cameras are on all the time. Players’ screen, audio devices are also shared with us, so it leaves players with very little or say no chance of cheating," said the 53-year-old Curchorem resident, the only visually-impaired arbiter in the world. The GCA is now conducting all state championship under this system. "We had almost decided not to conduct any state championship since there are no national championships. No dates have been announced. The three minutes online tournaments were not adequate. Also, it was taking too long to announce results as we had to run anti-cheating software on all games," said Bandekar. The GCA will have a team of dedicated officials who will work round the clock to make things easier. GCA organised the Senior State Chess Championship from December 20-23, which saw a total of 49 players take part, followed by sub-juniors’ category during December 26-29. On Sunday, it was time for juniors. GCA will organise the women's championship from Thursday, while the state championships will conclude with the under-11 category, starting January 14. The results will be announced online on January 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gca-finds-new-way-to-catch-online-frauds/articleshow/80086526.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Kolkata||Bidhannagar current cases come down to 6-month low||Kolkata: The rate of active Covid cases in Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area has dropped to a six-month low to 2.7% of total patients, with the number of new cases reducing further. The average daily new cases have drastically come down to 40-50 over the last one week. The number of active Covid cases in Bidhannagar area is now hovering below 450-mark, which is the lowest within Bidhannagar area since July 8 last year when there were 401 active cases. On Sunday, there were 405 active Covid cases in Bidhannagar, with 41 new patients being reported.After recording a daily average of 100 new cases in the first few weeks of December, the figure has now started to dip. Also, the recovery rate, at 96%, continues to increase significantly compared to the number of new cases being reported. As many as 56 persons recovered on Sunday, taking the total number of recoveries to 14,666.Although civic officials were hopeful of the Covid curve sticking to its downward trend, they said that there was no room for any complacency and to relax now with the new UK strain looming large. Civic officials, however, are wary over the tendency of people letting their guard down. “Many celebrated Christmas and New Year without properly following Covid safety protocols. We are urging people not to take things lightly and to continue wearing masks and maintaining social distancing as much as possible. Our awareness drives will continue as usual,” said a Bidhannagar civic official. The civic authorities have been holding two Covid testing centres, one at Salt Lake and another in Rajarhat.Total Covid deaths in the Bidhannagar area crossed 100. There has, however, been a decline in the fatality rate with 16 Covid deaths being reported in December, compared to November when 23 deaths had occurred — the most in a month since the outbreak of the pandemic in March last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bidhannagar-current-cases-come-down-to-6-month-low/articleshow/80086519.cms||Suman Chakraborti
January 4, 2021||Goa||Will vaccinate all Goans in a short time: CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Sunday that Goa being a small state, the government would be able to vaccinate the entire population within a short duration. He also said that in the first phase, Covid warriors and senior citizens would be inoculated, followed by others in the second phase. “Goa will be successful in covering 100% of its population,” he said. Speaking to reporters, Sawant said that the state is putting in place cold chain systems for the vaccination. He also said that the state government is awaiting the Centre’s guidelines for the project. “A dry run of Covid vaccination was held at four locations in the state, and the government had made good arrangements,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-vaccinate-all-goans-in-a-short-time-sawant/articleshow/80087344.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Nagpur||Rlys asks zones to improve health delivery system for staffers||Nagpur: To improve the health delivery system for Indian Railways staffer, and streamline the treatment in an emergency at railway empanelled hospitals, the Railway Board has asked zonal managers to ensure serving and retired employees are not put to trouble while getting admission in empanelled hospitals. The Railway Board had received several representations from beneficiaries, including retired officials, regarding problems being faced during treatment in emergency at empanelled hospitals. “We are already following these norms. Post admission, our doctors visit the empanelled hospitals and certify whether the patient needs emergency care. They are getting cashless benefits too,” said Central Railway spokesperson SG Rao. The board has said that medical beneficiaries under emergency condition should get admission in any railway empanelled hospital without any prior referral. The empanelled hospital should not insist on referral from railway hospitals or demand advance in emergency conditions and the hospital has to provide cashless or credit medical facilities to the patients. The valid unique medical identification card (UMID) card issued will be treated as identification for all railway medical beneficiary. Railways have to make sure that these cards are accepted in the empanelled hospitals under the respective jurisdictions. “Situation may arise where the railway hospital, after scrutinizing the admission report submitted by empanelled hospital, finds that the patient is not suffering from an emergency. In such cases the patient can continue to avail treatment at the empanelled hospital, if so desired, by paying CGHS rates or hospital rates, whichever is less, at patient’s cost,” the Railway Board has said. The nature and appropriateness of the emergency are subject to verification, which may be verified, inspected, or medically audited by the nominated authority on a random basis at its own discretion. The hospitals will have to intimate all instances of patients admitted as emergencies (without prior permission) to the railway authorities within 24 hours and railway will revert within the next 24 hours, otherwise, it will be treated as deemed approval. The empanelled hospital will clearly certify the emergency condition as per MoU. The board has said that empanelled hospitals will not insist on patients to get the approval of referral or extension from railway hospitals. The same will be coordinated and approved on the contact number and email by the empanelled hospital and railway hospital. Railway hospital shall refer to the empanelled hospital for the appropriate duration as per the package. Also, the empanelled hospitals will provide necessary treatment in OPD or otherwise to valid railway medical beneficiary at the CGHS approved rates or hospital rates, whichever is less, for the treatment in non-referral and non-emergency case at railway medical beneficiary’s cost. The zonal railways have been asked to include provisions for these conditions in their MoU with the referral hospitals and also include that refusal to provide treatment to bona fide railway medical beneficiaries in emergency cases without the valid ground would attract disqualification for the continuation of empanelment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rlys-asks-zones-to-improve-health-delivery-system-for-staffers/articleshow/80098718.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 4, 2021||Kolkata||Percentage of Bengal active Covid cases better than national average||KOLKATA: Bengal on Sunday reported 896 new Covid cases, which brought down its active Covid cases to 1.8% of the total 5.5 lakh patients it reported since March 17, last year. This is better than the national average of 2.3% active Covid cases. Bengal’s discharge rate of 96% is the same as the national discharge rate. Bengal had last reported 10,000 active Covid cases on July 12. Bengal had till then reported 30,013 Covid cases. The figure of 10,446 active Covid cases reported on Sunday was nearly a six-month low. Bengal on Sunday reported 26 deaths — six among them in Kolkata. Bengal’s Covid fatality rate (CFR) remained at 1.7%. Bengal, experts said, has been witnessing a steady drop in Covid cases, but the sub-1,000 cases over the weekend were also due to fewer tests. Over the weekend, around 60,000 samples were tested which showed a positivity rate of around 7.7%. Usually, the state on weekdays tests over 40,000 samples. According to state government data, Covid bed occupancy has now fallen to 10.2%. Around 1,400 patients are being treated at hospitals while the rest are in home isolation. Around 87 among them are in safe homes, the state health department indicated. Over 76,788 people — close contacts of Covid patients and people who have reported illness — are in home quarantine in Bengal. A senior health department official said, “Overall indications are very satisfactory. However, any further spike due to the year-end festivities can only be gauged better in the later part of this week.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/percentage-of-bengal-active-cases-better-than-natl-avg/articleshow/80086536.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Ranchi||Substantial increase in leopard population in Jharkhand: National survey||RANCHI: The leopard population in Jharkhand has recorded a substantial increase between 2014 and 2018, a national level leopard population census published late last year has shown. The report, titled “Status of Leopards in India 2018”, was unveiled by Union minister for forest and environment Prakash Javdekar on December 22, 2020. While the report has pegged the rise of leopard population by 60% nationally, the population of the endangered species of the felines in Jharkhand has risen by nearly 53% in four years. The study has estimated the population of leopards in the state at 46 in 2018. In the 2014 National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) report “Status of Tigers, Co-Predators & Prey in India, 2014”, as many as 30 leopards were documented in Jharkhand’s wilds. The study, which was conducted using advanced technologies such as camera traps, scat collections, DNA sampling and spatially explicit capture-recapture imaging technique, found the maximum presence of leopards in Palamu Tiger Reserve (PTR) and its adjoining areas, the study has claimed. Lal Ratnakar Singh, the former principal chief of conservator of forests (PCCF) Jharkhand who was at the helm of affairs when the study was conducted, said, “ The leopard population in Jharkhand is not limited to PTR, wildlife sanctuaries and protected forests. They are very elusive creatures and prey on stray dogs, livestock and venture into human settlements clandestinely.” D S Srivastava, a wildlife expert and member of the state wildlife board, said there are more leopards than what is reflecting in the study. “Leopards have a large prey base, unlike tigers. With the tiger population in PTR dwindling over the past years, leopards have filled in. The number of leopard sightings in PTR alone has gone up substantially in the past couple of years,” Srivastava told TOI. PTR, Jharkhand’s lone tiger haven, did not record any tiger in a 2018 nationwide survey. In 2010, there were 10 tigers in PTR while in 2014, there were three. PCCF Jharkhand P K Verma was not available for his comment on the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/substantial-increase-in-leopard-popn-in-jkhand-natl-survey/articleshow/80086748.cms||Dhritiman Ray
January 4, 2021||Surat||Surat boy scores 99.99 percentile in CAT||Surat: An engineering student from the city, who is studying at the Indian Institute of Technology-Delhi (IIT-D), cracked the common admission test (CAT) with 99.99 percentile. Rushi Patel, a final-year B.Tech student of electrical engineering, scored 159.65 marks out of 228. He is hopeful of getting admission to the prestigious IIM-Ahmedabad. In case he doesn’t, Patel will take up the job offered by a solar energy company during campus placement recently.  “I will surely try for IIM-A next year,” he said. Patel studied up to Class VIII at JH Ambani Saraswati Vidyamandir in the city and later shifted to Kota for further studies. After cracking joint entrance examination (JEE), he secured admission in IIT-D. Hailing from Mehsana, Patel’s father Dilip is also an engineer and works with a corporate firm in Hazira while his mother Sunita is a homemaker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-boy-scores-99-99-percentile-in-cat/articleshow/80086198.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Jamshedpur||Stir in Jamshedpur to support agitating farmers in Delhi||JAMSHEDPUR: A few political parties and social outfits joined hands with the Jharkhand Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee (JGPC) in Jamshedpur on Sunday and staged a rosh yatra (anger march) to protest the new farm laws introduced by the Centre. The march started from Sakchi Gurdwara and ended with a public meeting at Sakchi roundabout. A sizeable number of people participated in the march in support of the farmers protesting at Singhu Border for the last 38 days. “If the January 4 meeting between the government representatives and the farmers’ groups fail to arrive at a satisfactory resolution, we will go to Delhi to join our farmers at Singhu Border,” said JGPC chairman Sardar Shailendra Singh. Earlier in the day, the All India Sikh Student’s Federation (ALSSF), Jharkhand-Bihar unit president, Satnam Singh Gambhir, tweeted out to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and asked him to repeal the farm bills. “Hopeful of a good result tomorrow (Monday). If talks fail, we will intensify our agitation,” he said. Senior Congress leader Anand Bihari Dubey said Minimum Support Price is the right of the farmers. “Prime Minister should realise farmers will not call off the agitation until the farm laws are revoked,” he said. JMM district committee leader, Mahavir Murmu said his party will stand with the farmers till the objectives are achieved. The Communist Party of India, Kisan Morcha (farmers’ outfit) and a few social outfits also spoke in support of the farmers and demanded scrapping of the bills. The Aam Adami Party (AAP), which staged a dharna at the Sakchi roundabout separately, accused Modi of working for a segment of corporate houses. “Farm bills of the Modi government is a sweet poison aimed at finishing the future of the farmers, but our sensible farmers have realised it on time,” said Kolhan in-charge of AAP Prem Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/stir-in-steel-city-to-support-agitating-farmers-in-delhi/articleshow/80086556.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Ranchi||Gumla teacher gets award for innovative teaching||Gumla: The All India Primary Teacher Federation (AIPTF) awarded principal-in-charge of Government Middle School in Raidih block of Gumla, Navin Chandra Jha, for his innovative teaching skills during the lockdown to check the Covid-19 pandemic. After the nationwide lockdown came into effect in March last year, Jha devised worksheets with sets of questions for different subjects and distributed them to the students at their houses by visiting them personally. The worksheets were prepared with the help of a local NGO. Jha said, “I managed to get the worksheets for mathematics, English and Hindi and took them to the houses of over 150 students. The students submitted the worksheets, which contained home tasks, after a week. This process is continuing and is keeping them engaged. It also helped them clear their doubts.” Jha, who teaches mathematics and English, also launched his own YouTube channel called ‘Learn By Trick’. “I have been trying to teach the students problem-solving skills through my channel. The channel has over 28,000 viewers so far,” he said. To help those who don’t have smartphones with the online content of the education department named ‘Digi Sath’, Jha roped in ex-students of the schools in each village to help other kids. “Past students, residing in the same village as the current students, used to share their phones for a couple of hours to help the kids learn whenever their class timings were fixed,” he said, adding that during teaching, the students were also taught on Covid safety protocols like washing hands and use of mask among others. “We also formed hand-wash warriors by roping in a few students who used to visit the houses of their colleagues to create awareness among other students and their families in each village,” he said, adding that they have also set up a soap bank in their school by asking all students to contribute one soap each on their birthdays. The school management committee chairman, Balram Nayak, hailed Jha’s initiatives and said, “Several things initiated by Jha helped the students remained engaged in a positive manner during the lockdown when the school remained closed for an extended period.” Vishal Chandra, a Class VIII student of the school, said, “Our education continued even during the lockdown because of sir Navin. We get benefits from the worksheets as they guided us with the sample questions that may be asked in the examinations while his YouTube channel helped us clear our doubts. He also helped us celebrate our birthdays.” Sanjay Oraon, a representative of an NGO which works in collaboration with Unicef, said, “This school has got a 5-star tag under the Mukhya Mantri Swacch Vidhyalaya Puraskar. It is a good school and has all indicators of hygiene and cleanliness.” Gumla additional district programme officer Piyush Kumar, too, lauded Jha for his dedication. “The school under him has performed well in terms of teaching and getting results from the students.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/gumla-teacher-gets-award-for-innovative-teaching/articleshow/80086605.cms||K A Gupta
January 4, 2021||Ranchi||Tourist inflow increases after dip in Red activity||Bokaro: Rebel-hit Gomia block in Bokaro is getting a steady footfall of local tourists of late as many are still apprehensive to travel outside Jharkhand amid the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. Gomia is studded with many picturesque dams and breath-taking greenery, but the area being Maoist-infested, it is mostly an unexplored destination. However, with a dip in naxal activities, the tourist spots are drawing locals. Considering the footfall, administration set up elaborate security arrangements to ensure overall safety of visitors. For instance, a proper road leading to Jhumra Hills is now drawing people to the location for picnic. “I had heard a lot about Jhumra and have come to see it. The hill, covered with dense forest, is amazing,” said businessman Suresh Singh. Speaking to TOI, Gomia MLA Lambodar Mahto said, “I have urged the government to pay attention in making Gomia a tourist paradise.” Apart from Jhumra, people are also visiting spots like Tenughat dam, Konar dam, Luggu Hill, Bhuk-Bhukiya Nala and Luggu Buru Ghantabadi Dhoramgarh. “There are streams in Luggu which attract tourist. The decline in Maoist violence has made us comfortable to hang out in Gomia,” said Dinesh Aggarwal, a resident of Phusro who visited Tenughat Dam for an excursion. Migratory birds, which arrive every winter from Central Asia, too are drawing visitors from neighbouring districts like Ramgarh, Hazaribagh and Giridih. Bhuk-Bhukiya Nala, a hot water stream, is also becoming a popular spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tourist-inflow-increases-after-dip-in-red-activity/articleshow/80086759.cms||Divy Khare
January 4, 2021||Vadodara||Four hurt in trucks’ collision||Vadodara: A traffic snarl was created on the road to Statue of Unity (SoU) in Dabhoi as two trucks had a head-on collision on Sunday morning. Due to the ongoing railway work to lay line to Kevadiya, several diversions have been placed on the road. To evade the diversion, driver of a trailer drove his vehicle on the wrong side of the road and later collided with another truck coming from the opposite side. Local sources said that the drivers and cleaners of both trucks suffered minor injuries in the accident. The traffic on the road came to a halt as both trucks had blocked the road. Cops from Dabhoi police station tried managing the traffic. Situation improved later during the day only after a crane was called in and both heavy vehicles were moved to the roadside. No offence was registered by cops as none of the injured persons wanted to give a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/four-hurt-in-trucks-collision/articleshow/80085954.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Jagarnath Mahto better, likely to return home next week||RANCHI: Ailing state education minister Jagarnath Mahto, who underwent a double-lung transplant at MGM hospital in Chennai in November after he was infected by Covid-19, is all set to return home next week. Mahto, who was shifted to Chennai on November 19 after his condition deteriorated, has recovered completely and is doing fine, doctors treating him said. The minister also released a video message highlighting his health condition. In the video message from MGM hospital, Mahto said, “I thank chief minister Hemant Soren for the kind of support he extended and for his intervention for better medical treatment and got me shifted to Chennai. I also thank the team of doctors of MGM hospital who gave me a fresh lease of life through constant supervision.” On being asked about his message to his electorate, an emotional Mahto said, “I thank every single well-wisher back in Jharkhand who prayed for my recovery.” Highly placed sources at the confirmed Mahto will be travelling back to Jharkhand in a week as he has recuperated well after the organ transplant. When contacted, clinical director of lung transplant, pulmonary, critical care and sleep medicine at the MGM hospital, Dr Apar Jindal, said, “He is doing fine and his lungs are absolutely healthy. He is having meals properly, breathing without any oxygen support, undergoing regular physiotherapy and recovering at a remarkable speed. All his vitals are normal and if the parameters continue to remain the same, he can return home in a week.” Mahto was shifted to the hospital in Chennai under the supervision of Dr Jindal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jagarnath-better-likely-to-return-home-next-week/articleshow/80086661.cms||Gaurav Pandey
January 4, 2021||Noida||Noida: Year’s first showers leave residents powerless for hours||NOIDA: Over half a dozen sectors, including 12, 28, 30, 34, 51, 52, 122 and more reported intermittent to long outages of up to six hours since early Sunday morning after light showers. While residents also complained of voltage fluctuations along with power cuts, the power department maintained that local faults of cable and insulator punctures were behind the outages. Puneet Shukla, RWA member of Sector 12, said, “There were 25 intermittent power cuts of 15-20 minutes from 5.00am to 9.00am on Sunday. As a result, there was no water supply in the sector. Residents had to use the stored water they had while at many places they kept waiting for the supply to resume.” While Colonel (retd) Shashi Vaid, chairman of Arun Vihar Residents Welfare Association (AVRWA) of sectors 28, 29 and 37, complained of a major breakdown from 5.00 am to 1.00 pm, the sector also faced voltage fluctuations. “There was a major breakdown immediately after it started raining. While supply was restored partially in some areas with only one phase working, there were too many fluctuations. The voltage was low in other areas. The supply was fully restored around 1.00pm. When we raised a complaint, the standard reply was that there was a fault in the transmission line,” said Vaid. Similarly, while Parmod Verma, RWA president of Sector 30, complained of one phase cut followed by voltage fluctuations, Dharmendra Sharma, RWA general secretary Federation of RWAs in Sector 34, said there was seven hours of intermittent outages. “Power cut of 6 to 7 hours occurred on Sunday where electricity kept coming and going continuously. We had to switch off our electrical equipment like geysers, washing machines etc,” said Sharma. Meanwhile, VN Singh, chief zonal engineer of Noida power department (PVVNL) told TOI that early morning showers led to minor faults in some parts of the city. “Small faults of insulator punctures, cable faults were reported from some parts of the city. We tried to provide supply from alternate lines, but fixing the problems took time as it was raining continuously,” Singh said, adding that currently Noida requires 600-700 Mw of power and the supply is adequate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/years-first-showers-leave-residents-powerless-for-hours/articleshow/80088084.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
January 4, 2021||Vijayawada||Sita idol damaged, tension in Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: Tension prevailed at Pandit Nehru Bus Station in the city on Sunday after activists of Hindu organizations, BJP and TDP staged a protest against the damage to the idol of Goddess Sita. Unidentified miscreants damaged the idol on the bus station premises on Saturday night. It came to light on Sunday sparking off protests. According to the police, the temple priest, who visited the temple for the morning puja, noticed the vandalized clay idol of Sita. He lodged a complaint with the police. As the news spread, activists of opposition parties and Hindu associations reached the spot and launched a protest alleging police failure. “This temple has a history of 40 years. Devotees, who come to the bus stand, offer prayers at this temple. Many bus drivers offer prayers before starting their duty. Police should verify the CCTV footage and take stringent action,” said HYS president Chikkala Rajanikanth. Former minister Devineni Umamaheswara Rao joined the protest and raised slogans against the state government.  “Attacks on temples are a ploy to divert the public attention from civic issues. Police failed to control attacks on temples. They are diverting the issue as if the idol fell down on its own under the impact of the wind. We will continue our protest till the police arrest the culprits,” he said. BJP AP state co-in charge Sunil Deodar and AP BJP president Somu Verraju demanded the resignation of the endowments minister for allegedly failing to protect the temples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sita-idol-damaged-tension-in-vijayawada/articleshow/80085942.cms||Venu Lanka
January 4, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Nellimarla police register cases against TDP workers||VIZIANAGARAM: Nellimarla police on Sunday registered cases against TDP workers following a complaint lodged by YSRCP MP V Vijayasai Reddy. It may be recalled that on Saturday a group of TDP workers threw bottles and footwear at the MP and damaged his vehicle. The wind-shield of Vijayasai Reddy’s car was damaged. The attack took place when Vijayasai Reddy was returning from Sri Kodandarama Swamy temple in Ramateertham of Vizianagaram district. He visited the temple to inspect the idol of the presiding deity damaged by unidentified miscreants. The MP had accused the TDP leadership of resorting to attacks on temples to get political mileage. Taking objection to his remarks, the TDP workers attacked him. “People having political motives ganged up and having known about my visit, came there and attacked me with stones and sharp objects and water bottles with an intention to kill me. The police and YSRC activists protected me,” Vijayasai said in his complaint. He said his bodyguard Hari sustained injuries in the assault allegedly launched by TDP leader Kala Venkata Rao and his henchmen “on the directions” of TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu and TDP leader K Atchannaidu, who also visited Ramateertam on Saturday. The MP said those behind the attack should be punished under the provisions of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. He urged the police to hold a detailed inquiry, identify all the culprits and launch legal action against them. Nellimarla police said that they have registered cases against some TDP activists under relevant Sections of IPC. The police said the culprits will be nabbed soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/nellimarla-police-register-cases-against-tdp-workers/articleshow/80085953.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra HSC exams after April 15, SSC likely from May 1: Minister||MUMBAI: State board exams in Maharashtra are likely to start in the second half of April, said school education minister Varsha Gaikwad. Maharashtra State Board of Secondary & Higher Secondary Education will announce a final timetable for HSC (Class XII) and SSC (Class X) exams during the week. While board exams are usually in February and March, the state had said it would delay them considering Covid-19. "We are looking to start HSC exams after April 15 and SSC from May 1. I will meet board officials on January 5 and decide the final dates and timetable," Gaikwad told TOI. Over 17 lakh students appear for SSC exams and 13 lakh for HSC exams. She had earlier said consultations with experts and officials had revealed that the board exams cannot be held later than the first week of May due to high temperatures in parts of Maharashtra and rain in June. Gaikwad also said the government had not decided on reopening schools for classes VIII and below and will consult health experts due to the new Covid-19 strain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hsc-exams-after-april-15-ssc-likely-from-may-1-maharashtra-minister/articleshow/80090114.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 4, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Uneasy calm prevails at Ramateertham temple||Visakhapatnam: Tension prevailed at the ancient Ramateertham temple complex in Vizianagaram district on Sunday and scores of activists of opposition parties and Hindu religious organisations attempted to visit the shrine to lodge their protest against the damage to the idol of the presiding deity. Vizianagaram police deployed a large number of security personnel as a precautionary measure amidst attempts to stage protests at the shrine. Police imposed restrictions on the movement of people near the shrine even as an uneasy calm prevailed there. The region witnessed largescale protests on Saturday. The police said the situation is under control. Vizianagaram district superintendent of police B Raja Kumari said considering the latest situation at Ramateertham the police have limited the number of devotees to groups of six each to enter the temple. She said no arrests have been made so far though a few suspects are questioned. DIG (Visakha range) LKV Ranga Rao inspected Sri Kodanada Ramaswamy temple on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/uneasy-calm-prevails-at-ramateertham-temple/articleshow/80085959.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: At 3, Mumbai deaths lowest since March, 35 fatalities in Maharahstra||MUMBAI: The state and the city reported a significant dip in Covid-19 deaths on Sunday. Mumbai reported three deaths , which the BMC said was lowest since March, the beginning of the pandemic while Maharashtra reported 35 deaths, lowest in 40 days on Sunday. Maharashtra reported 35 deaths, the lowest in 40 days. The first case of Covid-19 was detected in the state on March 9 and two days after that the first case was detected in Mumbai. The city was leading the Covid-19 graph for the state and even for the country during the first few months since the pandemic broke. Experts said that Mumbai saw its peak in June going by the sheer number of cases and deaths that were being reported daily. The highest number of deaths in a single day, 136, were reported on June 20. With Sunday's addition, the total deaths reported in the state reached 49,666, and the number was 11,135 for Mumbai. On Sunday, the state added 3,282 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 19,42,136. Mumbai added 581 cases, taking the total cases to 2,95,241. Among the three deaths in Mumbai, two were people between the age group of 40 and 60 years, and one was a senior citizen. Since the beginning of December till date, the city has seen a significant dip in Covid-19 deaths. On most days, deaths were fewer than 15 and on some days the city reported single-digit deaths. Municipal commissioner I S Chahal said the city's three Covid deaths were lowest since March. "I also congratulate the eminent citizens of Mumbai for their outstanding cooperation and support. A big salute to all the doctors and supporting frontline workers," he said. State government officials said the streamlining of the treatment protocol and early detection had led to the decline in fatalities. "The number of critical cases too has gone down and so patient management has become more effective," an official said. Total active cases in the state numbered 54,317, of which 8,916 were in the city. Among the total cases reported in the city till date, 93% have recovered. In the past week, the overall growth rate of the diseases has been reduced to 0.21 % in the city, which helped increase the projected doubling rate to 356 days. At the airport, 1,113 passengers arrived from Europe, West Asia and South Africa on 12 different flights on Saturday and 468 of them were quarantined. While 497 were allowed to travel to other states, the BMC gave exemption to 148 passengers from hotel or institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-at-3-mumbai-deaths-lowest-since-april-15-35-fatalities-in-maharashtra/articleshow/80088967.cms||Bhavika Jain
January 4, 2021||Mumbai||BMC readies plan to activate 150 of its clinics for vaccination drive||MUMBAI: The BMC has begun readying around 150 of its local dispensaries across the city for Covid-19 vaccination. Officials said "micro level planning" for a mass vaccination drive is already in place and they will decide on activating these dispensaries on the basis of the quantity of vaccine available. In the first phase, the BMC will vaccinate health workers, followed by frontline workers and then others. A senior BMC official said, "We have been told that among the public, those aged 50 and above and those with comorbidities will be the priority group for vaccination." Officials said they are in the process of updating the data collected during the 'My Family, My Responsibility' campaign on a state government app. The app will play a crucial role in selecting members from the priority group and send them messages for vaccination. The selected person will be asked to approach the nearest vaccination centre along with an identification proof. Officials said vaccination of the "general public" will depend on the quantity of the vaccine the central government provides for the city. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, "We will initially provide vaccination at the four medical colleges cum hospitals and four peripheral hospitals to health workers and then frontline workers. As part of our micro level planning for the mass vaccination drive, we are keeping some of our local dispensaries ready where we have a bigger space." Officials stated as a last option, if needed, they may consider converting its jumbo field hospitals into vaccination centres as most have less occupancy. The BMC surveyed around 35 lakh houses to reach around 1.4 crore people during its My Family, My Responsibility campaign in September-October. Civic health workers collected details of senior citizens and those with comorbidities and fed the information into the app. The data will be used to select members of the priority group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-readies-plan-to-activate-150-of-its-clinics-for-vaccination-drive/articleshow/80088971.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 4, 2021||Mumbai||Sealed buildings in Mumbai down to 2,000, containment zones halve||MUMBAI: Since December, the number of sealed buildings in the city has reduced to 2,000 from 5,000 and containment zones to 221 from 434 where currently close to 8,000 active Covid-19 patients or their family members reside. Some of the virus hotspots wards witnessed a drastic reduction in the number of cases in the past month too. Officials have called it a good sign as the number of active cases has reduced drastically and most are scattered. They said fewer cases helped open up sealed buildings and containment zones in slums pockets, congested buildings and chawl areas. The B (Dongri) Ward has merely two sealed buildings and 59 active cases-the lowest among the 24 administrative wards in the city. Twenty-two of the 24 wards currently have fewer than 500 active cases. There are only two wards with more than 500 active cases-R-Central (Borivli) 577 and K-West (the western stretch of Vile Parle, Andheri and Jogeshwari) 528. The R-Central Ward has reported the highest number of cases in the city at 21,230 during the pandemic. It was a virus hotspot with the maximum sealed buildings till recently. Since the past two months, though, civic officials managed to control the spread, which helped reduce the cases. Currently, there are 273 sealed buildings and six containment zones in the ward. Similarly, the E (Byculla-Nagpada) Ward that was once a hotspot and witnessed the transfer of the ward officer amidst the Covid crisis in April, the number of cases has reduced drastically in the past few months. The ward currently has 265 active cases in 63 containment zones and 52 sealed buildings. The three wards with the highest number of sealed buildings are K-West with 255, followed by P-North (Malad) 231 and T (Mulund) 223. The three wards with maximum containment zones are S (Bhandup-Powai) 27, K-West 25 and N (Ghatkopar) 19. Officials said wards with more active cases are aggressively following the social distancing rule and taking more action against those roaming without masks. Civic officials also admitted some wards are not updating numbers accurately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sealed-buildings-in-mumbai-down-to-2000-containment-zones-halve/articleshow/80088978.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 4, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Active Covid cases drop to 282 in Panvel areas||NAVI MUMBAI: The number of active cases in PCMC areas has dropped significantly-from peaking to around 2,000 in September to below 300 this month. This has prompted the civic administration to shut four of its five Covid care centres. The existing centre has 19 patients out of the total 282 active cases. The overall recovery rate of the city, too, has improved to 96.8%. Kharghar node, the largest in the city, has reported the highest recovery rate of 98.2%. Kamothe-once a coronavirus hotspot-currently has only 16 active cases. Daily positive cases have dropped to under 50 since the last few weeks. However, the case fatality rate remained above 2% which is higher than the national average of 1.4%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/active-covid-cases-drop-to-282-in-panvel-areas/articleshow/80088979.cms||B B Nayak
January 4, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Mobility derailed, activists pin hopes on 2021||BENGALURU: While work-from-home and restrictions helped reduce traffic on perennially choked roads in Bengaluru in 2020, the pandemic proved a doubleedged sword of sorts. Ridership in public transport fell as many commuters switched to private vehicles over fears of the virus. However, many crucial projects were delayed, although state government agencies blamed it on the nationwide lockdown and exodus of migrant workers. Experts say fast-tracking such projects are the need of the hour since more vehicles will be on roads once offices and educational institutions reopen after vaccines are rolled out. Two Metro lines — the 6.4km Yelachenahalli-Silk Institute section on Kanakapura Road and the Mysuru Road-Kengeri stretch, which were expected to be ready by August and October 2020 respectively, are yet to begin commercial operations. While the commissioner of metro rail safety (CMRS) has given the nod for Kanakapura Road Metro, it is yet to be inaugurated. Kengeri Metro is expected to be ready only by April. However, the central government is yet to approve the Outer Ring Road (Silk Board-KR Puram- Kempegowda International Airport) Metro corridor. Work is expected to begin this year once BMRCL gets the Centre’s nod. The long-pending demand for a common mobility card, which can be used on Metro and BMTC buses alike, is likely to be fulfilled by June, but there is no clarity on the formation of the much-delayed Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority (UMTA) to coordinate multiple government agencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-mobility-derailed-activists-pin-hopes-on-2021/articleshow/80088984.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
January 4, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Navi Mumbai: Four siblings arrested for murder over 'extramarital affair'||NAVI MUMBAI: CBD police arrested four siblings from Diwale village for kidnapping and murdering a 39-year-old man, who allegedly had an extramarital affair with the wife of the key accused, a fisherman from Diwale village. The key accused is Prasad Koli (27) and his siblings are Yogesh (23), Datta (29) and Nagesh (31). While, Prasad and Yogesh earn a living from fishing, Datta is an auto driver and Nagesh works for a private firm. Somnath Koli's brother Devnath had filed a kidnapping complaint on December 30, 2020, blaming the four. He said they wanted to kill him outside Meenakshi restaurant and bar in Sector 6, CBD, around 9.50pm on December 29. Police had registered an FIR under section 364 (kidnapping or abduction to murder) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code (IPC). Police arrested three siblings within 12 hours from Diwale village, while Nagesh was arrested on December 31. The trio took police to Diwale village creek, near Reti Bunder, where they had abducted Somnath in the autorickshaw of Nagesh and fatally assaulted him on his head with wooden planks and lynched him. They showed police the spot where they had hidden Somnath's body underneath huge stones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/navi-mumbai-four-siblings-arrested-for-murder-over-extramarital-affair/articleshow/80088985.cms||George Mendonca
January 4, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Hotel staff returning from work killed in hit-and-run||GURUGRAM: A 40-year-old woman was mowed down by a car on NH8 near Ambience Mall on Saturday evening, police said on Sunday. The driver of the vehicle is yet to be identified. The accident took place around 7.30pm when the victim, Hasmukhi, was heading home from Leela hotel, where she was employed as cleaning staff, police said. Her son Pradeep Kumar said that she was walking along the side of the road when the vehicle hit her. The family was informed about the incident by locals. “She sustained multiple injuries on the head. We took her to a private hospital. She was then referred to another hospital where she was declared dead,” Kumar told police. A case has been registered against an unknown person under sections 279 and 304A of the IPC accounting to rash driving or riding in a public way and negligence causing death at the DLF Phase-3 police station. “Probe is under way,” an officer said. In another incident, a 40-year-old man died after being hit by a car in Manesar on Friday. The victim, identified as Budhram, was found lying on the road by one Balwant Singh and his friend, who rushed him to a hospital. He died during treatment. A case has been registered under sections 279 and 304-A of the IPC at the Bilaspur police station. “The matter is under investigation,” said an officer. The GMDA, in a comprehensive mobility plan approved by the Haryana chief minister last month, had highlighted that insufficient pedestrian infrastructure is a major traffic issue in the city. According to the plan, although walking accounts for a large share of movement in the city, there is a lack of footpaths and road crossing facilities, which makes pedestrians all the more vulnerable to road accidents. Even in places that have footpaths, the plan raised questions on the quality. It stated: “The walkability index within the study area is estimated as low as 0.68.” When told about the deficiencies, the GMDA officials had said they would work on the suggestions provided in the mobility plan and aim at addressing traffic issues at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/hotel-staff-returning-from-work-killed-in-hit-and-run/articleshow/80087944.cms||Shubhra Pant
January 4, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Navi Mumbai: Man objects to urination, killed||NAVI MUMBAI: Rabale MIDC police arrested four men, including two siblings, for the murder of a Digha gardener after he reprimanded the key accused for urinating on the road in his locality on December 31. Those arrested were Akash Gaikwad (20), Santosh Gaikwad (32), Shankar Gaikwad (30) and Rohit Zumbade (18). Rupali Patil (30) took her husband Sachin (35) to hospital, where he was declared brought dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/navi-mumbai-man-objects-to-urination-killed/articleshow/80088990.cms||George Mendonca
January 4, 2021||Vadodara||IMFL worth Rs 10L seized near Karjan||Vadodara: A truck driver from Rajasthan, ferrying liquor worth Rs 10 lakh, was arrested at Karjan toll plaza on national highway-48. Acting on a tip-off, the local crime branch of Vadodara rural police caught the truck coming from South Gujarat carrying the consignment. The truck registered in Surat had stocked the liquor in cardboard boxes. We found 3,156 bottles of IMFL, said inspector D B Vala of LCB. Driver Vijeshkumar Purohit revealed that two persons named Ramalal Bishnoi and Suresh Bishnoi has asked him to take the to Junagadh for delivery to a bootlegger. Purohit drove the truck from a hotel near Manor in Maharashtra and was going to Junagadh. It also came to light that the accused had replaced the original labels of the bottles with fake ones. “Usually, the smuggled liquor also has batch numbers mentioned on the bottles through which its origin can be known. But the seized bottles had fake labels due to which the state of its origin and manufacturing unit is difficult to ascertain,” a police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/imfl-worth-rs-10l-seized-near-karjan/articleshow/80085966.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Surat||Suspected Naxal arrested near Surat||Surat: A suspected Naxal wanted in Jharkhand for several offences was arrested from Kosamba, around 48 km from Surat city Guddu Singh, who was living in Kosamba for the past 10 years, was caught in a joint operation by Jharkhad police and local cops. Guddu was staying with his family and had changed his identity to avoid being nabbed, said police. Kosamba is also an industrial hub that is located on national highway-48. He was working in a textile company in Kosamba for the last three years as a machine mechanic. A team of Naudiha Bazar police in Jharkhand’s Palamu district had traced Singh’s location through electronic surveillance. Singh is wanted in six cases, including murder, kidnapping and attempt to murder, offences related to the Arms Act and the Explosive Substances Act, all dating back to 2011 and 2013, police said. In a bid to stay out of police reach, he maintained limited contact with his family members in Jharkhand for several years. He had developed property disputes with family members after which he suspected to have taken help of Naxal groups, sources in police informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/suspected-naxal-arrested-near-surat/articleshow/80086211.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Business||China co gets contract for part of Delhi-Meerut RRTS project||NEW DELHI: The National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) has awarded a contract to a Chinese company, Shanghai Tunnel Engineering Company Limited, for the construction of a 5.6-km underground stretch, from New Ashok Nagar to Sahibabad, of the Delhi-Meerut RRTS project. The NCRTC, which is executing the country's first Regional Rapid Rail Transit System (RRTS), said the contract was awarded following the set procedure and guidelines. "Approvals have to be taken at various levels for bids that are funded by multilateral agencies. This bid was also awarded following the set procedure and guidelines. Now, all the civil work tenders of the 82-km-long Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut corridor have been awarded and the construction is going on in full swing to commission the project in time," an NCRTC spokesperson said. A controversy had erupted in June last year after the STEC emerged as the lowest bidder for the construction of the 5.6-km tunnel on one of the stretches of the Delhi-Meerut RRTS project amid a standoff between India and China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh. The 82-km-long Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS corridor is being funded by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and procurement is governed by the guidelines of the bank and the government. According to the ADB's procurement guidelines, vendors from all member countries of the bank are eligible to participate in the bidding process without any discrimination. The NCRTC had invited bids for the construction of the tunnel from New Ashok Nagar to Sahibabad of Delhi Ghaziabad Meerut RRTS corridor on November 9, 2019. Five companies submitted technical bids and all the five bidders qualified in the technical bid evaluation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/china-co-gets-contract-for-part-of-delhi-meerut-rrts-project/articleshow/80089010.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Ghaziabad||24 killed as rain-shelter roof at Ghaziabad crematorium caves in||GHAZIABAD: At least 24 people were killed and over 30 injured after the roof of a shelter at a crematorium in Ghaziabad’s Ukhlarsi village collapsed on them on Sunday. Most of them had come to attend a funeral and had taken shelter under the structure as it was raining. Sources said the shelter had been constructed recently by a private contractor engaged by the Muradnagar municipality and was used by those attending the crematorium as a waiting hall. Late on Sunday night, an FIR was filed against the contractor, a senior official of the municipality, a junior engineer and a supervisor. Contractor Ajeet Tyagi, Niharika Singh, a senior official of the Muradnagar municipality, junior engineer Chandra Pal and supervisor Ashish were booked under IPC sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees). Around 10am on Sunday, at least 60 people had come to attend the last rites of Jai Ram, a 55-year-old fruit-seller from Muradnagar who had died the previous evening. Pradeep, the elder son of Jai Ram, alleged there was a delay in police reaching the spot. “We didn’t get any help till 11.30am despite making several calls to the cops,” he said. A few labourers working at a Rapid Rail site nearby were among the first to help. “They sent their excavator to the crematorium, but it could not enter through the main gate as there was a mountain of debris. A wall had to be broken so that the machine could enter and remove the rubble so that the injured could be rescued,” Pradeep said. A team of the National Disaster Response Force arrived around 12.15pm and started the rescue. More than one and a half hours had passed by then and scores of people were still buried under the rubble. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey and police chief Kalanidhi Naithani also rushed to the spot. SP (rural) Iraj Raja refuted allegations that the police had delayed reaching the spot. He claimed police had rushed to the crematorium within 10 minutes of getting the call. The contractor has come under the police scanner for allegedly using substandard material. Raghu, a local resident, said though the crematorium had existed for eight years, the shelter had been constructed in October last year. “It’s been only a few months and the entire roof collapsed. This proves that the contractor had used poor quality materials. He should be arrested immediately,” he added. UP CM Yogi Adityanath announces Rs 2L for relatives, seeks reportUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed his condolences to the families of the deceased and announced a financial assistance of Rs 2 lakh to the dependents of each. He also instructed the divisional commissioner and ADG (Meerut zone) to submit a report on the roof collapse. उत्तर प्रदेश के मुरादनगर में हुए दुर्भाग्यपूर्ण हादसे की खबर से अत्यंत दुख पहुंचा है। राज्य सरकार राहत और बचाव का… https://t.co/oZ05qamQYh— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1609677390000Prime Minister Narendra Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind and Union defence minister Rajnath Singh also expressed condolences. “Extremely saddened by the news of the unfortunate accident in Muradnagar. The state government is engaged in relief and rescue work. I express my condolences to the families of those who lost their lives in this accident, and also wish the injured well soon,” the PM tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/24-killed-as-rain-shelter-roof-at-ghaziabad-crematorium-caves-in/articleshow/80089012.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
January 4, 2021||Chennai||In ‘self-defence’, Tamil Nadu teen stabs rapist to death with his own knife||CHENNAI: In what police believe to be an act of self-defence to escape from a rapist, a 19-year-old woman stabbed a 24-year-old man to death with a knife used by him to threaten her in his rape bid at Sholavaram in Tiruvallur district late on Saturday. According to Ponneri DSP Kalpana Dutt, a legal opinion has been sought and the victim may not be arrested in the case. The incident happened around 8pm when she went to relieve herself in a poorly-lit area surrounded by bushes. She failed to notice S Ajithkumar, 24, her relative from the same village, following her to the spot. The teenager panicked on seeing him standing with a beer bottle. Before she could move, the man placed a knife on her neck and threatened to rape her, police sources said quoting the victim. As he began to undress, she pleaded with him to spare her. Realizing he was drunk, she pushed her away and he banged his head against a tree and dropped his knife. The victim picked up the weapon and stabbed him on his neck multiple times until he swooned. Leaving him dead at the spot, she reached Sholavaram police station on her own around 9pm and narrated the incident to the cops there. ‘Deceased man was an alcoholic’Police personnel rushed to the spot, retrieved Ajithkumar’s body, and sent it to Stanley Hospital for postmortem. Police registered a murder case but no arrests have been made. The DSP said the teenager was a Class X dropout. Ajithkumar, who had two children, was her aunt’s son. He got separated from his wife a few months back after a domestic dispute. According to police, the man was a jobless alcoholic and had theft cases pending against him. He always moved with a knife looking for easy targets. “So far it appears to be an act of self-defence and there seems to be no other motive,” the police officer said. “We will submit a final report in the court where it will be decided whether an action is warranted in the case,” the DSP added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/in-self-defence-tamil-nadu-teen-stabs-rapist-to-death-with-his-own-knife/articleshow/80089016.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana cops use baton, tear gas on farmers||REWARI/CHANDIGARH: At least four farmers were injured after Haryana Police lathicharged and fired tear gas shells at protesters in Masani Barrage of Rewari district on Sunday. A group of farmers had started moving towards Delhi from the Rohtak-Jhajjar bypass when the incident took place. According to sources, farmers in about 100 tractor trolleys started moving towards Delhi around 5pm and reached Dharuhera after which cops blocked their way, fired tear gas shells, baton charged the farmers and used water cannons to control the crowd. But the protesters managed to reach Saheba river bridge, near Dharuhera, that has been blocked by the police. “The situation is under control and Gurgaon cops have been put on alert. There are around 1,000 farmers at the spot now. We are increasing police deployment at the protest sites,” said a police officer. The Delhi-Jaipur highway was blocked as farmers kept trying to breach the barricades at the bridge. Rewari SP Abhishek Jorwal said: “Maintaining law and order is our priority.” Rameshwar Chaudhary, state youth president of Kisan Mahapanchayat, blamed Haryana government for the incident. “||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-cops-use-baton-tear-gas-on-farmers/articleshow/80089033.cms||Shahnawaz Alam
January 4, 2021||Gurgaon||Haryana cops use baton, tear gas on farmers||REWARI/CHANDIGARH: At least four farmers were injured after Haryana Police lathicharged and fired tear gas shells at protesters in Masani Barrage of Rewari district on Sunday. A group of farmers had started moving towards Delhi from the Rohtak-Jhajjar bypass when the incident took place. According to sources, farmers in about 100 tractor trolleys started moving towards Delhi around 5pm and reached Dharuhera after which cops blocked their way, fired tear gas shells, baton charged the farmers and used water cannons to control the crowd. But the protesters managed to reach Saheba river bridge, near Dharuhera, that has been blocked by the police. “The situation is under control and Gurgaon cops have been put on alert. There are around 1,000 farmers at the spot now. We are increasing police deployment at the protest sites,” said a police officer. The Delhi-Jaipur highway was blocked as farmers kept trying to breach the barricades at the bridge. Rewari SP Abhishek Jorwal said: “Maintaining law and order is our priority.” Rameshwar Chaudhary, state youth president of Kisan Mahapanchayat, blamed Haryana government for the incident. “||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-cops-use-baton-tear-gas-on-farmers/articleshow/80089028.cms||Shahnawaz Alam
January 4, 2021||Delhi||Three more farmers die at Delhi borders||Three more farmers, one from Punjab and two from Haryana, died during the agitation at Singhu and Tikri borders. Sources said two farmers, Kulbir Singh, a resident of Gangana village of Haryana’s Sonipat district and Shamser Singh, a resident of Lidawa village of Sangrur district, died at the Kundli border. The farmer who died at Tikri border has been identified as Jagbir Singh, a resident of Itan Kalan village of Jind district. Jagbir joined the protest at Tikri border three days ago. He too suffered a heart attack. Police have confirmed the deaths. Information of Kulbir was flagged by his associate, who said he was listless from the evening. He said Kulbir went to sleep in his tent and when he did not wake up the next morning, his associates informed the doctor, who declared him dead. Shamsher Singh fell ill on Saturday night after complaining of uneasiness. He was rushed to the civil hospital of Sonipat, where he was declared brought dead. His body was sent for autopsy to ascertain the cause of death. Another farmer, Yudhishter Singh, suffered a heart attack at Singhu border and was rushed to PGIMS Rohtak. Sources said two more farmers have suffered heart attack at Singhu border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/three-more-farmers-die-at-delhi-borders/articleshow/80089036.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Chandigarh||Three more farmers die at Delhi borders||Three more farmers, one from Punjab and two from Haryana, died during the agitation at Singhu and Tikri borders. Sources said two farmers, Kulbir Singh, a resident of Gangana village of Haryana’s Sonipat district and Shamser Singh, a resident of Lidawa village of Sangrur district, died at the Kundli border. The farmer who died at Tikri border has been identified as Jagbir Singh, a resident of Itan Kalan village of Jind district. Jagbir joined the protest at Tikri border three days ago. He too suffered a heart attack. Police have confirmed the deaths. Information of Kulbir was flagged by his associate, who said he was listless from the evening. He said Kulbir went to sleep in his tent and when he did not wake up the next morning, his associates informed the doctor, who declared him dead. Shamsher Singh fell ill on Saturday night after complaining of uneasiness. He was rushed to the civil hospital of Sonipat, where he was declared brought dead. His body was sent for autopsy to ascertain the cause of death. Another farmer, Yudhishter Singh, suffered a heart attack at Singhu border and was rushed to PGIMS Rohtak. Sources said two more farmers have suffered heart attack at Singhu border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/three-more-farmers-die-at-delhi-borders/articleshow/80089038.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Veggie prices to go up this week||CHENNAI: Wholesale prices of vegetables is likely to increase by 2 to 3 per kilogram this week. At the Koyambedu wholesale market complex, the cost of vegetables did not exceed 25, with some greens available for just 10 per kilogram. According to market sources, a kilogram of onion and potato were sold between 20 and 22, carrot and tomato were available for 20/kg last week. Cabbage, chow-chow and beetroot were availabe for 10/kg. Beans was available for 25/kg, after price fell by 10-15. This was the lowest price in the past five months. Rates were fluctuating so much in the recent past that carrot and onion prices exceeded 100/kg due to shortage in arrivals. S Chandran, secretary of Federation of Wholesale Vegetable Market Associations said that arrivals to the market is expected to drop this week. "We had huge arrivals in December that lowered the cost of all vegetables," he said. But, this week may see partial revision in prices since arrivals for Chennai is expected to drop as markets offering better prices in other states for the same commodity could attract additional vegetables, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-veggie-prices-to-go-up-this-week/articleshow/80089037.cms||---
January 4, 2021||India||Bengal: 1 killed, another’s wrist hacked off in TMC-BJP clashes||CONTAI/KALYANI: A BJP worker's father died while trying to defend his son during an attack by suspected Trinamool supporters inside their house at Patashpur in East Midnapore, while a party booth president had his wrist hacked off in Nadia's Chakdah on Saturday. Both Patashpur and Chakdah are tense. Amulya Mondal (80) was pushed to the ground when suspected TMC supporters attacked his son Shankar, a BJP worker, at their Gopalpur home in Patashpur. The senior citizen was pronounced brought dead at the local hospital. His family alleged that one Kinkar Hazra had shoved Amulya that led to his death. Shankar had on January 1 organised a meeting of BJP supporters in Gopalpur. Trinamool organised a meeting the next day. BJP's Contai leader Anup Kumar Chakraborty blamed Trinamool for Amulya's death. Patashpur's Trinamoool leader Piyush Panda, however, said the old man had been bedridden and died much before the party meeting. In Chakdah's Shimurali area, BJP booth president Ratan Barman (35) was attacked in front of his home. He is also associated with the fish trade and doubles as a pawn broker. On Saturday night, Barman was returning home, which is around 100 yards from the market. "He was opening the gate when three persons attacked him from behind," his wife Tithi said. "He was hit on the head and then randomly with a sharp weapon. They tried to gag him and poke fingers into his eyes. He collapsed. The attackers then hacked off his right wrist," Tithi added. BJP's Ranaghat MP Jagannath Sarkar, who visited Barman in hospital, blamed Trinamool for the attack. Trinamool leaders refuted the charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bengal-1-killed-anothers-wrist-hacked-off-in-tmc-bjp-clashes/articleshow/80089050.cms||Suman Mandal
January 4, 2021||Vadodara||High water level dissuades winged visitors at Wadhwana||Vadodara: With the onset of winters, the forest officials had expected a record number of migratory as well as local birds at the Wadhwana Lake in Dabhoi. But the bird watchers were a disappointed lot as the avian species was sighted in far lesser numbers than last year. The official count of birds conducted by the forest department on Friday recorded presence of 62,570 birds of 133 species at the sprawling lake about 40 km from Vadodara city.In last year’s census, over 83,000 birds were counted in and around Wadhwana Lake. Forest officials said that they will conduct another round of census in February. “We were expecting a record number of birds this time, but the lake was brimming with water. If there is excess water, most birds prefer to roost in the adjacent fields or marshy lands. Hence, we couldn’t spot a large number of birds in the lake in this census,” said Baldevsinh Waghela, divisional forest officer (wildlife), Vadodara.He added that even the overcast weather on the day of census played a spoilsport. “This lake is used for irrigation, so often water is released in it. Representations should be made to the authorities that water shouldn’t be released ahead of the census. This will help us in having a fair idea of the birds that roost at Wadhwana,” said Bhavik Patel, scientists-B, Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS).Teeming with thousands of migratory birds every winter, the lake saw a sparse arrival of birds. The counting done by the forest department two days ago revealed that about 63,000 have made the lake their home this time. Fourteen teams of nearly 170 forest department staffers as well as NGO volunteers conducted the census in and around Wadhwana Lake on January 1. “Apart from the environmentalists, even the locals including fishermen have a big role in conserving such wetlands. The government should take note of their contribution too,” said Dr Ranjitsinh Devkar, assistant professor, zoology department, MS University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/high-water-level-dissuades-winged-visitors-at-wadhwana/articleshow/80085984.cms||Tushar Tere
January 4, 2021||Kolkata||Cong, Left leaders meet on Bengal alliance||Kolkata: In a bid to stitch an alliance in Bengal, Pradesh Congress leader Pradip Bhattacharya on Sunday met Left Front chairman Biman Bose and urged him to speed up the process. Bhattacharya also met CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury, who was present at the 55th foundation year of CPM mouthpiece ‘Ganashakti’. “Today’s discussion is a part of the on-going process of a possible alliance. It is imperative to spread the movement at the district level now. We have already undertaken a few programmes together,” Bhattacharya said. Congress, which had taken a few joint movements with the Left Front last year, is not likely to have any joint programme in January. While TMC and BJP have started campaigns, the Left-Congress is yet to finalise any joint campaign together. In a meeting in New Delhi last month, Congress leaders expected a word on the alliance from Rahul Gandhi. But he stopped short of speaking on the issue, only adding that a final decision will be taken by Sonia Gandhi. Congress leaders are keeping a tab on the possibility of Kolkata Municipal Corporation poll in March this year, months before they expect the Assembly polls. “We have also discussed on the possibilities of corporation elections. Our demand has been to hold municipal polls of all civic bodies,” he said. But leaders feel that the next meeting with the Left will take some time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cong-left-leaders-meet-on-bengal-alliance/articleshow/80087575.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Kolkata||Asaduddin Owaisi in Bengal, Trinamool calls AIMIM ‘BJP’s B team’||FURFURA SHARIF (Hooghly): All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) president Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday met Furfura Sharif Pirzada Abbasuddin Siddiqui and announced that his party would support Abbasuddin in the Bengal assembly polls, a move the Trinamool Congress dismissed as a “desperate” bid by “BJP’s B-team” (AIMIM) to gain a toehold among Bengali-speaking Muslims. After the meeting, which lasted about 90 minutes, Owaisi said he left it to Abbasuddin “to decide on the shape and form this alliance will take. We will stand by his decision.” Sources indicated that the Abassuddin-AIMIM “alliance” is likely to contest 56 assembly seats in Bengal. “We have not yet decided whether we will form a political party and fight in alliance with AIMIM or join it,” Abbasuddin said. “It will be decided over the next few days. But we will contest the Bengal polls.” If that happens, it would be a first: no Furfura Sharif Pirzada has contested elections in Bengal. Owaisi, who flew to Kolkata early on Sunday, was taken to Furfura Sharif by Abbasuddin’s brother, Naushad. After the talks, the AIMIM chief said: “We want to focus on empowerment of the weaker sections and development.” He also brushed off Trinamool’s barb. “AIMIM didn’t contest the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in Bengal. Why did BJP win 18 seats? Why are people quitting the party and joining BJP? We will contest the Bengal polls will Abbasuddin Saheb,” he said. Owaisi went to Furfura Sharif because there are “very few Urdu-speaking Muslims in Bengal,” said Trinamool MP Saugata Roy, making the “BJP’s B-team” comment. “They know they can’t make a dent here; that’s why he visited.... They want to consolidate votes for BJP.” Roy refused to read anything “new” in Sunday’s meeting. “He said he would come, and he came. The only thing new about Sunday was that he met Abbasuddin. This will have no impact in Bengal. People will not accept them,” he added. Trinamool’s Hooghly district president Dilip Yadav said, “In election time, you will find people coming and going. But people in Furfura Sharif know what they have got in the last decade: hospital, lights, better roads, water.” The Pirzadas of Furfura Sharif, among the holiest pilgrimage sites in Bengal, had publicly stayed away from active politics. That changed ahead of the 2009 Lok Sabha polls, when Pirzada Toha Siddiqui spoke effusively for Mamata Banerjee. Furfura Sharif, which is part of Hooghly’s Jangipara assembly segment, had elected either a Congress or a CPM MLA since 1957. In the 2016 assembly polls, Trinamool won this seat for the first time. In the 2019 Lok Sabha, TMC had a lead here. Toha Siddiqui is now a member of the Furfura Sharif Development Authority. He had met CM Banerjee in Nabanna three weeks ago. Reacting to the Abassuddin-Owaisi meeting, Toha said: “Pirzadas in Furfura Sharif have always stayed away from politics. The Pirzadas of Furfura Sharif are spiritual leaders who preach communal harmony and peace. Communalism has no place here. People will reject these opportunists.” But Pirzada Ibrahim Siddiqui, Toha’s elder brother, said he was with Abbasuddin. Unlike his uncles, Toha and Ibrahim, Abbasuddin is a new entrant to politics. For the past six months, he has left enough indications of charting a new political path, ignoring the TMC-Congress-Left Front status quo in Bengal. State Congress president Adhir Chowdhury and state assembly opposition leader Abdul Mannan had also met him a few days back. Speaking at the jalsas (spiritual congregations), Abbasuddin had indicated about possible talks with AIMIM. “Why is Trinamool scared of Owaisi?” said BJP’s Hooghly MP Locket Chatterjee. “It is just a meeting. In a democracy, anyone can meet — or contest elections — anywhere. Is Trinamool scared that even the 30% that was with them earlier not with them anymore? BJP is going to win Bengal in 2021.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/owaisi-in-bengal-trinamool-calls-aimim-bjps-b-team/articleshow/80088427.cms||Falguni Banerjee
January 4, 2021||Kolkata||Jobs for youth in Jangalmahal once BJP in office: Dilip||Jhargram: If voted to office, BJP will provide jobs to unemployed youth in the Jangalmahal region, Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said at a rally here on Sunday. “Unemployed youth in Jangalmahal area will not have to go out in search of work now. The government will change in May and we will provide jobs to unemployed youth here,” Ghosh said at the rally that he addressed along with Suvendu Adhikari. The Centre, Ghosh added, gives rice at Rs 2 a kg for people. “They are making toilets for you. Once we come to power, you will get the benefits of Ayushman Bharat. Farmers will also get Rs 6,000 in their accounts,” he said. “I belong to this area. Suvendu is from the nearby district. We will ensure BJP wins 35 seats from Midnapore,” the Bengal BJP chief said. He alleged that Maoist leaders were being released on bail to help Trinamool Congress win elections in Jangalmahal. “Police are arresting our party workers in false cases. We will withdraw every case when voted to power,” Ghosh said. BJP leaders on Sunday indicated that party national president J P Nadda was likely to visit West Bengal in January second week. Nadda, who tested Covid-19-positive earlier last month, is likely to visit the state for a day. “He might meet farmers in Burdwan and then leave for Delhi,” said a Bengal BJP leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/jobs-for-youth-in-jangalmahal-once-bjp-in-office-dilip/articleshow/80087681.cms||Sujoy Khanra
January 4, 2021||Kolkata||Sovan to be at BJP’s Kol rally today||Kolkata: Former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee and his friend Baisakhi Banerjee will on Monday attend their first rally in Kolkata after he joined BJP. The rally, led by BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, will be the first in the city in the run-up to assembly elections. It will start at 2.30pm from near Alipore zoo area and cross Majerhat Bridge and Esplanade to end at BJP’s Muralidhar Sen Lane office. “The Muralidhar Sen Lane office is also the office for BJP’s Kolkata zone. We have necessary permission for the rally,” said Shankudeb Panda, co-convenor of the Kolkata zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sovan-to-be-at-bjps-kol-rally-today/articleshow/80087729.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 4, 2021||Kolkata||Sourav Ganguly gets call from PM Modi; cardiac surgeon Devi Shetty flying in today||KOLKATA: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday called up BCCI president Sourav Ganguly to inquire about his health, a day after the former Team India captain underwent emergency angioplasty following a mild heart attack, even as eminent cardiac surgeon Devi Shetty was set to reach Kolkata on Monday to head a medical board for Ganguly’s treatment. The Prime Minister also spoke to Ganguly’s wife, Dona, and offered all help. Ganguly’s condition remained stable, doctors attending to him at the hospital informed. A 10-member committee formed to supervise his treatment will consult cardiac experts from around the country on Monday to decide whether the 48-year-old requires further surgical intervention. Bypass surgery has been ruled out now, sources at Woodlands Hospital, where Ganguly is admitted, said. Sources close to the family said Shetty could lead a medical board that will plan the course of action after deciding whether Ganguly needed another angioplasty. Ganguly underwent an angioplasty after being diagnosed with triple vessel disease, a condition that’s triggered by the narrowing of coronary arteries because of plaque deposition. He has three blockages, one of which was removed on Saturday. “We have decided to consult the best experts across the country before arriving at a decision to conduct a procedure for the other two blocks. All his reports and a recording of the angioplasty will be sent to the doctors for their opinion. We have also consulted the patient’s family, and they have agreed to go by the experts’ decision,” said Rupali Basu, CEO of Woodlands Hospital. The 10-member medical board includes cardiologists Saroj Mandol, S B Roy, Aftab Khan, cardiothoracic surgeon Bhabatosh Biswas, critical care specialist Soutik Panda, anaesthesiologists Ashis Patro and Palash Kumar and physician Saptarshi Basu. Ganguly’s vital parameters are normal and he slept well at night, a hospital statement said. The statement added that Ganguly had a light breakfast and lunch and experienced no discomfiture. Among those who visited the former captain at the hospital on Sunday are former state minister and CPM leader Ashok Bhattacharya, Trinamool MLA Vaishali Dalmiya and Arup Ray. Bhattacharya said Ganguly should not be joining politics. “I guess speculation in the media over the possibility of his joining politics is taking a toll on his health. He is not being able to take the pressure,” he told TOI. Sitaram Yechury (CPM) and Pradip Bhattacharya (Congress) were among the other visitors. Family members have constantly been present. BCCI secretary Jay Shah and minister of state for finance and corporate affairs Anurag Thakur are likely to drop in at the hospital on Monday, said sources. On Saturday morning, soon after a gym session at his Behala home, the former cricketer had felt dizzy and suffered a blackout. He was rushed to the Alipore hospital, where initial investigations revealed an “acute infolateral wall myocardial infarction” and “mild inferior wall hypokinesia”. Ganguly has no co-morbidity and has tested Covid-negative. His pulse rate, blood pressure and respiratory rate are normal. “Treating doctors are keeping constant vigil on his condition and taking appropriate measures from time to time,” said a statement from Woodlands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sourav-gets-call-from-pm-devi-shetty-flying-in-today/articleshow/80088414.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
January 4, 2021||Kolkata||BJP may not hold on to 2019 Lok Sabha vote share: TMC survey||KOLKATA: BJP’s inability to hold on to its 2019 Lok Sabha vote share in five subsequent state polls is likely to be repeated in Bengal, a survey by Trinamool Congress shared with senior party leaders shows. The slide — which was eight per cent in Maharashtra and 22 per cent in Jharkhand — is likely to offset potential anti-incumbency slides by TMC. State BJP leaders have constantly maintained they will reach a 200-plus figure in the Bengal polls. A senior leader said the survey — conducted telephonically over the past few weeks by a professional agency — indicated TMC gains in north Bengal where the party suffered severe reverses in the 2019 polls. “Extrapolating the 2019 Lok Sabha results to assembly wins, BJP had taken a lead in all assembly segments in Darjeeling, Alipurduar and Cooch Behar. Trinamool had a lead in 164 seats with a 43% vote share and BJP had a lead in 121 seats with 40% vote share in the 294-seat assembly. In north Bengal, all seats in Darjeeling and some in Alipurduar and Cooch Behar, indicate considerable gains by the party since 2019,” said a senior leader. In south Bengal, a party leader claimed, Bankura and East Burdwan showed significant gains for TMC. BJP had won almost all assembly segments in these two districts in 2019. TMC’s Rajya Sabha MP Derek O’Brien said: “BJP works a lot with numbers. Nothing wrong with that. They know where they stand in Bengal. Therefore, this effort to create this perception. We are confident of the outcome.” “There are five parties contesting elections in Bengal — TMC, Left Front-Congress alliance, old BJP, new BJP and the tourist gang,” he added. TMC, however, is experiencing some hiccups in Purulia, Hooghly and some parts in North 24 Parganas. A leader said: “The survey was also aimed to understand whether the party has lost ground in the Amphan-hit districts due to the opposition-triggered relief controversy. The results indicate that TMC is likely to do very well in the worst-hit South 24 Parganas district and most parts in North 24 Parganas, which were most hit by Amphan on May 20.” “East Midnapore, till now, has not indicated any significant reverses. However, this will be constantly analysed due to the post-defection scenario,” he added. The survey also indicated a high rating for chief minister Mamata Banerjee compared to the other potential opposition contenders. “In the 2019 Lok Sabha, the CM had campaigned extensively but it was not a mandate on her governance. It is now. In the 2019 Lok Sabha, it was a mandate for PM Narendra Modi,” a leader reasoned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-may-not-hold-on-to-19-ls-vote-share-tmc-survey/articleshow/80087471.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand’s health experts look forward to Covid vaccine with hope||RANCHI: After the Drug Controller General of India Dr V G Somani approved the regulated use of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Serum Institute of India’s Covishield in the country, public health experts and healthcare officials welcomed the move and said that the approval will usher in a new era in the fight against the pandemic. When contacted, public health expert and associate professor of community medicine at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) Dr Devesh Kumar said: “A mass vaccination programme is all we need to control such viruses. It is going to prove an armour for us in the fight against the pandemic. As more and more people will get vaccinated, the already downward trend in fresh infections will decline further and help us in eliminating the pandemic from our lives.” On being asked when they expect the cases to decline substantially, Dr Devesh said: “The high priority group will receive the vaccines in early February and the larger populace should get the vaccines by August. So, we can expect a complete decline in number of cases by October this year.” On being enquired whether these vaccines will be safe to administer, Dr Devesh said that the vaccines were completely safe but the government should always be ready with a contingency plan if anything went wrong. “An expert committee should be constituted at the highest level to monitor the preliminary exercise of vaccination so that if there are any problems it could be addressed at the earliest,” Dr Devesh said. The state health department has made a database of 1.25 lakh frontline workers, including doctors, nurses, paramedics as well as other supporting staff who were directly or indirectly attached to Covid-19 management. These people will be administered the vaccine in the early rounds. “A total of 25,000 high priority people will be administered vaccines in February in all likelihood. We have a also registered a database of more than 1.25 lakh people who are to be attended to in the preliminary rounds,” state IDSP head Dr Praveen Karn said. Healthcare workers, too, rejoiced after learning about the vaccine approval. They said that the development has come as a boon for them as they have been risking their lives on a daily basis attending to infected persons for more than nine months. “Not only healthcare workers but people with high human interaction — including police personnel and corporation workers — should also be vaccinated at the earliest as they have been working continuously since the outbreak. It will not only boost their morale but will also help in keeping them safe,” said Dr Prashant, an assistant professor at the cardiology department of Rims. Meanwhile, a few doctors and public health experts remained intrigued over the new strain which has emerged in the UK and said if the virus continues to mutate then it might be a challenge for all of us. “We are already into the herd immunity stage but if a new strain is detected then we have to rejig our strategy,” said a senior doctor treating Covid-19 patients at Rims on the condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/states-health-experts-look-forward-to-covid-vaccine-with-hope/articleshow/80092301.cms||Gaurav Pandey
January 4, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand’s health experts look forward to Covid vaccine with hope||RANCHI: After the Drug Controller General of India Dr V G Somani approved the regulated use of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Serum Institute of India’s Covishield in the country, public health experts and healthcare officials welcomed the move and said that the approval will usher in a new era in the fight against the pandemic. When contacted, public health expert and associate professor of community medicine at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) Dr Devesh Kumar said: “A mass vaccination programme is all we need to control such viruses. It is going to prove an armour for us in the fight against the pandemic. As more and more people will get vaccinated, the already downward trend in fresh infections will decline further and help us in eliminating the pandemic from our lives.” On being asked when they expect the cases to decline substantially, Dr Devesh said: “The high priority group will receive the vaccines in early February and the larger populace should get the vaccines by August. So, we can expect a complete decline in number of cases by October this year.” On being enquired whether these vaccines will be safe to administer, Dr Devesh said that the vaccines were completely safe but the government should always be ready with a contingency plan if anything went wrong. “An expert committee should be constituted at the highest level to monitor the preliminary exercise of vaccination so that if there are any problems it could be addressed at the earliest,” Dr Devesh said. The state health department has made a database of 1.25 lakh frontline workers, including doctors, nurses, paramedics as well as other supporting staff who were directly or indirectly attached to Covid-19 management. These people will be administered the vaccine in the early rounds. “A total of 25,000 high priority people will be administered vaccines in February in all likelihood. We have a also registered a database of more than 1.25 lakh people who are to be attended to in the preliminary rounds,” state IDSP head Dr Praveen Karn said. Healthcare workers, too, rejoiced after learning about the vaccine approval. They said that the development has come as a boon for them as they have been risking their lives on a daily basis attending to infected persons for more than nine months. “Not only healthcare workers but people with high human interaction — including police personnel and corporation workers — should also be vaccinated at the earliest as they have been working continuously since the outbreak. It will not only boost their morale but will also help in keeping them safe,” said Dr Prashant, an assistant professor at the cardiology department of Rims. Meanwhile, a few doctors and public health experts remained intrigued over the new strain which has emerged in the UK and said if the virus continues to mutate then it might be a challenge for all of us. “We are already into the herd immunity stage but if a new strain is detected then we have to rejig our strategy,” said a senior doctor treating Covid-19 patients at Rims on the condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/states-health-experts-look-forward-to-covid-vaccine-with-hope/articleshow/80086803.cms||Gaurav Pandey
January 4, 2021||Jamshedpur||One-year-old dies of burn injuries in Saranda||JAMSHEDPUR: A one-year-old girl died while her mother was battling for life with 90% burn injuries following a fire mishap in Rangaring village of Saranda in West Singhbhum late on Saturday night, police said on Sunday.  The fire started after the infant, Birsi, inadvertently pulled down the burning dhibri (country-made lantern) in their hut, said the in-charge of Kiriburu police station, Ashok Kumar. Her mother, Parvati (25), who was sleeping at the time, woke up after hearing the screams of the child. But by the time she could rescue the girl, the minor had received serious burn injuries. “In the course of rescuing her daughter, the mother also received 90% burns,” said the police official. The deceased’s father, Sagar Purty, told police that he was near the house when the mishap took place and rushed to spot after seeing the flames. He pulled out his wife and daughter from the fire, but while doing so received moderate burn injuries. “It was a thatched hut with a roof covered with forest wood and dry straw bundles due to which the fire spread rapidly,” the OC said. The fire gutted the hut in a short time. The mother and daughter were rushed to the SAIL-run hospital in Kiriburu for treatment. The minor died while undergoing treatment. In a similar mishap last week, a 33-year-old mother, Manko Hansda, and her one-and-a-half-year-old daughter Munki died after getting caught in fire. The mother was cooking a meal on a clay stove with the daughter on her lap when the fire started. The incident occurred in Baliguma under MGM police station area in Jamshedpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/1-year-old-dies-of-burn-injuries-in-saranda/articleshow/80086772.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Kolkata||Alapini Samity sits on dharna, to step up protest||Santiniketan: The controversy over the thatched house in Visva-Bharati core area ashram complex didn’t find any conclusion till Sunday. Alapini Samity, the Santiniketan ashram-based women’s body, refused to vacate its office, Natun Bari, without prior discussion. Though university authorities locked up the room on Friday, it had asked the Samity to vacate by Monday. The authorities cited scarcity of space as the reason but Santiniketan insiders believe that is not so. After waiting for Visva-Bharati’s response, Samity members sat on a dharna at Patha Bhavana gate on Sunday. Samity president Aparna Das Mahapatra said: “On Friday, the university authorities issued another letter to vacate the room. They neither responded to our proposal for discussion nor made any alternative arrangement. We’ll continue our agitation and appeal to other women’s organisations to stand behind us.” Samity officials alleged that university authorities, by issuing a press release in the name of Karmi Parishad, were trying to defame them. Visva-Bharati Karmi Parishad, the employees’ association, in a press release strongly condemned the role of some Samity officials. According to the Parishad, the Samity had lost its traditional values and was dominated by an individual. The Parishad further described the Samity’s claim that the room was given to them by former vice-chancellor Indira Devi Chowdhurani as untrue. A Parishad official said: “The Samiti has diverted from Tagore’s traditions and aims and objectives, driven by present-day officials, particularly an individual.” Despite being wealthy enough, they contribute nothing to the university’s development, and even minor repairs of the thatched house had to be done by university authorities, the Parishad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/alapini-samity-sits-on-dharna-to-step-up-protest/articleshow/80087600.cms||Someswar Boral
January 4, 2021||Kolkata||1 dead as BJP workers attacked in East Midnapore and Nadia||Contai/Kalyani: A BJP worker’s father died defending his son during an attack on their home in Patashpur, East Midnapore while a party booth president had his wrist hacked off in Chakdah, Nadia on Saturday. Both Patashpur and Chakdah are tense. Amulya Mondal (80) was pushed to the ground when suspected Trinamool supporters attacked his son Shankar, a BJP worker, at their Gopalpur home in Patashpur. The senior citizen was pronounced brought dead at the local hospital. His family alleged that one Kinkar Hazra had shoved Amulya that led to his death. BJP’s Contai leader Anup Kumar Chakraborty blamed Trinamool for Amulya’s death. Patashpur’s Trinamoool leader Piyush Panda, however, said the old man had been bedridden and died much before the meeting. In Chakdah’s Shimurali area, BJP booth president Ratan Barman (35) was attacked in front of his home. He is also associated with the fish trade and doubles as a pawn broker. On Saturday night, Barman was returning home, which is around 100 yards from the market. “He was opening the gate when three persons attacked him from behind,” his wife Tithi said. “He was hit on the head and then randomly with a sharp weapon. They tried to gag him and poke fingers into his eyes. He collapsed. The attackers then hacked off his right wrist. The spot was a pool of blood,” Tithi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/1-dead-as-bjp-workers-attacked-in-east-midnapore-and-nadia/articleshow/80087535.cms||Suman Mandal
January 4, 2021||Ranchi||Ranchi: Headless body of woman found, cops clueless||RANCHI: A beheaded and naked body of a woman was found in Jeerbad forest under the Ormanjhi police station area on the city outskirts on Sunday. Police have sent the corpse to Rajendra Institute of Medical Science (Rims) for its autopsy by a medical board. Police said locals, who went to the forest, spotted the body and informed other villagers. After receiving information about the incident, a police team, including rural SP Naushad Alam and Silli DSP Chandrashekhar Azad, visited the spot to conduct a preliminary inquiry. After returning from the spot, Alam said, "It is a challenging case as the corpse is headless. A medical board of Rims will conduct an autopsy and also try to find out if the woman was raped. I have also received instructions from my senior officers to investigate the matter thoroughly and promptly.” Later, police carried out a search operation in the area to search for the head. A dog squad was also pressed into service but police could not make any headway so far. Prima facie it is suspected that the assailants murdered the woman somewhere and dumped the body in the forest to prevent her identification as no blood spots were found in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/headless-body-of-woman-found-cops-clueless/articleshow/80086786.cms||Sanjay Sahay
January 4, 2021||Ranchi||Startups seek Jharkhand govt support to stay afloat during pandemic||RANCHI: A group of young entrepreneurs from the state founded the Indian Start-up Association (ISUA), a not-for-profit organization, on Sunday to provide a platform for the startups and budding entrepreneurs. Notably, over a 100 start-ups, which were selected by the previous state government headed by Raghubar Das between 2016 and 2019 to boost local entrepreneurship under the Startup India campaign, were struggling to make their ends meet, prompting many to abandon their business ideas. Ratin Bhadra, the president of ISUA, said, “As many as 107 startup ideas were selected by the state government with a promise to provide better incubation facilities and funds assistance. The selected start-ups were also provided certificate of appreciation by the Narendra Modi government but all these start-ups are now on the verge of death in Jharkhand.” According to Bhadra, at a time when the economy has been hit by the global pandemic, startups have the potential to generate jobs. “In Jharkhand, where joblessness is high, startups can help in strengthening governance. These 107 start-ups, if nurtured well, could generate about one lakh jobs. We urge the Hemant Soren -led government to immediately intervene to prevent these innovative ideas from dying,” he said, citing a directive issued by previous chief secretary D K Tiwari to all departments to encourage the startups from the state in government projects. “However, during the tendering process for government projects, startups are being ignored. Leave aside government funds, a proper incubation centre does not exist. Many people have left their plum jobs to initiate startups and to contribute to the development of this state but the Jharkhand government has so far cut a sorry figure in providing proper patronage to them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/save-us-from-dying-jharkhand-start-ups-urge-state-government/articleshow/80086805.cms||ASRP Mukesh
January 4, 2021||Jamshedpur||Startups seek Jharkhand govt support to stay afloat during pandemic||RANCHI: A group of young entrepreneurs from the state founded the Indian Start-up Association (ISUA), a not-for-profit organization, on Sunday to provide a platform for the startups and budding entrepreneurs. Notably, over a 100 start-ups, which were selected by the previous state government headed by Raghubar Das between 2016 and 2019 to boost local entrepreneurship under the Startup India campaign, were struggling to make their ends meet, prompting many to abandon their business ideas. Ratin Bhadra, the president of ISUA, said, “As many as 107 startup ideas were selected by the state government with a promise to provide better incubation facilities and funds assistance. The selected start-ups were also provided certificate of appreciation by the Narendra Modi government but all these start-ups are now on the verge of death in Jharkhand.” According to Bhadra, at a time when the economy has been hit by the global pandemic, startups have the potential to generate jobs. “In Jharkhand, where joblessness is high, startups can help in strengthening governance. These 107 start-ups, if nurtured well, could generate about one lakh jobs. We urge the Hemant Soren -led government to immediately intervene to prevent these innovative ideas from dying,” he said, citing a directive issued by previous chief secretary D K Tiwari to all departments to encourage the startups from the state in government projects. “However, during the tendering process for government projects, startups are being ignored. Leave aside government funds, a proper incubation centre does not exist. Many people have left their plum jobs to initiate startups and to contribute to the development of this state but the Jharkhand government has so far cut a sorry figure in providing proper patronage to them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/save-us-from-dying-jharkhand-start-ups-urge-state-government/articleshow/80092508.cms||ASRP Mukesh
January 4, 2021||Vadodara||Architect threatens to move CoA||Vadodara: Architect Salil Ranadive, who was earlier roped in by the Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) for designing its international cricket stadium, has rubbished the association’s contention that his fees were too high. The BCA had roped in Salil Ranadive Architects in October this year for designing their international stadium at Kotambi. But in November, the association suddenly hired Rajkot-based Zedo Designers citing high fees by Ranadive. Ranadive has shot off an email to the association’s office-bearers recently stating that the BCA wasn’t saving any money by bringing in a new local architect. He also reminded the officials that they can’t hire another architect without giving him reasons as it would be against the rules. Ranadive said that if the BCA goes ahead with the new architect without his nod, he may approach the Council of Architecture (CoA). “The BCA officials liked the design I had presented and selected our firm. We had a discussion on the fees and I had readily agreed to reduce the charges and accept the association’s offer. It is being wrongly claimed that I was adamant on the first proposed fees of Rs 4.8 crore,” Ranadive told TOI. “I had accepted BCA’s offer of Rs 3.6 crore fees and were ready to accept any other offer made by the BCA. Also, our current fee for stadium design is Rs 2.25 crore while the rest is for landscaping in the campus. So our stadium design fees are less than even the current architect they have roped in,” Ranadive said. “If BCA wanted to save money, why did they organize a competition and choose the best architect. They gave me a letter of intent and then suddenly decided to give the project to someone else without even discussing the issue with me,” Ranadive alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/architect-threatens-to-move-coa/articleshow/80085999.cms||Tushar Tere
January 4, 2021||India||BJP, Cong in war of words over approval for Covaxin||NEW DELHI: As several Congress members raised apprehensions about the approval process for India-made vaccine against Covid-19, BJP slammed the opposition party, with its president J P Nadda urging Congress to stop playing with the lives of people and causing panic by "wild theories". "Time and again we have seen whenever India achieves something commendable - that will further public good - Congress comes up with wild theories to oppose and ridicule the accomplishments. The more they oppose, the more they are exposed. Latest example is the Covid vaccine," Nadda said. "To further their own failed politics and nefarious agendas, Congress and other Opposition leaders are trying to cause panic in the minds of the people. I urge them to do politics on other issues," he said. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan was equally unhappy over the opposition leaders' remarks as he tweeted, "Disgraceful for anyone to politicise such a critical issue. Wake up and realise you are only discrediting yourselves!" He tagged opposition leaders, including Congress's Shashi Tharoor, Jairam Ramesh and SP's Akhilesh Yadav, in his tweet. Yadav had on Saturday asked people not to get vaccinated. Tharoor, Ramesh as well as senior Congress member Anand Sharma had raised concerns over India's drugs regulator granting permission for the restricted use of Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine. "The health ministry needs to give cogent reasons for dispensing with the mandatory protocols and requirements in this case, since it involves the health and safety of those frontline workers who will be vaccinated under the restricted category," Sharma said. Sharma's concerns were echoed by Jairam Ramesh and Tharoor. Ramesh said Bharat Biotech is a “first-rate enterprise”, but it was “puzzling” why the government “modified” internationallyaccepted protocols relating to phase 3 trials for Covaxin. BJP hit back with petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan reacting, “Belittling the nation’s accomplishments is an all time hobby of the Congress and its band of ‘rent-acause’ leaders.” Watch Akhilesh doesn’t even listen to his father: Narottam Mishra on SP chief’s ‘BJP vaccine’ remarks||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-cong-in-war-of-words-over-approval-for-covaxin/articleshow/80089108.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: More than 500 who tested Covid-positive over past week can’t be traced||BENGALURU: Over the past last week, local authorities have sought police help in tracing 506 Covid-19 patients in Bengaluru, while more than 500 have been sent to hospitals or Covid Care Centres (CCCs) for treatment. About 60% of them are at home, indicating that they only have mild symptoms or are asymptomatic. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) officials say the reasons infected people continue to elude authorities range from faulty contact numbers — both data entry errors and deliberate efforts by patients — to people moving out of the city. Of the 506 patients untraced as of Saturday, 190 were tested in Bengaluru east zone, which also has the highest number of cases, followed by Bommanahalli, where 88 people have fallen off the authorities’ radar. Rajendra Cholan, special commissioner (health), BBMP, said: “There is no problem per se, as the numbers are not huge given that these are weekly figures. Also, many of these people are from outside the city although they were tested here.” He said in many cases, migrant workers leave the city without informing authorities and their local addresses here are inaccurate. About 11% of the people yet to be traced are UK returnees, many of who are not Indian citizens. “Of the more than 270 UK returnees that we had to trace, we only need to track only 58 now. The rest have been found with the help of the police. Among the ones not found, there could be people who work in neighbouring states but landed at KIA,” Cholan said. So far, six people of the 10 with the new UK strain are in Bengaluru, and the city also has the most number of nearly 2,300 that returned from the UK. Further, the data also showed that with a case fatality rate (CFR) of 1.1%, Bengaluru’s position was better than Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Lucknow. The data did not have comparative figures for Hyderabad, Kolkata and other metropolis cities. With fresh cases continuing to dip and a steady rate of testing, Bengaluru’s positivity rate improved to touch 6.4%. Two zones — Dasarahalli (5.9%) and Yelahanka (6.2%) — have a positivity rate that’s even better than average, while Mahadevapura (6.6%), east zone (6.9%) and west zone (6.7%) are worse than average.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-more-than-500-who-tested-covid-positive-over-past-week-cant-be-traced/articleshow/80089129.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Vadodara||Nyay Mandir will be under collector||Vadodara: The ambitious Nyay Mandir city museum project that has been discussed since 2014 may eventually see some development. After representations by legislators and BJP office bearers from Vadodara, the state government has decided to give possession of the heritage building to the district collectorate. All the five MLAs from the city and city unit BJP president Vijay Shah had met CM Vijay Rupani, deputy CM Nitin Patel and MoS (home) Pradipsinh Jadeja on Tuesday. The Nyay Mandir project was discussed along with the Vishwamitri plan. Shah said that the Nyay Mandir project is an emotional issue for many in the city. “From traders’ bodies to citizen groups and heritage lovers – all want the city museum to come up. We can rope them all together and work on it,” he said. Shah added that the law department officials were consulted at the time of the meeting itself. “The building is presently in the possession of the law department. It will be difficult to transfer it to the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) directly and hence it will be handed over to the district collectorate first,” said Shah. The VMC standing committee has been discussing the issue since 2014 and the administration was also authorized to take up the matter with the relevant department to get possession of the heritage building. However, there was little development even as various groups kept raising the issue time and again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/nyay-mandir-will-be-under-collector/articleshow/80086074.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Actress detained after MNC executive arrested with Rs 10 lakh drugs||MUMBAI: The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday detained a Tollywood actress from a Bhayander hotel for alleged drug possession and arrested an executive employed with a multinational company from Bandra Talao area and seized 400gm of mephedrone worth Rs 10 lakh from him. During interrogation, the arrested accused, Chand Mohammed Shaikh (27), told officials that he had procured the drugs from a man identified only as Saeed from Bhayander. Police are on the lookout for Saeed, a history-sheeter who is believed to be a major drug supplier in the western suburbs. Based on information provided by Shaikh, who was arrested by NCB Mumbai unit led by zonal director Sameer Wankhede, officials carried out a search at the hotel where Saeed was staying, but he managed to give them the slip. Officials then detained the actress, who was in Saeed's room, and recovered some substance suspected to be drugs. "We brought the woman to NCB's Ballard Pier office and are questioning regarding Saeed and her association with him and drugs," said an official, requesting anonymity. Shaikh, who has been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substance (NDPS) Act, will be produced before the court on Monday. The NCB has intensified its probe into the alleged Bollywood drugs case after actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death. The agency had sprung into action after it received official communication from the Enforcement Directorate about the chats related to drug usage and consumption. The NCB had then arrested Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik for allegedly procuring and financing drugs for Rajput; both later got bail. The agency had questioned several Bollywood actresses as well as interrogated Arjun Rampal and his girlfriend, and arrested her brother. The NCB had also arrested comedian Bharti Singh and her husband Haarsh Limbachiyaa; they later got bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-actress-detained-after-mnc-executive-arrested-with-rs-10-lakh-drugs/articleshow/80089159.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 4, 2021||Delhi||GST officials bust illegal gutka unit in Delhi that evaded Rs 832cr||NEW DELHI: GST authorities have unearthed an illegal gutka and tobacco product manufacturing facility in the capital, which it alleged had evaded Rs 832 crore in levies. "On (the) basis of the search at the premise of manufacture, it was found that illegal manufacturing of gutka/pan masala/tobacco product was going on, evidenced by a godown, machines, raw materials and manufactured products at the premises," Shubhagata Kumar, commissioner for Central GST Delhi West said in a statement, adding that 65 labourers were working at the illegal facility. So far, one person has been arrested and accused of manufacturing and supply of goods without issuing any invoice and evading taxes. He has been charged under various provisions of the central GST Act and was remanded to 14 days judicial custody on Saturday. The authorities alleged that gutka was being supplied to various states in India and the searches resulted in seizure of finished product and raw materials such as chuna, sada kattha, tobacco leaves, among others, which was valued at Rs 4.1 crore. "On the basis of evidence gathered, stocks seized and confessional statements recorded the total duty evasion is estimated to be approximately Rs 831.7 crore. Further investigation is in progress," the statement said. In recent weeks, the government has tightened the noose around tax evaders, especially those making bogus claims either using fake invoices or inflating credit on taxes paid in the manufacturing chain. But the detection of an illegal manufacturing facility takes evasion to a different level in a sector that is prone to illegally routing goods, without paying taxes on the entire produce. "Delhi Zone has been making sustained efforts to check evasion of GST, leading to detection of Rs 4,327 crore in the present financial year and 15 persons have been arrested in these matters," Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gst-officials-bust-illegal-gutka-unit-in-delhi-that-evaded-rs-832cr/articleshow/80089211.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Amritsar||Former allies get same treatment in Punjab||BATHINDA: The SAD may have pulled out of the BJP-led NDA over the contentious farm laws but its leaders, especially former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal’s family, remain on the radar of farmers. Former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who visited Dodra and Bhadra villages in Mansa district on Sunday to meet the families of farmers who died during the ongoing protests against the agri laws, was shown black flags along the route and had to drop plans to meet other bereaved families. She accused rival parties of engineering protests against her when she had resigned from the Union Cabinet in support of farmers’ demands. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) and BKU (Ekta Dakonda) activists said SAD had initially supported the agri bills and took a lot of time in severing ties with BJP. Harsimrat was to visit bereaved families of farmers in Gurradi, Bachhoana, Dharampura, Barrey, Dodra, Bhadra and Boha villages. She visited Boha, Dodra and Bhadra and faced opposition in two villages. Even SAD president Sukhbir Badal was shown black flags at Fatehgarh Sahib recently. Meawnhile, BKU (Ekta Dakonda) said that deceased farmer Piara Singh’s family had requested Harsimrat not to come to offer for condolences. Piara Singh (72) of Dharampura village in Mansa district, had died on December 29 after returning from Delhi protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/former-allies-get-same-treatment-in-punjab/articleshow/80089249.cms||Neel Kamal
January 4, 2021||Chandigarh||Building ground intelligence: Mohali cops making RWAs their eyes and ears||By Piyush Sarna | TNN MOHALI: Police-public meetings are on in the district to boost tenant verification, encourage use of internal security apps, and gather ground intelligence against crime. Superintendent of police (rural) Ravjot Kaur Grewal conducts these meetings under the supervision of SSP Satinder Singh. Held at a Zirakpur resort, the first meeting on December 17 had an attendance of 300 people, representing 180 resident welfare associations (RWAs). SP Ravjot Kaur said: “Mohali is developing, urbanising, and growing, so the trust between its police and communities should be strong. We hope that these meetings will make community policing popular, and police-public partnership will be able to respond to complex situations.” The cops have asked the RWAs to sign up their members for tenant verification. The SP said: “We also plan to make an app for the RWAs to let them know whether the tenant verifications were accepted or not.” Since flats and large housing societies are developing rapidly in Mohali, the district police have appealed to the residents to start using the internal security apps of respective housing societies. The cops want the residents to know their neighbours, regular vendors, and visitors. “This is a way to empower society,” said Ravjot Kaur, adding: "Ground intelligence will help us solve crimes. Residents should report anything unusual they observe in their area." The second meeting in Kharar had a participation of 79 RWAs. Senior superintendent of police Satinder Singh told TOI: “We are in touch with the district's security-providing agencies. They charge so much from the housing societies but their guards do little besides noting down names in the visitors' book. We will tell them about their other duties.” In his first interview after joining, the SSP had invited the Mohali residents to be the eyes and ears of the Mohali police in order to reduce the crime rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/building-ground-intelligence-mohali-cops-making-rwas-their-eyes-and-ears/articleshow/80088079.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Chandigarh||Mother's appeal to PMO: Help the mentally ill find a community home in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: A cancer-survivor single parent fighting for a community home for mentally ill people like her adult daughter has requested the Prime Minister's Office for help. Encouraged by an earlier good response, she has requested the PMO: "After my death, don't let the UT social welfare department close my daughter's case for rehabilitation at Indira Holiday Home." However, the social welfare department, to which the PMO forwarded this case in October, wrote to the parent: “This facility is for the residents of Chandigarh. You may take up your matter with the Haryana government. Further, the matter to build a group home is under consideration with the Chandigarh administration.” The parent, Madhu Bala, who is 66, said: “My daughter, a patient of schizophrenia, is dependent on me for all her needs. She gets violent at times and it becomes tough to manage her. Being a cancer survivor, it is difficult for me to handle her. Often, I have to lock her up in a room.” Many other seniors in a similar situation want Indira Holiday Home as a group facility for their children, for its big area, a conducive environment, and hospitals nearby. Madhu said: “We do not want our children to be dumped in a building for food and lodging. They need to be engaged in outdoor activities.” Another worried parent, D R Paul, said: “So far, I took care of my son and his mental disability. But since getting older, it is difficult, as he needs continuous care. We are willing to pay for his stay at the holiday home. I have been trying to meet the governor on this issue.” Another parent whose son’s mental abilities have been affected since a car accident 14 years ago, said: “He was a college and school topper who joined a prestigious business school. Now I stay alone with him. I need a place where he'd be secure after I'm not around.” They talked of another parent in the battle for community home, who died recently, leaving his 47-year old vulnerable son at the mercy of a 70-year-old relative. Confronted, UT secretary for social welfare, Yashpal Garg, said: “The administration will convert the Sector 21-A Cheshire Homes into a group facility (for the mentally ill). The department has invited the expression of interest from volunteer organisations. A pre-bid meeting was in the first week of December.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mothers-appeal-to-pmo-help-the-mentally-ill-find-a-community-home-in-chandigarh/articleshow/80087778.cms||Shimona Kanwar
January 4, 2021||Chandigarh||Not into business: Chandigarh religious groups, charities seek property-tax waiver||CHANDIGARH: The local charities and religious groups have asked the municipal corporation for a property-tax waiver, since they don't do any commercial activity. Based on the request, the tax branch brought this item on the general-house agenda. The issue of whether or not to claim property tax from charitable and religious institutions is pending for many years. These groups have given the UT administration and the MC multiple requests for not clubbing them with money-making businesses. A source in the MC said: "We have put up their case for tax exemption before the general house, but with conditions. They shouldn't have shops on the premises and must be registered under the Charitable Act and with the income tax department.” They will also put a separate item on the agenda for two-year interest waiver (2004 to 2006) for temporary industrial sheds. The source said: “The industrialists argue that we inform them very late, due to which the interest multiplies. To save the time lost in legal action, a waiver is a good option.” Property tax is a major source of MC's revenue. The civic body has registered 1.10 lakh property taxpayers in the city, of which 83,390 are in the residential category and the rest in the commercial segment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/not-into-business-chandigarh-religious-groups-charities-seek-property-tax-waiver/articleshow/80088110.cms||Deepak Yadav
January 4, 2021||Chandigarh||Farmers' children: 20 PU students run medical camp at Delhi border||By Piyush Sarna | TNN CHANDIGARH: Round the clock at Delhi’s Tikri border, Panjab University’s 20 students run a medical camp for the farmers sitting on a protest against the Centre’s three agri-marketing laws. At night, the camp also provides the farmers with free shelter against the winter chill. Formed as Naujawan Kisan Sahayta Kendra, the group uses social media to crowdfund its initiative. In six days of the first appeal, they had collected about Rs 2 lakh. Harsimran of PU's Urdu department told TOI: “We all belong to farming families, so we will assist the farmers until the end of their protest. We work in two shifts of 10.” Some of these students have also reached the Ghazipur and Shahjahanpur borders to set up new camps. A closed factory behind their Tikri border camp shelters 100 people free of cost. Harsimran said: “The owner was kind enough to allow us to lay these beddings that we had carried from Chandigarh." The team includes two medical interns—Gagan Deol and Navreet Sekhon—from Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16. Vishawjeet, a political science student of the University School of Open Learning (USOL), said: “We are available to the farmers round the clock. Our basic focus is on providing them with medical aid and shelter but we do give them food also. We hire large trucks from Chandigarh to get the material to the Delhi border.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-children-20-pu-students-run-medical-camp-at-delhi-border/articleshow/80087989.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Ghaziabad||Roof collapse at Ghaziabad cremation ground: Some jumped away, those in middle had no way out||GHAZIABAD: “For a few minutes, I could not understand what to do. I was in such shock,” Umesh Singh told TOI near Surya Hospital, where the injured had been taken to. Umesh was at the crematorium to attend the funeral of his father-in-law Jai Ram, a fruit seller in Muradnagar. “Nobody had any clue how to pull the injured out of the rubble. Those present at the spot made an initial effort. They removed the debris and managed to send some of the injured persons to the hospital. Someone in the crowd that had gathered there informed police. But help could reach us only after an hour,” Umesh said. According to him, Jai Ram’s relatives were discussing with the priest how to go about the rituals when the concrete roof came crashing down on them. “Those who were on the sides of the gallery managed to jump away. But those who were in the middle did not stand any chance. There were shouts of help from everywhere. I could not understand where to go first,” he added. While Jai Ram’s family discussed the rituals, the others who had come to attend the funeral were observing a 2-minute silence. Among them was Kisan Pal, who suffered injuries to both his legs. “We were observing a 2-minute silence when the slab of concrete fell on us. We kept shouting but none came to our rescue for half an hour. How could the roof collapse? The construction had been completed only recently,” Pal said. A group of labourers working at the Rapid Metro site nearby were among the first to help. “They also sent us an earthmover, but it could not enter the main gate of the crematorium as the way was blocked with debris. The wall on the side had to be broken for the machine to enter,” said an eyewitness. It was only after the earthmover arrived that work started on removing the debris. By then, more than 20 ambulances had reached the spot. Umesh said his brother Jai Veer Singh (50) was among the first to be pulled out. He was completely buried under the rubble. “Only his neck was visible. He was rushed to the hospital along with his nephew. After an hour, he complained of breathlessness. His condition deteriorated and he died soon after that,” Umesh said. Udham Singh (25), who lives in Jai Ram's neighbourhood, suffered a fracture on his shoulder. There were injuries on his head and back, too. He said he had gone to attend the funeral in place of his father, who was ill. “I was standing near the edge of the gallery. Before the roof collapsed, I could sense something wrong and tried to jump away. But I could not. I was buried in the rubble till the shoulder. After about two hours, people rescued me and took me to the hospital,” Udham Singh said from his hospital bed. Kisan Pal’s son Krishanpal lost both his legs. His cousin Pankaj said he was sitting on his knees when he was pulled out after almost three hours. “Nobody knows how he got oxygen to breathe inside the debris for so long. There were no other injuries on his body. But both his legs were gone,” Pankaj said. Arrangements for treating the injured persons were made at the MMG District Hospital. All senior doctors, including physicians, orthopaedic surgeons, cardiologists and emergency medical officers, were called for duty in the emergency ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/some-jumped-away-those-in-middle-had-no-way-out/articleshow/80088305.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
January 4, 2021||Vadodara||MSU-BCA at loggerheads over nomination||Vadodara: The Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) and MS University are on a collision course over the nomination proposal of the university’s syndicate member to the association’s apex council. MSU recently sent a letter to the BCA asking it to include syndicate member, Mayank Patel in its apex council. BCA management has, however, expressed inability to accept MSU’s proposal. “In the past, we used to have a representative of MSU in our managing committee. But the apex council has been made on the recommendations of the Lodha committee that have been accepted by the Supreme Court. In the current structure of the apex council, we cannot include MSU nominee,” said Ajit Lele, BCA secretary. “We received MSU’s letter asking us to include Patel in the apex council as well as the stakeholders’ committee. But it is not possible as we cannot change the apex council’s structure. We will definitely include him in our stakeholders’ committee whenever it is formed,” Lele told TOI. He added that MSU had sent in syndicate member, Jigar Inamdar’s name about two weeks ago and BCA had cited Lodha Committee’s recommendations and clarified that the apex council can’t have MSU’s representation. “We will again send a letter to MSU authorities in the next couple of days stating that Patel can’t be a member of the apex council due to Lodha Committee’s reforms,” Lele said. BCA’s decision has however sparked protests in the MSU campus. Rakesh Punjabi, MSUSU general secretary said, “They can’t run the BCA as a personal fiefdom. MSU should have a nomination in the BCA. We protested against the cricket association on Saturday and if they don’t relent, we will intensify our agitation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-bca-at-loggerheads-over-nomination/articleshow/80085891.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Noida||6 centres in Noida gear up for drill on January 5||NOIDA: The district administration has made all preparations for the dry run of Covid-19 vaccination scheduled for January 5. Six centres have been selected where the exercise will take place under strict Covid protocols. The exercise will begin from 10am on Tuesday and continue till 12pm. Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), Sharda Hospital and Child PGI in Sector 30 have been selected as urban centres. Primary Health Centre (PHC) and Community Health Centre (CHC) in Bisrakh, and a CHC in Bhangel have been chosen as rural centres. Two booths per centre will be set up for the mock drill where a total of 72 staff will be deployed, said Dr Neeraj Tyagi, the district immunisation officer-in-charge of Covid-19 vaccine process. “A total of 72 staff, including ANM, Asha, Anganwadi and two security guards will be deployed per booth, while the hospitals where these drills will be held, will also have their staff on the ground to assist. We will also have a nodal officer from the health department in charge of overseeing the whole process per centre,” said Tyagi, adding that overall 150 people will be engaged in the dry run, including monitoring officers, nurses from hospitals and staff from the health department. The centres have three separate chambers and the beneficiaries will be allowed in each of these chambers in a regulated manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/6-centres-in-noida-gear-up-for-drill-tomorrow/articleshow/80088125.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
January 4, 2021||Chandigarh||Mohali cops went after heroin peddlers in 2020||By Piyush Sarna | TNN MOHALI: In 2020, the district police arrested 253 people in 156 drug cases registered till December 22. The recovery of Punjab’s most abused drug, heroin, increased to almost 8 kilograms from almost 3kg in 2018 and almost 5kg in 2019. The top cops claim that there are only small peddlers in Mohali, hence no major haul. Most of the arrests came in March and the least in September. Most cases were also registered in March and the least in September. The count of recovered drug pills and capsules also increased to more than 1.88 lakh from almost 53,000 in 2018 and more than 1.16 lakh in 2019. The recovery of smack, opium, poppy husk, and drug injections declined but more ganja was seized in 2020. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh told TOI: “Eradicating drug trade from Mohali district is our priority, so we make sure that the challans related to these cases are submitted on time in the court.” Under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, if the drug seized is in commercial quantity, police must submit the challan within 180 days. For non-commercial quantities, they get 60 days. In going after drug smugglers, the Mohali police have the support of a special task force (STF) of Punjab Police. Superintendent of police investigation Harmandeep Singh Hans said: “The lure of easy money and addiction bring people into the criminal trade of drugs. The peddlers we catch are addicts themselves, mostly. In the Covid-19 lockdown, their operation ceased, so it impacted the amount and the number of hauls.” The recovery of smack increased to 202 grams from 163g in 2018 and 172g in 2019. During 2020, the cops made 21 drug-related arrests in January, 27 in February, 35 in March, 32 in April, 22 in May, 25 in June, 18 in July, 15 in August, 5 in September, 21 in October, 13 in November, and 19 in December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-cops-went-after-heroin-peddlers-in-2020/articleshow/80088064.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad roof collapse: Poor material used, arrest contractor, say victims’ kin||GHAZIABAD: Villagers of Ukhlarsi, who had attended the funeral of Jai Ram at the cremation ground in Muradnagar, demanded the immediate arrest of the private agency that had built the shelter whose roof collapsed on Sunday morning.  They also said that officials of the Muradnagar municipality, who had awarded the work contract, should be brought to book, too. Deepak, a relative of Jai Ram, said all those who died were very close to their family. “The contractor should immediately be put behind bars. He used substandard material to build the shelter. Action should also be taken against officials of the municipality for handing out the work contract to him,” Deepak said. Rakesh, a villager, lost his father Dilip Barra. “An iron rod had pierced his chest. When the NDRF team pulled him out, the rod was still there. I suffered injuries, but I lost my father to corruption,” he added. Sonu Singh, whose brother Akshay (22) died in the roof collapse, said he sent his brother because he himself wasn’t well. “I had asked my brother to go instead. He was doing BSc and wanted to establish his business in the area. I will request chief minister Yogi Adityanath to punish those who are behind this accident,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/poor-material-used-arrest-contractor-say-victims-kin/articleshow/80088289.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
January 4, 2021||India||17 mutations key to confirming UK strain: NIV||PUNE: A total of 17 mutations need to be detected in the genetic make-up of the SARS-CoV-2 virus before experts can confirm that it is the new variant that originated in the UK. Scientists who have been carrying out genome sequencing at the Pune-based Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Virology said NIV's biosafety level four (BSL-4) laboratory in Pune became the first lab to successfully isolate and culture the variant on Saturday from the sample of a Covid-positive Britain returnee. "We need to detect all 17 mutations to confirm it's the UK strain. To do so, we have to map the whole genome of the virus and not just the spike gene. The UK variant has multiple mutations in different genes," scientist Varsha Potdar, head of National Influenza Centre at NIV said. A set number of clinical samples, found to be positive for Covid via RT-PCR, are now being sent to NIV for whole genome sequencing. NIV's officiating director Sarah Cherian said, "It's too early to say how the strain will play out in our population. But considering that it is a variant of concern, enhanced molecular surveillance is certainly necessary". When asked if it was possible to develop a test to detect new mutations, Cherian said, "Since mutations in the UK strain are in multiple genes, only mapping the whole genome can ascertain the strain type".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/17-mutations-key-to-confirming-uk-strain-niv/articleshow/80089251.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 4, 2021||Amritsar||In Moga, Punjab BJP chief faces protest, clash averted||BATHINDA: A group of farm activists protested and showed black flags to Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma during his visit to Moga on Sunday. He had gone to meet the party’s Moga district chief Vinay Sharma, where protesters had been staging a sit-in for long now. The police had made security arrangements and managed to save the situation from turning ugly. As the the BJP state chief ’s visited was pre-planned, protesters knew of it and gathered in large numbers and raised slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government while waving black flags. The tried to lay siege to the house but the police escorted the BJP functionaries. When resisted, protesters had an altercation with police personnel deployed there and BJP activists. Police detained two farmers but let them off after some time. Later, Ashwani, along with MP Shwait Malik, former ministers Tikshan Sud, Manoranjan Kalia and party state vice-president Rajesh Bagga, held a meeting with party workers at a hotel regarding preparations for the upcoming civic body elections. The farmers held protest outside the hotel as well. Ashwani accused Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and DGP Dinkar Gupta of not doing anything to stop “motivated protests”. Many BJP functionaries also accused the Congress of posing as farmers to protest against them for political gains. Farmer bodies have been targeting BJP functionaries across the state. On Saturday, some farm activists had thrown cow dung outside the house of Tikshan Sud, while protests were held outside houses of Tarun Chugh, Shwait Malik and Anil Joshi. MP Hans Raj Hans had to face protest during his visit to Moga on December 6, 2020. On Sunday, farmer leaders Sukhwinder Singh and Gurnam Singh said, “As we have already given call for peaceful protest against BJP leaders in the state. We held protest when Ashwani Sharma came to Moga but we have no intention of getting violent.” The state BJP chief said only a handful of persons protested which was their right. “Nobody disturbed our programme as we went to the residence of Vinay Sharma and held a meeting at a hotel,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/in-moga-punjab-bjp-chief-faces-protest-clash-averted/articleshow/80089291.cms||Neel Kamal
January 4, 2021||Noida||Noida: UP chief secretary discusses key issues at RWA meeting||NOIDA: UP chief secretary RK Tiwari, who is also a resident of Sector 105 Noida, presided over the RWA meeting on Sunday along with Noida CEO Ritu Maheshwari and other authority officials where the Sector RWA through Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Associations (FONRWA) raised many pending issues before him. These include freehold property matters already approved in principle in the Noida Authority’s board meeting of November 1, 2018, and pending state government approval, quality and quantity water for the residents of the city, stray dog menace, clogged sewers and drains etc. Yogendra Sharma, president of FONRWA, said, “We have been demanding clean and adequate drinking water for the residents of Noida for long. But so far no specific action has been taken on the matter. We raised the problem with the chief secretary on Sunday and demanded that apart from adequate and clean drinking water, filter plants should be installed in all supply tanks.” Sharma added that presently Noida Authority has appointed two agencies for sterilisation of dogs but that is not sufficient for a city like Noida. “We have repeatedly requested the Authority to increase the number of agencies for the job in addition to building a shelter for these dogs,” said Sharma. KK Jain, secretary general of FONRWA, also raised the issue of more powers to RWA if they are to assist Noida Authority in its civic duties. “Works such as assistance in solid waste management, installation of compost machines, cleanliness of residential sectors etc. required by the Authority are entrusted with the RWAs from time to time. But the RWAs have not been given enough rights to carry out the job. Hence, we demanded recognition of RWAs and that they should be empowered with adequate authority,” said Jain. While Tiwari assured action on the pleas, he also urged RWAs to participate in making Noida clean and green. “While agencies are making significant contributions to the development of Noida, residents of Noida should also contribute in making their city clean, green and beautiful and ensure safety of its sectors. For this, RWAs should make necessary arrangements,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/up-chief-secretary-discusses-key-issues-at-rwa-meeting/articleshow/80088102.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
January 4, 2021||Mumbai||CAT 2020: Mumbai engineer gets near-perfect 99.92 percentile||MUMBAI: City-based engineer Anand Mishra has scored 99.92 percentile in the Common Admission Test (CAT) despite spinal muscular atrophy, a genetic condition that weakens muscles used for movement and requires him to wear braces to walk. Mishra (23) graduated in production engineering from VJTI in Mumbai this year and hopes to get into MBA at IIM Ahmedabad, Bangalore or Calcutta, or Delhi University's Faculty of Management Studies with his near-perfect score.  "I scored 73 percentile in my previous attempt and secured a seat at IIM-Kozhikode but I wanted to do better and aim for the top IIMs. In my first year, I focused on books but in the second attempt, I changed my strategy. I signed up for mock tests and solved over a 100 practice papers. Each time I would analyse my performance to improve my score the next time," he said. While three of his siblings are doctors, Mishra took an interest in finance when he was preparing for his engineering entrance tests. "I had been reading up a lot about financial markets trading and autobiographies of billionaires when I was preparing for the entrance exams. That got me interested in the subject and I set my eyes on a career in finance. I hope to become an entrepreneur," he said. Mishra has already begun preparation for his B-school interviews. This year, nine candidates from across the country scored a perfect 100 percentile, all of whom are male and eight are engineers. CAT 2020 was conducted on November 29 across various test centres in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cat-2020-mumbai-engineer-gets-near-perfect-99-92-percentile/articleshow/80089325.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Love and relationship matters most common murder motive||MUMBAI: A love affair gone wrong is one of the common murder motives in the state with 396 men and women ranging in age from 18 to 45 years killed from 2017 to 2019. The top motive, though, is suspicion of illicit relationship, with statistics from the National Crime Records Bureau showing 723 persons murdered in the state for this reason in the three-year period. Lined up after these two top motives are various disputes - property, financial, family, and so on - that drove people to kill in the state in these three years. If all the murders under the sundry categories of disputes are clubbed together, then the total under the common head of disputes reaches 2,726. On average, more than 2,100 murder cases are registered every year in the state. Reasons range from the common ones already mentioned to personal vendetta, personal gain, dowry, Naxalism, dacoity or robbery, witchcraft, political reasons and road rage. There are also blind murders, a police term for a killing where no motive is established. Among states, UP tops in murders with 12,148 committed from 2017 to 2019. Bihar is second with 8,875. Next is the state at third position with 6,411 murders, followed by West Bengal at 5,864 and MP at 5,582. Investigators said the 18-30 age group was the most vulnerable with 1,555 men and 712 women killed, while in the 30-45 age group 1,387 men and 489 women were killed in the three-year-period. The report revealed that every day on average four men and two women were killed in the state. A total of 4,699 men and 1,957 women were killed in the state from 2017 to 2019. Females in the age group 6-12 years was the most vulnerable among minors with 189 killed in the three years. Investigators said the reason was financial gain or personal enmity in the case of minor killings, while murders of middle-aged people were driven by social matters or illicit relationships. An IPS officer said most murders of senior citizens happen when they are alone in their flats and there are no eyewitnesses. "As most of the murders of senior citizens are done by strangers, there is hardly any circumstantial evidence. Thus, reliance on forensic and scientific evidence is total and the entire prosecution is based on this," the officer said. Lawyer and former IPS officer Y P Singh said dowry demands were behind an overwhelming number of murders of women. "Refusal to comply with such demands often leads to severe fights and murder. A failed love affair or dispute over an extra-marital affair is also a major reason," he said. Former IPS officer S P S Yadav said love in the initial stages is mainly controlled by infatuation. If one of the love partners is spurned or jilted during such a phase, he or she may commit the crime under heavy emotional stress. Former state director general of police Pravin Dixit said murders in love affairs were usually the outcome of extreme frustration in efforts to have total control on the other person. "Unable to accept that the other person also has interactions with others leads to the crime," he said. Psychiatrist Harish Shetty said intense and possessive love can get converted into hate and rage when spurned or when doubts over fidelity exist. "The mind may get emotionally hijacked, leading to violence and murder," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-love-and-relationship-matters-most-common-murder-motive/articleshow/80089335.cms||V Narayan
January 4, 2021||Business||Life sciences top draw for talent, finds TOI-Executive Access survey||MUMBAI: For the first time perhaps, life sciences has emerged as the most preferred sector that is predicted to attract talent, ahead of IT and FMCG, this year. In a survey by Executive Access, done exclusively for TOI, 23% of 261 CXOs across industries and geographies picked life sciences as the most attractive sector for talent. It is followed by IT (22%) and FMCG/consumer durables (16%). Candidates are increasingly looking for safer industries for work - those which witness minimum volatility and are insulated from the vagaries of the economy. Ronesh Puri, managing director, Executive Access (India), said: "In 25 years I have not seen life sciences topping the charts on being a talent attractor. Clearly, priorities have undergone a change for job seekers. Candidates now prefer jobs that are meaningful and have potential to add value to society." Given that Covid-19 has had a deep impact on the mindset of people, Puri said the thinking has also undergone a change. "Anecdotally also, people have come to us and said they want to work in the life sciences sector," Puri said. They find it to be more meaningful as it's something that is protecting their loved ones. People look at purpose when they want to join an organisation. Prior to Covid, sectors like FMCG, IT and BFSI attracted the best talents. IT is seen as a sector that has changed the way we work, and is the second best after life sciences. FMCG too is insulated and would continue to be a talent magnet," said Puri. Pankaj Patel, chairman Zydus Group, said there will be tremendous opportunities for growth in the healthcare and life sciences sector in the decade that has just begun. Healthcare and life sciences has been a top contributor to the economy as well, and is expected to see breakthroughs in therapeutics, biologicals, vaccines and diagnostics. Patel said India will be at the forefront driving these possibilities globally, both in terms of research and innovation as well as manufacturing. "This is a sector which has always been driven by knowledge, technology and skills and there will be a greater demand in the coming decade for young talent. Opportunities will open up for researchers, scientists, technologists and skilled professionals as the Indian healthcare industry continues to innovate, digitalize operations and explore newer technologies and tools like AI," said Patel. Sudarshan Jain, secretary general of Indian Pharmaceutical Alliance, said given that healthcare will be a high priority area for India, the sector will attract talent and it will be a satisfying arena to make a difference and contribute both to society and professional growth. On the other hand, hospitality is predicted to take a dip in attracting talent, at least in the immediate aftermath of Covid-19. The long term attractiveness of the hospitality industry may pick up as travel normalises. It is clear that the industry is vulnerable to global crises and this may cause a talent exodus, according to the survey. Other than the sectors of choice, candidates are also changing their preferences for the kind of organisation they would like to work with. From a talent perspective, more than a quarter of the respondents still place job security at the forefront even as the economy slowly bounces back. However, some of the respondents are seizing the opportunity to look at new roles that would provide growth (19%), flexibility of remote working (18%) and job satisfaction (17%). Salary and compensation (money) now appears to have taken a backseat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/life-sciences-top-draw-for-talent-finds-toi-survey/articleshow/80089327.cms||Namrata Singh
January 4, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Teen had called 2 friends amid tears hour before her murder in Khar building||MUMBAI: Not long before her murder early on January 1, teenager Jhanvi Kukreja had called up two of her friends separately, amid tears. The police are now trying to piece together the sequence of events between these phone calls and Kukreja's body being discovered at 2.30pm. Kukreja (19) was found murdered on the ground floor of Bhagwati Heights in Khar where she had gone to attend a New Year's Eve party with Shree Jogdankar (22) and Diya Padalkar (18). The duo has been arrested. Police are yet to figure out how Jogdankar suffered injuries. Around 1.30am, Kukreja had called up a friend and said she feared Padalkar planned to "do something to herself". She added that she was going to look out for Padalkar who was together with Jogdankar at the time. As Kukreja was sobbing, her friend offered to sort things out with Padalkar. Shortly thereafter, Kukreja called up another friend as well but did not get through to him. Police will record the statement of the friend she spoke to. "My daughter and Diya, our next -door neighbour, have been together for 13 years," said Kukreja's mother, Nidhi. "Jhanvi was protective about Diya and would guide her with her academics. Diya was like family and the two girls had started baking together professionally," Nidhi added. On December 31, Kukreja, Padalkar and Jogdankar rang in the new year at Padalkar's apartment. The three then headed to Kukreja's flat where they had cake to celebrate her father's birthday. "Jhanvi would never go to parties. She was to move to Australia for higher studies next year and was very focused. But Diya and Shree pleaded that she be allowed to accompany them to Bhagwati Heights where a common friend had thrown a party. Three other girls from our society went for the party too. When we called up Jhanvi later, she did not answer our call. Only around 5am, Diya's father called up my husband and said the two girls had been in an 'accident' and we should rush to Khar police station. Nobody else at the party informed us about her death either," said Nidhi. From Kukreja's bag, police have found a letter written by Padalkar to her which will form a crucial part of evidence. "We are exploring two possibilities-either Kukreja was dragged down the stairs from the second floor to the ground floor or was pushed off. Bloodstains and clumps of hair have been found on the stairs. There seems to have been an altercation between the three," said a police officer. About a dozen other teens who had attended the party are being questioned at the Khar police station daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-teen-had-called-2-friends-amid-tears-hour-before-her-murder-in-khar-building/articleshow/80089366.cms||Nitasha Natu
January 4, 2021||Shimla||Sobha Singh’s kin accuses Punjab of unauthorised use of his work||SHIMLA: Noted painter Sobha Singh’s daughter has accused Punjab of unauthorised use of her late father’s artwork after a picture of Guru Teg Bahadur, painted by Singh, surfaced on the government’s official 2021calendar. The painter’s daughter Gurcharan Kaur issued a statement, citing that the said painting of the Sikh Guru is a registered work with the copyright office of the government of India (registration number A.43872/84) and all publishing rights are reserved with the artist’s family. Terming it a classic case of copyright infringement, she urged the Punjab government to look into the matter and take strict action against officials who allowed it for printing and even removed the artist’s name from the Guru’s image in the calendar. Kaur said it was a blatant violation of copyrights of the classic work of the eminent artist — who was honoured as “State Artist” by Punjab government in 1973 — and showed utter disregard to the law as well as to the painter by the department concerned. She added that a formal complaint in this regard was made to CM Amarinder Singh via e-mail on Sunday, with copies to the secretary and the director of information and public relations of the state government. As per the Indian Copyright Act, the rights of paintings remain with the artist throughout his/ her life. After his/her death, the rights remain with the family for 50 years. As Sobha Singh passed away in 1986, Kaur — whom Singh appointed the legal heir of his paintings and properties — has rights to all his artworks till 2036, she stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/sobha-singhs-kin-accuses-punjab-of-unauthorised-use-of-his-work/articleshow/80089377.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Gurgaon||Covid-19: Resident has UK strain, Gurugram tally nears 57,000 mark||GURUGRAM: A 22-year-old man who returned from the UK on December 19 was on Sunday found to be infected with the new strain of the coronavirus, the health department said. The patient’s RT-PCR results had come positive on December 30. He is currently in an isolation centre in Sector 22. “The patient lives in Om Nagar with his father, mother and sister. We are observing him and his treatment is on. His three contacts had tested negative earlier in the RT-PCR test. Our teams are monitoring all UK returnees who are under home isolation. None of them has developed any symptoms so far,” CMO Virender Yadav said. Meanwhile, the city on Sunday reported less than 100 cases for the ninth day in a row. A total of 63 people tested positive, taking the caseload to 56,982. The health department said 105 patients also recovered on the day, bringing the total number of recoveries to 55,811. No one succumbed to the infection on Sunday. So far, 343 people in the city have died of Covid, of whom 266 had comorbidities. The city has a total of 828 active cases, and 742 of the patients are in home isolation. The recovery rate stands at 97.7%. On Sunday, three people were sent to institutional quarantine facilities. So far, 6,76,916 people have been put under surveillance in Gurugram. In the past 24 hours, the health authorities collected 2,533 samples for antigen and RT-PCR tests. So far, 6,73,330 samples have been sent for testing, of which 6,13,815 were negative while results of 1,374 are awaited. Meanwhile, Haryana’s count for fresh infections fell to 218 on Sunday. There were two deaths too — one each in Yamunanagar and Faridabad. The state said that 450 patients recovered and the recovery rate now stands at about 97.8%. The state has so far reported 2,63,068 cases, 2,57,261 recoveries and 2,917 deaths. Besides, 2,890 of the cases are active. Of them, 124 patients are critical and on oxygen or ventialtor support.  Also, 24,251 samples were collected during the day. The positivity rate further came down to 5.6%, while the fatality rate remained stable at 1.1%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/resident-has-uk-strain-city-tally-nears-57k-mark/articleshow/80088440.cms||---
January 4, 2021||World||Nancy Pelosi reelected as speaker of US House of Representatives||WASHINGTON: Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi was narrowly reelected on Sunday as the speaker of the US House of Representatives for the 117th Congress. Pelosi, 80, from the Democratic party, secured 216 votes in a tight contest against Republican Kevin McCarthy, who got support from 209 Congressmen. According to the House Clerk, a total of 427 votes were cast. One vote went to Senator Tammy Duckworth and one to Congressman Hakeem Jeffries. Notably, six Democratic lawmakers did not vote for Pelosi, while all the 209 Republicans stood by McCarthy, who is now the House Minority Leader. The Democratic Party has 222 seats in the House. The US House of Representatives has a strength of 435 voting members and six non-voting members. Pelosi received two more votes than the 2014 votes, which is the majority of members who participated in the election by voting for someone by name, soon thereafter announced that this is her last term as the House Speaker. Pelosi has led the House Democrats since 2003. In 2007, she created history by becoming the first women speaker of the House. She was reelected in 2009. She served as the House Minority Leader from 2011 to 2019, when she was elected as the Speaker after Democratic Party gained control of the House. A strong advocate of human rights issues, a follower of Mahatma Gandhi and a strong supporter of the India-US relationship, Pelosi, in her acceptance speech, said that the new Congress begins during a time of extraordinary difficulty. "Each of our communities has been drastically affected by the pandemic and economic crisis: 3,50,000 tragic deaths, each one a sadness that we carry in our hearts; over 20 million infections; millions without jobs - a toll almost beyond comprehension," she said. Pelosi represents the eighth Congressional District of California, which is in and around San Francisco. The 117th Congress is the most diverse House in American history - with a record-shattering 122 women, 100 years after women won the right to vote, she said. The House has four Indian-American lawmakers. Ami Bera, being the seniormost of them, who has been reelected for the fifth consecutive term. Raja Krishnamoorthi, Ro Khanna and Pramila Jayapal have been reelected for third consecutive term. Jayapal is the first-ever Indian American woman elected to the House. Setting up her priorities for the 117th Congress, Pelosi said that this is the time for the nation to heal, given the sufferings due to the coronavirus pandemic. Our most urgent priority will continue to be defeating coronavirus. "And defeat it, we will. Two weeks ago, we passed an emergency relief package to crush the virus and put money in the pockets of workers and families, which is now the law," she said. "With President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris, the House will continue our work to save lives and livelihoods, to Build Back Better in a way that advances justice in America. "Indeed, the pandemic has pulled back the curtain on even worsened disparities in our economy and our society. We must pursue justice: economic justice, justice in health, racial justice, environmental and climate justice," Pelosi said. Following the election of the House Speaker, she administered the oath to the rest of the members of the House starting with the first-time members elect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/pelosi-reelected-as-speaker-of-us-house-of-representatives/articleshow/80089384.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram civic body to review DLF 1, 2 & 3 infrastructure||GUURGRAM: The takeover process of three DLF phases in the city by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is finally shaping up, with the civic body speeding up the procedure by deciding to initiate deficiency assessment in these areas. People living in DLF Phase 1, 2 and 3 have raised several complaints regarding the pending infrastructure work and improper maintenance in these licenced colonies. As a result, the civic body is now planning to review the deficiencies in the three areas, officials said on Sunday. The state government had directed the director of the town and country planning department to transfer the maintenance responsibility of these colonies to the MCG in February 2019 with the mandate that the civic body will take over the colonies after due verification of the work done by the developer and the deficiencies. A senior MCG official said a meeting has been scheduled for January 6, in which the ward councillor, the developer, and officials will be present. The aim is to discuss the infrastructure deficiencies related to roads, sewerage, drains and parks. The official added that the chief engineer of the MCG has been asked to submit an updated status report on the development work in the areas while the developer has been directed to send a senior representative to the meeting. RS Rathee, councillor of Ward 34, said the residents have been facing difficulties due to infrastructural deficiencies and it could only be resolved after the civic body takes over the colonies. As per the 2019 order, the other colonies that were part of the MCG takeover include Sushant Lok 1, Palam Vihar, Suncity, South City 1 and 2. While these colonies have already come under the civic body’s purview and development work has started in these areas, DLF phases 1, 2 and 3 are still to be taken over by the corporation. In December 2019, DLF had informed the civic body that it would complete the infrastructure work as soon as the blanket ban imposed by the Supreme Court was lifted. The developer also said it was carrying out the maintenance work on water supply, sewerage, horticulture, upkeep, security among others in consultation with the residents’ welfare association (RWA). The developer had also replied to the complaints of the DLF Phase 3 RWA on the poor condition of a park. DLF had charged preferential location charges (PLCs) from the plot holders. Thereafter, a letter from the MCG joint commissioner (III) said a large number of complaints on water, sewerage, horticulture and sanitation were pouring in owing to the developer not handing over the areas. In February 2020, DLF submitted a progress report in which it claimed to have completed the pending infrastructure work such as the construction of roads, sewerage network and drainages, laying of water pipelines and development of parks and requested the corporation to send its team for verification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/gurugram-civic-body-to-review-dlf-1-2-3-infra/articleshow/80087907.cms||Rao Jaswant Singh
January 4, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Garden in shambles despite Rs 5.5 crore revamp||MUMBAI: The Rs 5.5 crore spent on the restoration of Kalina's Joseph Baptista garden, popularly known as Kalina talao garden, is going down the drain. Locals complained that the garden, upgraded in 2016, is deteriorating due to poor maintenance. The BMC levied Rs 50,000 in fines over the last month on the contractor tasked with the garden's maintenance, for shoddy work. Despite that, the garden has not been maintained. Times ViewOpen spaces are among the most vital amenities for citizens, especially in a space-starved city like Mumbai. The Kalina talao garden was restored at a cost of over Rs 5 crore. The poor maintenance of an open space used by hundreds of residents daily shows that the BMC is not serious about upkeep. It must get its act together, take action against the contractor and ensure that parks and gardens are maintained well."The lawn is drying up, walkways are coming apart and there are no security guards. The garden has become vulnerable to encroachments again. Hundreds use this garden every day and companies are just pouring in. The BMC spent Rs 5.5 crore to revive it and create an open space but it is being destroyed. If this is the condition in winter, by summer the whole garden will be dead," said local Congress corporator Tulip Miranda. Miranda wrote to the BMC garden department, demanding action against the contractor. "Imposing small penalties is not going to help. BMC must blacklist the contractor and appoint a new one. Even the BMC-allotted timings are not followed to open and close the garden," Miranda said. The 300-year-old Kalina talao, once a natural water reservoir, had been encroached on over the years-it housed at least 200 shanties till 2014. It was revived and turned into a garden with walkways and sports facilities after a two-year struggle by locals led by then Congress corporator Brian Miranda. "It is an over 30,000 sq m plot. It was brought under CCTV camera surveillance. There's a football ground near the pond, and space for kids to play. High-mast lights were also installed. Now it looks like we are going back to 2014, and the garden is falling apart. The contractor should be blacklisted," Brian said. Officials said BMC was paying around Rs 60 lakh per month for the maintenance of the garden. "We have imposed several penalties on the maintenance contractor Ms Pinakee Enterprises. We issued a showcause notice as to why the contract must not be terminated. Action is being taken as per procedure," said Sunil Rathod, deputy superintendent, gardens department. In 2010, BMC had sanctioned a jogging track and pathways on the plot and the garden department had provided Rs 3.6 crore for the same, but an HC order directed the pond be revived. The pond played a key role in the East Indian wedding tradition called 'Umbracha Pani'. It is a ritual observed on 'wedding Saturdays', a day before nuptials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-garden-in-shambles-despite-rs-5-5-crore-revamp/articleshow/80089408.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 4, 2021||Kozhikode||Seven from Karnataka killed in Kasaragod bus accident||KOZHIKODE: At least seven persons, including two teenagers, from Karnataka were killed and many others injured when a tourist bus carrying a marriage party lost control and veered off the road before overturning on a house at Pariyaram near Panathur in Kasaragod on Sunday. The accident took place around 12.30pm. The deceased are Ravichandran (40), Jayalakshmi (39) of Sulya, Sumathi (50) of Puttur, Rajesh (45) of Valnad, Sasidhara Poojari of Bandwal, Shreyas (13) of Ardhamoola and Adarsh (12) of Puttur. Of these, Poojari had died at a hospital in Mangaluru. The bus carrying relatives and friends of the bride’s family was travelling from Ishwaramangala near Sulya in Karnataka to the border village of Chethukayam in Karike panchayat, also in Karnataka. The connecting road passes through Kerala. The bus lost control while descending a steep slope and veered off the road and hit a tree and overturned on top of an uninhabited house situated below the road. Some of the injured said the bus was speeding. The front portion of the overturned bus had rammed into the house and rescue workers had to break open the bus to rescue those trapped inside. Some passengers had fallen off the bus too. The local people turned rescuers by rushing the injured immediately to nearby hospitals in whatever vehicles they could find. Those requiring further treatment were shifted to the Kanhangad district hospital some 35 km away while 12 seriously injured persons were taken to two Mangaluru hospitals. Later in the evening, 31 persons with minor injuries were also shifted to Mangaluru district hospital on their request. ‘Many in bus were standee passengers’Kasaragod district collector Dr D Saith Babu said there were around 70 persons, including 60 adults, in the bus and many people were standing. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan offered his condolences and said steps had been taken to provide medical care to the injured. Kanhangad sub collector R Meghasri has been asked to investigate the accident while transport minister A K Saseendran has asked the regional transport officer to submit a report immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/seven-from-karnataka-killed-in-kasaragod-bus-accident/articleshow/80089407.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram: As exams near, colleges see more students||GURUGRAM: Although the decision to reopen schools has got a lukewarm response from students, the education department has claimed that attendance in government colleges has been about 30-40% in the past few weeks. While initially, in the last few weeks of November, the attendance hovered around 10%, with semesters around the corner, students have started attending classes to complete their courses. Due to the lockdown, the college admission process got delayed this time and classes for most courses started around October. According to sources, the Sector 14 Government Girls’ College has recorded over 30% attendance in the past few weeks. In November, the college recorded less than 15% attendance. Dronacharya Government College recorded 35-40% attendance in the last few weeks of December, officials said. “Initially, the attendance was low due to multiple reasons. Admissions were also delayed this year. But gradually, students have started to show more interest. The safety measures taken by us have also instilled confidence among them. Also, the semesters are here and students will have to appear for exams in a couple of months. Hence they want to cover their syllabus and clear doubts with their professors,” said Dronacharya Government College principal Virendra Antil. Another college principal, who did not wish to be named, said that teachers have now started holding practical classes and for that, students are being called to colleges in groups. “This has certainly increased the attendance. Moreover, online classes means a lot of students are being excluded. With the semester exams approaching, these students have no other option but to attend colleges. In reality, most students are not comfortable with offline classes,” the principal said.  Most government colleges have semester exams scheduled in the end of February or in March. Some students, however, said that the online clases are not too systematic.  “The online classes are not very organised and many students are not comfortable with the virtual sessions. It is one of the reasons that many prefer the actual classes. If the online classes were properly streamlined, then most students would want to wait it out for the Covid situation to stabilise and then venture out,” Tejna Haritas, a BA second-year student at Sector 14 Government Girls’ College, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/as-exams-near-colleges-see-more-students/articleshow/80087936.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
January 4, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Light rain spell sees waterlogging in many areas||GURUGRAM: Residents woke up to an overcast sky as the city received moderate rain with lightning and thunderstorm in several parts on Sunday morning. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), a light spell is likely to continue till January 6 and the minimum temperature will continue to remain between 8 to 10 degrees Celsius during this period under the influence of the western disturbance. “The city is likely to receive light to moderate rain and thunderstorm with a possibility of hailstorm on Monday. There will be gusty winds ranging between 20 to 30 kilometres per hours,” an IMD official said. Till Sunday morning, Gurugram received 19 mm rainfall, while it was 20 mm in Wazirabad, 15 mm in Manesar, 2 mm in Sohna and 4 mm in Pataudi and Farrukhnagar. Rain also led to waterlogging in sectors 23, 23A, 10, Palam Vihar, Mayfield Garden, Pataudi road and Sohna road, among other areas on NH-8. Bhawani Shankar Tripathi, a resident of Sector 23A, said, “It is very sad and shameful situation that the civic body is not able to manage the waterlogging issue in the city. Whether it is monsoon or not, our sector is drowned in sewerage water even after a short spell of rain.” The air quality index improved to ‘poor’ category, after three days. It was recorded at 260, significantly down from 336 on Saturday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. Meanwhile, rain lashed Delhi too, leading to waterlogging in some parts. According to the Met department, the minimum temperature settled at 9.9 degrees Celsius. Safdarjung observatory — the capital’s base station — recorded 25.1mm rainfall from 8.30am on Saturday to 8.30am on Sunday, and another 14.8mm rainfall till 5.30pm on Sunday. After the day’s rainfall, Delhi surpassed the monthly average of rain in January in a single day, with the normal rainfall expected over the entire month being 21.7mm. Delhi had, in January 2020, received 48.1mm rainfall over six days. IMD data showed that the highest single-day rainfall reported in the year’s first month was on January 27, 2017, when the capital recorded 30.3mm rainfall. The maximum temperature on Sunday dipped to 15.8 degrees Celsius, four notches below the normal. Meanwhile, IMD has issued an “orange” alert for Monday due to chances of hailstorm and light-to-moderate showers. “Light to moderate rain/thundershowers accompanied with gusty winds (speed 20-30 kmph) is predicted for Monday,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/light-rain-spell-sees-waterlogging-in-many-areas/articleshow/80087949.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala govt to carry out sero-surveillance||T’PURAM: The state health department will carry out Covid-19 sero-surveillance. At least 350 samples will be taken from each district and the study aims to include 12,100 people above 18 years. Besides, 240 frontline workers from each district will also be part of the study. In addition to this, at least 5,000 samples will be collected from the labs and blood banks. The study intends to find the presence of antibodies in high-risk groups and to know of the chances of further spread of the infection, said health minister KK Shailaja. The Indian Council of Medical Research had conducted a similar study in three districts of the state earlier. However, it will be the first time that the state has attempted a sero-surveillance during this pandemic. According to the minister, the study will help understand the possibility of spread in the next stage thus helping the government to adopt preventive measures. An additional director of health services and nodal officer at the regional cell for the prevention of epidemic and infectious diseases will head the serosurveillance study in the state. At the district level, there will be surveillance officers to coordinate the study. The medical superintendent of each taluk hospital will be in charge of the study in their respective taluks. The district surveillance officers have been told to prepare a list of five areas in their region to conduct the study. At least 12 people would be included in the study from each region. The minister said that Covid-19 was still spreading that that there were reports of the new strain of the virus. Even though the disease load is decreasing in our country, it is not the same with other countries, said the minister. “We have to be very cautious with the development in other countries as there are chances of people from these countries reaching our state too. Hence we have to find out the presence of antibodies in the people who are in the highrisk groups and also among the frontline workers in the fight with the pandemic. This study will help us in this regard,” Shailaja said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-govt-to-carry-out-sero-surveillance/articleshow/80089425.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Mumbai||Subodh Jaiswal missed bus as Delhi cop chief?||A year ago, when ministry of home affairs proposed Maharashtra director-general of police (DGP) Subodh Jaiswal's name to Election Commission of India as New Delhi police chief, it was assumed he would succeed Amulya Patnaik, who was retiring on January 31, 2020. NDA government felt Jaiswal was a competent and honest officer to tackle law and order in New Delhi, particularly in view of the assembly elections there. Jaiswal was in two minds, and following requests from colleagues and ruling political leadership, he continued as DGP. Now, it appears he is regretting his decision. Peace eluded him over postings and transfers. When a new chief minister takes over, it is commonplace that he has IAS and IPS officers of his choice. Jaiswal had felt that instead of an IPS overhaul, only officers who completed two-year tenures should be shifted. He had suggested that tainted officers should not be given plum assignments. As per convention, Jaiswal had submitted a list of IPS officers eligible for transfer. The home department was expected to take note of his suggestions. But when the final list was released by the department, controversial IPS officials were given plum assignments and Jaiswal's list was ignored. Stunned by the approach, Jaiswal searched for central deputation, then he sought an NOC from the state government for taking up a central assignment. It was granted in record time. Soon, he will join as director-general of Central Industrial Security Force. Nail-free treesMinister of state for home Bunty Patil has embarked on a new campaign: Kolhapur of Nail-Free Trees. On his morning walk, Patil found that hundreds of nails are punched into tree for putting up banners and hoardings of leading politicians, iron angles and advertisements of firms for promotion of products. He took the help of the municipal corporation for removal of nails and he was later joined by a record 50 NGOs and more than 1,000 people. He told KMC to issue an order to provide for punishment to those putting nails on trees. Patil feels it injures the tree and adversely impacts environment and conservation. Patil said it should be implemented across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/subodh-jaiswal-missed-bus-as-delhi-cop-chief/articleshow/80089427.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
January 4, 2021||Thane||Metro 'lite' likely for Mumbra and Kalwa||THANE: The Metro dream for Kalwa and Mumbra residents may turn into reality once the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) undertakes a the feasibility study and decides to operate a lighter version of the elevated Metro network connecting the two suburbs with Thane city. The development comes nearly two years after the TMC wanted to connect the distant suburbs and Thane via Metro lines. However, as the conventional Metro cannot be built in tier-2 cities as per Central directives, the administration will be working on developing the light urban rail transport system akin to the one planned within Thane city, said officials. The fresh demand was raised by local representatives at the general body that met recently. "Residents of Thane suburbs find it tough travelling to the city thanks to a circuitous route, inadequate and expensive travel options. Kalwa and Mumbra have a rising population that can use the services," said corporators in the meeting. Accordingly, the House directed the administration to start a survey. "There has been a constant demand to construct a Metro line to link the suburbs with the city. We have decided to start a study on the issue," said Thane mayor Naresh Mhaske. Initial reports suggest that the Kalwa-Mumbra light rail network may be similar to the one designed for Thane city and will meet the Thane light rail line and Metro IV and V stations near Kapurbawdi. "We will start the feasibility study and table the report soon," said an official requesting anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/metro-lite-likely-for-mumbra-and-kalwa/articleshow/80089429.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Vadodara||138 women in Gujarat faced domestic violence daily in 2019||Vadodara: With Gujaratis locked up inside homes during the lockdown, incidents of domestic violence in the state also spiralled uncontrollably. Gujarat recorded 138 incidents of domestic violence daily in 2020 — the highest in last five years — revealed 181 Abhayam helpline.The analysis done by the women’s helpline organization shows that women faced violence from their own family members as people were cooped up together amidst fear and anxiety of Covid-19 and hardly any source for recreation. “People’s lives were disrupted as they were put up in a situation over which they did not have any control and were struggling to cope with it,” said Chandrakant Makwana, project coordinator of the helpline. “In such situations, the men or an elder person used to take out their frustrations on the women of the house,” he added. Not just husbands, issues with mother-in-law have also resulted in violence. “Disputes over household chores, using mobile phones or sitting with children during online classes among other others were major reasons for initiating altercations which would escalate to violence,” Makwana said. In rural areas, the counsellors of the helpline faced a different issue. Worried about their parents in the middle of the pandemic, when the women would want to talk to their parents and go and meet them, they would not be allowed, officials said. “The months after lockdown the number of calls for reporting of domestic violence have decreased,” Makwana told TOI. Of the 50,550 calls from across the state, 9,715 incidents were such when those inflicting violence on women were under the influence of alcohol or drugs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/138-women-in-gujarat-faced-domestic-violence-daily-in-2019/articleshow/80085879.cms||Jay Pachchigar
January 4, 2021||Thane||Shiv Sena man & wife shot at in Thane, duck in time||THANE: A Shiv Sena office-bearer and his wife, contesting the upcoming gram panchayat elections in Bhiwandi taluka, had a lucky escape as they managed to duck in time after two unidentified bike-borne assailants tried to shoot them at close range near their house on Sunday morning. Even as the police said they were investigating the case, party colleagues claimed the attack to have been politically motivated and sought a fast probe. The Narpoli police said the incident was reported around 12.30am when Deepak Mhatre and his wife Mangala were returning home in Kalher village, Bhiwandi, after some personal work in Thane. Officials said that the two unidentified persons were apparently waiting for the couple to return. "Mhatre and his wife are contesting the gram panchayat polls. They were near their house when the assailants approached them and fired two rounds at them. The couple ducked in time and missed the bullets, and raised an alarm following which the attackers panicked and fled," said inspector R A Wani, Narpoli police. The police recovered two empty shells and a live bullet from the spot and are investigating if the attack was prompted following personal enmity or a fallout of political rivalry. CCTV camera footage from the area is being screened to find out more about the assailants, said the police. The election holds importance as it is likely to set the mood for the forthcoming polls in major cities, including Navi Mumbai and Kalyan-Dombivli in the coming months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/shiv-sena-man-wife-shot-at-in-thane-duck-in-time/articleshow/80089475.cms||---
January 4, 2021||India||Cops question former BARC CEO in Taloja jail in TRP scam||MUMBAI: In the ongoing probe into the TRP manipulation scam, the crime intelligence unit (CIU) of Mumbai police on Sunday questioned Partho Dasgupta, former CEO of the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) for an hour in jail in connection with the gold and silver ornaments worth Rs 48 lakh found in a bank locker maintained by his wife. Police obtained permission from the 37th metropolitan magistrate court to interrogate him. BARC India measures viewership of TV channels, which is a crucial metric for advertisers. Dasgupta is the 15th accused arrested in the TRP scam. Dasgupta, arrested on December 30 and sent to judicial custody, is in Taloja jail. His lawyer Kamlesh Gumre said his bail application is likely to come up on Monday. On the Mumbai police's request, the magistrate, SB Bhajipale, directed the Taloja jail superintendent to make arrangements for Dasgupta's interrogation. Last week, police in a remand application said Republic TV executive editor Arnab Goswami had paid huge sums to Dasgupta to rig the Republic TV TRP since its launch in 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cops-question-former-barc-ceo-in-taloja-jail-in-trp-scam/articleshow/80089481.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 4, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Mercury rises to 23.2 degree Celsius, Met predicts rain today, tomorrow||CHANDIGARH: Sunshine welcomed residents on Sunday after rainfall on Saturday night, raising the maximum temperature to 23.2 degrees Celsius, 3 degrees above normal, and the minimum to 11.4 degrees Celsius, 6 degrees above normal. The maximum temperature on Saturday was 15.7 degrees Celsius, 5 degrees below normal, while the minimum was 6.1 degrees Celsius, 1 degree below normal. The city observatory recorded 0.8mm rainfall while airport observatory recorded 0.4mm rainfall. The meteorological department has forecast rain on Monday and Tuesday. Temperatures are expected to drop from Monday. The maximum temperature is expected to be around 20 degrees Celsius, while minimum around 11 degrees Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-mercury-rises-to-23-2-degree-celsius-met-predicts-rain-today-tomorrow/articleshow/80089484.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Mumbai||Citizen feedback sought on draft Maharashtra Shakti bill||MUMBAI: Now, common people can contribute suggestions on enacting a law with provision of stricter punishments, including death penalty and fine up to Rs 10 lakh for rape, acid attack and social media abuse against women and children. The state-appointed joint select committee studying the proposed Maharashtra Shakti Act has appealed to citizens, experts and organisations working for women rights to submit suggestions before finalising the draft, which may tabled before the state legislature again in the budget session scheduled in March. Modelled on Andhra Pradesh's Disha Act, the Shakti legislation includes two bills-Maharashtra Shakti Criminal Law (Maharashtra Amendment) Act, 2020, and Special Court and Machinery for Implementation of Maharashtra Shakti Criminal Law 2020-and proposes amendments to the Indian Penal Code, 1860, Code of Criminal Procedure, 1972, and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. Experts, however, feel that the provisions are more political and populists than practical. Lawyer-activist Varsha Deshpande, who runs Lek Ladki Abhiyan, said, "The provision of filing chargesheet in 15 days or to complete a case in 30 days seems just to woo people. Collection of medical evidence, giving breathing time to a victim, listing witness and other evidence, spot panchanama report, medical investigation, forensic report is very difficult to be done within 15 days. This process will take at least two months and a month further for recording witness, cross-examination, and hearing till conviction." She suggested that instead the government should try to boost police and public prosecutors to be more credible. "Not a single judgment of domestic violence case came out in 'two months' of stipulated period in Maharashtra, the government won 111 PCPNDT cases in trial court, but the accused got acquitted in the sessions court," said Deshpande, who has decided to send her inputs to the government in a day or two. Bombay high court lawyer Shashikant Chaudhari suggested that there should be a dedicated team or section to handle cases registered under the proposed Act. "There should be competent, dedicated and credible police officers who will investigate the matter, advocates who will handle the case, and judges who will sensibly give justice." Chaudhari also said that the punishment should not be in the form of a fine. "What if an accused does not have Rs 10 lakh? Or an accused takes the law for granted by just paying the fine amount?"||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/citizen-feedback-sought-on-draft-maharashtra-shakti-bill/articleshow/80089498.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 4, 2021||Kozhikode||Kerala: Covid lessons for Kalamandalam, Koodiyattam training goes online||KOZHIKODE: The Kerala Kalamandalam deemed university for art and culture, one of India's important centres for performing arts, has made Koodiyattam and Kathakali amenable to online teaching over the last few months, reasserting that the Covid-19 pandemic is more about adaptations and innovations than disruptions. The teaching of Koodiyattam — the 2,000-year old ancient performing art form of Kerala included by Unesco in its masterpieces of the oral and intangible heritage of humanity — and other performing art forms involved a traditional Gurukula system of residential tutelage, with teachers and students beginning their daily routine at 4.30am, till the pandemic struck. The faculty members are now teaching intricate facial expressions, hasthabhinayam (hand mudras) and Sanskrit slokas through online classes over Google Meet and visuals shared over WhatsApp. “Teaching the ancient art form of Koodiyattam through online classes was unthinkable before the pandemic. It has been taught only in face-to-face training with students sitting right in front of the teachers (ashans). But the pandemic has been changing the life as we know it on a daily basis and we had no other way rather than to shift teaching of Koodiyattam and Kathakali and other art forms to online mode,” Kerala Kalamandalam vice-chancellor T K Narayanan said. ‘A totally different experience’The faculty members said the online Koodiyattam classes was a totally different experience. “Instead of sitting in front of students, we sat before the laptops and enacted various portions of the performing arts in the syllabus, like Subhadradhanamjayam Arjunan for purusha vesham and Poothana Moksham for sthree vesham. Later, we ask students to do it, review the videos and suggest corrections and changes if needed,” said Kalamandalam V Achuthanandan, head of department of Koodiyattam and Mizhavu department and academic coordinator. However, the daily training sessions in kalaris from 4.30am –– focusing on physical exercise, body massage, eye movement practice (kannu sadhakam) etc –– have not been shifted to online mode. Narayanan said teachers will assess students and their level of learning once the regular academic sessions begin and provide face-to-face learning inputs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kerala-covid-lessons-for-kalamandalam-koodiyattam-training-goes-online/articleshow/80089509.cms||K R Rajeev
January 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat fails to lure doctors to join as medical teachers in govt hospitals||AHMEDABAD: In desperate times of the pandemic, when a robust health frame with adequate teachers in medical colleges and doctors in government hospitals is the need of the hour, the state government is grappling with recruitment for almost a year. In fact, post-Covid-19 outbreak in March, the government has advertised for the third time to recruit medical teachers on contractual basis for 11 months but has not found many takers. In its third advertisement issued recently, the state health department advertised for the posts of 175 teachers in medical colleges. Two earlier advertisements did not yield encouraging results. Against the first recruitment drive for 215 posts, nearly 95 joined. The situation worsened in the second round of recruitment with only 40 doctors accepting the positions of medical teachers, when the government sought to recruit 20 posts. The state government came out with 790 posts of medical teachers as soon as it came under tremendous pressure when the Covid-19 outbreak exposed the inadequately staffed health department. Senior faculty is toughest to recruit. The dean of the BJ Medical College Pranay Shah said, “We have got only 38 faculty members against some 100 vacancies.” The situation at the Sola Civil Hospital is no different. It has got only 22 teachers against 50 vacancies. The condition is equally dismal in medical colleges located outside of big cities. A TOI report in October had highlighted glaring gap in the human resources in public health infrastructure--of the total 1,085 sanctioned class-I medical posts in districts, less than half, only 502 are filled. The Gujarat HC took suo moto cognizance of the issue and even refused to stay the state government from recruiting doctors for 686 posts of medical teachers in government medical colleges on 11-month contracts. The case pertained to doctors with specific qualification of Diplomate of National Board (DNB) who had challenged the recruitment over their non-inclusion. The in-charge of medical education in the state health department, Girish Parmar, said that nearly 200 people have accepted the offers. He, however, said that he did not have any idea about the vacancies. Gujarat Medical Education Research Society (GMERS) CEO Ajesh Desai said, “There are 125 doctors who have joined for clinical teacher positions in GMERS colleges.” However, Desai remained tight-lipped how many positions continue to remain vacant in these colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-fails-to-lure-doctors-to-join-as-medical-teachers-in-govt-hospitals/articleshow/80089553.cms||Bharat Yagnik
January 4, 2021||India||Govt ignoring sufferings of annadatas, says Sonia||NEW DELHI: Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday slammed the Modi government over the farmers' protests and said this was the first instance since India's independence that the government was so "arrogant" that it failed to see the sufferings of the 'annadatas'. She demanded that the new farm laws be withdrawn immediately and unconditionally and said a government that ignores public sentiments in a democracy can't govern for long. "Along with the people of India, I am also disturbed seeing the condition of the 'annadatas' who have been agitating for 39 days in the bitter cold and rain in support of their demands," Gandhi said. She also blamed the Modi government's negligence for the death of more than 50 farmers. "There is still time. The Modi government should leave the arrogance of power and immediately withdraw the three black laws unconditionally. This is 'Raj Dharma' and a true tribute to the farmers who have lost their lives," she said. Gandhi added that Modi government should remember that democracy means protecting the interests of the people and the farmers-workers. Congress functionary Rahul Gandhi compared the ongoing farmers' protests with the Champaran agitation during the British rule. "The country is going to face a Champaran-like tragedy. The British were 'company Bahadur' back then and now Modi-friends are 'company Bahadur'," he tweeted. "Every farmer-labourer of the movement is a 'satyagrahi' who will take back their rights," Rahul further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-ignoring-sufferings-of-annadatas-says-sonia/articleshow/80089598.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Ahmedabad||Scared of UK strain of Covid-19? Some mutations can also save lives: Study||AHMEDABAD: At a time when the ‘UK strain’ of Covid-19 has fuelled fear due to its reputation as a highly infectious strain, a local research on mutations in coronavirus has found that not all mutations are bad. Some can even be beneficial for humans! A recent ‘in-silico’ (computer simulation) study by researchers from Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC) along with other institutions claimed that C241T mutation – found in a large section of infected persons – could be responsible for lower mortality and improved recovery rates. The paper titled ‘In-Silico analysis reveals lower transcription efficiency of C241T variant of SARS-CoV-2 with host replication factors MADP1 and HNRNP-1’ is put on pre-print repository bioRxiv recently, and is authored by Armi Chaudhari, Minal Chaudhari among others from GBRC including director CG Joshi and joint director Madhvi Joshi. Researchers from Gujarat University, Institute of Advanced Research from India and University of Tennessee also contributed to the research. “This specific mutation was chosen for in-depth study due to its very high frequency not only in Gujarat and India, but globally. In our earlier study, it was found that over 80% of the positive cases in Gujarat had this mutation present,” said a senior GBRC official. “The study simulated its docking with the human cell on two parameters and found that it affects folding of RNA – in turn reducing efficiency of the virus to replicate in a host. In simpler terms, it can reduce viral load, which can reduce mortality and improve recovery rates.” A study by Italian researchers in June 2020 had revealed that C241T was the fourth most common mutation in Asia, third in Africa, and fourth in Europe, North America, South America and Oceania. ‘The results obtained from molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulation indicated weaker interaction of C241T mutant stem loops with host transcription factor MADP1 indicating reduced replication efficiency. The results are also correlated with increased recovery rates and decreased death rates of global SARS-CoV-2 cases,’ mentioned the paper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/scared-of-uk-strain-of-covid-19-some-mutations-can-also-save-lives-study/articleshow/80089608.cms||Parth Shastri
January 4, 2021||India||Covid-impaired SC worried about physical hearings on Art 370, CAA||Nine months after pandemic forced it to switch to virtual hearing, there seems to be little prospect of Supreme Court shortly resuming physical hearing and taking up the adjudication of weightier constitutional issues raised in petitions challenging the revocation of the Special Status of J&K and enactiment of Citizenship Amendment Act. The SC’s precautionary switch to virtual hearing through video conferencing from March 25 to prevent its packed courtrooms and corridors from becoming super spreaders of Covid-19, did not shield its 1000-odd strong staff, who prepare the case files for the judges and are crucial to physical or virtual hearing, from the virus. Almost 50% of the staff, 506 to be precise, have so far been infected by the virus, the high figure impeding preparatory work needed for readying the case files for hearing. In addition, many others had to quarrantine themselves as their family members, 178 in all, came down with the Covid- 19 . The depleted staff put in extra hours to steadily increase listing of cases daily before benches from 200-odd in July to over 400 by November-December, the worst month for court staff when 139 of them reported covid positive. Judges too suffered, with six of them catching the virus. Chief Justice S A Bobde did try to explore feasibility of resuming physical hearing as some of the bar leaders vociferously demanded it even when medical experts favoured a wait and watch policy as infections spiralled. Thus, in August, the SC notified 687 cases (517 regular and 170 miscellaneous) for physical hearing and sought advocates’ consent. However, more than 99% declined, forcing the court to continue with virtual hearings. During the pandemic, eight five-judge constitution benches decided six matters involving a small number of advocates through virtual hearing. But, listing of heavy matters like challenge to abrogation of Article 370, scrapping of special status to J&K and its division into two Union Territories as well as the CAA either through virtual or physical hearing will prove to be a huge logistical challenge which may be difficult to be overome until mass vaccination gets underway. Taking up these two issues (J&K matter has 22 writ petitions and numerous impleadment pleas while CAA has 144 petitions) through virtual hearing would require SC to furnishing of video links to hundreds of lawyers, many of whom routinely share it with others who want to inquisitively or academically watch the proceedings. This could make the system, catering at present to a limited number of arguing counsel before each of the 10-odd benches daily, to collapse and frequently interrupt the virtual hearings, fear the SC officials. Virtual hearings are ill-suited for sensitive matters like J&K and CAA which require seamless arguments and impromptu expression of views, many senior advocates said. The bigger danger is that physical hearings in these two matters would be an open invitation for spreading of coronavirus among lawyers, litigants and court staff as physical distancing norms could not be observed. This could be fathomed from the fact that during the January 22 last year hearing on CAA, it took the CJI-led bench a good 15 minutes to bring order in the courtroom, abuzz with a cacophonic presence of over 200 lawyers. The danger becomes stark given the fact that the number of infected court staff peaked in November-December. With the SC taking additional precautions by putting up glass partitions between Judges sitting on benches on medical advice and the staff still getting infected, it would be risky to to open up the courts for physical hearing, SC sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-impaired-sc-worried-about-physical-hearings-on-art-370-caa/articleshow/80089625.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 4, 2021||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad roof collapse: Structure was almost ready, but civic body didn’t hold inspection||GHAZIABAD: The construction of the Muradnagar crematorium shelter whose roof collapsed on Sunday was nearing completion but no inspection had been done by any junior engineer of the Muradnagar municipality in recent times, sources said. The shelter was part of a renovation project, the tenders for which had been awarded in January last year. A firm owned by one Ajay Tyagi had bagged the tender in February. Officials said the total cost of the project was Rs 64 lakh, of which about Rs 40 lakh had already been paid. According to sources, though there were allegations that poor materials had been used to construct the shelter, no cognisance had ever been taken. Niharika Chauhan, executive officer of the municipality, denied having received any complaint against the contractor or his company. She, however, added she would have to go through the files once more. Chauhan admitted that no measurement or inspection of the structure had been done by the civic body. “The project was not complete. The work order was issued before Covid struck and the time granted had elapsed because of the lockdown in between. The renovation work resumed in September and the contractor was given an extension. No final measurement or inspection of the project was done,” she added. Apart from the shelter, the renovation project involved repairing the wall around the crematorium, construction of platforms, etc. The shelter was meant to keep the bodies so that rituals could be performed before setting the pyres alight. On Sunday morning, people were standing under it as it was raining. It was round 10.30am that the roof collapsed on them. Divisional commissioner Anita Meshram said an inquiry had been initiated and the responsibility of officials, as well as the contractor, would be fixed. “Action will be taken against those found guilty, whether it is the contractor or Nagar Palika officials,” she added. Ghaziabad police chief Kalanidhi Naithani said an investigation had been initiated and an FIR has been filed. “We will take action against the accused. But first, we need to conduct a fair investigation,” he added. Late on Sunday night, an FIR was lodged against Tyagi, Chauhan, junior engineer Chandra Pal and supervisor Ashish under IPC sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 409 (criminal breach of trust) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/structure-was-almost-ready-but-civic-body-didnt-hold-inspection/articleshow/80088297.cms||Aditya Dev
January 4, 2021||World||Trump request to 'find' votes for him sparks political uproar||WASHINGTON: The release on Sunday by US media of a stunning audio tape in which President Donald Trump pressured Georgia's secretary of state to "find" enough votes to overturn his election defeat there to Democrat Joe Biden sent shockwaves across Washington. The tape, a rebel push by scores of Republican lawmakers to challenge Biden's electoral win later this week, a pair of runoff elections in Georgia to decide control of the US Senate and expected pro-Trump protests in Washington are combining to set the stage for a fiery week in American politics. Lawmakers got back to work Sunday on Capitol Hill, where Democrat Nancy Pelosi was narrowly reelected as speaker of the House of Representatives, but the real political fireworks are to come later in the week. Following the release of the recording, Democrats and a few Republicans heaped scorn on the outgoing president, who fired off a tweetstorm of unsubstantiated claims of fraud in the November 3 election. The taped conversation between Trump and fellow Republican Brad Raffensperger, first obtained by The Washington Post, includes vague threats by Trump that Raffensperger and another official could face "a big risk" if they failed to take moves toward overturning Biden's victory. "There's nothing wrong with saying, you know, um, that you've recalculated" the vote tally, Trump is heard saying on the tape. "You're off by hundreds of thousands of votes." Raffensperger is heard responding: "Well, Mr. President, the challenge that you have is, the data you have is wrong." Biden won the long Republican-leaning state by fewer than 12,000 votes -- a narrow margin, but one that has remained unchanged through a series of recounts and audits. "The current margin is only 11,779. Brad, I think you agree with that, right?" Trump says. "So look. All I want to do is this. I just want to find 11,780 votes." Making Trump's call more surprising is the fact that even a hypothetical reversal in Georgia, which has 16 Electoral College votes, would not overturn victory by Biden, who won by a margin of 306 to 232. Ahead of the release of the audio, Trump tweeted about the call, saying that Raffensperger "was unwilling, or unable, to answer questions such as the 'ballots under table' scam, ballot destruction, out of state 'voters', dead voters, and more." Raffensperger tweeted back, also ahead of the release of the audio, saying: "Respectfully, President Trump: What you're saying is not true. The truth will come out." After the release, the White House declined to comment. Democrats reacted furiously. Vice President-elect Kamala Harris slammed it as "the voice of desperation" and a "bald-faced, bold abuse of power by the President of the United States" during a rally in Savannah, Georgia. One moderate Republican, Congressman Adam Kinzinger, tweeted: "This is absolutely appalling. To every member of Congress considering objecting to the election results, you cannot -- in light of this -- do so with a clean conscience." It was unclear what impact the tape's release might have on the twin runoff elections in Georgia on Tuesday, which will decide who controls the US Senate. Both Trump and Biden are due to appear at rallies in the southern state on Monday. Republican incumbents David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler are facing off against Democratic challengers Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock, respectively. Victory by Ossoff and Warnock would give Democrats, and Biden, a major boost -- Senate seats would be evenly divided between the parties at 50 each, but incoming Vice President Harris would wield a tie-breaking vote. Democrats already control the House. "This is going to be a very tough battle but it is absolutely within the realm of possibility -- in fact, the realm of likelihood -- the Democrats can win," Stacey Abrams, the charismatic former Georgia lawmaker who has emerged as a party leader, told CNN on Sunday. News of the Trump tape came hours after the US Congress opened its new session Sunday. Pelosi, the highest-ranking woman in the history of US politics, will serve another term as speaker of the House after her reelection. Congress will convene in a rare joint session on Wednesday to certify Biden's election result -- but it will not be the usual dry pro forma affair. So far, 12 Republican senators loyal to Trump have announced plans to block certification, instead demanding the formation of a special commission to do an "emergency" election audit. With Democrats controlling the House and many Senate Republicans expected to confirm Biden's victory, the rebel effort is all but certain to fail, but it has raised tensions on Capitol Hill. It has also underscored a sharp divide within the president's party, as Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell has asked his caucus to respect the Electoral College result. Senator Mitt Romney, the party's 2012 presidential candidate, called the campaign an "egregious ploy" that served only to "enhance the political ambition of some." He and a bipartisan coalition of senators on Sunday called on Congress to certify the result, saying: "The 2020 election is over... It is time to move forward." Pro-Trump protesters not quite willing to concede are expected to rally in Washington on Wednesday. Trump, who has urged thousands to support his cause, tweeted Sunday: "I will be there. Historic day!"||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-request-to-find-votes-for-him-sparks-political-uproar/articleshow/80089686.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Jaipur||Narendra Modi will meet Donald Trump’s fate, says Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot made a scathing attack on RSS and BJP during the Congress dharna in support of farmers opposing the Centre’s three controversial farm laws here on Sunday. Pilot said true nationalism was not to lecture from Nagpur wearing half-pants, but to stand with the farmers. Pilot’s remarks were aimed at the smear campaign against farmers who were called ‘anti-national’, ‘Khalistani’ and ‘Naxal’ for opposing the Union farm laws. “Such words are being used because not a single Union minister is a well-wisher of the farmers. Today, the farmers are scared. If standing with farmers is politics, we will continue to stand with them,” Pilot said, addressing a day-long dharna at the Shaheed Smarak on MI Road. The Congress leader slammed the BJP-led central government for forcing the farm laws on agriculturists. “There are some turning points in every country’s history that become decisive. Unfortunately, the step taken by the Centre in bringing the three laws will have far reaching consequences. The arrogant and autocratic way in which the government passed the laws without consulting any state government, it cannot tell who demanded these,” Pilot said. “Centre’s attitude after winning the second election (2019) shows that the PM can take any decision to get his name recorded in history,” he added. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot, ministers and legislators from Congress as well as independents were present at the dharna. It was for the first time that Gehlot and Pilot came together for a party event since the latter rebelled with his loyalists against the CM last July-August. Even as they sat side-by-side at the dharna, the two leaders’ body language suggested they were yet to overcome the past bitterness. Both were repeatedly cheered by their supporters during their addresses. Gehlot in his address said the BJP-led central government was under the false impression that just Punjab and Haryana farmers were protesting the farm laws. “People across 6.5 lakh villages in the country are in farmers’ support; PM Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah’s misreading will be cleared when the time comes,” Gehlot said, adding that if the farmers started marching from every state, the Centre would be in trouble. Referring to the US elections, Gehlot said PM Modi would meet the same fate as Donald Trump. “Modi ji gave a slogan for the Trump government, but the people there rejected it. He has now messed up with the farmers; his condition will be the same as Trump.” The CM said the Centre was trying to kill time by repeatedly calling farmers for talks, but not agreeing to their demands. “It thinks the farmers will get tired and the issue will be over,” Gehlot said, adding that the government was “naakara, nikammi and samvedanheen” (worthless and insensitive). “Forty farmers have died in past 39 days, protesting in the open in chilling cold,” Gehlot said. Gehlot stressed that a Muslim from India, barring Kashmir, was never caught for terrorist activities in J&K, but the BJP was trying to alienate the community. “They (BJP and allies) want to push the country towards a Hindu nation, but will never succeed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/narendra-modi-will-meet-donald-trumps-fate-says-rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot/articleshow/80089668.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
January 4, 2021||India||Ordinance to junk laws on farmers’ agenda now||Farmer unions will urge the group of ministers to consider taking the ordinance route to repeal the three farm acts, besides flagging the private member's bill introduced in the Lok Sabha in 2018 as a template to meet their second demand on extending legal guarantee to the MSP mechanism. The unions will have a fresh round of talks with the government on Monday. Though the government had asked the unions to suggest an "alternative to repeal of laws" during their meeting on December 30, farmer leaders continued to stick to their demands with their umbrella body, AIKSCC, on Sunday, broaching the idea of an ordinance. Read AlsoFarmers' unions plan to hold their own parades in Delhi on Republic Day, say it's time for decisive actionNEW DELHI: Delivering an ultimatum to the government ahead of next round of talks on January 4, the farmers’ unions opposed to the central farm laws on Saturday said the farmers, stationed at Delhi borders, would be compelled to march into the Capital and hold ‘Kisan Gantantra Diwas Parade’ (FarmersUnderlining that the success of Monday's talks will depend "entirely on the repeal of the three farm acts", the working group of the AIKSCC said it can be done by an ordinance, which is neither time consuming, nor complicated. They suggested that the ordinance, if promulgated, could well be replaced by repeal acts during the Parliament session. Read AlsoFarmers' unions threaten to intensify protests if January 4 talks fail to meet their core demandsNEW DELHI: Seeking to mount pressure on the government ahead of the upcoming round of talks on Monday, the farmers’ unions on Friday said they would further intensify their protests during next two weeks, beginning January 6, if their core demands - repeal of three central farm laws and legal"If the Narendra Modi government has the will, it is a matter of only a day or two. The main hurdle is the political will of the BJP-led NDA government," said the AIKSCC in a statement on the eve of the talks, while noting that the government's "quest for an alternative remedy is a sure recipe for failure". On the question of legal guarantee to the MSP, farmer leaders are learnt to have discussed the 2018 private member’s bill introduced in LS by then MP Raju Shetti of Swabhimani Paksha as a ready-reckoner to take forward the talks. “The Centre can easily adopt the bill as a government bill with certain modifications without tinkering with its essence, where it says no one can buy crops below MSP. The government can change other provisions while ensuring legal guarantee to MSP,” Shetti told TOI on Sunday. He has planned to lead a big contingent of farmers from his home state to Delhi for the unions’ Republic Day agenda when they would try to enter Delhi if the government doesn’t meet their demands by then. Shetti said, “The government under its ‘one nation one market’ approach can easily bring a law, prohibiting anyone from buying below the MSP.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ordinance-to-junk-laws-on-farmers-agenda-now/articleshow/80088623.cms||Vishwa Mohan
January 4, 2021||Delhi||Delhi judge quotes US author in Anaj Mandi fire case||NEW DELHI: Quotes of authors or writers don't generally figure in court rulings. But the order of a city judge shows an exception when it came to framing culpable homicide charges in the Anaj Mandi fire case. Special judge Mohd Farrukh quoted American author Henry Jackson who had said, “Man is the only creature that dares to light a fire and live with it. The reason? Because he alone has learned how to put it out”. He also called the Anaj Mandi fire the second big fire tragedy, with over 40 deaths, after the tragic incident of Uphar Cinema in 1997. The order stated, “Discovery of fire, or, more precisely, the controlled use of fire, was one of mankind’s first great innovations. Fire is the eliminator, protector, the destroyer and giver of all life.” Three men, Rehan, Suhail and Furkan, were accordingly denied discharge in the case. Rehan and Suhail were charged under Sections 304 part II (culpable homicide not amounting to murder; act done with the knowledge that it is likely to cause death without intention), 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide) and other relevant IPC provisions. All three were, however, charged with 304A (causing death by negligence), 337 (causing hurt by act which endangers human life or personal safety) and 338 (causing grievous hurt) of IPC. The five-storey building, nestled in the bustling Anaj Mandi or grain market at Sadar Bazaar, caught fire on December 8, 2019. Police's investigation revealed that the building was owned by Rehan, his brother-in-law Suhail and Suhail's brother Imran, who is on the run. Furkan was stated to be their manager. The trio had filed a plea seeking their discharge in the case. Through their counsel Rajeev Mohan, it was contended that the workshops in the building were engaged in making or packing harmless material such as bags, mirrors, caps, jackets, toys and the nature of the work was “completely non-hazardous”. Therefore, it was argued that the knowledge that such a fire could lead to so many deaths couldn’t be attributed to these men. Those who died in the blaze – apparently owing to a short-circuit – were labourers but the counsel contested it stating nothing indicated that it was the three accused, who had permitted their overnight stay or, for that matter, had any knowledge of it. The prosecution argued that the building was illegally constructed in breach of the norms and building bylaws and no safety measures according to the Delhi Fire Services Act had been taken. Illegality was also attributed to no emergency exit in the building and the only exit being obstructed with factory material of inflammable nature. It was argued that the accused men were reminded time and again by the tenants to rectify the live wires and clear the material but they didn’t pay heed. The court observed Rehan, Suhail and Imran, who is absconding, were the owners of the premises, which was constructed in an unauthorised manner in violation of various statutory provisions. It noted that the construction was done without keeping in mind the safety of the premises and thereafter further aggravated the circumstances by stocking inflammable material on the exit gate of the building and keeping the live electricity wires. The court called it a “reckless and callous” conduct on the part of the building owners, Rehan and Suhail, for they were “conscious of the defects in the building premises”.  Furkan, on the other hand, was found to have no direct or active role in the day to day affairs of the building premises and was consequently discharged of the culpable homicide charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-judge-quotes-us-author-in-anaj-mandi-fire-case/articleshow/80089726.cms||Aamir Khan
January 4, 2021||Bhopal||Justice Md Rafiq takes oath as CJ of Madhya Pradesh HC||BHOPAL: Governor Anandiben Patel administered oath to newly appointed Chief Justice of Madhya Pradesh high court, Mohammed Rafiq, at Raj Bhavan on Sunday. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, leader of opposition and former CM Kamal Nath and former CM Digvijaya Singh attended the event at Sandipani auditorium in Raj Bhavan. Judges of Madhya Pradesh high court, ministers Narottam Mishra, Kamal Patel, Prabhuram Chaudhary, Om Prakash Sakhlecha, Rajwardhan Singh Dattigaon, pro tem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma, chairpersons of various commissions and senior officers of legal-legislative affairs department were also there. Chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains conducted the oath-taking proceedings. Chief Justice Rafiq has headed the Orissa and Meghalaya high courts prior to this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/justice-md-rafiq-takes-oath-as-cj-of-madhya-pradesh-hc/articleshow/80089745.cms||---
January 4, 2021||India||Private hospitals, companies may get vaccine by March: Serum CEO||MUMBAI: Not only healthcare workers and the vulnerable 'prioritised' population, but private individuals too have reasons to rejoice with the government approving Pune-based Serum Institute of India's Covid-19 vaccine. Once it rolls out the 50-60 million doses of Covishield that forms the first tranche of the government's order, it will give doses to private individuals, private hospitals and companies as early as March, Serum Institute's CEO Adar Poonawalla said on Sunday. This comes in the wake of the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) approving Serum's vaccine for "restricted use in an emergency situation, subject to conditions". The firm will initially supply exclusively to the government, and not sell to the private market. It has also not been allowed to export the vaccine. In a bid to endorse the vaccine and build trust, Poonawalla said he plans to take the shot himself this week, after the formal approval comes. Significantly, the 'special' price of around Rs 200 per shot for the government will only be for the first 100 million doses, Poonawalla said. It will be priced around Rs 1,000 per dose in the private market. "We expect to start deliveries in seven to 10 days after the order. The government indicated they would need 50-60 million doses in a month, or 10-15 million doses a week," he added. The formal letter from the government, including the final order, is still awaited. So, after the government's initial requirements of providing the shot to the "vulnerable and needy" is taken care of, "we will provide it for private use to hospitals and companies", he said. "We will recommend a longer gap (of two and a half months) between the two full doses of the shot as this takes up efficacy to the 90% level" Poonawalla said, adding efficacy improves if you wait for nearly three months. The clinical trials data from India proving this will be made public over the next two months. "Our package insert also recommends a one to three months gap. The longer you wait, the better efficacy you get. This is as per global studies in over 25,000 people on the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine. This recommendation will come from UK soon, we will submit it to the regulator," he added. The overall vaccine efficacy of Serum's vaccine was 70.42%, the DCGI said in a press release. Watch All vaccines tend to protect, but not prevent further infection: Adar Poonawalla||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/private-hospitals-companies-may-get-vaccine-by-march-sii-ceo/articleshow/80088520.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
January 4, 2021||India||Tibetans in exile vote in India for their political leader||DHARAMSALA: Hundreds of Tibetans in exile braved the rain and cold Sunday in Dharamsala, where the exiled government is based, and voted for their new political leader as the current officeholder's five-year term nears its end. The voters wore masks, maintained social distance and used hand sanitizer as they cast their ballots during the first round of the election. Many assisted elderly voters to fill the correct forms. In this first phase of voting, two candidates for the top government post of president will be shortlisted, including 90 parliamentarians. The second and final round of voting will take place in April. "By this we are sending a clear message to Beijing that Tibet is under occupation but Tibetans in exile are free. And given a chance, an opportunity, we prefer democracy," said Lobsang Sangay, who will soon be finishing his second and final term as the Tibetan political leader. "No matter what you do, the pride of Tibetans, the sense of Tibetans, is to be democratic and practice democracy." Formed in 1959, Tibet's government-in-exile - now called the Central Tibetan Administration - has executive, judiciary and legislative branches, with candidates for the office of sikyong, or president, elected since 2011 by popular vote. China says Tibet has historically been part of its territory since the mid-13th century, and its Communist Party has governed the Himalayan region since 1951. But many Tibetans say that they were effectively independent for most of their history, and that the Chinese government wants to exploit their resource-rich region while crushing their cultural identity. The Dalai Lama, the Tibetans' exiled spiritual leader, and his followers have been living in Dharamsala since they fled Tibet after a failed 1959 uprising against Chinese rule. Many young Tibetans are contesting the parliamentary election this year. As the Dalai Lama grows older, there is a growing realisation among the Tibetan youth that they should participate more in the government. "As somebody who has studied technology, I believe I can try and make the parliamentary communications more secure and fill the gaps in information database," said Lobsang Sither, 48, who is contesting the current election. Sither said that the previous governments have largely focused on the Tibetan diaspora and not enough on Tibetans inside Tibet. "That has to change. Unless we have reliable information on the situation inside Tibet, we cannot formulate policies to assist Tibetans there," said Sither. China doesn't recognise the Tibetan government-in-exile, and hasn't held any dialogue with the representatives of the Dalai Lama since 2010. Some Tibetan groups advocate independence for Tibet, since little progress has been made in dialogue with China.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tibetans-in-exile-vote-in-india-for-their-political-leader/articleshow/80089753.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh will have tough law against stone-pelters: CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: After enacting a law against ‘love jihad’, the Madhya Pradesh government is mulling a law against stone pelters in the wake of a string of attacks on saffron rallyists in Ujjain, Indore and Mandsaur. “Stern action and a specific law are needed against those who indulge in stone pelting,” chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Sunday. “At times, stone-pelting poses a danger to life. They also cause damage to public and private property. We also plan to include provisions to recover damages caused during the incident from the accused,” Chouhan said at a New Year gathering at BJP state president VD Sharma’s residence. Chouhan said, “The rule of law will prevail in Madhya Pradesh. Such criminals are not ordinary criminals. They will not be let out. Earlier, there was earlier minor action against such crimes. Now, we are enacting a law for strict punishment.” Violence had erupted in Ujjain, Indore and Mandsaur between December 25 and December 30 in which Hindu activists taking out rallies on the fund-raising drive for construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya came under attack. Shivraj: Law will have provision to confiscate property of stone-peltersAround two dozen people were injured in clashes and 46 arrested. Also, during the early days of the pandemic, Covid warriors repeatedly came under attack on stone-pelters in several parts of the state. On Sunday, Chouhan said the law will have provisions to confiscate the property of those involved in stone-pelting. He instructed officials to crack down hard against such elements. “Not only stone pelting, the miscreants sometimes set shops on fire and ransack. It is an unforgivable crime,” the CM said, adding, “Democracy allows people to put forth their point in a peaceful manner. But we cannot allow arson, ransacking and stone pelting.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-will-have-tough-law-against-stone-pelters-cm/articleshow/80089770.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Business||BPCL, Air India selloff to slip into FY22||NEW DELHI: The government may not be able to close the BPCL and Air India disinvestment transactions by March 31, although it is pushing the sale of five large public sector companies, including BEML, for which it sought interest from potential buyers on Sunday. With BEML and Shipping Corporation last week, four large state-run entities have been put on the block, and Concor is to be offered for sale as soon as the Railways can decide on the policy. A proposal for the land use policy, a key to Concor disinvestment, is pending for Cabinet approval, sources said. Although this will mean that the Narendra Modi government will close another year without a significant strategic sale, official sources told TOI the process has now been set in motion. And, a robust pipeline is being readied to keep the process moving in the next financial year. Against a target of Rs 1.2 lakh crore, the Centre has so far mopped up Rs 13,844 crore with the sale of some shares held by SUUTI, along with a few public issues and buyback of shares expected to yield another Rs 12,000-13,000 crore during the remaining 12 weeks of the current financial year. In addition, LIC stake sale through the initial public offer route will remain incomplete this year as the government needs to amend the law. Similarly, a final call on IDBI Bank stake is yet to be taken. Through the two entities, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had hoped to rake in another Rs 90,000 crore when she had budgeted for record disinvestment receipts of Rs 2.1 lakh crore for 2020-21. Officials blamed Covid-19 as the key factor as nearly six months were wasted due to the lockdown. Besides, the government wanted the process to have sufficient takers and several of the sectors hit by the pandemic to recover before treading on the disinvestment path. Dipam secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey had indicated that the BPCL sale may go through this year. Besides, the government was striving to list LIC during the current fiscal year but the absence of the winter session of Parliament added to the Covid woes on disinvestment as the Bill to amend the law could not be introduced. In case of BEML, the Centre has decided to sell a 26% stake out of its shareholding of 54%, along with management control. As is the case with other PSU selloffs, non-core land and assets will be hived off and will not be a part of disinvestment. Companies, limited liability partnership firms and funds, eligible to invest in India can participate, provided their net worth is over Rs 1,400 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bpcl-air-india-selloff-to-slip-into-fy22/articleshow/80089762.cms||Sidhartha
January 4, 2021||India||Covid: Both vaccines get final nod, first shots to be of Covishield||NEW DELHI: The Serum Institute of India’s Covishield is likely to be first shot used in India’s vaccine drive against Covid-19, with the Drugs Controller General of India on Sunday formally waving the green flag for its use, along with Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. Vaccination is likely to be launched simultaneously in most states that were part of the January 2 dry run, even as the final contours are being worked out. DCGI V G Somani gave emergency use approval for SII, which is making Covishield developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca, and Covaxin, which has to fulfil additional conditionalities. For Covaxin, the authorisation is in clinical-trial mode, which means that monitoring of recipients will be in the same mode as those taking the trial. Though it can be used, Covaxin may be introduced in the vaccination programme a little later. SII and Bharat Biotech have speeded up manufacture of the vaccines and have a substantial stockpile. Govt may follow election-like process, vaccinate handful at each site initiallyFor the rollout of the vaccine, the government is likely to follow an election-like process and identify session sites in particular districts in almost all states on particular dates. Depending on vaccine availability, beneficiaries will be called for inoculation on specified dates in a phased manner. “Limited number of beneficiaries may be inoculated during the first few days on each of the identified sites depending on vaccine availability, much like the way elections are conducted,” an official told TOI. The government has already registered over 75 lakh priority beneficiaries on Co-WIN — the IT platform developed by the Centre to implement the mega vaccination drive. On Saturday, nationwide vaccination dry runs were conducted at 286 session sites across 125 districts. The government is likely to place a formal supply order with Serum Institute of India by Monday in order to facilitate mobilisation of vaccines to cold chain hubs, another senior official said. The vaccines will be further distributed to particular districts as per the final plan for vaccine administration. While the plan is to inoculate 30 crore “priority population” with anti-Covid vaccine by July, the government aims to vaccinate the first three crore, including healthcare and frontline workers, over next two months and vaccination process is likely to pick up pace with simultaneous inoculation of the over-50 population and those who are younger but have serious comorbidities. Since in-principle approvals for SII were in place with the government expecting it to be the first vaccine in the country, it is expected to be easier for the government to procure immediate supplies of Covishield, though soon supplies of Covaxin may follow, an official said. According to sources, the first order is likely to be for 10 crore doses that will be funded through the PM Care. “SII has offered a price of Rs 225-250 per dose for the first tranche, whereas Bharat Biotech has offered Rs 350. For the next lot, the prices may vary,” a source said. Watch DCGI grants approval to vaccines of Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-both-vaccines-get-final-nod-first-shots-to-be-of-covishield/articleshow/80088350.cms||Sushmi Dey
January 4, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Jyotiraditya Scindia loyalists Tulsiram Silawat and Govind Singh Rajput back in Shivraj cabinet||BHOPAL: Tulsiram Silawat and Govind Singh Rajput — close aides of BJP Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia — were re-inducted in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet on Sunday. Acting Governor Anandiben Patel administered the oath to the ministers at a brief ceremony in Raj Bhavan. Scindia is in New Delhi, and didn't attend the function. Silawat and Rajput were among the 22 Scindia loyalists who quit Congress in March 2020, toppling the Kamal Nath government. They were the first from Team Scindia to be made ministers as part of Chouhan’s ‘Covid cabinet’ on April 21 last year, and had to resign on October 20 as six months had passed without their being re-elected to the assembly. They won the November bypolls and were expected to be re-inducted. Sources say they are likely to get back their old portfolios — Silawat had water resources and fisheries and Rajput had revenue and transport. Shiv-Jyoti pair will create history: TulsiThis is the third cabinet expansion of the BJP government within a year. After being sworn in as chief minister for a fourth term on March 23 last year, Chouhan was the lone minister until April 21, when five ministers — Narottam Mishra, Silawat, Rajput, Kamal Patel and Meena Singh — were inducted into the cabinet. The next cabinet expansion took place on July 2, 2020, with the induction of 20 cabinet ministers and eight ministers of state, the lion’s share going to team Scindia. “The pair of Shiv-Jyoti will create history in Madhya Pradesh. Under the leadership of Shivraj Singh Chouhan, we will fulfil the dream of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to create ‘Atmanirbhar Madhya Pradesh’,” said Silawat. CM Chouhan, home minister Narottam Mishra and pro tem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma were present at the oath-taking. A five-term MLA, Silawat was first elected to the assembly in 1985. Rajput won assembly elections in 2003, 2008 and 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-jyotiraditya-scindia-loyalists-tulsiram-silawat-and-govind-singh-rajput-back-in-shivraj-cabinet/articleshow/80089810.cms||---
January 4, 2021||World||Bill introduced in US House to terminate designation of Pakistan as Major non-NATO ally||WASHINGTON: On the first day of the 117th Congress, a lawmaker has introduced a bill in the US House of Representatives to terminate the designation of Pakistan as a Major non-NATO Ally. Introduced by Republican Congressman Andy Biggs, the bill removes Pakistan's designation as a major non-NATO ally, a status that allows for various benefits such as access to excess US defense supplies and participation in cooperative defense research and development projects. The bill also notes that the US President cannot issue a separate designation of Pakistan as a Major NATO ally, unless a presidential certification that Pakistan continues to conduct military operations that are contributing to significantly disrupting the safe haven and freedom of movement of the Haqqani Network in Pakistan. It also seeks a presidential certification that Pakistan has taken steps to demonstrate its commitment to prevent the Haqqani Network from using any Pakistani territory as a safe haven and that the Pak government actively coordinates with Afghanistan to restrict the movement of militants, such as the Haqqani Network, along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. The bill also asks the president to certify that Pakistan has shown progress in arresting and prosecuting Haqqani Network senior leaders and mid-level operatives. Pakistan was named a Major non-NATO ally during the Bush Administration in 2004. Currently, there are 17 Major non-NATO ally. Brazil was the last country to given this designation by President Donald Trump in 2019. The designation gives the countries to entry into cooperative research and development projects with the Department of Defense (DoD) on a shared-cost basis, participation in certain counter-terrorism initiatives, purchase of depleted uranium anti-tank rounds, priority delivery of military surplus (ranging from rations to ships). It also gives them access to War Reserve Stocks of DoD-owned equipment that are kept outside of American military bases, offers them loans of equipment and material for cooperative research and development projects and evaluations and permission to use American financing for the purchase or lease of certain defense equipment. The designation among other things expedites export processing of space technology and permission for the country's corporations to bid on certain DoD contracts for the repair and maintenance of military equipment outside the United States. However, President Trump in January 2018 suspended all financial and security assistance to Pakistan. The outgoing Trump Administration even considered terminating the designation of Pakistan as a Major non-NATO ally. Under the Obama Administration, US designated India as a Major Defense Partner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/bill-introduced-in-us-house-to-terminate-designation-of-pakistan-as-major-non-nato-ally/articleshow/80089803.cms||---
January 4, 2021||World||Bill introduced in US House to terminate designation of Pakistan as Major non-NATO ally||WASHINGTON: On the first day of the 117th Congress, a lawmaker has introduced a bill in the US House of Representatives to terminate the designation of Pakistan as a Major non-NATO Ally. Introduced by Republican Congressman Andy Biggs, the bill removes Pakistan's designation as a major non-NATO ally, a status that allows for various benefits such as access to excess US defense supplies and participation in cooperative defense research and development projects. The bill also notes that the US President cannot issue a separate designation of Pakistan as a Major NATO ally, unless a presidential certification that Pakistan continues to conduct military operations that are contributing to significantly disrupting the safe haven and freedom of movement of the Haqqani Network in Pakistan. It also seeks a presidential certification that Pakistan has taken steps to demonstrate its commitment to prevent the Haqqani Network from using any Pakistani territory as a safe haven and that the Pak government actively coordinates with Afghanistan to restrict the movement of militants, such as the Haqqani Network, along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. The bill also asks the president to certify that Pakistan has shown progress in arresting and prosecuting Haqqani Network senior leaders and mid-level operatives. Pakistan was named a Major non-NATO ally during the Bush Administration in 2004. Currently, there are 17 Major non-NATO ally. Brazil was the last country to given this designation by President Donald Trump in 2019. The designation gives the countries to entry into cooperative research and development projects with the Department of Defense (DoD) on a shared-cost basis, participation in certain counter-terrorism initiatives, purchase of depleted uranium anti-tank rounds, priority delivery of military surplus (ranging from rations to ships). It also gives them access to War Reserve Stocks of DoD-owned equipment that are kept outside of American military bases, offers them loans of equipment and material for cooperative research and development projects and evaluations and permission to use American financing for the purchase or lease of certain defense equipment. The designation among other things expedites export processing of space technology and permission for the country's corporations to bid on certain DoD contracts for the repair and maintenance of military equipment outside the United States. However, President Trump in January 2018 suspended all financial and security assistance to Pakistan. The outgoing Trump Administration even considered terminating the designation of Pakistan as a Major non-NATO ally. Under the Obama Administration, US designated India as a Major Defense Partner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/bill-introduced-in-us-house-to-terminate-designation-of-pakistan-as-major-non-nato-ally/articleshow/80089824.cms||---
January 4, 2021||World||Trump claims US Covid deaths overcounted as toll tops 350k||WASHINGTON: Two top US health officials on Sunday disputed a claim by President Donald Trump that federal data on Covid-19 cases and deaths in the US is overblown, and both expressed optimism that the pace of vaccinations is picking up. "The deaths are real deaths," Anthony Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said on ABC News' This Week, adding that jam-packed hospitals and stressed-out healthcare workers are "not fake. That's real." Fauci and US Surgeon General Jerome Adams, who appeared on CNN's State of the Union, defended the accuracy of coronavirus data published by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention after Trump attacked the agency's tabulation methods. "The number of cases and deaths of the China Virus is far exaggerated in the United States because of the @CDCgov's ridiculous method of determination compared to other countries, many of whom report, purposely, very inaccurately and low," Trump wrote on Twitter. Trump, a Republican who leaves office on January 20 after losing a bid for a second term to Democrat Joe Biden, has frequently has downplayed the severity of the pandemic. He has also scorned and ignored federal recommendations for containing the spread. The Covid-19 death toll in the US has surpassed 350,000 as experts anticipate another surge in coronavirus cases and deaths stemming from holiday gatherings over Christmas and New Year's. Data compiled by Johns Hopkins University shows the US passed the threshold early Sunday morning. More than 20 million people in the country have been infected. "From a public health perspective, I have no reason to doubt those numbers and I think people need to be very aware that it's not just about the deaths," Adams said. "It's about the hospitalisations, the capacity." Fauci and Adams expressed optimism that the pace of vaccinating Americans against the virus is accelerating after a slow start. More than 4.2 million people have been inoculated since December 14 with one of two vaccines, far short of the Trump administration's goal of 20 million by the end of 2020. "We wanted to get to 20 million, but some glimmer of hope is that in the last 72 hours, they've gotten 1.2 million doses into peoples' arms, which is an average of about 500,000 a day," Fauci said. "We are not where we want to be. There's no doubt about that. But I think we can get there." He said he believed that the number of daily vaccinations could be expanded to 1 million and called for "a real partnership" between the federal and state governments. The US state of California, meanwhile, reported 53,341 new cases. The increase brings the total for the state to almost 2.3 million - with only six countries globally having more infections. Also, New York state passed 1 million Covid-19 cases, after a sombre year in which more than 30,000 of its residents died from the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-claims-us-covid-deaths-overcounted-as-toll-tops-350k/articleshow/80089835.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Jammu||Bed-ridden for 15 years, Jammu & Kashmir man bags award for PMAY house||BHADARWAH (J&K): Bed-ridden for the last 15 years, a 65-year-old man from Bhadarwah in J&K’s Doda district was among three residents of the Union Territory who recently received the ‘best construction award’ under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY). Abdul Latief Ganai expressed his gratitude to PM Narendra Modi and said “the scheme came as a blessing in disguise for his family”. Modi and Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri awarded the ‘best construction award’ under PMAY to Ganai through video conferencing on Friday. The awardee was joined by Doda deputy commissioner Sagar Dattaray Doifode, Bhadarwah municipal committee executive officer Yusaf-Ul-Umar and other officials at the mini secretariat in Doda. During the video conference, Modi talked about the scheme that started in June 2015 and the number of beneficiaries from poor and middleclass families. Out of total 88 beneficiaries selected for the best construction award from the country, three belonged to J&K — one each from Samba, Ramgarh and Bhadarwah. “Due to my prolonged illness, I had to sell everything I had and lived in one room with my wife and two sons but the scheme came as a big relief to my family,” Ganai said. Hailing from Bhadarwah town, Ganai used to work at a small cloth shop but a severe slip disc left him bed ridden for 15 years and bankrupt. “The scheme came as a blessing in disguise for my family as today we are living in our own pucca house and also have been awarded for the best construction by the PM himself,” the villager said. His son Nadeem Latief said, “We have seen very difficult times as for years me and my brother used to spend nights with our cousins or at a friend’s place as we have only one room, but now we have our own roof for which we are thankful to the PM.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/bed-ridden-for-15-years-jammu-kashmir-man-bags-award-for-pmay-house/articleshow/80089836.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Bhopal||Weather balloon sparks UFO frenzy in Madhya Pradesh village||BHOPAL: UFO fever has left a Bundelkhand farmer in tears. A rumour that a 'flying saucer' had crashed in his farm flew like lightning through a cluster of villages in MP's Chhatarpur district, triggering a frenzy to "see the alien". The crowd trampled his standing crops, brushing aside his pleas that whatever had fallen from the sky doesn't look like anything out of this world. It turned out to be a weather balloon carrying a radiosonde. #MadhyaPradesh: Farmers mistake weather balloon as UFO https://t.co/0GquEfrTVK— TOI Bhopal (@TOIBhopalNews) 1609664198000In parched Bundelkhand, a field of standing crop is a treasure. The farmer, Nathu, has demanded compensation from the government. The incident isn't without mystery, however. Just where the weather balloon came from isn't known. The Met office has said it isn't one of theirs. Nathu lives in Kherakasar village, about 70km from Chhatarpur district headquarters and 450km from Bhopal. It was New Year's Day when he and other villagers saw something shiny floating in the sky and headed for a crashlanding. "I saw it falling around 11.30am and ran towards it. It had a long wire. When people around came to know about it, they came running into my farm, trampling crops, despite all my efforts to stop them," said Nathu. Within minutes, rumours of a UFO had escalated to 'aliens' and soon frantic calls were going to police about a 'bomb' or 'crashed aircraft'. Another villager said: "The panchs and sarpanchs from three villages came to see this object. It looked like a punctured balloon tied to a small box. Villagers are in panic, it could be a bomb."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/weather-balloon-sparks-ufo-frenzy-in-madhya-pradesh-village/articleshow/80089871.cms||P Naveen
January 4, 2021||Bhopal||4 lakh health workers in Madhya Pradesh to be vaccinated in seven days||BHOPAL: It will take about a week to vaccinate all 4 lakh healthcare workers in Madhya Pradesh once the Covid-19 mass vaccination starts. A high-level meeting of the health department will be held on Monday in Bhopal to finalise procurement, supply and storage of the vaccine and implementation of the massive immunization drive. About 500 vaccination centres have been shortlisted, sources told TOI. In the first round, health workers on the forefront of the Covid battle will get the first shots. There are 53 district hospitals, 84 civil hospitals and 334 community health care centres (CHC) that would double as vaccination centres. So will medical colleges, dental colleges and Ayush hospitals.MP health department has prepped some 1,100 primary health care centres for the drive. With 100 vaccinations per centre per day, the first round of 4 lakh healthcare workers is likely to be over within a week, said a health department official, adding that India’s current Covid-19 vaccine production capacity is 1 lakh per day. According to sources, the Covid-19 vaccine will be brought by air cargo, with the drop-off hubs being Bhopal and Indore airport. From there, the vaccines will be transported via road in the prescribed temperature. A cold chain network is already in place. According to highly placed sources, a beneficiary list of other frontline Covid workers — military and police personnel, and employees of railways, urban development and home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/4-lakh-health-workers-in-madhya-pradesh-to-be-vaccinated-in-seven-days/articleshow/80089856.cms||Jamal Ayub
January 4, 2021||World||How US Congress will count Electoral College votes||WASHINGTON: Wednesday's congressional joint session to count electoral votes has taken on added importance this year as congressional Republicans allied with President Donald Trump are pledging to try and undo Democrat Joe Biden's victory and subvert the will of the American people. The Republicans - a dozen senators and many more House members - are citing Trump's repeated, baseless charges of widespread fraud. They say they will officially object to the results, forcing votes in the Republican-run Senate and the Democratic-controlled House that will almost certainly fail. There was not widespread fraud in the election, as has been confirmed by a range of election officials and by William Barr, who stepped down as attorney general last month. Neither Trump nor any of the lawmakers promising to object to the count have presented credible evidence that would change the outcome. Nearly all of the legal challenges put forth by Trump and his allies have been dismissed by judges. The Supreme Court, which includes three Trump-nominated justices, has also denied requests to hear a pair of cases aimed at invalidating the outcome of the election in key battleground states. The congressional meeting on January 6 is the final step in reaffirming Biden's win, after the Electoral College officially elected him in December. The meeting is required by the Constitution and includes several distinct steps. A look at the joint session: WHAT HAPPENS WHEN CONGRESS MEETS WEDNESDAY?Under federal law, Congress must meet Jan. 6 to open sealed certificates from each state that contain a record of their electoral votes. The votes are brought into the chamber in special mahogany boxes used for the occasion. Bipartisan representatives of both chambers read the results out loud and do an official count. The president of the Senate, Vice President Mike Pence, presides over the session and declares the winner. The session begins at 1pm EST. WHAT DOES THE CONSTITUTION REQUIRE?The Constitution requires Congress to meet and count the electoral votes. If there is a tie, then the House decides the presidency, with each congressional delegation having one vote. That hasn't happened since the 1800s, and Biden's electoral win over Trump was decisive, 306-232. HOW DOES THE SESSION UNFOLD?The two chambers meet together midday to count the votes . If the vice president cannot preside, there is precedent for the Senate pro-tempore, or the longest-serving senator in the majority party, to lead the session. That's currently Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa. The presiding officer opens and presents the certificates of the electoral votes in alphabetical order of the states. The appointed "tellers" from the House and Senate, members of both parties, then read each certificate out loud and record and count the votes. At the end, the presiding officer announces who has won the majority votes for both president and vice president. WHAT IF THERE'S AN OBJECTION?After a teller reads the certificate from a state, any member can stand up and object to that state's vote on any grounds. But the presiding officer will not hear the objection unless it is in writing and signed by both a member of the House and a member of the Senate. If there is such a request, then the joint session suspends and the House and Senate go into separate sessions to consider it. For the objection to be sustained, both chambers must agree to it by a simple majority vote. If they do not both agree, the original electoral votes are counted with no changes. The last time such an objection was considered was 2005, when Rep. Stephanie Tubbs Jones of Ohio and Sen. Barbara Boxer of California, both Democrats, objected to Ohio's electoral votes, claiming there were voting irregularities. Both the House and Senate debated the objection and easily rejected it. It was only the second time such a vote had occurred. WHO IS EXPECTED TO OBJECT?Dozens of House Republicans and a smaller group of GOP senators are expected to object to the count from some swing states where Trump has alleged fraud, despite the consensus of nonpartisan election officials and even Trump's former attorney general that there was none. None of the members have presented detailed evidence and none of them objected to the swearing-in of congressional lawmakers who won election on the same ballots. In the Senate, Missouri Sen. Josh Hawley was the first to say he would join with the House Republicans. On Saturday, Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas announced a coalition of 11 additional senators who vowed to vote against unspecified state electors on Wednesday unless Congress appoints an electoral commission to immediately conduct an audit of the election results. Hawley and Cruz are both among potential 2024 presidential contenders. The challenges have split the party. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell has urged his colleagues not to object, saying last month on a private call that the vote would be ``terrible.'' Several other Senate Republicans have criticized the effort as well, including Texas Sen. John Cornyn and South Dakota Sen. John Thune, the No. 2 Senate Republican. Thune said last month that any objections will go down ``like a shot dog'' in the Senate. On Sunday, Nebraska Sen. Ben Sasse said the challenge is "bad for the country and bad for the party." WHAT IS PENCE'S ROLE?Pence's role is largely ceremonial and he has no power to affect the outcome, despite Trump's wishes to the contrary. The role of the vice president as presiding officer is often an awkward one, as it will be for Pence, who will be charged with announcing Biden's victory - and his own defeat - once the electoral votes are counted. Pence won't be the first vice president put in an uncomfortable situation. In 2001, Vice President Al Gore presided over the counting of the 2000 presidential election he narrowly lost to Republican George W. Bush. Gore had to gavel several Democrats' objections out of order. In 2017, Biden presided over the count that declared Trump the winner. Biden also shot down objections from House Democrats that did not have any Senate support. ONCE CONGRESS COUNTS THE VOTES, WHAT'S NEXT?The joint session is the last official chance for objections, beyond court cases that have so far proven ineffective for Trump and his team. "I think there comes a time when you have to realize that, despite your best efforts you've been unsuccessful," Cornyn said earlier this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/how-us-congress-will-count-electoral-college-votes/articleshow/80089828.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Business||Japanese shares fall as PM Suga considers state of emergency for Tokyo||TOKYO: Japanese shares fell on Monday after Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga said he is considering a state of emergency for Tokyo and surrounding prefectures to contain a spike in local coronavirus infections. The Nikkei 225 Index fell 0.63% to 27,268.38 by 0205 GMT in its first trading session of 2021, on course for the biggest daily decline in two weeks. The broader Topix fell 0.74% to 1,791.10. Shares of airlines, transport companies, and retailers fell on fears that travel restrictions and shorter business hours will curb consumer spending and hurt the services sector. Japanese shares rallied in the final days of last year to a 30-year high due to hopes that the approval of coronavirus vaccines would ramp up the global economy's recovery from the pandemic, but a record number of cases in Tokyo and surrounding cities has caused investors to temper their optimism. "There could be a small correction to 26,000 or 25,500," said Kiyoshi Ishigane, chief fund manager at Mitsubishi UFJ Kokusai Asset Management. "Companies related to services are getting hurt, but manufacturers focused on overseas demand should continue to do well." The underperformers among the Topix 30 were Central Japan Railway Co down 3.12%, followed by Tokio Marine Holdings Inc losing 1.94%. The stocks that gained the most among the top 30 core Topix names were Daiichi Sankyo Co Ltd up 2.26%, followed by Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp rising 1.95%. Suga on Monday reiterated a request for some businesses to close early, but on the positive side he said the rollout of vaccinations could start as soon as February-end. There were 23 advancers on the Nikkei index against 200 decliners. The volume of shares traded on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's main board was 0.48 billion, compared with the average of 1.2 billion in the past 30 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/japanese-shares-fall-as-pm-suga-considers-state-of-emergency-for-tokyo/articleshow/80089889.cms||---
January 4, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: ‘Lightning death’ turns out to be murder in four-month probe||BHOPAL: What was thought to be a ‘lightning death’ turned out to be cold-blooded murder, Bhopal district police said on Sunday after arresting a farmer in Gunga area following four months of investigation. Police say Raees Khan, 36, electrocuted 22-year-old Dharmendra Chouhan on August 29 because he opposed the youth’s relationship with his daughter. He staged the scene to look like Dharmendra was killed by a lightning strike — and this is how it was reported in the media as well. It was monsoon and weather reports had regular lightning warnings. News reports of the day, quoting police, had said that a biker had been killed by a lightning strike. The autopsy ruled death was due to electrocution. A head injury was detected but it was attributed to the bike crash after the ‘lightning strike’. However, some things didn’t add up, and police kept digging. Additional SP-zone 4 Dinesh Koushal told TOI that they were intrigued by why the victim’s right hand was clenched and severely burned. “It wasn’t what we see in lightning deaths. It’s as if he was holding something when he got electrocuted,” he said. Also, there were no skid marks or other tell-tale signs of a highspeed crash. Police spoke with Dharmendra’s family, who said that he had an affair with Raees’s daughter and he was bitterly opposed to it. Took 4 months to gather proof to bust lightning death claimAccording to them, Raees had threatened to kill Dharmendra if he continued to meet her, but the youth, who worked at a mall in Bhopal’s Shahpura locality, was undeterred. “After getting the forensic reports, the theory of lightning was discarded and the affair angle, which was alleged by the victim’s parents, was investigated,” said ASP Koushal. Police had their suspicions, and began gathering evidence, said Gunga SHO Ramesh Rai, who investigated the case. “It took four months to collect evidence, like wires and other equipment used in the crime, and to take statements, but we finally registered a case on January 2 and arrested Raees,” said Rai. The ASP said all the equipment used by Raees in the crime has been confiscated. According to police, Raees knew Dharmendra would meet his daughter in the fields, barely 1km from his home, on the evening of August 29. He allegedly lay in wait at the rendezvous and clobbered Dharmendra on the head with a stone when he was returning to his bike after meeting the girl. When the youth fell unconscious, Raees used a wire to draw current from a high tension line and electrocuted him, said Rai. He then dragged the body to the road, and toppled the motorcycle to make it seem like Dharmendra had been killed by lightning, say police. Villagers found the body the next morning and dialed 100. Four months on, Raees has been booked for murder and disappearance of evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-lightning-death-turns-out-to-be-murder-in-four-month-probe/articleshow/80089958.cms||Arun Singh
January 4, 2021||World||US Congress passes 'Malala Yousafzai Scholarship Act' for Pakistani women||WASHINGTON: The US Congress has passed the 'Malala Yousafzai Scholarship Act' which will expand the number of scholarships available to Pakistani women to receive higher education under a merit and needs-based programme. Passed by the House of Representatives in March 2020, the bill was passed by the United States Senate by a voice vote on January 1. The bill now heads to the White House for US President Donald Trump to sign into law. The bill requires the US Agency for International Development to award at least 50 per cent of scholarships under a Pakistan-based higher education scholarship programme to Pakistani women, from 2020 to 2022, across a range of academic disciplines and in accordance with existing eligibility criteria. The bill also requires USAID to consult with and leverage investments by the Pakistani private sector and Pakistani diaspora in the United States to improve and expand access to education programmes in Pakistan. Among other thing, it requires USAID to brief Congress annually on the number of scholarships awarded under the programme, including breakdowns by gender, discipline, and degree type; the percentage of recipients who were involuntarily pushed out of the programme for failure to meet programme requirements; and the percentage of recipients who dropped out of school, including due to retaliation for seeking education. On October 10, 2014, Malala shared the Nobel Peace Prize with Indian children's rights activist Kailash Satyarthi for her "struggle against the suppression of children and young people and for the right of all children to education". In October 2012, Malala was shot in the head by Pakistani Taliban on her way home from school. In late 2008, she began making the case for access to education for women and girls despite objections from the Pakistani Taliban. Since 2010, the USAID has awarded more than 6,000 scholarships for young women to receive higher education in Pakistan. The bill expands this programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-congress-passes-malala-yousafzai-scholarship-act-for-pakistani-women/articleshow/80090010.cms||---
