January 5, 2021||Business||Amazon, Berkshire, JPMorgan healthcare joint venture to shut business next month||NEW DELHI: The healthcare joint venture of Amazon.com Inc, Berkshire Hathaway Inc and JPMorgan Chase & Co, will cease to exist at the end of February, it said on Monday. The move comes three years after the companies came together to form Haven to address the rising healthcare cost in the United States. The company had said in May last year that its chief executive officer Atul Gawande, a Harvard surgeon and author, will step down and take the role of chairman. The announcement to form the company shook the shares of health insurance companies such as UnitedHealth Group Inc and Cigna Corp that manage large corporate benefits on worries that Amazon would disrupt the traditional insurance and drug benefit businesses. CNBC, which first reported that Haven will disband, also reported that many of the Boston-based company's 57 workers are expected to be placed at Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway or JPMorgan Chase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/amazon-berkshire-jpmorgan-healthcare-joint-venture-to-shut-business-next-month/articleshow/80103230.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Viren Khanna gets bail in Banaswadi drug case||BENGALURU: The high court on Monday granted bail to event manager Viren Khanna, accused in a drug-peddling case with alleged Sandalwood links, in another drug case registered by Banaswadi police in 2018. Central Crime Branch (CCB) had arrested Khanna in New Delhi based on information provided by suspended RTO official BK Ravi Shankar. Khanna will remain in jail in connection with the FIR registered by Cottonpet police. Khanna argued that the two FIRs against him had the same set of facts/allegations. Registering of two FIRs is impermissible and results in double jeopardy, he argued. Considering this aspect, Justice Sreenivas Harish Kumar allowed the bail plea. Khanna was told to furnish a bail bond for Rs 2 lakh and two sureties for like sum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/viren-khanna-gets-bail-in-banaswadi-drug-case/articleshow/80103270.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Bengaluru||Dismissed govt teacher arrested in Bengaluru for luring men, extorting money||BENGALURU: Indiranagar police on Monday arrested a 38-year-old former government school teacher for allegedly extorting money from men after luring them with offers of sexual favours. The accused is CS Kavita, a resident of Rammohanpura, near Devaiah Park, Malleshwaram. DCP (east) SD Sharanappa said the arrest was made on the basis of a complaint filed by an Indiranagar resident. “On December 21 last year, I met Kavita through a matrimonial website. Around 9.30pm on December 26 night, Kavita came to my house in Indiranagar and we indulged in physical intimacy. We recorded our acts on my laptop. Around 12.30am, she demanded money and my gold chain. When I refused, she threatened to fix me in a false rape case. However, I firmly refused,” the complainant said. “The next day, she went to the Indiranagar police station, alleging that I tried to rape her. Police summoned me and when I went to the station, Kavita was there. She told me that if I give Rs 5 lakh, she will not file the case. I agreed to pay Rs 2 lakh. Going inside the station, I explained everything to the cops. As directed by police, I filed this complaint of cheating and extortion against Kavita,” the complainant narrated. Investigations revealed Kavita had similarly extorted money from some more men. “A quick look into her records reveals she has filed attempt -to-rape complaints against men in Malleswaram and Mahadevapura police stations. We suspect the accused has extorted many more men in a similar way. We hope to get details during the course of investigation,” Sharanappa said. Removed from jobKavita worked as a teacher with a government primary school in Chikkamagaluru district. She was accused of manhandling her male colleague and a case was registered against her with Lingadahalli police. After the incident, Kavita didn’t come to work. Owing to her long absence and lack of reply to notices sent, the government dismissed her from the job, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/dismissed-govt-teacher-arrested-for-luring-men-extorting-money/articleshow/80103499.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Bengaluru||Teen playing cricket in Bengaluru dies after bee attack||BENGALURU: A 14-year-old boy died after honey bees attacked him on Sunday when he was playing cricket with his friends at Junior College Ground, in Vijayapura town, near Devanahalli. Police said the incident took place around 2pm. A swarm of bees from a nearby hive started stinging Bharath, a class 10 student at a private school and resident of Ramamandir Street, Vijayapura. Noticing this, his five friends fled the spot and escaped the insect bites. A few minutes later, they returned to the spot to save their friend only to find him unconscious. Passersby rushed Bharath to a nearby hospital. He did not respond to treatment and breathed his last around 8.30pm. Vijayapura police have registered a case of unnatural death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/teen-playing-cricket-dies-after-bee-attack/articleshow/80103501.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Goa||AFC U-16 C’ship our biggest motivation, says India coach Bibiano||Panaji: It has been a long wait for Bibiano Fernandes and his under-16 national football team to come together and do what they love most. The team were in good form when they qualified for the final round of AFC U-16 Championships, scheduled to be held last year in Bahrain. India were clubbed in Group C alongside South Korea, Australia and Uzbekistan, until the coronavirus pandemic disrupted football activities. The team resumed training last month at the Rosary ground, Navelim, and the young boys are inside a bio-secure bubble. Although there is no indication on resumption of international competitions, Bibiano has kept his boys motivated as they get used to the new normal. “It’s true that we are all missing our homes, especially the boys. However, the goal we have set for ourselves at the AFC U-16 Championship stays our biggest motivation. I am proud of my team for sacrificing a lot to fulfil that goal. When we feel down and low, we keep reminding each other of our dream and support each other,” Bibiano told TOI. A semifinal berth would have earned India a place for the 2021 Fifa Under-17 World Cup in Peru. In the last edition of the qualifiers, India put up a brave fight and remained a win away from a direct qualification for the World Cup. India lost to South Korea by a solitary goal in the quarterfinals. The team knows their goal. Even the nationwide lockdown has not changed anything. “The team was doing very well prior to the lockdown and therefore there has not been much change in our approach. Having worked with the boys even during the lockdown period through online sessions, we were able to get going from exactly where we had left eight months ago,” said Bibiano. Having been away for so long, they are now primarily improving on fitness, polishing their basics along with some tactical sessions. The boys are making up for lost time. “It has been difficult, but the boys have shown great maturity to adapt and comply with whatever rules and regulations have been put forward,” said Bibiano. Many stars have come up in the I-League and Indian Super League (ISL) with the guidance of the Goan coach and Bibiano feels proud to see them shape well. “It is indeed heart-warming to see my former players now making a mark in the ISL. They have all worked incredibly hard to reach where they are now,” said Bibiano. His current batch of players will have taken note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/afc-u-16-cship-our-biggest-motivation-says-india-coach-bibiano/articleshow/80103670.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
January 5, 2021||World||England goes into new Covid-19 lockdown as cases surge||LONDON: Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced on Monday a new national lockdown for England until at least mid-February to combat a fast-spreading new variant of the coronavirus, even as Britain ramped up its vaccination program by becoming the first nation to start using the shot developed by Oxford University and drugmaker AstraZeneca. Johnson said people must stay at home again, as they were ordered to do so in the first wave of the pandemic in March, this time because the new virus variant was spreading in a "frustrating and alarming" way. "As I speak to you tonight, our hospitals are under more pressure from Covidthan at any time since the start of the pandemic," he said in a televised address. From Tuesday, primary and secondary schools and colleges will be closed for face to face learning except for the children of key workers and vulnerable pupils. University students will not be returning until at least mid-February. People were told to work from home unless it's impossible to do so, and leave home only for essential trips. All nonessential shops and personal care services like hairdressers will be closed, and restaurants can only operate takeout services. As of Monday, there were 26,626 Covid-19 patients in hospitals in England, an increase of more than 30% from a week ago. That is 40% above the highest level of the first wave in the spring. Large areas of England were already under tight restrictions as officials try to control an alarming surge in coronavirus cases in recent weeks, blamed on a new variant of Covid-19 that is more contagious than existing variants. Authorities have recorded more than 50,000 new infections daily since passing that milestone for the first time on Dec. 29. On Monday, they reported 407 virus-related deaths to push the confirmed death toll total to 75,431, one of the worst in Europe. The U.K.'s chief medical officers warned that without further action, "there is a material risk of the National Health Service in several areas being overwhelmed over the next 21 days." Hours earlier, Scotland's leader, Nicola Sturgeon, also imposed a lockdown there with broadly similar restrictions from Tuesday until the end of January. "I am more concerned about the situation we face now than I have been at any time since March last year," Sturgeon said in Edinburgh. The announcements came on the day UK health authorities began putting the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine into arms around the country, fueling hopes that life may begin returning to normal by the spring. "The weeks ahead will be the hardest yet but I really do believe that we're entering the last phase of the struggle," Johnson said. Britain has secured the rights to 100 million doses of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, which is cheaper and easier to use than some of its rivals. In particular, it doesn't require the super-cold storage needed for the Pfizer vaccine. The new vaccine will be administered at a small number of hospitals for the first few days so authorities can watch out for any adverse reactions. Officials said hundreds of new vaccination sites including local doctors' offices will open later this week, joining the more than 700 vaccination sites already in operation. A "massive ramp-up operation" is now underway, Johnson said. The goal was that by mid-February, some 13 million people in the top priority groups care home residents, all those over 70 years old, frontline health and social workers, and those deemed extremely clinically vulnerable will be vaccinated, he said. Brian Pinker, an 82-year-old dialysis patient, received the first Oxford-AstraZeneca shot early Monday at Oxford University Hospital. "The nurses, doctors and staff today have all been brilliant, and I can now really look forward to celebrating my 48th wedding anniversary with my wife, Shirley, later this year," Pinker said in a statement released by the National Health Service. But aspects of Britain's vaccination plan have spurred controversy. Both vaccines require two shots, and Pfizer had recommended that the second dose be given within 21 days of the first. But the UK's Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunization said authorities should give the first vaccine dose to as many people as possible, rather than setting aside shots to ensure others receive two doses. It has stretched out the time between the doses from 21 days to within 12 weeks. While two doses are required to fully protect against Covid-19, both vaccines provide high levels of protection after the first dose, the committee said. Making the first dose the priority will "maximize benefits from the vaccination program in the short term," it said. Stephen Evans, a professor of pharmacoepidemiology at the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, said policymakers are being forced to balance the potential risks of this change against the benefits in the middle of a deadly pandemic. "As has become clear to everyone during 2020, delays cost lives," Evans said. "When resources of doses and people to vaccinate are limited, then vaccinating more people with potentially less efficacy is demonstrably better than a fuller efficacy in only half." Monday's urgent announcement was yet another change of course for Johnson, who had stuck with a regional alert system that stipulated varying restrictions for areas depending on the severity of local infections. London and large areas of southeast England were put under the highest level of restrictions in mid-December, and more regions soon joined them. But it soon became clear that the regional approach wasn't working to tamp down the spread of the virus, and critics have been clamoring for a tougher national lockdown. And while schools in London were already closed due to high infection rates in the capital, Johnson had said that students in many parts of the country could return to classrooms on Monday after the Christmas holidays, to the dismay of teachers' unions. "We are relieved the government has finally bowed to the inevitable and agreed to move schools and colleges to remote education in response to alarming Covid infection rates," said Geoff Barton, general secretary of the Association of School and College Leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/england-goes-into-new-covid-19-lockdown-as-cases-surge/articleshow/80105744.cms||---
January 5, 2021||India||Court: Give riot accused copies of chargesheet||NEW DELHI: A court hearing riots cases has recently asked senior police officers of northeast Delhi to issue directions to investigating officers for supplying copies of the chargesheet to the accused. Chief metropolitan magistrate Dinesh Kumar was hearing a case, in which three accused, Sandeep, Dinesh and Tinku, stated that they hadn’t received the copy of the chargesheet, while another accused, Babu, submitted that he had got one. “The IO of the present case is directed to supply the copy of the chargesheet to the accused through Jail Superintendent concerned before the next date of hearing. He shall file the report of compliance in the court on the next date of hearing. Copy of this order be sent to the DCP concerned and to the IO for information and necessary compliance,” the court ordered. The court also issued notice to the investigating officer and asked him to “explain why the copy of chargesheet was not supplied to the accused through jail superintendent as directed”. “It has been noticed that the IOs of various cases are not supplying the copies to the accused persons despite directions of the court within time, which is resulting in delay in committal of various cases to the sessions court for further proceedings in the matter. Therefore, a copy of this order be sent to DCP, north-east, to issue a direction to IOs in all the police stations to supply the copy of the chargesheet to the accused persons well within time before the next date of hearing,” the court stated. On Monday, former JNU student and an accused in Delhi riots cases Umar Khalid alleged that a section of the media had received the copy of the chargesheet even before he could get one, thereby affecting his right to fair trial. He approached the court in relation to a chargesheet filed against him and others by Delhi Police in connection with a riot case at the Khajuri Khas police station. Khalid, through his counsel, contended before a court that the ethics of using “alleged” before his name was not followed in media reports. Directions were, therefore, sought from the court to the investigating officer to find out as to how the media was getting the chargesheet before it was given to an accused. The next hearing has been fixed for Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/court-give-riot-accused-copies-of-chargesheet/articleshow/80106035.cms||---
January 5, 2021||India||Outbreak of bird flu in Himachal, Kerala, Rajasthan||Himachal Pradesh, Kerala and Rajasthan on Monday confirmed bird flu to be the cause of death of hundreds of birds even as several other states, including Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand, sounded alerts on the disease. The death of migratory birds — 2,300 till Monday — in the Pong Dam reservoir area in Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh was due to avian influenza, chief conservator of forests, Dharamshala, Upasana Patiyal, confirmed on Monday. As a precaution, the state government has banned the sale, purchase and slaughter of poultry in Fatehpur, Dehra, Jawali and Indora sub-divisions of Kangra district. Export of poultry products and fish has also been stopped. The animal husbandry department staff has been directed to constitute rapid response teams to tackle the spread of the disease. Kerala’s minister for forests, wildlife and animal husbandry K Raju said bird flu was reported in Kottayam and Alappuzha and that 12,000 ducks were killed by the disease. Authorities have been instructed to cull all birds within a one-kilometre radius of the areas in which it was reported. This would include all types of poultry and ornamental birds. Raju said 36,000 birds will have to be culled to avoid further spread of the disease. This is the third outbreak of bird flu in Alappuzha over the past seven years. "As per the estimate of the animal husbandry department, 34,602 birds (mainly ducks) need to be culled in Kuttanad and it will be completed in three days. These include 5,975 birds in Nedumudi, 11,250 birds in Thakazhi, 4,627 birds in Pallippad and 12,750 birds in Karuvatta," collector A Alexander said. Also, the National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases in Bhopal has confirmed that the death of crows in Rajasthan’s Jhalawar was due to bird flu. The toll, mostly crows, reached 522 on Monday. Director, animal husbandry, Virendra Singh, said, "The highest number of crow deaths, 36, was reported in Jaipur. Till January 4, 391 crows have died across the state." Other than the state capital, two new cases were reported in Jhalawar, where crow deaths were witnessed for the first time. Deaths were reported in Kota (12), Baran (12) and Bikaner (11). In Dausa district, six deaths were recorded — two crows and four herons. Also, the death of one heron and four crows was reported in Jodhpur. "Migratory birds are the suspected to be source of this virus," a senior animal husbandry official said. A senior health department official told TOI, "Bird flu may transmit from birds to humans. We have directed our officials to keep a close eye on poultry farms and other areas where birds are inhabited." Fears of bird flu after the death of 53 birds at Bantva in Gujarat’s Junagadh, majority of them lapwings, were allayed by forest department officials who said postmortems have revealed that the birds may have died of poisoning. Meanwhile, Madhya Pradesh too issued an alert over an H5N8 avian influenza outbreak, which has killed 160 crows and at least two herons in Indore in the past one week. Animal husbandry department officials in every district have been asked to be on the alert and follow SOPs to check the spread of the virus. So far, there is no evidence of transmission to poultry. In the wake of the bird deaths in Himachal, the animal husbandry department in Punjab’s Pathankot district has begun taking preventive measures to prevent the spread of any possible infection among poultry birds from migratory birds. Deputy director (animal husbandry), Pathankot, Ramesh Kohli, said department staff have begun collecting bird droppings and water samples from poultry farms which would be sent to Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, to rule out any infection. There are more than 60 major poultry farms with a bird population of more than 50 to 60 lakhs in Pathankot’s Narot Jaimal Singh, Dhar, Pathankot and Sujanpur blocks, he added. Mystery shrouds deaths of chicken as the cause remains inconclusive. In the past one week, 20 Barwala-based poultry farms have faced deaths 1.5 lakh birds. The samples picked up by the animal husbandry and dairy department have been sent for forensic examination to RDDL and the report is awaited, said deputy director Anil Banwala. "As of now, we hope that no such deadly disease is the cause. If there had been any disease then the birds would have died within hours but here birds are dying from the past one week," Banwala said. Poultry farm owners have claimed that the birds have died due to drop in temperature and this is an annual affair when temperature drops below 5ºC. Jharkhand, too, sounded an alert across all 24 districts, asking officials to keep a close watch and make necessary arrangements to tackle any situation that may arise. Watch High alert: Kerala declares bird flu as state-specific disaster; cases found in Kottayam, Alappuzha||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/outbreak-of-bird-flu-in-himachal-kerala-rajasthan/articleshow/80106049.cms||---
January 5, 2021||India||21 of 26 SC panel members for 10m Char Dham road||NEW DELHI: A majority of members, 21 of 26, of the Supreme Court-appointed high-powered committee have supported widening of the Char Dham road to a 10-metre tarred surface (7-metre main carriageway and 3-metre paved shoulder) considering the "security interests of the nation". Four members of the panel, including its chairman and environmentalist Ravi Chopra, have recommended the road width to be 5.5 metres (intermediary lane). One member has recommended that the national highways from Rishikesh to Gangotri, Rishikesh to Mana and Tanakpur to Pithoragarh should be widened to 10 metres, but a flexible approach be adopted in areas like the Bhagirathi eco sensitive zone to minimise damage to forest and wildlife habitat. The member secretary of the panel has not given any view. The SC had directed the HPC to deliberate on the defence ministry’s interlocutory application in the court to allow widening of the road to a two-lane main carriageway, which is 7 metres, to meet strategic requirements. The report was submitted to the SC on December 31 and the court is likely to take up the issue on January 18. Last month, the ministry of road transport and highways issued a fresh circular modifying its 2018 circular on the width of roads in hilly states. It said for roads in hilly and mountainous terrain, which act as feeder roads to the China border or are of strategic importance for national security, the carriageway width should be 7 metres with 1.5-metre paved shoulders on either side. The 2018 circular had specified that the road width in such terrains should be 5.5 metres. The three minority members have concluded in their report, "After reviewing all arguments presented on behalf of the MoD’s application and the deliberations during the meeting, we are not persuaded to accept the plea that the original 2018 circular, prior to the amendment dated December 15, 2020, should be overlooked nor are we persuaded to request this honourable court to change their order dated September 8, 2020. We request that the prayer by the MoD may be reconsidered keeping in mind the long-term impacts on the fragile Himalayan terrain and the sensitive ecosystems." In its presentation before the HPC, an MoD representative had shown the pictures of tank transporter and artillery equipment, which may be required to be transported to border locations in case of exigency. Linear dimensions of such large vehicles and equipment require road geometrics of minimum two-lane specifications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/21-of-26-sc-panel-members-for-10m-char-dham-road/articleshow/80106063.cms||Dipak K Dash
January 5, 2021||Business||Sensex scales 48k for 1st time on GST collections, FPI buying, vaccine okays||MUMBAI: The foreign fund flow-led upsurge in the Indian market continued in the new year as the sensex on Monday surpassed the 48,000-mark for the first time in its history and closed at 48,177 points, also its all-time high closing level. It was up 308 points on the day. It was the seventh consecutive session that the sensex closed at a new high level, the longest such run in its over four-decade history. The news about Indian government approving the rollout of Covid-19 vaccines also enthused investors on Dalal Street, market players said. In addition, a record high monthly GST collection—at Rs 1.15 lakh crore for December—that came in on Friday, also added to the positive sentiment in the market. On the NSE, the nifty further consolidated its position above the 14K mark and closed at 14,133, up 114 points. End-of-the-session data on BSE showed a net inflow of Rs 1,843 crore by foreign portfolio investors on Monday. This high inflow figure came in despite most foreign fund managers being on holiday for Christmas and New Year, dealers said. The day’s rally in the broader market also made investors richer by Rs 2.4 lakh crore with BSE’s market capitalisation currently at Rs 191.6 lakh crore. The day’s session also recorded the highest close for the midcap index in the last three years. IT and metal stocks also showed smart gains on Monday. “Emboldened by the likely rollout of the vaccine this month, bulls went berserk, bolstered by IT and metal stocks with able support from pharma stocks. PMI data and renewed buying in select financials provided buoyancy across the broader markets,” S Ranganathan, head of research at LKP Securities, wrote in a note. Among the sensex constituents, TCS, Infosys and HUL contributed the most to the day’s gains while selling in Kotak Bank, HDFC Bank and Bajaj Finance contained the upside to some extent. Market players said that once vaccines are rolled out, and healthcare and frontline workers are inoculated, the businesses are expected to open up more and the economy could stabilize further. In the shorter run, the start of the results season from the second week of the month would also dictate the market’s movement, they said. Technically too the indices look set for further gains. According to Nagaraj Shetti, technical research analyst, HDFC Securities, the short term trend of the nifty continues to be positive. “The short term upside targets to be watched at 14,350 points and immediate support is placed at 14,060.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-scales-48k-for-1st-time-on-gst-collections-fpi-buying-vaccine-okays/articleshow/80106069.cms||---
January 5, 2021||India||Chhota Rajan gets 2 years’ jail in 2015 extortion case||MUMBAI: A special trial court on Monday convicted and sentenced extradited gangster Chhota Rajan to two years’ imprisonment in connection with a 2015 extortion case for an offence under Indian Penal Code (IPC), but acquitted him under the more stringent law against organized crime. The court also imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 on Rajan. Rajan was charged with threatening a Panvel-based builder, Nandu Vajekar, and demanding Rs 26 crore as extortion money. Along with Rajan, the court also convicted the three co-accused in the case—Suresh Shinde, Ashok Nikam and Sumit Mhatra—and sentenced them to two years’ imprisonment too. The special judge convicted all accused for offences under IPC sections 385 (extortion with threat to cause injury) and 120B (criminal conspiracy), but acquitted them for offences under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA). Section 385 stipulates a punishment of two years’ imprisonment or fine or both to anyone found guilty of putting a person in fear of any injury in order to commit extortion. Rajan’s defence counsel Sudeep Pasbola had submitted that no case made out against him under the more graver extortion charge under section 387 IPC (putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt in order to commit extortion) which attracts up to seven years’ RI and hence, MCOCA is not applicable in the case. The prosecution case argued by special public prosecutor Pradeep Gharat was that the builder in 2015 bought land in Pune and decided to pay a commission of Rs 2 crore to an agent, Parmanand Thakkar, who is wanted in the case. When Thakkar allegedly demanded more money and the builder said he was unable to pay, the former is alleged to have approached Rajan. The prosecution said that Rajan then sent his men to the builder’s office and threatened him with dire consequences unless he paid Rs 26 crore. The builder fearing for his life lodged a complaint with Panvel police, said the prosecutor. Police had produced CCTV footage of the builder’s officer as evidence in the case. Watch Mumbai: Chhota Rajan convicted by special CBI court, sends him to jail for 2 years in extortion case||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/chhota-rajan-gets-2-years-jail-in-2015-extortion-case/articleshow/80106106.cms||Swati Deshpande
January 5, 2021||India||Make 3 yrs’ experience at bar must to become judge, BCI to tell SC||NEW DELHI: Should a judge have prior experience of advocacy in order to be effective? The Bar Council of India says yes and plans to move the Supreme Court to seek that a minimum three-year practice at the Bar be made mandatory to become a judicial officer at the subordinate judiciary level. In a release, the BCI said it will file an application before the SC arguing that judicial officers not having practical experience as advocates were mostly found to be “incapable and inept in handling matters”. At present, fresh law graduates are being allowed to sit for Judicial Service Examinations without having any practical experience at the Bar. Claiming it has the support of all state bar councils, the BCI said inexperience at the Bar is one of the primary and major reasons for delays in the disposal of cases in subordinate judiciary. “Judicial officers not having practical experience at the Bar are mostly found to be incapable and inept in handling matters. Most of such officers are found to be impolite and impractical in their behaviour with members of the Bar and litigants,” Srimanto Sen, BCI secretary, stated. It added: “Trained and experienced judicial officers can comprehend and dispose of matters at a much faster pace, thereby leading to efficient administration of justice.” Since the requirement of three-year experience at the Bar had been done away by the Supreme Court in March 2002, the apex body for advocates said it would file an application before the apex court to seek the modification of that order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/make-3-yrs-experience-at-bar-must-to-become-judge-bci-to-tell-sc/articleshow/80106114.cms||Abhinav Garg
January 5, 2021||India||I-T quizzes Vadra in Bikaner land case||NEW DELHI: Income tax officials questioned Robert Vadra, son-in-law of Congress president Sonia Gandhi, on Monday at his Delhi office in a benami properties case related to a land deal in Bikaner, Rajasthan. According to sources, Vadra was questioned about the land purchased by one Mahesh Nagar, brother of former Congress MLA from Haryana Lalit Nagar, on behalf of his company. Mahesh Nagar was the authorised representative of Vadra’s Skylight Hospitality Pvt Ltd and had allegedly purchased four land parcels which were later sold off at huge margins to Allegeny Finlease Pvt Ltd. The questioning of Priyanka Gandhi's spouse marks a significant turn in the investigations into his deals in Rajasthan, Haryana and Delhi when UPA was in power. In the same land deal case, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had earlier attached Vadra’s Delhi properties under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The ED in its attachment order had claimed that Sky Light Hospitality had purchased 275 bigha (69.55 hectare) fraudulently for Rs 72 lakh and sold the same for Rs 5.15 crore to Allegeny Finlease (P) Ltd and illegally generated profit of Rs 4.43 crore. In the attachment order, ED had also accused four others of having generated profit of Rs 18.59 lakh in sale of land. Both Vadra and his mother were directors in the Sky Light Hospitality Pvt Ltd and accused in the case. The ED has shared Nagar’s recorded statements with the I-T investigating officers, sources said. These statements would be crucial in I-T officials questioning Vadra, sources said. The land in question in Bikaner was meant for rehabilitation of displaced persons of the Mahajan Field Firing Range and Nagar has told the investigators circumstances under which they were acquired by allegedly forging documents and source of funds used to purchase them. Rajasthan police had earlier filed three chargesheets for the offence of grabbing government land using forged documents. The ED had registered a money laundering case under the PMLA based on the FIRs of the Rajasthan police. Vadra is facing other probes also. In June last year, the ED filed a chargesheet against fugitive defence dealer Sanjay Bhandari in which it had also named Vadra as one of the accused to be probed in connection with alleged payoffs received in different defence deals. The income tax is also probing Bhandari and Vadra for alleged benami assets purchased in London from the proceeds of the alleged payoffs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/i-t-quizzes-vadra-in-bikaner-land-case/articleshow/80106195.cms||---
January 5, 2021||India||MEA OK with proposal to give NRIs e-ballots||NEW DELHI: The ministry of external affairs (MEA) has written to the Election Commission favouring its recent proposal to allow non-resident Indians (NRIs) to vote remotely through electronically-transmitted postal ballot system (ETPBS) from their country of residence. However, it has suggested that the poll body hold consultations with all stakeholders before rolling out the facility. NRIs, as per the current election laws, must cast their vote in person at their respective constituencies in India. Sources in EC indicated that the poll panel will, as indicated by MEA, start consultations soon with NRI associations and various ministries and departments that will be involved in the exercise. The ETPBS facility is already extended to service voters that include members of the Armed forces and para-military forces as well as government employees serving abroad. EC had, in its November 27 letter addressed to the law secretary, proposed that necessary amendments be made in the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961, “at the earliest” to enable the Indian diaspora to vote through postal ballot, adding that it is “technically and administratively ready to extend this facility in general elections to legislative assemblies of Assam, West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry” due in April-May. There are around 1.17 lakh NRIs registered as voters in the electoral rolls. EC in its letter stated that it has been receiving several representations from the Indian diaspora to facilitate voting through postal ballot since such overseas electors are not in a position to be present in their polling area as travelling to India for this purpose is a costly affair and otherwise too, they cannot leave their country of residence owing to compulsions like employment, education or other engagements. The protocols associated with Covid-19, have further compounded the problem, it added. As per EC proposal, an NRI may be issued a postal ballot electronically after he intimates his wish to vote through Form 12 to the returning officer, which must be received at least five days after notification of election. The duly filled up postal ballot – attested by an officer to be appointed by the diplomatic or consular representative of India in the country where the overseas elector is resident -- must be returned by post to the returning officer of the NRI’s constituency in India such that it is received latest by 8 am on the counting day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mea-ok-with-proposal-to-give-nris-e-ballots/articleshow/80106223.cms||Bharti Jain
January 5, 2021||Goa||Traditional fishermen oppose Sal river desilting, seek inspection||PANAJI: Traditional fishermen on Monday opposed desilting of the Sal until the government conducts a physical site inspection, along with them. Assuring villagers that the work would be undertaken only after taking the fishermen into confidence, ports minister Michael Lobo said that officials of the Captain of Ports have measured the depth of the river and an environmental study has also been done. “We will show the traditional fisherman how the dredging will be done,” he said. It is up to the traditional fisherman to take a decision, Lobo said, suggesting that they “make a representation before the National Green Tribunal (NGT)” if they don’t want the dredging to be done. Statting that the depth of the Sal has reduced at various stretches and the government wants to revive the river for fishing activities, Lobo said. “Dredging is not being done for coal handling, passenger boats, etc.” The government has only lived up to its assurance given in the House that the Sal would be desilted, he said. “This is the second phase. We have been given time till March to desilt the river and we have filed an affidavit to complete it,” Lobo said at a meeting with fisheries minister and Velim MLA Filipe Neri Rodrigues and the traditional fishermen. Lobo told reporters that three years back, a six-kilometre stretch of the river, from Nuvem to Navelim, had been desilted. “This is the second phase in which another six-kilometre stretch would be cleaned up at the cost of around Rs 8 crore. In the third phase, another six kilometre stretch will be taken up,” he said. Meanwhile, Rodrigues, in whose constituency most part of the Sal flows, batted for traditional fishermen being taken into confidence on the desilting work. Calling it a long-pending issue, he said, “We also want the river to be clean, but as fisheries minister, my one apprehension is that the work should not affect marine life there.” “We have told both ministers to provide us with a layout pointing out fishing zones and orchards, and what they are planning to do. We will discuss the issue back at site,” one fisherman said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/traditional-fishermen-oppose-sal-river-desilting-seek-inspection/articleshow/80104683.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Kanpur||Girl ends life as school debars her from exams in Uttar Pradesh||KANPUR: A 16-year-old meritorious girl student hanged herself to death with the ceiling fan at her house in Baberu area of Banda on Sunday night after her school allegedly didn’t allow her to write the half-yearly exam for not paying fees on time. Reports said Sanjana, daughter of Anant, was studying in Class XII at Vidya Mandir Inter College in Baberu town. She had cleared her High School in first division. The family was going through a major financial crisis owing to lockdown. As a result, Sanjana’s father, a daily-wager, was not able to pay her school fee on time. The school authorities, however, didn’t allow Sanjana to write her half-yearly exams allegedly due to non-payment of dues. “She was a meritorious student and had appeared in two papers, but on Saturday when she went to the college the authorities there did not permit her to write an exam citing non-payment of dues. This led her into depression and on late Sunday night she committed suicide by hanging herself from the ceiling fan in her room,” the girl’s father stated in his police complaint. The Baberu police has initiated investigations after receiving a complaint. “We have received a complaint from the girl’s father in this regard and investigations are continuing,” said Inspector Baberu Kotwali Bhaskar Mishra. On the other hand, the school authorities have denied the allegation by the victim’s family. “We have not at all debarred the girl from writing her exam. Allegations levelled by the girl’s father are baseless. There are many other students who have been permitted to write their half-yearly exam although many among them have not cleared their dues. Also, the girl’s younger brother, who is a class XI student of Science, is pursuing studies free of cost,” said college manager Visheshwar Prasad Pandey. The police said that the victim had not left behind any suicide note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/girl-ends-life-on-being-debarred-from-exams-for-not-paying-fees/articleshow/80103065.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
January 5, 2021||Varanasi||‘Come forward to adopt kids suffering from TB’||GORAKHPUR: District TB officer, Dr Rameshwar Mishra on Monday appealed to people to come forward and adopt children suffering from Tuberculosis (TB). For the eradication of Tuberculosis (TB), more than 300 teams in the district have been formed and are screening people to identify new patients suffering from the disease under the National TB Eradication Program (NTEP) with the theme ‘TB Harega Desh Jitega’. Dr Rameshwar Mishra said from August 1, 2019 to 25 December 2020, a total number of 2158 children were suffering from TB in the district and 41 adopted children among 54 children have recovered and the process of adoption of 458 children is undergoing. “Any person, organization or institution can adopt children suffering from TB,” Mishra said. Mishra also told that during the screening, Covid protocol was being followed and all 1729 persons tested negative for the novel coronavirus. The campaign started from January 2 and will continue till January 12. Free treatment will be provided to newly identified patients and also Rs 500 per month will be given for their nutrition. Chief medical officer, Dr Sudhakar Pandey said at present 318 teams are working to screen people. The first phase of the programme ran from December 26, 2020 to January 2. Under the programme, 1795 people were screened among which 12 people were diagnosed for TB. The treatment of these people has already started.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/come-forward-to-adopt-kids-suffering-from-tb/articleshow/80101889.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Business||Amazon, Swiggy’s payment processor hit by data breach||MUMBAI: Payment services provider Juspay, which processes transactions for online giants like Amazon, Swiggy and other companies, on Monday admitted to a data breach that took place in August 2020. The breach resulted in about 3.5 crore records with masked card numbers and personal data getting compromised. The disclosures came after internet security researcher Rajshekhar Rajaharia shared on social media a sample of the data that was available for sale on the dark web. “The database was put for sale by an unknown person who was dealing through Telegram,” Rajaharia told TOI. Acknowledging the breach, Juspay said on August 18, 2020, the company noticed unauthorised activities in one of its data stores. “An old unrecycled AWS access key was exploited and that enabled the unauthorised access. An automatic system alert was triggered due to a sudden increase in the usage of the system resources on the data store. Our incident response team immediately engaged and was able to trace the intrusion and stop it. The server used in the hack was terminated and the entry point for this intrusion was sealed,” the company said in its blog. “About 3.5 crore records with masked card data and card fingerprint (which are non-sensitive information) were breached. The masked card data is used for display purposes and cannot be used for completing a transaction,” Juspay said in its blog. “A portion of the 10 crore user metadata in our system, which has non-anonymised, plain-text email IDs and phone numbers, got compromised,” Juspay said. Explaining the delay in disclosure, Juspay said, “We verified that our secure data store, which hosts the confidential card numbers, was not accessed or compromised. Thus, all our customers were secure from any kind of risk. Our priority was to inform the merchants and, as a measure of abundant precaution, they were issued fresh API keys, though it was later verified that even the API keys in use were safe.” Almost five months after the breach, a seller on the dark net shared a sample dump with Rajaharia. The dark net refers to internet servers that are not accessible to search engines, but which can be accessed through special tools that anonymise user information. Rajaharia said, “The sample data masks the card number and discloses only six digits in keeping with PCI (payment card industry) standards. But in addition to the masked number, the data includes the card fingerprint — which is a hashed credit card number. While a hashed card number by itself cannot be decrypted, anyone who gets their hands on Juspay’s algorithm can decrypt the numbers. The seller was asking for $8,000 in bitcoins for the entire data dump, which he claimed was around 100 million and about 45 million records of transactions.” Juspay has said that since CVV and PINs are not stored by the company, this critical information is not compromised. According to those in the payment industry, masked card numbers are useless unless someone has access to the algorithm and key to decrypt the data. But others say that fraudsters can put together the pieces and engage in a phishing attack. Payments in India are subject to two-factor authentication (they require either a one-time password or PIN), but international use does not have such requirements. The RBI has already asked banks to give customers the option to switch off their cards for international transaction through multiple channels (apps, online, or text messages).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/amazon-swiggys-payment-processor-hit-by-data-breach/articleshow/80104462.cms||Mayur Shetty
January 5, 2021||Patna||PMC eyes better spot on ‘Swachh Survekshan’ list||PATNA: With a central team expected to visit the city by March, the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) is leaving no stone unturned to improve its performance and score better in the Swachh Survekshan, 2021. The civic body has also appealed to the residents to contribute towards making the city clean by organizing awareness campaigns like ‘One Dream, Patna Clean’, ‘Menstrual Hygiene’ and ‘Swachhagrih’. According to PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma, 1,800 points will be allotted for citizen engagement, another 1,800 for certification and 2,400 for service level progress. “We are working on all the three parameters and other categories. Our target is to achieve more than 2,600 points,” he told this newspaper, adding that people could give their feedback on www.swachhsurveksan2021.org. The PMC commissioner also claimed that the civic body had transformed two slum areas — Chinakothi and Chajjubagh — and would replicate the same model in other wards. As many as 40 garbage spots had been replaced by wall murals and plants, he added. Earlier, the civic body had failed to fulfil parameters like sewage water treatment as all households are not yet connected with the plants. “We still lag behind in two important segments — waste processing plant and sewage pipelines. The new sewage lines will be ready by December-end,” Himanshu, who expects to get 1,000 marks in categories like garbage collection, plastic segregation, organic waste and recycling, said. PMC’s public relations officer Harshita pointed out that the intelligent solid waste management that includes pasting of QR codes outside every household would be helpful in the long run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pmc-eyes-better-spot-on-swachh-survekshan-list/articleshow/80102301.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 5, 2021||Kolkata||Zoo entrance: Rs 30; parking cost: Rs 200. Alipore belt reels under tout jungle raj||KOLKATA: With few parking slots available near the Alipore zoo, the illegal parking touts have yet again begun raking in profit from visitors. These illegal parking lots — at the rear of Presidency Jail, Kothari Road and the adjoining bylanes — can make a visitor poorer by anywhere between Rs 100-Rs 200 for up to three to four hours, depending on the bargaining skill of the visitor. Bhowanipore traffic guard officials on duty said they are forced to turn a blind eye to the fleecing on special days, like Christmas, New Year and Sundays, as the traffic near Zeerut Bridge often chokes up the Bhawani Bhawan-bound flank. Entry into the zoo costs Rs 30. “We have written to the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) twice since 2019 asking for a bigger parking lot here, but nothing has materialized despite several starts. While the official parking lot opposite the zoo main gate can handle only a few vehicles, during winter, we also send some cars to Orphungunge Market Road even though it is not an official parking lot for zoo-bound vehicles. The problem begins when this area too fills up. All buses headed for the zoo are especially a headache as the nearest available parking lot for them is the one at Hastings,” said an officer. On Monday, TOI found officers from Bhowanipoore traffic guard guiding vehicles in and out of the parking lot. When a TOI team asked one of the attendants about the fee, he said Rs 150 would be enough. A photographer who introduced himself as being from the press was asked to pay Rs 50. Local cops said that on any ordinary day, between 40-75 two-wheelers and four-wheelers get parked around the zoo with the count crossing 300 on special days. Police sources said this illegal parking is run by two main groups. “The two sides often clash. Both are politically linked though one side has become weaker after the death of a local leader due to Covid. The other group, though, is using this as an opportunity to make money,” claimed a former parking tout, adding that though a crackdown in 2019 led to the situation improving a bit, the pandemic has brought it back to square one. “The KMC needs to tell us their plans and our role for this year before we can send cars to an alternate venue,” said an officer. The cops have denied there is any organized gang. “These are locals who often try to make money through illegal parking,” claimed an officer. In a Facebook post, Tollygunge resident Shantaree Dutta, who visited the zoo on Sunday, said she was asked to pay Rs 150 even after pointing out the actual rate was Rs 10 per hour. She was reportedly told that even cops were aware of the business and she could do little even if she complained. “Taking advantage of the fact that there is no structured fee policy, some locals charge motorists anything between Rs 100 and Rs 150,” said a sergeant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/zoo-entrance-rs-30-parking-cost-rs-200-alipore-belt-reels-under-tout-jungle-raj/articleshow/80103063.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 5, 2021||Patna||Bihar: PM Narendra Modi should take first shot of Covid vaccine, says Congress||PATNA: Even as the country’s indigenous Covid-19 vaccine is yet to be rolled out, Bihar Congress legislature party leader Ajit Sharma on Monday advised Prime Minister Narendra Modi and senior BJP leaders to take the shot first to gain people’s confidence. Sharma said there was some confusion among people over two different vaccines approved in India. “Like the US and Russian presidents, PM Modi should also take the vaccine first,” Sharma said and praised his party for setting up the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech during its regime as the two institutes have now developed the vaccines. BJP spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel hit back at Sharma and said it proved that Congress leaders had no faith in their country’s government, PM, scientists and laboratories. “Had the vaccine been made by Pakistan, they (Congress leaders) would have stood in the queue to get the shots first. I will even advise their leader Rahul Gandhi, who is abroad, to get himself and his party workers vaccinated abroad,” Patel told TOI. He further lashed out at Sharma and the Congress party saying they had done nothing during the pandemic, but were giving baseless statements. Former CM and Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi, who has himself recovered from the Covid-19 infection, asked the government to slap sedition charges on such political leaders if they were spreading any rumour regarding the vaccines. Manjhi even congratulated scientists and PM Modi for the vaccines and praised CM Nitish Kumar for good management in the state during the Covid-19 pandemic. Even in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday announced that he would not take the vaccine shot because he had no trust in “BJP’s vaccine”. After much uproar, he later clarified saying the vaccination drive was a sensitive issue and BJP should not turn it into a show off event. He tweeted that before rolling out vaccines, the government should make proper arrangements as it was associated with people’s life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pm-should-take-first-shot-of-covid-vaccine-cong/articleshow/80102260.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 5, 2021||Allahabad||After cave-in, traffic movement restored on Basna bridge||Prayagraj: A day after a cave-in restricted traffic flow on the route, the movement of two-wheelers and cars was restored on Basna Bridge on Prayagraj-Lucknow highway on Sunday. On Saturday evening, a portion of soil caved in near the approach road connecting the bridge while the road was being widened, thereby restricting traffic movement on the bridge. Traffic inspector RP Singh said that the movement of two- wheelers and light four-wheelers was restored after the engineers and officials ensured that the road was repaired. He said that the movement of heavy vehicles was completely restricted on Basna bridge near Phaphamau. Heavy vehicles were being diverted through Sahsoon route. “Heavy vehicles like trucks and buses heading towards Lucknow and Faizabad are being diverted through GT Jawahar-Jhunsi, Andhawa and Sahsoon road. Heavy vehicles coming from Lucknow to city would be taking Nawabganj-Sahsoon route to reach Prayagraj.” The Prayagraj- Lucknow highway witnessed a massive jam on Saturday evening on Basna bridge due to the cave-in. A portion of soil caved in while labourers were digging soil near Basna Bridge’s approach road. Soon after the incident occurred, traffic and Soraon police stopped the traffic movement near the bridge and diverted it through Phaphamau Bazar road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/after-cave-in-traffic-movement-restored-on-basna-bridge/articleshow/80087333.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Patna||990gm charas seized, 1 held||SSB jawans deployed at Rampurwa border outpost under Valmikinagar police station area on Monday seized 990 grams of charas from a smuggler identified as Dinesh Kumar of Sagardinahi in Nepal. Dinesh was arrested, SSB inspector Amit Kumar said. BJP MLA injured: BJP MLA from Katoriya, Nikki Hembram suffered injuries after her car rammed into a tree near Bariyarpur in Munger district on Sunday night, SP Manavjit Singh Dhillon said. She suffered injuries in her hand and leg, sources said. Video of cops dragging woman goes viral: A video clip purportedly showing some policemen pointing pistols at two women while abusing and dragging one of them near the Sadar police station in Hajipur on Sunday evening has gone viral. However, Vaishali SSP Gaurav Mangla told IANS that the claim has been made by the two women. New ED of NTPC: Chandan Chakraborty retired as the executive director of NTPC’s thermal power plant at Kahalgaon on December 31 after 37 years of service. V Sudharshan Babu took charge as the business unit head of NTPC Kahalgaon on January 1. Babu is a 1986-batch executive trainee of NTPC and has served several stations of NTPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/990gm-charas-seized-1-held/articleshow/80102360.cms||Ramashankar
January 5, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Cops asked to trace 38 missing UK returnees||PATNA: The state health department has asked the district magistrates to seek police help to track the missing people who had returned from the UK recently. Till Monday, 38 of them had not been traced. Officials said some had either switched off their cellphones or given the wrong number or locked their home and fled. The Centre had given a list of 246 people of Bihar with travel history from the UK. So far, 208 have been traced and 139 of them have been tested and found negative for Covid-19. “We are finding it difficult to track some of them,” said a health department official. Altogether 19 such people are still to be tracked in Patna. DM Chandrashekhar Singh said he has asked the civil surgeon to forward this list to Patna SP. Gaya DM Abhishek Singh said he too had asked the SP to find two such missing people. Meanwhile, 344 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 2,54,278. Officially, three deaths were reported, taking the toll to 1408. One death each was from Patna, Aurangabad and Nalanda. However, with 2,48,640 recoveries, there were only 4,228 active cases in Bihar. Patna reported 143 new cases, taking its tally to 49,605. However, with 47,467 recoveries and 382 deaths, there were 1756 active cases in the district. AIIMS-Patna reported seven deaths, including four from Doctors Colony in Kankarbagh, Lal Bahadur Shastri Marg in north SK Puri, SK Puri and Mithila Colony in the state capital. Other deceased were from Darbhanga, Begusarai and Naubatpur in rural Patna. AIIMS-P nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said 10 new patients were admitted on Monday. Among those discharged was state IMA senior vice-president Dr Ajay Kumar. PMCH obstetrics and gynaecology department head Dr Shanti HK Singh, who was admitted a day before, was in the ICU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cops-asked-to-trace-38-missing-uk-returnees/articleshow/80102598.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 5, 2021||Patna||Patna University returns to normalcy after 10 months||PATNA: Life returned to Patna University (PU) on Monday with the resumption of classroom teaching in all its constituent colleges and postgraduate (PG) departments after nearly 10 months. However, the attendance of students was not very encouraging on Day 1. At Magadh Mahila College each class was divided into two halves and students were not allowed to visit the gymnasium, common room or canteen. Principal Shashi Sharma told this newspaper that ensuring social distancing among girls on the campus was difficult. “I tried to make sure that girls do not assemble in groups,” she added. The attendance of students was also thin at Patna Science College, but everyone wore masks. “All departments have installed sanitizing machines for students, employees and faculty members,” said principal S R Padmadeo. Patna College principal Ashok Kumar also claimed that only a few students had turned up to attend classes on Monday. He, however, hoped that the attendance would improve soon. “The guidelines issued by the education department as well as the instructions issued by PU are being followed strictly. No gathering of students is allowed and the entire campus has been sanitized,” he said. Classes in PG departments of PU also resumed on Monday. “Only third semester students with odd and even roll numbers are being called on alternate days. They have been informed that they have to follow the safety norms quite religiously,” said PU political science department head Shefali Roy. Geology department head Atul Aditya Pandey claimed that students were quite happy to come to their classrooms and interact with their teachers after a long interval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-university-returns-to-normalcy-after-10-months/articleshow/80102546.cms||B K Mishra
January 5, 2021||Patna||RJD will not return to power, says Kushwaha||PATNA: Former union minister and RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha continued his attack on the main opposition party RJD and said it wouldn’t be able to return to power again in the state, at least in near future. Kushwaha, who recently met CM Nitish Kumar, told this newspaper on Monday that the RJD leaders were making ‘baseless’ statements in the media to usurp power, which will never happen. Referring to former CM Rabri Devi and the leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav’s recent statements, Kushwaha alleged that they were desperate to come to power. “But they will not succeed. Now the RJD leaders should stop daydreaming,” he told the media. RJD had offered Nitish to return to the Grand Alliance if he was ready to accept Tejashwi as the CM. In return, RJD would project him (Nitish) as the prime ministerial candidate of the opposition in the 2024 general elections. Rabri, who is also the RJD national vice-president, had said the top party leaders may consider Nitish’s comeback in the GA. Kushwaha, however, reiterated that the people’s mandate was in favour of CM Nitish Kumar, whose party JD(U) is a part of the NDA in Bihar. He, however, refuted recent media reports about a likely merger of RLSP with JD(U). “It’s true that we couldn’t win a single seat in the recent assembly polls, but the party’s base has been expanded. This is evident from its vote share,” he added. Kushwaha’s defence of Nitish is said to be a part of the strategy to strengthen the party. When asked whether he would return to the NDA, the RLSP chief said it was far from the truth. “Aisa kuchh bhi nahi hai” (There is nothing of this sort),” he asserted. On the other hand, senior RJD leader Shyam Rajak claimed that the number of JD(U) MLAs in touch with his party has reached 21 from 17. “The JD(U) legislators have been making frequent calls to the top RJD leaders,” he added. A day earlier, RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari predicted split in JD(U) in the near future. “Rok sakte hain to rok lo,” Tiwari said in an oblique reference JD(U) statements against BJP in the wake of political development in Arunachal Pradesh. Six out of the seven JD(U) MLAs joined BJP in Arunachal, leaving the JD(U) leaders fuming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-will-not-return-to-power-says-kushwaha/articleshow/80102324.cms||Ramashankar
January 5, 2021||Patna||Buzz returns to HC courtrooms||PATNA: Almost a gap of more than nine months, the courtrooms and corridors of the Patna high court came to life once again with the resumption of physical hearings on Monday. The physical hearing has been started on an experimental basis for two weeks. All courts functioned smoothly with lawyers appearing for their cases as per the listings. Keeping in mind the Covid protocol, the high court administration has installed multiple automated sanitizer dispensers inside the court buildings. Almost all lawyers were spotted wearing a mask. They had to undergo temperature screening before being allowed entry inside the premises. However, all three associations of lawyers of the high court along with the library are shut to avoid unnecessary congregations. A decision to open them would be taken later. The high court had moved to online working after March 20 as a precautionary measure looking at the global scenario of Covid-19 pandemic. Only urgent matters were taken up for hearing for a few months during the nationwide lockdown via virtual mode. However, with the improvement in the situation, the high court started to take other cases for hearing too via virtual mode which was first started on March 19. More than 200 staff and security personnel at the high court, which observes a footfall of more than 1,000 lawyers and litigants on a normal working day, tested positive for Covid-19 during the pandemic last year even after the physical hearings were stopped. Senior counsel Yogesh Chandra Verma, chairman of the coordination committee of all three lawyers’ association of high court, wholeheartedly praised the arrangements made by the HC administration like sanitizer dispenser, chairs for lawyers, screening facilities and others for commencing physical hearing. “Monday’s physical hearing which took place after nine months was completely successful. We hope the high court would start functioning normally after the success of this experimental trial,” Verma said. “However, we have some issues on taking up a combination of physical as well as virtual hearing in the present trial run. Only physical hearing should be conducted to keep things smooth for lawyers,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/buzz-returns-to-hc-courtrooms/articleshow/80102374.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 5, 2021||Meerut||Accused in dowry death, Meerut man found hanging inside jail toilet, kin allege murder by in-laws||Meerut: A 27-year-old man has been found hanging inside Meerut prison, over three months after he was booked and incarcerated with his mother after the suspicious death of his wife. As the news of his death came out on Sunday, the family members of Mohammad Sajid reached the city's Lisari Gate police station and held a protest.“Threats were issued to kill him inside the jail,” a relative of Sajid said, alleging that his in-laws were behind the “murder”.“Sajid’s in-laws, particularly his brother-in-law, used to threaten us that he will be killed inside the jail. It is certainly not suicide, but a well-planned murder. We want an inquiry into the matter," he said.Sajid’s body was found hanging from a water tank pipe inside the toilet. Meanwhile, the jail authorities said that they were waiting for the post- mortem report to know the exact cause of the death.According to DB Pandey, senior jail superintendent, “Sajid was put into temporary jail on September 24 and was shifted to Meerut jail on October 22. He hanged himself from a pipe in the toilet near his barrack. The reason of the suicide is not known yet. Investigation is on.”“Things will become clear once the post-mortem report comes out. No one will be spared if it is murder. But, as of now, everything points towards suicide,” said DSP Arvind Chaurasia, circle officer of Kotwali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/accused-in-dowry-death-meerut-man-found-hanging-inside-jail-toilet-kin-allege-murder-by-in-laws/articleshow/80102340.cms||Sandeep Rai
January 5, 2021||Goa||Goa: 48 UK returnees at ESI await genomic test result||PANAJI: Forty-eight UK returnees and their contacts who tested positive for Covid continue to be isolated at the ESI hospital, awaiting their results from the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. Till date only 15 have received their genomic testing reports and are not carrying the new strain of Covid-19. They have all been discharged from ESI hospital. There were no discharges from the ESI hospital on Monday. There was one admission of a positive patient. None of the patients isolated in the hospital are reported to be serious, with the majority being asymptomatic. They, however, cannot be discharged until they receive their reports from NIV, Pune. The first UK returnees found positive were isolated on December 25 following which their contacts who tested positive were also isolated along with them at ESI hospital. Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Saturday said that the state government is exploring the possibility of setting up an internal facility to test for the new Covid-19 strain to reduce reliance on laboratories outside the state. He said the joint purchase committee has been asked to conduct a meeting to find out if a testing facility for the new strain could be set up in Goa. Prior experience has taught the state that reliance on laboratories outside Goa could lead to delays in receiving results, he said, adding that Goa needs to be self-sufficient. A total of 979 travellers arrived in Goa from the UK since December 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/48-uk-returnees-at-esi-await-genomic-test-result/articleshow/80104744.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Two killed, one shot at in 24 hours||PATNA: Two persons, including a vegetable seller, were killed and a restaurant owner was shot at and seriously injured in separate incidents in the state in the past 24 hours on Monday. Reports reaching the police headquarters said a 45-year-old vegetable seller identified as Wakil Mandal was shot dead by his relative Rakesh Kumar at Haat Bazar under Parbatta police station in Khagaria district on Monday evening. He was a resident of Lenin Nagar Chamtha village in the district. The incident took place around 4.30 pm following a dispute over setting up a makeshift shop to sell vegetables in the local market. Infuriated Rakesh whipped out a pistol and fired at Mandal, leading to his instant death. Later the assailant Rakesh was arrested and the illegal weapon used in the crime was seized. The SHO of Parbatta police station Priyaranjan said an empty cartridge was recovered from the spot. A dispute over setting up a temporary shop to deal in vegetables is stated to be the reason behind the incident. “The seized weapon will be sent to the state FSL for ballistic examination,” he added. In another incident, a 60-year-old man identified as Baidyanath Choudhary was killed allegedly by his neighbour Shiv Kumar Choudhary and his associates at Khwajpur village under Jadopur police station area in Gopalganj district on Sunday night. The SHO of Jadopur police station Mithilesh Kumar Singh said illicit relationship with his neighbour’s second wife is stated to be the reason behind the murder. Five people-Shiv Kumar Choudhary, his two wives—Kiran Devi and Phulmati Devi, Bhuwaneshar Yadav and Hansdev Yadav—have been named as accused in the FIR. The FIR was lodged on the statement of the deceased’s wife Shanti Devi, who alleged that her husband was killed due to land dispute by the accused. Gopalganj Sadar DSP Naresh Paswan said that three persons, Shiv Kumar Choudhary and his two wives have been arrested in connection with the incident. A report from Samastipur said a restaurant owner identified as Kaushik Kamal was shot at and critically injured by unidentified armed assailants near Nawada Ghat under Dalsinghsarai police station in Samastipur district on Sunday evening. The victim was rushed to a local hospital from where he was later referred to the sadar hospital at Samastipur for treatment. Police said the incident took place when he was returning home from his restaurant on his motorbike. The reason behind the incident is yet to be ascertained. Meanwhile, leader of opposition in the state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav slammed the state government for its failure to check crime in the state. He turned to his Twitter handler to expose the deteriorating law and order situation in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-killed-one-shot-at-in-24-hrs/articleshow/80102283.cms||Ramashankar
January 5, 2021||Allahabad||Greet visitors respectfully, Magh Mela cops told||PRAYAGRAJ: Elderly women and men visiting Magh Mela in Prayagraj this year would be greeted by cops on duty as ‘mataji’ and ‘tauji’ or ‘chachaji’ respectively, while the younger devotees would be addressed as ‘behenji’ and ‘bhaiji’. The stress on respectful greetings are a part of a training in communication skills that cops being posted on Magh Mela are undergoing.  These cops are being trained in areas like body language, language skills & behaviour, pronunciation, managing crowds through whistle blowing and not using lathis, and traffic management. Around 4,000 cops, including paramilitary personnel, are expected to be posted on the Magh Mela ground. IG (Prayagraj range) KP Singh said policemen with a good character and language skills will be deployed for Magh Mela. “We have focussed more on communication skills and cops have been asked to respect all visitors. Policemen on duty have been asked to maintain their body language, behaviour and not issue any sort of statement. They have been asked to use soft and respectful language, so that they could leave a lasting impression on visitors coming from different parts of the country. They have been asked to deal with visitors patiently,” said the IG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/greet-visitors-respectfully-magh-mela-cops-told/articleshow/80101706.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Kolkata||Sari catches fire at husband’s shraddh, Kolkata woman dies of burns||KOLKATA: A 64-year-old woman from Kasba’s Swinhoe Lane — a retired employee of BSNL — who was admitted to hospital after her sari caught fire during her husband’s shraddh on December 23, died on Sunday. Police said Sipra Mitra had shown slight recovery after almost eight days at the hospital before being put under ventilation on January 1. According to Mitra’s brother Samarjit Roy, she had been living away from her husband — a retired railway employee — for the past eight years. The couple have no children. “But the day she heard that her husband Jyotirmoy (69) was hospitalized, she became emotional. He passed away on December 10 and it was her decision to hold a shraddh ceremony following all norms. A few of us had initially objected to her plans, but decided to honour her sentiments in the end,” said Roy. On the afternoon of December 23, the ceremony began at Adi Santi Sangha on G S Bose Road in Kasba in the presence of several relatives. “My sister had placed a photograph of her husband on a table and lit two candles on the sides. There were some sweets on the table too. However, my sister was being careless with the candles. Another sister of mine, as well as a brother-in-law, were sitting near the table and had twice warned Sipra that she was moving dangerously close to the flames and her sari might catch fire. The third time around, Sipra was hurrying to pick up some sweets when her sari caught fire. By the time relatives could rush down from the first floor, douse the fire and rush Sipra to the hospital, she had burnt herself badly,” Roy added. Police said that prima facie, the incident looked like a freak accident. “Her sari suddenly caught fire from the candles. She received burn injuries on her lower trunk and the upper parts of her lower limbs. She was admitted to Revival Nursing Home on BB Chatterjee Road around 5pm. She succumbed to her injuries on January 3 around 7.10am. Neither any foul play could be detected nor has any complaint been received. However, an inquest and post-mortem examination was held on Monday to ascertain the actual cause of death,” said DC (south suburban) Rashid Munir Khan. Roy told TOI that the family physician — who is also a relative — had tried twice to shift Mitra to the railway hospital or to an alternate nursing home. “But given her condition, we were doubtful whether it would be a wise decision,” said Roy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sari-catches-fire-at-husbands-shraddh-woman-dies-of-burns/articleshow/80102995.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 5, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: No end to agony even a year after masked attack||NEW DELHI: Sucharita Sen, professor of social science, was one of the many teachers and students injured when masked intruders ran amok in Jawaharlal Nehru University on January 5 last year following an earlier clash between two student groups. Sen, who was hit on the head, decided not to pursue her case because she did not expect the investigation to progress much. Like her, most people were pessimistic about the probe reaching any logical end. Moushumi Basu, secretary of JNU Teachers’ Association, echoed Sen. “Where is the investigation?” she asked. “We saw the attackers escorted out of the campus by Delhi Police. The cops did not even pull up the security guards employed by the vice-chancellor for failing to stop the intruders.” And campus security hasn’t improved since, said Basu, pointing to the spate of recent robberies at faculty homes. Basu said, “The university administration has not rebuked the security agency for this or for last year’s January 5 violence. At an Executive Council meeting, I was rudely cut off when I asked the administration what action it had taken against the security agency.” JNUTA has called for a ‘peace vigil’ at the Sabarmati T-point on Tuesday. It was at this location that the masked rioters had first attacked students and teachers before wreaking havoc in the Sabarmati hostel. A resident of the hostel alleged an attempt to erase all memories of that incident. “The two wardens who had resigned after the violence were forced back. What is more, the campus security has reduced though spending has increased,” the hosteller charged. According to JNU’s financial report submitted this year to the EC, the expense on security was Rs 17.4 crore in 2017-18 and Rs 18.5 crore in 2018-19. For 2019-20, the figure was Rs 15.3 crore. Campus politics too took a new turn during the period of unrest. JNU Teachers’ Front (JNUTF) was formed by those breaking away from JNUTA. Its stand, as enunciated by its founding member Ashwini Mohapatra, is that security has improved on campus. Mohapatra accused “a section of students of misusing” the freedom of expression given to them by JNU for “their political agenda”. Unlike JNUTA, JNUTF and ABVP blame the leftist student groups for creating the volatile situation on the campus. In fact, on Monday, ABVP organised a picture exhibition against ‘red terror’ at the North Gate to commemorate the January 5 violence. Shivam Chaurasia, president, JNU ABVP unit, declared, “We were chased and beaten up by the leftists and they did not allow classes to be held were for their vested interest.” The committee set up by the JNU administration to probe the incidents is yet to release its report. JNU registrar Pramod Kumar told TOI, “Since Delhi Police is conducting its own investigation, it is better that they come out with a report.” Aishe Ghosh, JNU Students’ Union president, whose bloodied face on the day of the attack became a rallying symbol, was, however, certain security was in bad shape. “Even today, students fear something as violent as that will be repeated if students organise a protest,” said Ghosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-end-to-agony-even-a-year-after-masked-attack/articleshow/80104717.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
January 5, 2021||Patna||Patna: Only 10 tableaux on Republic Day this year||PATNA: Only 10 government departments will exhibit their tableaux during the Republic Day parade at Gandhi Maidan on January 26 due to Covid-19 restrictions. Cabinet secretariat department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar told this newspaper on Monday that the R-Day celebrations would be held in adherence to the Covid-19 safety guidelines and the nodal officers of the tableaux directed to ensure social distancing norms. The officials of different departments have been asked to submit a list of artists, workers and employees involved in preparation of the tableaux to the district magistrate by January 10. According to sources, the height of a tableau should not be more than 15 feet. While the education department tableau will focus on online classes, the theme of the tableau of the water resources department will be ‘Har Khet Ko Pani’ and that of the information and public relations department ‘Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali’. The themes of the tableaux of the health and agriculture departments will be ‘Jab Tak Dawai Nahi Tab Tak Dhilai Nahi’ and ‘Bihar Krishi Nivesh Protsahan Niti, 2020’ respectively. The tableau of Women Development Corporation will focus on women empowerment and that of Upendra Maharathi Shilp Anusandhan Sansthan will be based on ‘Atmanirbhar Bihar’. The tourism, building construction and art, culture and youth affairs departments have selected themes like old structures, Bapu Tower and Buddha Samyak Darshan Museum and Memorial Stupa. Meanwhile, the state government has submitted its tableau proposal for the R-Day parade in New Delhi. A senior official of the IPRD said the theme of the tableau is ‘Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali’, an ambitious mission of chief minister Nitish Kumar. “We have sent the design of the tableau and conducted several meetings in this regard. We are waiting for the Centre’s approval now,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/only-10-tableaux-on-r-day-this-year/articleshow/80102580.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 5, 2021||Patna||Bihar: BJP’s training camp at Rajgir on January 9, 10||PATNA: Rajgir in Nalanda district is set to host a two-day training camp for BJP leaders from January 9. The camp assumed significance in the wake of the party’s good show in the recently held assembly polls. Senior leaders of the BJP and the RSS will train the functionaries of the party and its different ‘morchas’ besides five leaders each from the 13 zones across the state on strengthening the organization at the grassroots level. State general secretary, Devesh Kumar, said on Monday around 150 functionaries and leaders of the state were likely to attend the eight sessions of the training camp. “There will be a separate session for the MPs, MLAs and MLCs of the party,” he clarified. He added that matters related to strengthening the organization as well as topical issues in the state would be taken up at the two-day training camp. According to sources, state in-charge of party affairs, Bhupendra Yadav, is expected to be present at the camp. The party leaders, who were publicly critical of the functioning of the state government, are also likely to attend the camp. Senior leaders will train the functionaries in election booth management and also propagate the programmes of the party among the masses. Recently BJP state president and Bettiah MP, Sanjay Jaiswal, had expressed his concern over rise in crime in Champaran region. Another leader of the party, Sanjay Paswan, also demanded removal of a senior IAS officer, Amir Subhani, from the post of additional chief secretary of the home department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjps-training-camp-at-rajgir-on-january-9-10/articleshow/80102313.cms||Ramashankar
January 5, 2021||Patna||Day 1: Schools see low turnout||PATNA: The desolate look worn by schools was replaced by the hustle and bustle of students as educational institutes opened on a cautious note on Monday, after more than nine months since the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown was imposed in March last year. However, most schools in Patna saw thin attendance on the first day indicating that parents are still sceptical about their kids attending physical classes due to the fear of Covid-19. Only a handful of schools received a good response on Monday. Wearing face-mask and dressed in school blazers, students from Class IX upwards were seen carrying their backpacks to schools. At the entrance, their temperature was checked and given hand-sanitiser sprays were given before they entered their classrooms. Glenda Galstaun, principal of St Dominic Savio’s High School told this newspaper that about 70% of students of classes IX to XII attended the classes in a staggered manner. “Only 20 students were accommodated in each class to ensure social distancing between two desks. The other safety protocols were followed as per the standard operating procedure. We will start the pre-board exams after some revision,” she said. The principal of Don Bosco Academy, Mary Alphonsa said only three students were absent in Class X while 4 in Class XII. “It was a good start. On Tuesday, we have called in classes X and Xi students. We are calling students on alternate days because of the ongoing exams. Till January 16, we are conducting examinations of all secondary and higher secondary classes,” she said. Most schools got a lukewarm response as the attendance was less than 45% despite all the necessary arrangements made by the school administrations. “We are expecting the attendance to improve from next week, however, only 44% of the students attended the classes on Monday,” said Rajiv Ranjan, principal of Patna High School. The government schools distributed face-masks to kids who attended physical classes. “Each student was given two washable masks, which was provided by the education department,” said Meena Kumari, principal of Bankipore Girl’s High School. Brother Sudhakar Reddy SG, the principal of Loyola High School, said the attendance was around 40% on Monday. “We have followed all safety protocols and called only 50% students, however, of which only 40% attended the classes,” he said, adding online classes for other kids, who could not attend the classes were not arranged because all teachers were taking physical classes. Several schools faced this problem with all teachers taking physical classes. Shamael Ahmed, president of the Bihar State Private Schools and Children Association, on Monday met the education department’s principal secretary Sanjay Kumar to discuss the problem of conducting both online and offline classes. “The schools do not have that much resource to conduct both classes on the same day. The principal secretary has assured that the department would decide soon,” he said. Some students and parents are relieved that the classes being held in batches to avoid overcrowding of the school premises. Manav Agarwal, a student of Baldwin Academy, said after a long time, she attended a proper class. “There are so many disturbances in online classes due to which I was unable to concentrate in class. It is finally good to be back to school,” she said. A Class XI student of International School, Shweta Kumari said body temperature of all students was checked at the school gate and hand sanitisers were placed in every classroom. “Attending classes while wearing a mask was quite difficult but we will get used to it,” she said. Classes X-XII pre-board exams held: Several city schools conducted the pre-board exams on Monday. Class X and XII students of Don Bosco Academy, Notre Dame Academy and St Joseph’s High School among others appeared for the pre-board exams. Sources at the Notre Dame Academy said only two students out of 140 in arts stream took their exam, while three out of 75 in commerce stream. “The attendance in science stream was around 60%,” a source said. Many students skipped their exams because they were not prepared to take the test. One student on condition of anonymity said she needs more time to prepare for the exam. Sr M Serena AC, principal of Carmel High School said the pre-board exams would commence from January 5. “The school was closed on Monday,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/day-1-schools-see-low-turnout/articleshow/80102342.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 5, 2021||Patna||State gets 980 equipment from Centre for vaccines||PATNA: State health minister Mangal Pandey on Monday said the government had received over 980 equipment from the Centre so far for storage of Covid-19 vaccines. With this, the total number of such equipment in the state has gone up to over 2600. He also said district-wise cold chain managers have been deployed and a cold chain handler has also been trained for each block. “We are getting all possible help from the Centre to fight against Covid-19 pandemic. In order to maintain the quality of Covishield and Covaxin, cold chain equipment will be used at the district level,” said Pandey while giving the break-up of such equipment, which include 539 deep freezers, 432 ice lined refrigerators, eight walk-in coolers and two walk-in freezers. Cold chains will be monitored electronically. The temperature of these cold chains and stocks in them can be checked with the help of software. He said online registration of first phase beneficiaries had also been done and 65,000 health workers were identified for the immunization process. The minister further said even the sites for vaccination have been selected and they will be similar to polling booths used for voting in elections. There will be five-member teams to carry out the vaccination process and 4,42,195 people have been registered in Bihar for the first phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-gets-980-equipment-from-centre-for-vaccines/articleshow/80102275.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 5, 2021||Meerut||Four more found infected with new Covid-19 strain in Meerut, 5 active cases in UP now||Meerut: Another four persons were on Monday found infected with the new strain of Covid-19, taking Uttar Pradesh’s tally of active cases to five. The parents of the 2-year-old girl-- the first case of UP-- and their two contacts were found carrying the new strain. The Union health ministry also announced on Monday morning that the country has so far reported 38 cases of the new UK variant of SARS-CoV-2. It was not immediately known if these included the four fresh cases which surfaced in UP.“Four UK returnees tested positive for the new Covid-19 strain in Meerut on Monday. A list of 76 foreign returns was made by the UP health department after which they were tested. Till now, a total of five persons have tested positive for the new strain,” said Dr Prashant Kumar, Meerut’s district surveillance officer.According to a list given out by the health department, 76 foreign returnees were identified in Meerut. These included 64 from the UK and others from the United States, South Africa, the Netherlands and Bangladesh. “The contacts of these positive cases have already been tested and will be kept under isolation. The positive cases will be kept under separate isolation wards,” said Dr Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/four-more-found-infected-with-new-covid-19-strain-in-meerut-5-active-cases-in-up-now/articleshow/80102344.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 5, 2021||Patna||Improved NAAC grade our priority: LNMU VC||DARBHANGA: Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU) VC Prof Surendra Pratap Singh on completion of his 100 working days on Monday said his priorities are to get good grading for the varsity from the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) and improvement of infrastructure. “I took charge of the university running without NAAC accreditation, as its earlier B- grade ranking ended in June last. UGC also did not extend its affiliation to the Directorate of Distance Education (DDE) for 2020-21, resulting into stoppage of admission in courses run through distance education. Hence, my priority is to obtain A+ grade for the university from NAAC but it will require vast improvement in infrastructure,” the VC said. He added: “The existing infrastructure was created without planning. Some buildings were constructed and inaugurated without completion and not being used at present. Heritage buildings donated by Darbhanga Raj lack maintenance. Two libraries—the Central Library and Kameshwar Singh Library and the research institute were non-functional. For obtaining higher grade, a lot of preparation has to be done and work has been initiated in this direction.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/improved-naac-grade-our-priority-lnmu-vc/articleshow/80102377.cms||Binay Kumar Jha
January 5, 2021||Meerut||Narcotics worth Rs 2crore seized in UP’s Shamli||Meerut: A consignment of 181kg of cannabis, worth Rs 2crore in the black market, has been seized in UP’s Shamli district by police which managed to arrest one accused. The consignment of charas was being brought from Nepal and headed to Punjab, police said.During questioning, the arrested drug dealer Wajid Ahmad revealed that most of the suppliers were from Nepal. These drugs were meant for Haryana and Punjab.According to station in-charge of Shamli police station, Satpal Singh, “During questioning it came to light that Wajid’s associate Arvind Kumar, who is also a resident of Shamli, used to order drugs from Nepal’s Veerganj area. He only makes payment for the consignment. The sellers of the consignment are one Suleman and Suresh Singh, both residents of Nepal. Arvind somehow managed to escape in a car which is in our custody.”According to police sources, Jhinjana-Gangoh-Kairana belt is the most frequented point for drug peddlers. It serves as a passage point to Haryana, Uttarakhand and UP. Hence drug trade is rampant in the region targeting youth and even school going children.Of late, Shamli, Saharanpur, Bijnor and Muzaffarnagar have emerged as potential hotbeds of drug consumption and the area is expanding because of easy access to narcotics.On May 17 last year, just a day after 20 quintals of doda post was seized in Shamli's Jhijnana town, as many as four people, who supplied drugs to students, were arrested with smack worth Rs 15lakh in neighbouring Bijnor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/narcotics-worth-rs-2crore-seized-in-ups-shamli/articleshow/80102350.cms||Sandeep Rai
January 5, 2021||Kolkata||Sourav Ganguly stable, doctors defer second angioplasty||KOLKATA: BCCI president and former Team India captain Sourav Ganguly’s condition was reviewed by experts from other parts of the country and USA through a video-conference and over phone on Monday morning, which led to a decision to defer another angioplasty to unclog two of his blocked cardiac arteries. While two of the experts — cardiac surgeon Devi Shetty and R K Panda — joined the virtual conference with a 10-member medical board at Woodlands Hospital, where Ganguly is admitted, opinions were taken from interventional cardiologist of Mumbai’s Jaslok Hospital Samuel Mathew and Sharmin K Sharma of The Mount Sinai Hospital of New York. Since the 48-year-old remains stable, further surgical intervention was not needed immediately. Shetty is set to arrive in Kolkata and will examine Ganguly at the hospital on Tuesday. Woodlands CEO Rupali Basu said, “Ganguly could soon be discharged. The consensus of the board was that deferring the angioplasty is a safer option since Ganguly is stable, without any chest pain and on optimal medical management. The family members were informed about disease process and further therapeutic plan.” Ganguly was admitted to hospital on Saturday after a mild heart attack. He has been diagnosed with triple vessel disease — a condition triggered by plaque formation in the arteries — and underwent a coronary angioplasty to unclog his right ventricular artery that had a 90% blockage. The discussion at Monday’s conference centred around if the two other coronary blockages need to be treated by angioplasty in this admission. BCCI secretary Jay Shah and Union minister Anurag Thakur visited Ganguly. A ‘Sourav Ganguly lounge’ has been created at Woodlands Hospital where unscheduled visitors are being taken and briefed about his condition. The 10-member board at Woodlands includes cardiologists Saroj Mandol, S B Roy, Aftab Khan, cardio-thoracic surgeon Bhabatosh Biswas, critical care specialist Soutik Panda, anaesthesiologists Ashis Patro and Palash Kumar, physician Saptarshi Basu, Malti Purkait and Rupali Basu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ganguly-stable-doctors-defer-second-angioplasty/articleshow/80103072.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
January 5, 2021||Varanasi||Ballia CMO dies of Covid at SGPGI, CM conveys condolences||VARANASI: The chief medical officer (CMO) of Ballia, Dr Jitendra Pal, who had tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) in Lucknow on December 29, died on Monday. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath mourned the CMO’s death and conveyed his condolences to his family. Dr Pal, 59, had tested positive for Covid-19 on December 26, 2020. He was shifted to SGPGIMS from Ballia in an advanced life support ambulance on December 29 as he developed severe breathlessness. “Dr Pal also had diabetes, hypertension and heart disease. Right from admission, he was given oxygen by Bipap machine. As his condition continued to deteriorate, he was put on full mechanical ventilation on January 2, but he succumbed at 7am on Monday,” stated SGPGI bulletin. The news of Dr Pal’s demise stunned health officials and staff in Ballia. A condolence meet was held at the district hospital where minister Anand Swaroop Shukla, district magistrate Hari Pratap Shahi, chief development officer Vipin Kumar Jain and other officials paid floral tributes to him. DM Ballia recalled Dr Pal’s contribution in controlling Covid-19 spread in the district. “The cases were rising in the district, but under Dr Pal’s supervision the recovery rate increased and mortality rate was reduced,” said Shahi. Dr Pal, a native of Sant Kabirnagar, had served as senior consultant in Gorakhpur for many years and was posted as CMO for the first time. He is survived by a daughter and a son, who is doing his postgraduation after completing MBBS. Dr Pal’s sample was collected on December 25 and sent to BHU lab in Varanasi, said officials. He tested positive and was asked to isolate himself immediately. Two persons who came in his contact also tested positive but have recovered. Meanwhile, a district coordinator (mid-day meal) of Ballia also tested positive after which the basic education office, where training of 800 newly recruited teachers is going on, was closed for two days for proper sanitization on the orders of DM Ballia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ballia-cmo-dies-of-covid-at-sgpgi-cm-conveys-condolences/articleshow/80103083.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Kanpur||Uttar Pradesh: Bride, groom to be booked if domestic LPG used for feast||JHANSI: The Jhansi district supply office has passed an order stating that if domestic LPG cylinder is found being used during a marriage function, then a case under the Essential Commodities Act would be filed against the bride and groom along with their parents and the manager of the marriage hall. The decision, taken on Sunday, comes in the wake of rampant use of domestic LPG cylinders for commercial use which is illegal. As per officials of the district supply office, despite stern warning people are using domestic cylinders against commercial ones which are slightly expensive. Confirming the development, area rationing officer Mahesh Chandra Gautam said, “It has been found that domestic cylinders are being used in a rampant manner during marriages which is a gross mis-utilization of subsidised LPG. Not only this, it may cause accident and could be fatal too. As a result the department had to take strong deterrent measures.” “In case we find domestic cylinders being used during marriages, we will lodge a case under Section 3/7 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, against the bride and the groom along with their parents and the manager of the marriage hall,” Gautam added. Asked if the bride, groom of their families are unaware of such a malpractice by the caterer, Gautam advised that the parents of the bride should take a prior affidavit from the caterer that he will use only commercial LPG cylinders and will be solely responsible for any kind of misdeed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bride-groom-to-be-booked-if-domestic-lpg-used-for-feast/articleshow/80103073.cms||Arindam Ghosh
January 5, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Tejashwi Prasad Yadav to launch ‘Dhanyavad Yatra’ after Makar Sankranti||PATNA: Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who has been labelled as a ‘migrant leader’ by ruling NDA, will embark on ‘Dhanyavad Yatra’ across the state after Makar Sankranti (January 15) to thank people for the vote and support given to RJD in the recent assembly elections. RJD functionaries said though the schedule has not been fianlised yet, but the district level functionaries have been asked to start making necessary preparations it. “Our leader Tejashwi Ji wants to thank people for making us the single largest party in the assembly elections. He will interact with people and express his gratitude through this yatra. Accordingly, public meetings will also be organized,” RJD spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said. Another RJD spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwari said the yatra is also aimed at seeking support from the electorate in case of mid- term polls about which Tejashwi has repeatedly claimed in the past few weeks. “Tejashwi Ji has given an ultimatum to the state government up to Makar Sankranti to fulfil the big promises made during the elections, including creating 20 lakh employment opportunities and improvement of law and order scenario. However, the government has failed on both fronts. Thus, our leader will corner the government for making false promises,” Tiwari said. He said mid-term election is imminent this year owing to the internal rift between NDA allies JD(U) and BJP. “After six of the seven JD(U) MLAs joined BJP in Arunachal Pradesh last months, the two parties are at loggerheads. They are likely to split very soon, which will pave way for mid-term polls this year. Tejashwi Ji will, thus, also seek support from people for such a scenario,” Tiwari said. JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad, however, rubbished the RJD claims of mid-term polls as “daydreaming”. “Except the unfortunate alliance with RJD for three years, the JD(U)-BJP pact in Bihar over the last two decades has always been welcomed and supported by the people. We don’t need any certificate from RJD about our alliance. They should stop daydreaming about mid-term polls,” he said. Reacting on the accusation of not fulfilling the poll promises, Rajeev said: “The government took major decisions on the issues mentioned in the election manifesto in the first cabinet meeting. While the process has already been initiated for creating 20 lakh employment opportunities, CM Nitish reviewed the progress of other schemes included under Saat Nischay 2.0 on Monday. As far as the law and order is concerned, Bihar is still at 23rd position in the country in terms of number of cognisable offences per one lakh population and at 29th in crime against women. Thus, it doesn’t matter what Tejashwi is saying as people know the reality.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-to-launch-dhanyavad-yatra-after-makar-sankranti/articleshow/80102346.cms||Piyush Tripathi
January 5, 2021||Meerut||Man dies of ‘heart attack’ during police raid, kin allege assault; 4 cops booked||MEERUT: A 40-year-old man died under suspicious circumstances during a police raid in the Kandhla area in Shamli district, with his family members alleging that he “succumbed to assault”. A police team had come to Omveer Kashyap’s home on Sunday afternoon after getting a tip-off that gambling was going on there. Later, a protest was held as family members and locals kept the body on a highway demanding immediate action against the accused policemen. Senior police officials including superintendent of police Sukirti Madhav reached the spot to pacify the agitating family members. “At 12:30pm on Sunday, four policemen, Vijay, Anuj, Zaidi and an unidentified, from Elam police outpost arrived and began assaulting my husband who died at the spot. When my daughters Pooja and Rachna confronted them, the policemen fled," Kamlesh, the wife of the deceased, said in her complaint. Based on the complaint, an FIR under section 304 of the IPC (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) has been registered against the three named and one unidentified policemen. Police claimed that Kashyap died due to a heart attack. While conceding to altercation between the policemen and Kashyap during the raid, SP Madhav claimed he died of heart-attack. “The deceased likely died of heart attack. We are waiting for a post-mortem report to ascertain the exact cause of death after which further action will be taken,” the SP Shamli said. Later, in a tweet, Shamli Police said, “According to the post-mortem report of the deceased in the said case, shock due to myocardial infarction has been stated as the cause of death. According to the report, no injury was found on the body. Further action is being taken.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-dies-of-heart-attack-during-police-raid-kin-allege-assault-4-cops-booked/articleshow/80102348.cms||Piyush Rai
January 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||Mystery over structural engineer behind IIM-Ahmedabad’s move||AHMEDABAD: The tipping point for the controversial decision of the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIM-A), to call off the restoration of student dormitories at the campus designed by architect Louis Kahn, seems to rest on the recommendation of an independent structural engineer, that the buildings were unsafe and need to be demolished. The unnamed structural engineer remains a mystery, with many experts coming forward and asking the institute to disclose the identity of the person and release the findings. The board of governors (BoG) of IIM-A had in a letter addressed to all stakeholders said they had decided to cancel the proposal inviting architects and designers to demolish and replace most of the 18 dormitories.  The board said they had called off the restoration plans after being advised so by a third-party structural engineer. “On completion of the restoration experiment, an independent structural consultant opined that the restored dorm was unsafe. The structural consultant of the conservation architect on the other hand said the dorm would resist moderate earthquakes with limited damage but there would be significant damage with severe earthquakes. The opinion with regard to the library was different, which was stated to be able to withstand a severe earthquake with minor damage,” said the letter, which is now posted on the IIM-A website. An e-mail sent to the IIM-A director on this went unanswered. A senior industry expert who has been associated with the restoration at IIM-A said he did not know who carried out third party evaluation. Given the conflict alluded to in the structural findings of the restored D15, I request IIM-A to make all reports and responses public, said Shubhra Raje, visiting faculty at CEPT University. “We engaged one of the best team of conservation architects – SNK (Somaya & Kalappa Consultants) — and restored Dorm 15 and the library,” the BoG letter said. The conservation architects had hired a team from IIT-Madras for seismic surveys. The IIM-A director in a letter dated December 23 written to the alumni also mentioned the view of a structural engineer as the reason for their decision to demolish the dormitories. “You attempt to make the case that the dormitories are a lost cause, yet you have already restored one of the dorms (D-15) and have announced intentions to restore three more. This is a contradictory position. Additionally, you cite that you had an independent technical assessment done regarding seismic resistance. That report should be made public,” wrote Sue Ann Kahn, Nathaniel Kahn and Alexandra Tyng, the children of Louis Kahn, in a recent communication with the director. The edifice, especially the dormitories, withstood one of the severest earthquakes in history and this testifies to its basic structural safety, Habeeb Khan, president of the Council of Architecture wrote to the IIM-A director on December 31. “As regard to safety of the buildings, to state that they are structurally inadequate and seismically vulnerable is a misplaced argument. There is adequate documentation to counter such perception of threat to life and property,” the Indian chapter of International Council on Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS) said in a representation to the BoG chairman last month. The architectural configuration of the dormitories, showing buttressed masonry walls and a good plan density of structural walls, speaks of an earthquake-resistant design, the advisory body to Unesco on matters related to World Heritage stated in its letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mystery-over-structural-engineer-behind-b-schools-move/articleshow/80103295.cms||Maulik Pathak
January 5, 2021||Chennai||Fresh cases, active infections continue to drop; Tamil Nadu records 10 new deaths||CHENNAI: The state dropped 145 patients from the active cases list on Monday even as fresh cases of Covid-19 continued to drop. Public health department added 838 new cases – 29 less than what it had recorded on Sunday. This pushed the case tally to 8,21,550. The 10 deaths reported took the cumulative death toll to 12,166. At the end of the day, 7,970 people were still under treatment for the viral infection. Barring Perambalur all districts in the state reported fresh cases. Chennai (229) was the only district to log cases in three digits. With 83 new cases, Coimbatore followed Chennai, while all other districts reported less than 50 cases. At least a dozen districts reported cases higher cases in single digits –Ranipet (9), Tiruvannamalai (9), Tuticorin (8), Kallakurichi (7), Dharmapuri (6), Krishnagiri (6), Tenkasi (6), Tirupattur (6), Pudukottai (5), Sivaganga (5), Ramanathapuram (4) and Ariyalur (3). Though there are case clusters in luxury hotels, officials say there is no major spurt in the infection. “We keep insisting that the pandemic is not over yet. People will have to wear masks and maintain social distance and those vulnerable must avoid social gatherings,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “Despite seeing isolated clusters, we have been able to keep the epidemic curve low because we continue to test a large number of people. We also have a standard treatment protocol at all hospitals which has helped us improve treatment outcomes and prevent deaths,” he said. Recovery rate moved to 97.5%. In the past 24 hours till 12pm on Monday, 60,174 people underwent RTPCR in the 241 authorised labs. Eight of the 37 districts reported deaths due to Covid-19 on Monday. While Chennai and Chengalpet reported two deaths each, six other districts Coimbatore, Erode, Krishnagiri, Salem, Thanjavur and Tirunelveli reported one death each. The eleven districts in the north reported 407 fresh cases and four deaths. After the northern districts, the eight districts in the west together reported 228 fresh cases and four deaths. The central districts reported 90 new cases, while the 10 southern districts together reported 113 cases. The central and the south zones reported one death each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fresh-cases-active-infections-continue-to-drop-state-records-10-new-deaths/articleshow/80102355.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Chennai||Court notice against prior nod to prosecute CM, ministers||Chennai: Former DMK legislator Appavu has assailed the legality of a two-year-old government order that mandates prior sanction from the public secretary to initiate prosecution against ministers in TN. The first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy issued notice to the government, but not without wondering as to why political parties are bringing political matters to the courtroom, as they should be fought only outside the courts. “You (petitioner’s party) allege corruption when the other side is in power and they allege the same when you are in power,” remarked the bench, adding if it was the case of the petitioner that only in rare case persons in the rank of ministers got involved in corruption. It directed the government to file its response in six weeks. Appavu’s petition said several corruption complaints made against the CM and other ministers have been forwarded by the DVAC to the principal secretary of public department for sanction to initiate probe, and wanted the court to quash clause 4(v) of the GO as unconstitutional. “The condition in the GO makes the accused themselves to be the judges of their own cause. If the decision to grant or not grant prior approval to the DVAC for proceeding with the complaint against a minister is left to the principal secretary and made subject to the approval of the cabinet, the same would be illegal since the cabinet’s members themselves are accused,” senior advocate N R Elango said representing the petitioner. Pointing out that the CM and ministers are removable from office only by the governor, Elango said, therefore, as per the Prevention of Corruption Act, the prior sanction should only be taken from the governor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/court-notice-against-prior-nod-to-prosecute-cm-ministers/articleshow/80102361.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Goa||SC backing defections to BJP: Congress Goa in-charge||PANAJI: On Monday, soon after a Supreme Court bench headed by Chief Justice of India S A Bobde adjourned Congress’ plea for an early hearing into the disqualification petition filed against 10 rebel MLAs, who joined BJP, party’s Goa desk in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao alleged that it appeared that the Supreme Court was backing defections engineered by BJP. A bench comprising Chief Justice of India Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian heard the matter and posted the next hearing for February. “By the time the judges decide to hear and dispose of the disqualification petition, it will be infructuous as elections in Goa will be in a year. The CJI seems to have his priorities set. Looks like defections by BJP has the backing of the SC,” Rao, the former Karnataka Congress president, alleged in a tweet. Congress state president Girish Chodankar had appealed to the Supreme Court that a disqualification petition pending with the Goa speaker Rajesh Patnekar should be taken up for hearing. Chodankar had also said that despite express orders from the Supreme Court on August 11 last year that the plea should be listed after two weeks, the plea was not being listed by the Supreme Court registry. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal appeared on behalf of Chodankar and informed the Supreme Court that the disqualification petition has been pending since 2019, and that for more than 18 months, Patnekar has failed to decide on the matter. On August 11, 2020, a bench headed by CJI Bobde ordered listing of the matter after a period of two weeks. Chodankar had approached the court in November, submitting in his plea that despite being listed in the tentative hearing list 18 times since August 2020, the case was never taken up for hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sc-backing-defections-to-bjp-cong-goa-in-charge/articleshow/80105195.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Allahabad||Six sites selected in Prayagraj for Covid vaccination dry run||Prayagraj: Six sites, including three each in urban and rural pockets across the Prayagraj district, have been selected for conducting a dry run for Covid-19 vaccination. The dry run activity is set to be conducted by district health authorities on January 5 (Tuesday) to test the linkages between planning and implementation and identifying the challenges. Deputy chief medical officer and nodal officer, Dr Rahul Singh told TOI, “Three sites in the city including MLN Medical college, Colvin Hospital and Jeevan Jyoti Hospital and three sites in rural including CHC ( Community Health Centre) Kotwa AT Bani, CHC Jasra and CHC Pratappur are the sites in the district which have been selected for the dry run on Tuesday to gear roll-out of Covid-19 vaccine in the Prayagraj district.” He further added, “A team of seven members comprising medical and paramedical staff has been assigned specific duties at each site for the dry run, and the site has also been divided into three specific rooms including sitting area\waiting lounge, vaccination room and observation room. For the dry run activity, users ids will be created by district administrators a day prior to the dry run. The district administrators will create the same for the vaccination teams. The concerned medical officer-in-charge will identify 25 test beneficiaries ( health workers) at each site for the dry run. The data of these identified test beneficiaries will be uploaded on the Co-WIN test link by the district administrator. The primary objective of the dry run is to assess operational feasibility of using Co-WIN application in the field environment, to test linkages between planning, implementation and reporting mechanism, to identify challenges and guide the way forward before actual implementation. It is to provide confidence to the programme managers at various levels, said Dr Singh. “Health staff assigned for duties have been briefed about the guidelines which includes creation of facilities & users on Co-WIN application (an electronic application) , session site creation and mapping of sites, beneficiary data upload on Co-WIN , receipt of the vaccines by the district and vaccine allocation using Co-WIN, session planning, vaccinator deployment, deployment of team members, vaccine and logistics mobilization at session site, mock drill of beneficiary vaccination and reporting, and review meet to receive feedback” said nodal officer. Dr Singh, meanwhile, said, “From installing freezers to setting up cold chain equipment, arrangements are being made at a government hospital here for storing the vaccine, whenever it arrives”. He said that the health department is fully prepared to receive, store and administer Covid-19 vaccine to around 26,000 priority category persons (medical and paramedical staff) in the city in the first phase of vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/six-sites-selected-in-prayagraj-for-covid-vaccination-dry-run/articleshow/80087339.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Delhi||Delhi govt gets ready for check during vaccination drive||NEW DELHI: Though chances of people developing any adverse reaction after getting vaccinated stand slim, Delhi government is still making adequate arrangements to monitor those who will be vaccinated. Apart from a central helpline they can call, each person who gets vaccinated will be monitored by a healthcare worker for at least a fortnight and will be under the surveillance of a medical officer. There will be monitoring stations at all the Covid-19 vaccination centres where ten patients each admitted at a time to ensure social distancing. After the vaccination, the person will be under observation for 30 minutes. “Chances of adverse reaction are less than 1% but just in case someone complains of even a minor pain, some swelling or itching, steps will be accordingly taken and we will record the observation,” said Dr Suneela Garg, who is leading Delhi’s vaccination programme and is director professor at the department of community medicine in Maulana Azad Medical College, University of Delhi. “Any event abnormal to the person after the first dose of vaccination is going to be recorded and they will be monitored till the next dose is monitored and even after that. They will be provided a number where they can inform any abnormality,” she said. “They will be directly in touch with a healthcare worker like an ANM (Auxiliary Nurse Midwife) and a medical officer,” added Dr Garg, who is also a public health adviser to ICMR. The two doses of the vaccine will be given 28 days apart. “We will tell the person to get in touch with the medical officer if required,” she said. Through surveillance and monitoring, Delhi government will also ensure that the people take the second dose too at the right time. Healthcare workers have already been trained, so that they can further sensitise the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-gets-ready-for-check-during-vaccination-drive/articleshow/80104749.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 5, 2021||Meerut||Six killed, 10 hurt as truck crammed with 25 cattle overturns||strap: 15 cattle were also killed in the accident in Amroha districtAmroha: A container truck crammed with at least 16 people and 25 cattle onboard overturned after a tyre burst leaving six dead and 10 injured on a busy Uttar Pradesh highway in Amroha district on Monday morning. As many as 15 cattle were also killed in the accident.The heavy vehicle was travelling from a cattle market in Jaipur and heading towards Didauli in low visibility caused by dense fog.The container truck had a flat tyre near Brijghat and it went off the road and overturned, Amroha superintendent of police (SP) Suniti said."It was coming from Rajasthan and was carrying more than 20 cattle, out of which 15 perished. In all, there were also 16 people in the container. Most of them were cattle traders. They were coming from a cattle market in Jaipur," the SP added.The six dead were identified as Akram from Sahaspur Ali village under Didauli police station, Hari Singh and Duli Chand from Mahadpur under Saidnangli police station in Amroha district, and Mohammad Hasan, Sonu and Nazim from Uvari village under Asmoli police station in Sambhal district.The injured persons - 10 of them - had been admitted to a local hospital. Their health condition is said to be stable and they are all recovering well, the SP further said. The deceased were sent to district hospital for autopsy. A probe is on, police said.District magistrate of Amroha Umesh Mishra along with the local SP were present at the accident site during the rescue operation. The heavy truck was on its way to Didauli's Dhakiya Chaman village. There was a puncture in one of its front tyres at 8:30am and the container was crammed with people and cattle, according to locals.A major accident may have been averted as there was hardly any traffic and people on the busy highway during the winter morning, locals added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/six-killed-10-hurt-as-truck-crammed-with-25-cattle-overturns/articleshow/80102362.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 5, 2021||Kochi||‘Culling will be over in three days’||Alappuzha: After bird flu (H5N8) was confirmed at four places in Alappuzha, the district administration has completed all preparations for culling birds within a 1km radius of the affected areas from Tuesday. Soon after the disease was confirmed on Monday, collector A Alexander chaired a meeting of officials concerned and directed them to take all possible steps to prevent the spread of the disease. This is the third outbreak of bird flu in Alappuzha over the past seven years. Alexander said that bird flu was confirmed in Nedumudi, Thakazhi, Pallippad and Karuvatta in Kuttanad. “As per the estimate of animal husbandry department (AHD), 34,602 birds (mainly ducks) need to be culled in Kuttanad and it will be completed in three days. These include 5,975 birds in Nedumudi, 11,250 birds in Thakazhi, 4,627 birds in Pallippad and 12,750 birds in Karuvatta. Kuttanad witnessed the death of ducks two weeks ago and AHD officials collected samples from six places in the district. They sent it to national institute of high-security animal diseases lab in Bhopal for analysis. Four samples tested positive for bird flu. Health officials said that H5N8 virus did not usually spread to human beings. However, they warned that if mutation happened, it could be transmitted to human beings. In 2014, the district faced a grave situation after thousands of ducks died due to the outbreak of highly-infectious variety of bird flu (H5N1 virus). Effective intervention by the government brought the situation under control then. After two years, Kuttanad again witnessed such cases caused by the H5N8 virus. The collector said that they have set up 18 rapid response teams for culling birds. The team will consist of a veterinary doctor, two livestock inspectors, two attenders, one revenue and grama panchayat official, one policeman, two helpers among others. Alappuzha district administration has banned the sale of meat, egg and manure of duck, chicken and quail in Kuttanad and Karthikappally taluks in view of the bird flu outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/culling-will-be-over-in-three-days/articleshow/80102368.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Delhi||AAP, BJP trade barbs over temple removal in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Politics over the removal of a temple on the central verge of the road near Moti Bazaar in the Walled City became a three-pronged contest on Monday with AAP, BJP and Congress indulging in blame-game for the action that was taken by North Delhi Municipal Corporation in compliance with an order by Delhi High Court. State BJP chief Adesh Gupta and Leader of Opposition in Delhi assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri vowed to rebuild the Hanuman temple. “The temple was demolished by the Arvind Kejriwal-led government under a conspiracy. It’s clear that the CM is anti-Hindu. Delhi government should redesign the Chandni Chowk beautification project and ensure that the temple is rebuilt,” they said at a press conference. Accusing the BJP-led north corporation of removing the temple with the help of police, AAP functionary Durgesh Pathak said BJP was blaming AAP to avoid public anger. Delhi Congress, meanwhile, blamed both AAP and BJP for it. The BJP functionaries said Kejriwal could have referred the issue to Delhi government’s religious committee chaired by home minister Satyendar Jain, but he didn’t do that. The committee looks into unauthorised religious structures built on government land. “Kejriwal portrays himself as a Hanuman devotee. But when the time came to save the Hanuman temple, he stepped back. He ignored the requests of religious organisations and priests,” said Gupta. Bidhuri said the religious committee could have taken a stand in court to stop the removal of the temple because it hurts the faith of people and could lead to disturbance of law and order. “However, the committee of the Kejriwal government did not present its stand in court,” he claimed. Gupta alleged that Delhi government had written to the high court in October saying that the municipal corporation and police were not supporting them and were causing obstruction in removal of the temple. “In November, residents of Chandni Chowk had moved the high court to save the temple. However, the court clearly stated that matters related to religious places were resolved by the religious committee of Delhi government. The court could only hear the application of the committee. The temple was removed in the name of development, thereby hurting the faith of crores of Hindus,” alleged Gupta. Pathak said the Delhi BJP chief and his party members were directly responsible for the removal of the temple and demanded stringent action against them for “committing a heinous crime”. “North corporation submitted an affidavit in court where it clearly mentioned that the temple was built on encroached land and expressed its intention to remove it. Based on this claim, the high court passed the order for removal of the religious structure,” he claimed. Delhi Congress chief Anil Kumar said the temple was removed by north corporation in concurrence with Delhi government. “Both BJP and the AAP government admitted in court that the temple was an encroachment on the pedestrian pathway. According to the normal procedure, an alternative place should be allotted for relocating such shrines,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-bjp-trade-barbs-over-temple-removal/articleshow/80104779.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Delhi||Delhi improves Covid death graph||NEW DELHI: Deaths due to Covid-19 taking place within 72 hours of hospitalisation of a patient have declined significantly from 57.3% in June to 19% in December. In November, the comparative figure was 33.2%. Delhi’s current case fatality rate is 1.6%, whereas it was 2.3% on September 8. In mid-last year, when Delhi was experiencing the first Covid-19 wave, deaths of patients taking place within 72 hours of hospitalisation was at one of the highest points. An official said, “The number of deaths within 72 hours of hospitalisation was 57.3% in June, 26.5% in October, 33.2% in November and 19.08% in December.” In the first fortnight of November, the pandemic appeared to be raging aggressively when the city was reporting 7,000-8,000 cases daily. The number of infections was in line with the prediction made by the expert committee constituted by the central government, which had stated that weather change, onset of winter, festival-related gatherings and influx of patients from outside the capital would result in the numbers shooting up to 15,000 a day. In early June, the overall daily Covid deaths were low, but rose to over 60 towards the second fortnight. On June 16, there were 93 Covid deaths reported in a day. The deaths were comparatively lower in July and August. Towards the end of September, the daily deaths started increasing slightly and in early November they rose again. On November 18, though there were 131 deaths reported in a day, the deaths within 72 hours of hospitalisation did not increase as much. The decline in deaths was a result of multiple factors, including better clinical management of patients in hospitals and aggressive testing to ensure early detection, isolation and start of treatment. Due to the revised testing strategy, the positivity rate of RT-PCR tests fell to 5.5% on December 19 compared with 22.3% in November. In all, 6,05,420 RT-PCR tests were conducted in November, while 6,98,884 tests were conducted till December 19. The overall positivity rate fell from 11.74% in November to 2.96% in December. Back-to-back meetings were held by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal with chiefs of hospitals and experts to hammer out ways to bring down the number of deaths. In July, the CM constituted four committees of experts to inspect 11 private and government Covid-19 healthcare facilities and give hospital-wise recommendations on steps needed to reduce deaths, besides betterment of patients care services. The experts observed that the percentage of deaths in the hospitals was on the higher side in the first three weeks of July. Live monitoring of patients admitted at Lok Nayak Hospital also contributed towards reducing deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-improves-covid-death-graph/articleshow/80104769.cms||AlokKNMishra
January 5, 2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Head constable booked for raping 24-year-old||LUDHIANA: A Punjab Police head constable posted at Mundian Kalan police post of Ludhiana commissionerate was booked on Monday for allegedly raping a 24-year-old woman in lockup. After an investigation, the case was lodged against accused head constable Rakesh Kumar at Jamalpur police station. The police are also probing the role of police post in-charge ASI Baldev Singh. The survivor said in her police complaint filed on December 17, 2020, “A friend of my husband was a frequent visitor to our house. The man’s relatives, Pammi, Pooja, Binda and Mamta, suspected he had illicit relations with me. On December 3, when I was alone at home, the four barged into my house and thrashed me badly. They tore my clothes and made a video on their cellphones.” The next day, she filed a complaint at Mundian Kalan police post. “But, the cops took no action. On December 5, the four again thrashed me at my house. I then left my house and went to my relative’s place. Scared of their attacks, I went to my house around 12.30am on December 6 to vacate it. But they reached there and assaulted me. They called head constable Rakesh Kumar, who without a woman cop took me and my husband to Mundian Kalan police post. At the police post, the head constable assaulted the two of us,” she added. “At night, head constable Rakesh Kumar took me to a room on the first floor of the police post on the pretext of questioning me in front of women cops. But when I reached there, there were no women cops. The head constable raped me in the room and threatened to implicate my husband in a case if I spoke about it. Afraid, I did not make any complaint for 11 days. But later, I decided to speak about it and filed a complaint with commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal on December 17,” she added. Jamalpur police station SHO inspector Kulwant Singh said the head constable has been booked under sections 376-C (intercourse by superintendent of jail, remand home, etc). The four accused have also been booked for thrashing the survivor and making her video. “The FIR against the other accused has been lodged under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 354-B (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the IPC. The role of ASI Baldev Singhis being probed,” the SHO added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/head-constable-booked-for-raping-24-year-old/articleshow/80102380.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Lucknow||‘Vaccination voluntary but it’s in national interest to take it’||In a few days from now, the century’s most awaited health programme will be rolled out by the Uttar Pradesh government. As people look forward to moving on from Covid-19, many doubts are boggling their minds. In search for answers to some of these question, TOI’s Shailvee Sharda spoke to Dr Praful Bharadwaj, health officer, Unicef UP, who has been part of UP’s Covid-19 campaign since the first day. Q1: Compared to other vaccines, the Covid-19 vaccine has come in a very short time. Is it safe? Also, is it mandatory for everyone to take it?A: The vaccine is being introduced after due clearances from the regulatory body which granted permission only after ensuring that the safety and efficacy standards were followed. Vaccination against Covid-19 is voluntary. However, it is advisable in individual, social and national interest to take the vaccine. Q2: Why should one get vaccinated? Would you take the shot and get your family members to take it?A: There are three options before each one of us. The first is to get infected by coronavirus and develop immunity. But this option comes with 80% risk of complications that may even cost life. Second: get vaccinated and develop immunity. This option comes with a small risk of side effect. Third is to do nothing and wait for herd immunity to diffuse the pandemic. Here, one will have to live under the fear of contracting the infection. Among the three, vaccination is the best bet and I will take the shot and get it for my family too. Q3: Will the vaccine work against the new strain as well? A: Yes. In fact, this is just the right time to get vaccinated. Q4: What would you like to tell those who are scared of the side effects? A: Well, all vaccines come with some degree of side effects. Mild fever, pain and swelling on the site of injection are the commonest. For more serious side effects like nausea, world-class ‘adverse event’ kits have been provided at each centre. Q5: What if one experiences problems after a couple of days?A: Every recipient will be provided with a vaccination card which will have an emergency contact number. They can call here for help. Q6: Why are those suffering from diabetes, hypertension, heart disease or cancer getting the shot before others?A: Such persons have been grouped in the high-risk category and need to get the shot sooner than others. Their immune system is already in a fight to stay ahead of the disease. The vaccine will aid their body’s mechanism to fight infections including Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vaccination-voluntary-but-its-in-national-interest-to-take-it/articleshow/80105084.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 5, 2021||Lucknow||BJP MP slams Akhilesh Yadav for not visiting Azam in jail||AYODHYA: BJP MP Brij Bhushan Singh slammed Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav for not visiting SP leader Azam Khan in jail. Addressing the media in Faizabad on Monday, Singh said, “Akhilesh cannot do politics by sitting in his home and BJP will come back again in 2022”. “If Mulayam Singh Yadav would have been in place of Akhilesh, then he would have reached the gates of jail even after being beaten by lathis”, said Singh. Singh, who is BJP MP from Qaiserganj parliamentary constituency, was very close to the SP patron but switched to BJP in 2014 parliamentary elections. Mulayam had to face criticism when he gave Singh entry in SP as he was an accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-mp-slams-akhilesh-for-not-visiting-azam-in-jail/articleshow/80105122.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
January 5, 2021||Ludhiana||Village women prove mettle at protest sites on Delhi borders||Chakkar (Jagraon): As a large number of men from Jagraon villages join the farmers’ protest at Delhi border, the women, even the elderly, stand shoulder to shoulder with them. Every few days, trolleys ferry farmers, including women, to protest sites near Delhi.Since there was only one farmer union member at Chakkar village, residents formed the Naujawan Kissan Mazdoor Ekta Club to send villagers to the protest site near Delhi. “Till day before yesterday, we had sent 21 jathas (groups) from our village. Most of the farmers of our village, approximately 2,000 persons, have been to the protest site near Delhi. In the first jatha, we had 13 women, in the second jatha, there were eight and in the third, there were 15. Till now, we have sent around 50 women from the village, mostly to Tikri border. Such is the enthusiasm among women that even now we keep getting calls from them asking when the next jatha is going,” said Sukhjeet Singh, member of the club, who has gone to the dharna site thrice. He said similar enthusiasm can be seen among women in neighbouring villages like Derka, Dalla, Rommi, Kamalpura, Rama and Manuke.His mother, 65-year-old Gurmeet Kaur, said she has been to the dharna site twice and that she does sewa there. She said they would continue to protest till they accomplished the mission. “We fight to win. We don’t fight to loose. With Waheguru’s blessings, we will win this time as well,” she said.When asked if women agitators face problems at dharna sites, she quipped, “Had it been so why would we have gone there so many times? Women are happy to stand shoulder to shoulder with the men protesting for the farmers’ cause.”While women are going in batches, many of them have been staying put for a long time. Among them is the elderly Hardeep Kaur, who, along with her husband Jora Singh from this village, has locked the house to camp near the Delhi border. Hardeep Kaur said she is happy to be doing sewa among the protesters and demanded that the government repeal the contentious farm laws. Her nephew Maha Singh, who is also part of the club, said there are around eight to 10 women from the village at the dharna site. He added that another jatha with women protesters is expected to leave for the dharna site on Wednesday. Women from neighbouring villages are also heading for the protest sites. “My husband was here for a week and now I have come to do sewa here. He will come when I return after a week. My daughter Pawandeep Kaur also wanted to come but then some family members should be at home. In my absence, my sister-in-law cooks for my family,” said 50-year-old Ranjit Kaur, a resident of Malla village, whose husband Jagmohan Singh owns five acres farm land. “We will continue to fight for repeal of farm laws by the government even if we have to spend months at the dharna site,” she asserted. Another woman from Hathur area who has been to the dharna site shared her concerns saying, “Agar kissani khatam ho gayi, taan Punjab khatam ho jau. Kissani nu bachana zaroori hai,” (It is very important to save farming or Punjab will be finished. It is necessary to save agriculture). Parminder Singh, a resident of Chakkar village said that in the absence of women members of the family, village residents and relatives help with cooking and other chores. He said the essence of village life is mutual support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/village-women-prove-mettle-at-protest-sites-on-delhi-borders/articleshow/80102393.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 5, 2021||Goa||Ponda health officer to operate from old building||Ponda: Though the medical facilities of Ponda sub-district hospital (SDH) have relocated to its own building, Ponda health officer will continue to work from the same old community health centre building at Tisk for some time, art and culture minister Govind Gaude said. Following the conversion of Ponda SDH into a full-fledged Covid-19 facility, the health department office was shifted to the renovated building of the old community health centre (CHC). After temporarily serving from the Dilasa Palliative Care Center at Farmagudi, the Ponda SDH has returned to its own building at St Cruz, Ponda. But, there is no hurry to shift back the health department office to the hospital building, Gaude said. The building where the health department office is housed at present is likely to see a new library building come up at the site. Gaude said that as there is still a lot of time left before the library complex can take shape, the health officer can continue to function at the old CHC. Initially the CHC building was renovated to shift out patients department (OPDs) there, but considering the congested space of the building, the OPDs were continued at the Dilasa. Ponda CHC was closed down after the Ponda got its SDH on December 19, 2012 and the CHC building was handed over to art and culture department to start a library. The state government is mulling having a seven-story building to house a full-fledged library with all modern amenities with the ground floor dedicated to the health office, the minister told TOI. “Process to appoint a consultant was about to start last year, but due to outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, the project has been kept in abeyance. But, I wish to lay a foundation stone for the project by Independence Day,” Gaude said. Presently all works related to health department including immunisation of children are done at the building and its good if the building is utilised, Gaude added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ponda-health-officer-to-operate-from-old-building/articleshow/80104892.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 5, 2021||Ludhiana||Accused cop among 3 suspended, others sent to police lines||Ludhiana: Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal suspended head constable Rakesh Kumar with immediate effect after he was booked, on Monday, for raping a woman in the lockup of Mundian Kalan police post. Except three, the entire staff of the police post have been transferred to the police lines and two more cops suspended. Agarwal said, “We have zero tolerance for such cases. Head constable Rakesh Kumar has been booked under Section 376-C (sexual intercourses by person in authority) and suspended. Departmental probe is on against him. ASI Sukhwinder Singh and home guard Harinder Singh, who were present at the police post that night, have also been suspended. The in-charge of the police post, ASI Baldev Singh, and ASI Surjan Singh have been transferred to police lines. ASI Baldev and ASI Surjan didn’t inform senior officials about the incident. Two women cops posted there had gone home after the duty hours that day. While detaining a woman, a woman cop should be present. The cops on duty should have called them. It was a major negligence.”About rape inside the police post, he said, “As of now, the FIR has been lodged on the basis of initial investigation against the cop. I cannot say anything on the rape allegations, but during the probe it was found that the head constable did not perform his duty as per rules. Further inquiry is on.” The previous year, too, the men in khaki were involved in controversies and arrested for various crimes, including drug peddling, Agarwal said, “All those cops were either suspended or dismissed. As many as 35 cops were dismissed and 10 were given forced retirements as per the seriousness of the matter. We keep a check on cops. Those who are found absent and undisciplined are first warned and then action is taken against them.” He said soon, the city police would form police station-wise committees to get feedback about the cops. “The committees will contact those who have lodged complaints at police stations and ask them if they were satisfied with the action taken in the cases. They will be given parameters to vote on cops’ performance. This will help improve the performance of police,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/accused-cop-among-3-suspended-others-sent-to-police-lines/articleshow/80102386.cms||Payal Dhawan
January 5, 2021||Business||Nissan to add 3rd shift at Oragadam plant||Chennai: Nissan India is ramping up production and adding a third shift at its Oragadam factory in the outskirts of Chennai riding on the success of the newly launched SUV Magnite. Nissan Motor India MD Rakesh Srivastava said the company will hire 1000 plus employees for its factory and another 500 plus employees in its dealerships to handle the bookings for the Magnite. The third shift will start working from February. “In one month of launch we have got 32,800 bookings for the Magnite and many of the variants now have a wait list of upto 5 months so we are ramping up capacity from 2,700 units of Magnite a month to around 4,000 a month. We held on to our employees during the lockdown and now we are adding 1,500 plus in our factory and dealerships. Our vendor partners will also add workforce to keep up with this ramp up,” he added. The Nissan Renault plant at Oragadam can crank out 4,80,000 vehicles per year at peak capacity. The company did not comment on its current capacity utilisation. The Magnite’s exports will also start shortly adding to the production numbers. “We will start exporting the Magnite to Indonesia and South Africa,” said Srivastava. “But our primary focus will be the domestic market.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nissan-to-add-3rd-shift-at-oragadam-plant/articleshow/80103371.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Five booked for torching house of Muslim man who converted||LUCKNOW: Rae Bareli police booked five persons for allegedly torching the house of a Muslim man who had embraced Hinduism in September last year. Police said the family ran to safety though the front portion of the house was destroyed in fire. Police and Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) have been deployed in the area. Mohammed Anwar of Atanganjratso village in the Salon area of Rae Bareli had converted to Hinduism last year and changed his name to Dev Prakash. He also renamed his children as Devnath (5), Deendayal (4) and Durga (3). Police said Prakash had married four times but used to live alone with his children as his first wife had died and subsequent marriages did not work. Lodging an FIR, Dev Prakash alleged that former village pradhan Mohammed Tahir and his associates were upset with him ever since he embraced Hinduism. “On Saturday afternoon, I was sleeping with my children when a fire broke out in my house. Residents of the area raised an alarm and asked us to vacate the house,” Dev Prakash said. “I rushed out with my children and spotted Tahir and his brother Rehan setting my house on fire. I informed the police and fire-tenders about the incident,” he said. SP, Rae Bareli, Shlok Kumar said an FIR under charges of mischief by fire or explosive substance and rioting had been lodged against Tahir, Rehan and three others. “Preliminary probe suggests that Prakash and Tahir also had a dispute over a piece of land. We are probing the case from all angles. Tahir and his brother have been detained and are being questioned,” he said. Sources in the police department said members of right wing outfits also reached the village to meet Dev Prakash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/5-booked-for-torching-house-of-muslim-man-who-converted/articleshow/80105422.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||IIM-A would be protected if Gujarat approved AMC list||AHMEDABAD: The only piece of architecture by Louis Kahn in India, the IIM-A complex, would not have had faced the danger of being demolished had the state government notified the list of 318 heritage building list that the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) had prepared, of heritage buildings outside the walled city. On the list were 56 buildings of the post-Independence era, including the IIM-A complex and the four buildings designed by Le Corbusier — Villa Shodhan, Villa Sarabhai, ATMA building, and AMC’s Sanskar Kendra in Paldi. All these were built between 1951 and 1957. Ahmedabad happens to be the only place in the world where Corbusier designed four different buildings. The list was prepared by the AMC, the Gujarat chapter of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) and the Urban Management Centre (UMC) in 2015. Experts had visited all these buildings and assigned them scores out of eight. Based on these scores, the buildings were graded as Grade 1, Grade 2A and Grade 2B etc. The Ellis Bridge cannot be pulled down as the AMC had it on its heritage list. Shah Jahan’s Moti Shahi Palace in Shahibaug and Fatehwadi are part of the city’s heritage as well. The heritage committee recommended that the precincts of Gujarat College and Charles Correa’s Sabarmati Ashram museum also be included on the list as a part of examples of modern architecture,” said a senior AMC heritage committee member. The official added that Town Hall, MJ Library and other 20th century buildings outside the walled city have been listed. “The list is pending approval from the state government. It was twice submitted to the urban development department for consideration. Had the government approved the list, it could have saved us from international embarrassment,” said a senior AMC official. “IIM-A would have had to approach the AMC to make any modifications to the buildings had the list been approved,” added the AMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/iim-a-would-be-protected-if-state-approved-amc-list/articleshow/80103477.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Kanpur||Kashi to soon have its own ‘twin towers’||VARANASI: The integrated commissioner complex (ICC) will come up in ‘twin towers’ at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s parliamentary constituency with an investment of Rs 171 crore on revenue model with the help of private investors. While one tower will accommodate only government offices, the other will be totally commercial and generate revenue for the maintenance of the former. The complex will comprise two buildings. While a 17-storey complex will accommodate 44 government offices of commissioner headquarters, the other will solely be a commercial complex of 16-storey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kashi-to-soon-have-its-own-twin-towers/articleshow/80103094.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
January 5, 2021||Rajkot||Rajkot: JAU’s cattle breed farm bags national award||RAJKOT: The cattle breeding farm of Junagadh Agriculture University (JAU) bagged the national award for the conservation of Jafrabadi buffaloes. The award was given by ICAR- National Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources on December 23, the university announced on Monday. The JAU introduced Jafrabadi buffaloes in its cattle breeding farm (CBF) in 1978. A buffalo improvement through field progeny, testing was started by ICAR (Indian Council of Agricultural Research) in 2005. A frozen semen laboratory was established at CBF in 2005 for conservation and dissemination of superior male germplasm through the production of frozen semen doses. According to JAU, till the date 2.55 lakh frozen semen doses have been produced from 25 Jafrabadi bulls out of that 1.48 lakh doses are disseminated. The progeny of bovine born through artificial insemination using semen of genetically strong bulls produced more milk than their mothers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/jaus-cattle-breed-farm-bags-national-award/articleshow/80104718.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Varanasi||Differences in ABAP ranks over proposed ordinance||Prayagraj: The proposed Religious Places Registration and Regulation Ordinance-2020 has split the ranks of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) even before its promulgation. After Kinnar Akhara, the Pari Akhara has also come out against ABAP over its demand that no religious organisation be registered by state government as ‘Akhara’ after the proposed ordinance. Meanwhile, ABAP general secretary Mahant Hari Giri, who is also the chief patron of Juna Akhara, has come out in support of Kinnar Akhara, which joined Juna Akhara in Kumbh-2019 under his patronage, and said he would not distance himself from the monastic order of transgenders. The ABAP and Kinnar Akhara have been in a deadlock since 2016 Ujjain Kumbh. The parishad has opposed Kinnar Akhara since its inception, but the latter was merged into Juna Akhara in Kumbh 2019 on January 12, before the first Shahi Snan of Makar Sankranti due to efforts of Mahant Hari Giri. Kinnar Akhara was then accommodated in all the three Shahi Snans. After the recent controversy, Mahant Hari Giri has said he can even leave the post of ABAP general secretary, but will support Kinnar Akhara. “The administration had given all the facilities to Kinnar Akhara at Kumbh in Ujjain and Prayagraj. The government will give them facilities at Haridwar Kumbh also, but Juna Akhara will arrange their bath. Juna Akhara stands for the honour and respect of Kinnar Akhara,” Giri said. The Pari Akhara has also opened a front against ABAP for calling Kinnar and Pari Akharas as ‘fake’. In a statement, the Peethadhishwar of Pari Akhara Mahant Trikala Bhavanta said Pari Akhara has been registered in 2013 and its registration number is 1,640. “If ABAP has termed us ‘fake’, then tell the meaning of the word ‘fake’. When the state government is doing so much work for the benefit of women, then why women should be left behind in religious events. We question whether one religious institution has the right to call another as fake,” said Trikala Bhavanta. Similarly, the Mahamandaleshwar of Kinnar Akhara Swami Kaushalyananda Giri has issued a statement advising the Akhara Parishad to ban religious conversion and avoid calling others as fake. Amid all this controversy, ABAP head Mahant Narendra Giri said seers are opposing registration of 14th Akhara. The ABAP does not object to any outfit’s merger with an existing Akhara, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/differences-in-abap-ranks-over-proposed-ordinance/articleshow/80101731.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||School buses exempted from vehicle tax||Gandhinagar: The state government on Monday announced an exemption in vehicle tax for school buses run by schools and other educational institutions for the period from April 1, 2020 to December 31, 2020, if they were not used during the said period. The decision came in response to a representation by educational institutions. The exemption is for vehicles registered before April 1, 2017 in the names of schools, colleges and other educational institutions. The exemption will be applicable only after verification that such buses have not been used for commercial or other purposes. Schools, colleges and other educational institutions remained closed this academic year because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Sources in the field of education say that a small number of schools will actually benefit from the announcement. Only about 15 per cent of schools provide school buses. There are 17,000 private schools in Gujarat. More importantly, most schools which provide school buses have outsourced bus services. The government announcement unambiguously mentions that the buses have to be registered in the names of schools, colleges and other educational institutions to avail of the exemption. Motor vehicles tax is charged at the rate of Rs 200 per seat per year for buses registered before April 1, 2017. Jatin Bharad, vice president, Self-Financed School Management Association said only about 15% of schools have buses for students. “There will be just about 15% of schools which have their own buses. In addition, educational institutions will have to establish that their buses have been lying idle since April 2020,” said Bharad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/school-buses-exempted-from-vehicle-tax/articleshow/80103467.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Nagpur||‘Oopar se order hai...’, croon frustrated UK strain suspects online||Nagpur: Guidelines koi padhta nahin, patients ki koi sunta nahinSystem ke aad me, decision koi leta nahin..Yahan ki bureaucracy me fasna; jaise marna qayamat ki raat meThese lines might appear from a contemporary Bollywood potboiler where the protagonist is rebelling against an oppressive system. But they are coming from those quarantined in the special ward of the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) Nagpur for the last 14 days, as suspects of new strain of Covid-19 found in UK. They are being held back as NIV, Pune, is taking endless time examining their sample for new virus strain.Eight of these patients, who have been kept in GMCH as a precautionary measure by the authorities, have come up with a unique song composed, recorded, shot, and edited — all in the special ward of GMCH. Of course, following all rules and Covid-19 protocols.One of the admitted suspects of UK strain Harshal Lonare launched this song on his YouTube channel Lonare Music on Monday and it gathered hundreds of views within hours.“We all are asymptomatic and, like any other patient, want to go home. But, even authorities here (at GMCH) are helpless. They can’t discharge us as there are strict protocols. Every time we ask about why we have to stay here in hospital we get the only answer — Oopar se order hai, (We have orders from above)” Harshal told TOI on phone.Harshal is a music lover and he enjoys composing and singing songs. This time, in hospital, he made new friends, all UK returnees. Together, they decided to create this song not only to kill time but also to vent their frustration.“We decided the punch line — Oopar se order hai’. Then I started composing lyrics. I composed the song on my laptop and recorded it with the microphone in my own voice. We all have high resolution mobile phones. With the help of these gadgets, we shot the entire song of over 3.5 minutes,” Harshal said. Afterwards, Harshal edited the song on his laptop.Patients wearing masks can be seen dancing to the catchy tune of the song which is a contemporary Hindi-English mix. The song became instant hit within medical community too. Doctors, including the GMCH authorities, appreciated the creative effort by the patients in spite of their frustration. By the end of the day, unconfirmed news of three of them being tested negative at NIV Pune reached Nagpur. “We have also received the news that three of us may be discharged. We are still awaiting ‘Oopar se order’ to get it confirmed,” said Harshal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/oopar-se-order-hai-croon-frustrated-uk-strain-suspects-online/articleshow/80102430.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 5, 2021||Ludhiana||Vax process: Health dept trains hospitals’ staff||TNNLudhiana: Ahead of the vaccination drive that is expected to start soon, the health department held a meeting with representatives of major hospitals to train them. The training was attended by representatives of hospitals with staff strength of 100 or more.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar said the training was done in two batches and 25 representatives from qualifying hospitals attended it. They were trained about the vaccination booths to be set up in hospitals.Health department officials said as the manpower used for making such booths would be from the hospitals, it was necessary to prepare them. “They were trained about how to manage those who have been vaccinated and the post-vaccination measures, including tackling side-effects, if any. They were informed about vaccination officers, vaccinators and observers. They were also asked to maintain social distancing and follow other Covid norms and have separate entry and exits,” said the officials.The civil surgeon said information, education and communication (IEC) material would be kept in the waiting rooms at the vaccination centres and the hospital representatives were told that the centre should be away from OPDs and the emergency, so that patients don’t intermingle.Health department officials said though the date for the start of the vaccination process would be known in a day or two, it is expected to begin around January 15. They said around 30,000 healthcare workers would be vaccinated in the first phase, followed by next stage frontline workers, including police and security forces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/vax-process-health-dept-trains-hospitals-staff/articleshow/80102410.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Kochi||CPM’s divisive politics will help BJP in Kerala: Congress||ThiRUVANANTHAPURAM: Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has alleged that CPM is trying to weaken UDF to pave the way for BJP’s growth in the state. “CPM and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan are trying to destabilize religious harmony by playing the communal card. They are in fact triggering a fight between communal groups in the state,” he said. By attacking Indian Union Muslim League, CPM has made its intentions clear: it wants to divide people in the name of the religion, Chennithala said. In the local body election, CPM had taken several decisions in favour of BJP. In over hundred wards it had a secret truck with SDPI and BJP. CPM believes that communal polarization will work to its advantage in the assembly polls as well. People will reject this ploy, he said. Chennithala slammed claims that UDF had disintegrated as a result of a terrible defeat in the local body polls. “This is an attempt to mislead people. The KPCC research and development wing’s analysis of the results revealed UDF had secured more votes than LDF,” he said “While UDF bagged 35.6% votes, the LDF vote share stood at 34.96%. The reality is UDF and LDF share the balance of political power in the state. However, LDF wants to cover up this fact and mislead the people.” The Congress leader said all the allegations of wrongdoing levelled against the state government still stand and people are aware of this. However, UDF did not succeed in making the allegations a plank in the recently held polls, during which only local issues were highlighted. But this will not be the case in the assembly election, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cpms-divisive-politics-will-help-bjp-congress/articleshow/80102439.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Nagpur||Won’t allow any injustice to Vidarbha: CM Uddhav Thackeray||NAGPUR: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday said his government wouldn’t allow any injustice to Vidarbha and would strongly resist any such efforts. Speaking at the inauguration of Maharashtra legislative secretariat’s permanent office at Vidhan Bhavan premises here, he said the office would immensely benefit current and former legislators from the region. Terming the occasion as historic, speaker Nana Patole, who was instrumental in setting up the office here after a demand was raised by former MLC Prakash Gajbhiye, said one such office would be opened in Pune too. He added along with the public representatives, college students would also get access to the secretariat's library. The new facility was inaugurated by legislative council chairman Ramraje Nimbalkar, speaker Nana Patole, deputy speaker Narhari Zirwal and deputy chairman Neelam Gorhe, in an impressive ceremony held at Vidhan Bhavan’s assembly hall. While Patole and Zirwad were personally present, Nimbalkar and Gorhe joined online. Besides CM, a plethora of dignitaries attended the event online, including deputy CM Ajit Pawar and home minister Anil Deshmukh. Parliamentary affairs minister Anil Parab, guardian minister Nitin Raut and animal husbandry minister Sunil Kedar shared the dais. However, local BJP MLAs and MLCs were conspicuous by their absence. Members of the public were also invited and were seen clicking selfies while sitting on seats of legislators. The dignitaries stated that the new office would widen the democratic system across the state. They also applauded Gajbhiye’s efforts in raising the demand for the office and following it up. Hailing the initiative in 60th year of Maharashtra’s formation, CM Thackeray said the former and current members of the assembly could take reference from the new office and also submit their queries and calling attention motions for the legislature sessions here itself. “After our government took charge in 2019 and Covid-19 struck the world and everything came to a standstill. The pandemic, however, has given birth to an online system through which people from places like the US and UK could also join us,” he said. Indirectly targeting the NDA government at the Centre, the CM said his government was decentralizing administration when the country seeing more centralization of powers in one man’s hand. “Mumbai and Nagpur, the second capital, came together due to this facility. Vidarbha region has 62 MLAs, many MLCs and MPs, who will have their rightful place near their home with this office,” he said. Patole stated that since the winter session couldn’t be held in Vidarbha, the government may hold the budget session in March here, depending on prevailing pandemic condition. Raut stated that in 1999 he had tabled a motion for Vidarbha statehood and was granted the opportunity by then CM Vilasrao Deshmukh to speak for over 40 minutes, despite Congress being in power. He also demanded that new headquarters of the government's various departments should be set up in Nagpur like Pune, where 20 such offices were present. He said a centre of Delhi-based Bureau of Parliamentary Studies and Training should be set up in Vidhan Bhavan. Deshmukh said he will conduct meetings regarding the proposed Shakti Bill for preventing sexual offences against women and children with the NGOs in the new facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wont-allow-any-injustice-to-vidarbha-cm/articleshow/80102404.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 5, 2021||Ludhiana||Fraud posing as e-wallet firm customer care agent dupes man||Ludhiana: A city resident has lost Rs 1.89 lakh to online fraudsters, one of whom posed as a customer care agent of an e-wallet company. The FIR was lodged on Sunday following an investigation.The victim, Rahul Sharma, said though he had blocked transactions through his debit card, the accused managed to transfer money from his account and challenged him on phone to trace them. The accused have been identified as Antar Singh of Madhya Pradesh, Ambarasu Nachimuthu, Ezhilarasi Vadizhagan, S Varadarajan, residents of Tamil Nadu, Akash Sonkar of Howrah, West Bengal, and Alijan SK of Murshidabad, West Bengal.Rahul, a labourer and resident of Tibba Road, said, “On November 14, I had recharged my cellphone for Rs 219 using mobile phone application Phone Pay. As Rs 219 were deducted twice from my account, I searched on Google the contact number of Phone Pay customer care. I came across a mobile number and called on it, but the call went unanswered.” The next day, he received a call from an unidentified number. “The caller introduced himself as executive of the application. He made me dial a code on the application. As I entered the numbers, Rs 1.89 lakh were transferred from my bank account linked with the application,” he added.On November 17, Rahul filed a police complaint. Tibba Road police station ASI Sukhdeep Singh said after investigation, an FIR was lodged against the accused under sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. “The money was transferred from Rahul’s account to those of the accused, who have been booked,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/fraud-posing-as-e-wallet-firm-customer-care-agent-dupes-man/articleshow/80102396.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Ludhiana||No death due to Covid, 23 test positive in dist||Ludhiana: For the second consecutive day, no death of a Ludhiana resident due to Covid-19 was reported on Monday. However, 23 residents tested positive for the virus.As per the local media bulletin, a patient from outside the district succumbed to the disease and two outsiders, too, tested positive here on the day.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar said the district toll tally stood at 968 and that of outsiders has increased to 452.To date, 5,44,812 patients have been tested. Of the 23 positive cases, 10 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), six positive cases’ contacts, five from OPD and two through tracing process. The local health department officials said the district case count was 24,893 and that of outsiders 3,718.The civil surgeon said so far, 23,626 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.91% of the total cases.There are 296 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 1,035.On Monday, 36 persons were quarantined and 1,330 samples collected.Three patients, including two of Ludhiana, are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-death-due-to-covid-23-test-positive-in-dist/articleshow/80102413.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Lucknow||Dry run will fine-tune vaccination drive: Uttar Pradesh CM||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has said that the experience gathered from the dry run exercise scheduled for Tuesday will ensure in minimising chances of glitches in the actual situation. He has directed officials to ensure that the task is conducted with utmost seriousness. “The programme is to be rolled out as per directions laid down by the Union government and every aspect of the procedure must be followed by the book,” the CM reportedly told officials in the meeting of Team-11 on Covid-19 pandemic control on Monday. On Saturday, Yogi had said that the vaccine administration may begin around Makar Sankranti which also speaks for the importance of the dry run that will cover all the 75 districts of the state. Officials said that in the mock drill, six centres – three each in rural and urban areas-- in each district will be tested for various protocols and standard operating procedures. Systems like ambulance network, rapid response teams, call centres and verification, etc will also be tested. The CM has told officials to keep extra checks on safe storage of vaccines, maintenance of cold chain and smooth transportation. Sources hinted that the vaccination drive may begin on National Youth Day celebrated on January 12 to mark the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda. This leaves the state with about a week’s time to the D-day. Health minister Jai Pratap Singh also reviewed preparations. Talking to reporters, he assured that the progress was moving as planned. “UP is set to launch one of the biggest vaccination campaigns. The dry run will help us in fine tuning the process further,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dry-run-will-fine-tunevaccination-drive-cm/articleshow/80105295.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 5, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow Development Authority to offer Rs 6 lakh discount on its flats||LUCKNOW: Lucknow Development Authority has announced discount upto Rs 6 lakh on flats in its Devpur Para project. This is being done to attract more buyers. The flats are available in two categories — three bedrooms, and three bedrooms plus kids room. While the original cost of three bedrooms constructed at 95.96 sq metres is Rs 37 lakh, the new price for the unit is around Rs 31 lakh. Similarly, flat with three bedrooms plus kids room constructed at an area of 90.87 sq metres will cost Rs 29 lakh. Its earlier price was Rs 35 lakh. LDA recently completed the construction of 1,600 flats in the project, while 1,000 flats are yet to be built. The registration for flats was opened in 2015. LDA chief engineer Indu Shekhar Singh said allottees who have registered since 2015 will also be given the flats on the revised price. Buyers who have paid the full amount for the flats will be returned the additional amount, he added. In November 2019, LDA had given discount upto 10% in its several housing projects in the city exclduing the Devpur Para since it was not ready then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lda-to-offer-rs-6l-discount-on-its-flats/articleshow/80105201.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 30-year-old lioness Begum dies at Nahargarh park||JAIPUR: Begum, a 30-year-old lioness, also claimed to be the country’s oldest in captivity, died at the Nahargarh Biological Park on Monday. Officials said she was rescued from a Jharkhand circus in 2005, when she was 15. “The lioness had stopped eating for the past two days due to old age. Usually, wildcats live a maximum of 18 years in captivity,” an official said, adding that she was also being treated for paralysis for some time. She was cremated on Monday after a medical board was formed, as per protocol. Officials said 56 wild cats were brought to Jaipur after a ban was imposed in 2002 on circus. Begum was the last surviving lioness who was rescued. As per earlier records, 28-year-old lion Ramu had died at Bhopal’s Van Vihar National Park in 2016. Nahargarh park has been infamous for wildcat deathsNahargarh Biological Park has been infamous for wildcat deaths. In August last year, 15-year-old white tiger Raja had died. With only nine big cats remaining at the park, the state forest department has decided to bring a white tiger and a Bengal tiger in an exchange programme from Odisha. In return, the state will send alligators, wolves, chinkaras and leopards. Before bringing the big cats, the forest department will install CCTV cameras in cages for 24x7 monitoring. In the past, big cats have died at the park due to leptospirosis. “Leptospirosis is a bacterial infection traced to rat and mongoose urine. The disease was reported in the Chhatbir Zoo and Jodhpur Zoo in 2011. As the park is situated in the foothills, both rats and mongooses are in abundance. To fight the menace, a decision has been taken for proper monitoring,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/30-year-old-lioness-begumdies-at-nahargarh-park/articleshow/80104816.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Varanasi||Seers laud PM, CM for KV Dham project work||VARANASI: Seers associated with Akhil Bharatiya Sant Samaj praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath for bringing Kashi Vishwanath Dham (corridor) project while they showed faith in court for a peaceful solution in the cases of Gyanvapi mosque and Mathura on the lines of Ram Janambhumi in Ayodhya. The seers, who had gathered here to take part in two-day national executive meet of ABSS, offered prayers at Kashi Vishwanath temple and also visited the Kashi Vishwanath Dham project area on Sunday. Before leaving the KV Dham area to take part in valedictory session of their convention, ABSS chief Avichal Das and Jagadguru Raj Rajeshwar said that how PM Modi has a clear vision for developing shrines as per their stature by adding all facilities for pilgrims, can be known by visiting the pilgrimage sites in Gujarat. Now, as per the vision of the PM, the shrines in UP are also being developed under close supervision of CM Yogi, they said. ABSS chief said, “As I stayed in Kashi for three years to complete my studies at Sampurnanand Sanskrit University I am well aware of the struggles of devotees in reaching the pilgrimage site of KVT through congested lanes. Now, the temple is easily accessible for everyone. The ABSS president said that after the court’s decision in Ram Janambhumi Ayodhya issue, the seers are in field for the liberation of Gyanvapi in Kashi and Lord Krishnas birth place in Mathura. Evidence of the existence of temple at birthplace of Lord Ram was sought when the Ayodhya issue was in court. Those, who sought such evidences, should come forward for the handover of Gyanvapi mosque to Hindus as even a blind person can know that it was a temple by touching the structure of the building, he added. They said that they would pursue the cases of Kashi and Mathura in court for peaceful solution on the lines of Ayodhya issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/seers-laud-pm-cm-for-kv-dham-project-work/articleshow/80087494.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Lucknow||Three civic officials of Ghaziabad, contractor held||GHAZIABAD/LUCKNOW: A day after 24 people were killed in the collapse of crematorium shelter, a senior executive officer of the Muradnagar municipality in Ghaziabad, which had awarded the contract of building the shelter, was among three civic officials arrested on Monday. The contractor, who was absconding, was arrested too. The government also raised the compensation amount to the victims' family to 10 lakh. Meanwhile, taking a strong note of the incident, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that such incidents are the result of poor monitoring of the civil projects on the part of supervising officers. He has ordered an inquiry to assess the accountability of divisional and district officials. Reiterating his instructions to have a quality check mechanism in place, the CM recalled that during a series of Divisional Review meetings in September last, he had specifically asked to check the quality of projects of the cost of above Rs 50 lakh. Won’t tolerate such incidents, tough action to follow: YogiHe also reminded that a task force in all the districts, comprising officials of all departments, was supposed to be engaged in monitoring processes of such projects. "What was this task force doing in Ghaziabad where such an incident happened," he asked, adding "no such incident will be tolerated in the future and the guilty will be taken to task in the toughest possible manner which includes actions under National Security Act and seizure of property." Niharika Chauhan, the executive officer, junior engineer Chandra Pal and supervisor Ashish were picked up from their homes around 7am on Monday. Contractor Ajay Tyagi, who had built the shelter was arrested on Monday evening from Meerut. The four had been booked under IPC sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 409 (criminal breach of trust by a public servant), among other charges. SP (rural), Ghaziabad, Iraz Raja said a police team had been sent to the Raj Nagar house of contractor Ajay Tyagi on Monday afternoon, but he was not found at home. “A search for the contractor has been initiated. A police team has been deployed outside his house. His car was found parked outside. The tyres have been punctured,” he added. On Monday evening, the police also announced a reward of Rs 25,000 for information on Tyagi. He was finally arrested at 11.30 pm. Tyagi, who was given the contract of renovating the crematorium in February last year and building the shelter, had almost completed the project by October. Chauhan, the municipality official, had on Sunday said that the civic body could not carry out an inspection of the project in the absence of a junior engineer. On Monday morning, the family of six persons killed in the incident blocked the Ghaziabad-Meerut highway with the bodies and demanded a higher compensation and a government job for the next of kin. The protest, which lasted from 11am to 4.30pm, led to an 8kmlong snarl on the highway. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had on Sunday announced a Rs 2 lakh compensation each for the families of the deceased. Those who laid siege to the highway had come from the MMG District Hospital after the bodies of victims were handed over to them following an autopsy. The protesters refused to talk to any police officer and insisted they would not budge until the DM arrived and spoke to them. A PAC team was called to handle the situation. Sunita, whose husband Nitin was among the 24 people who died, said she would continue with her protest until the government increased the aid. “I have a son and daughter to raise. My husband was the sole earning member of our family. Tell me, is Rs 2 lakh enough for all our expenses?” she asked. “The government should increase the amount to at least Rs 15 lakh. It should also offer a job to each family,” said Suraj, another protester. Later in the afternoon, Suresh Kumar Khanna, the minister of finance, parliamentary affairs and medical education, met a few families of the deceased in Muradnagar and announced the government’s decision to increase the compensation amount from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 10 lakh. He also said that the government would provide a job to a member from each family, depending on his or her educational qualification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/three-civic-officials-of-gzb-contractor-held/articleshow/80105432.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Lucknow||‘Khadi, handloom integral part of our cultural heritage’||LUCKNOW: Welcoming the Uttar Pradesh government’s decision to include a khadi fashion show in UP Diwas celebrations, additional chief secretary, higher education, Monika S Garg said the move was a recognition of the sector’s role in inclusive development and its myriad employment potential. “Khadi and handloom are as integral to our cultural heritage as zari is to bridal trousseau. Today khadi-handloom sector employs over 4 million weavers and allied production workers, bulk of whom belong to SC, ST, OBC categories and are women,” she said. Terming textile the second largest employer next to agriculture in India, Garg said the khadi-handloom industry is very important but the 2010 Handloom Census portrayed a dismal trend. “The number of weavers is declining at a rate of 7% per annum and the count of handlooms dwindling. The Census revealed that a weaver earned merely Rs 3,400 per month as against the all-India average of Rs 4,500 per month for any worker,” she said, adding that a targeted approach is required to align our rich legacy with the demands of the modern era. “A Benarasi or Chanderi weaver can earn more if he contemporises his saree. The earnings increase further if he diversifies into exportable accessories like stoles, ties, belts, bags and home furnishings. This needs strong collaboration of weavers with designers and marketing,” she said. Another challenge was that handloom textiles face a serious threat due to unfair trade practices when powerloom cloth is clandestinely sold in the name of handloom. There is a need to generate awareness among the public. Besides, weavers need subsidised yarn and credit, solar-powered charkha and semi-automatic handloom. Hand spinning as well as handloom weaving needs to be treated as a modern profession like fine arts, photography or music. Professional institutes like ITIs, polytechnics, NIFT and NID can start imparting training in khadi and handloom clusters, she said. “We must never forget that the sector has been sustained by transferring skills from one generation to another and it is crucial to keep GenNext in the profession,” Garg said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/khadi-handloom-integral-part-of-our-cultural-heritage/articleshow/80105368.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Kanpur||Platform level work of IIT-K station completed||Kanpur: Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation Limited (UPMRC) has completed the construction of the platform level of IIT-Kanpur Metro station, the first station on the nine kilometre long Priority Corridor, that is being constructed between IIT-Kanpur and Motijheel. Now, the civil construction of the station is in the final stage and will get completed soon. The civil construction of the Priority Corridor comprising nine elevated stations is being carried out by Afcons Infrastructure Limited. On July 25, the first double T-girder was laid to form the base of the concourse (first floor of an elevated station) of the IIT-K Metro station. Concourse and platform levels of the station have been completed in a short span of around five months which is considered a major achievement. UPMRC managing director Kumar Keshav said, “The civil structure of the IIT-K Metro station in Kanpur has been completed in a very short span of time and the credit for this goes to the innovation of using double T-girders for constructing concourse level of the Metro stations. For the first time, double T-girders are being used to form the base of the concourse level in the Metro project. The engineers of UP Metro are making all efforts to ensure that the construction is completed in time while maintaining all safety provisions and standards as utmost priority.” Station rooms are being constructed at concourse level and columns for Pre-Engineered Building (PEB) are being erected at the platform level of Metro station. This PEB structure covers elevated Metro station from top. Metro engineers have successfully erected 21 columns out of 22, at the platform level. Kanpur Metro is expected to become operational in November/December this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/platform-level-work-of-iit-k-station-completed/articleshow/80087627.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Lucknow||‘Aarogya Vatika in every household’||Lucknow: An ‘eco-park’ should be set up in the city to make every household aware about the benefits of Ayurveda, said MLA Suresh Srivastava during Navbharat Times’ ‘Aarogya Vatika’ event in Rajajipuram on Sunday. A garden of medicinal plants was set up in a park in Rajajipuram during the event. “These Aarogya Vatikas should be set up in every household, so that people can benefit from plants like amla, brahmi, aloe vera and giloi which have a high medicinal value,” said Shyamjeet Singh, a local resident.Another resident Rajeev Dixit said, “Earlier, people were not aware of giloi’s health benefits. Now, there are several other plants about which awareness needs to be spread.” If you are interested in getting Aarogya Vatika in your locality, then drop a mail at nbtlucknow@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aarogya-vatika-in-every-household/articleshow/80088015.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 5, 2021||Lucknow||LU offers its students a chance to earn while learning with Karmayogi scheme||Lucknow: Lucknow University students now have the opportunity to earn while learning. The university has come up with Karmayogi scheme which offers the students to do part-time jobs on the campus. The application forms have been uploaded on LU website. Under the scheme, LU will provide part-time jobs in its administration to the needy students to help them support their expenses. “For the assigned jobs, a student will be paid Rs 150 per hour and would be allowed to work for maximum 2 hours a day subject to a ceiling of 50 days in an academic session. The maximum amount paid to a student in any case under the Karmayogi scheme will be Rs. 15,000 in a session,” said dean student welfare Poonam Tandon. The work will be related to the stream of the student. For example, a civil engineering student may get assignment with LU’s public works department; an accounts student can get part-time job at the finance office; a computer science student can work in various offices where computers are used and a journalism student can be assigned the task of preparing press notes for the public relation department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-offers-its-students-a-chance-to-earn-while-learning-with-karmayogi-scheme/articleshow/80105223.cms||Mohita Tewari
January 5, 2021||Lucknow||UP December revenue up Rs 2,522 crore as compared to previous year||LUCKNOW: Despite the challenges posed by the coronavirus pandemic, the state economy is fast heading for recovery and revenue receipts have recorded an increase of Rs 2,522 crore in December 2020 as compared to the recovery registered in the corresponding month in 2019. Giving this information, finance minister Suresh Khanna said December was the fourth successive month when the state has recorded a hike in revenue receipts as compared to the previous year. Khanna, who also holds the medical education and parliamentary affairs portfolios, giving full credit for the economic recovery to Chief Minister Yogi Aditynanath, said that under his able leadership the state managed to sail through the most difficult phase triggered by the pandemic. “In December 2020, the state’s total revenue collection stood at Rs 12,530.7 crore in comparison to Rs 10,008.2 crore in December 2019, registering an increase of Rs 2522.5 crore,” he added. Giving a break-up of the hike in the revenue receipts, the finance minister explained that the GST collection was Rs 4251 crore in December of the current financial year, while in the same month in 2019, it was Rs 3679 crore. Similarly, this December Rs 2271 crore VAT was realised, while in 2019 it was Rs 2072 crore, he said and added that excise collection, too, was raised to Rs 3149 crore this December as compared to Rs 2106 crore in the same month in 2019. The collection under the stamp and registration head stood at Rs 1822 crore in December 2020, while the corresponding figure for 2919 was Rs 1423 crore, Khanna said. The finance minister further said that the revenue from transport was lagging from September till November 2020 as compared to the collection recorded in 2019. But in December last year the collection from transport too registered an increase of about Rs 200 crore, he added. The minister, however, admitted that the state has managed to achieve only 86.2% of the current year’s fiscal targets. “We have targeted to recover Rs 14536.47 crore, while the total collection has, so far, reached Rs 12530.7 crore,” he said, but added that it was wrong to say that as “we have not achieved the cent per cent revenue realisation target so far it would hamper developmental works.” On Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav’s controversial remarks on Covid vaccine, the minister said it was a ‘highly ridiculous’ statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-dec-revenue-up-rs-2522cras-compared-to-previous-yr/articleshow/80105427.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: ‘After vaccine rollout, Covid cases, deaths to dip by March’||LUCKNOW: The number of serious Covid-19 patients as well as casualties will drop drastically by March if the vaccination drive starts in the city from mid-January, according to experts. A significant impact of the mass vaccination will be visible by July after inoculation of over 30% of the population, they added. Times ViewThe number of Covid-19 cases is declining in the city in the new year. Vaccination too, is expected to start this month. However, there is still no alternative to safety protocol such as wearing masks when it comes to checking the disease from spreading. Dropping the guard at this hour can be dangerous and make the journey ahead difficult.However, experts believe that people will have to continue to take precautions till October-November to minimise transmission and casualties, thus indirectly helping in making the drive a success. “About 15,000 people will be vaccinated in initial weeks. The vaccination rate will be increased gradually thereafter by setting up more centres,” district immunisation officer Dr MK Singh said. According to experts, two doses of vaccine are given in a 15-day gap to fully immunise a person. “If 20,000 are vaccinated daily, 3 lakh people will get full immunity in a month and 18 lakh (over one-third of Lucknow’s population of about 50 lakh) in six months. This figure will be enough to show a significant impact,” they added. Medical superintendent of Covid-19 hospital at RMLIMS, Dr Srikesh Singh, said: “Since most of the casualties are being reported in comorbid and elderly patients, mortality will come down if people in these groups get vaccine by March.” Head (medicine) and in charge of Covid facility at KGMU, Dr Virendra Atam, said people should realise that safety protocols were necessary till a substantial population was covered by the immunisation drive. However, head (microbiology), RMLIMS, Prof Jyotsana Agrawal said it was difficult at the moment to predict when significant impact would be visible. “It’s assumed that herd immunity comes when 60% of the population has antibodies. However, mortality and serious cases are expected to decline by March,” she said. Epidemiologist and a faculty at the Provincial Health and Family Welfare Training Centre, Dr Amit Singh, said: “There isn’t any good data yet to determine whether or not these vaccines prevent transmission from a person who has been immunised. What we know as of now is that vaccines will prevent you from getting sick after being infected, but may not prevent from transmitting it to others who haven’t been vaccinated. This makes safety protocols important for next few months.” Director, microbiology, Indian Institute of Medical Sciences, BHU, Prof Anil Kumar Gulati said, “The decreasing trend of daily case count at present shows that many people have already acquired immunity against the novel coronavirus. If mass vaccination is carried out as per the plans, daily numbers may come down to single digit by July.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/after-vaccine-rollout-covid-cases-deaths-to-dip-by-mar/articleshow/80105187.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
January 5, 2021||Kanpur||‘Will approach Pawar, Mamata to seek funds for Ram temple’||Kanpur: Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) vice president and Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust general secretary Champat Rai said on Sunday that Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and West Bengal chief minister Mamta Banerjee will also be approached for funds for the construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya. “We will visit each and everyone’s house, including NCP chief Sharad Pawar and West Bengal chief minister Mamta Banerjee, to collect funds for the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya,” said Rai. “Our volunteers would approach leaders of almost all parties and people from all faiths for their participation in the construction of a grand Ram Temple in Ayodhya,” he added. Rai also appealed to non-resident Indians (NRIs) to keep patience and assured that their monetary contribution will also be included for the construction of Ram Temple. “We have been receiving phone calls from NRIs eager for making monetary contribution for the construction of Ram Temple. We want to assure them that their contribution will also be included, as right now we are in the process of overcoming all legal hurdles in accepting their monetary contribution for the temple construction. We will not indulge in any kind of activities which violate law. Till then, we request them to keep patience and keep increasing their contribution for construction of grand Ram Temple,” said Rai. He further said that three to four lakh volunteers and workers have been roped in under the dedicated campaign for fund collection. “We are targeting to contact more than 55 to 60 crore people in the country and collect their contribution for the task,” Rai added. He also revealed that some people came with contribution of silver, but we want to tell all people that right now we are in need of money. “When we will feel there is a requirement of silver, we will definitely launch a campaign,” he said. Each day’s collection would be deposited in bank accounts, and for this, arrangements have been made in State Bank of India, Punjab National Bank and Bank of Baroda, he added. Briefing media at a restaurant in Civil Lines, Rai also revealed the details about the construction date and duration of the temple, “The temple construction will start from Makar Sankranti and it will be built in 36 to 39 months,” he said. Rai was in the city to intensify campaign to collect funds for construction of Ram Temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/will-approach-pawar-mamata-to-seek-funds-for-ram-temple/articleshow/80087599.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
January 5, 2021||Lucknow||Ballia CMO dies of Covid at SGPGI, tributes pour in||Varanasi: The chief medical officer (CMO) of Ballia, Dr Jitendra Pal, who had tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to Sanjay Gandhi PostGraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) in Lucknow on December 29, died on Monday. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath mourned the CMO’s death and conveyed his condolences to his family. Dr Pal, 59, had tested positive for Covid-19 on December 26, 2020. He was shifted to SGPGIMS from Ballia in an advanced life support ambulance on December 29 as he developed severe breathlessness. “Dr Pal also had diabetes, hypertension and heart disease. Right from admission, he was given oxygen by Bipap machine. As his condition continued to deteriorate, he was put on full mechanical ventilation on January 2, but he succumbed at 7am on Monday,” stated SGPGI bulletin. The news of Dr Pal’s demise stunned health officials and staff in Ballia. A condolence meet was held at the district hospital where minister Anand Swaroop Shukla, district magistrate Hari Pratap Shahi, chief development officer Vipin Kumar Jain and other officials paid floral tributes to him. DM Ballia recalled Dr Pal’s contribution in controlling Covid-19 spread in the district. “The cases were rising in the district, but under Dr Pal’s supervision the recovery rate increased and mortality rate was reduced,” said Shahi. Dr Pal, a native of Sant Kabirnagar, had served as senior consultant in Gorakhpur for many years and was posted as CMO for the first time. He is survived by a daughter and a son, who is doing his postgraduation after completing MBBS. Dr Pal’s sample was collected on December 25 and sent to BHU lab in Varanasi, said officials. He tested positive and was asked to isolate himself immediately. Two persons who came in his contact also tested positive but have recovered. Meanwhile, a district coordinator (mid-day meal) of Ballia also tested positive after which the basic education office, where training of 800 newly recruited teachers is going on, was closed for two days for proper sanitization on the orders of Ballia district magistrate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ballia-cmo-dies-of-covid-at-sgpgi-tributes-pour-in/articleshow/80105259.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Lucknow||Bride, groom to face FIR for home LPG use in wedding||Jhansi: In a bid to check the rampant misuse of domestic LPG cylinders, the Jhansi district supply office has passed an order that if domestic cylinders are found being used during a marriage function, the bride and groom, too, would be booked under the Essential Commodities Act along with their parents and the manager of the marriage hall. As per officials of the district supply office, the order was passed on Sunday as despite stern warning, people are using domestic cylinders against norms instead of commercial ones which are costlier. Confirming the development, area rationing officer Mahesh Chandra Gautam said, “It has been found that domestic cylinders are being used in a rampant manner during marriages which is a gross mis-utilization of subsidised LPG. Not only this, it may cause accidents and could be fatal too. As a result the department had to take strong deterrent measures.” “In case we find domestic cylinders being used during marriages, we will lodge a case under Section 3/7 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, against the bride and the groom along with their parents and the manager of the marriage hall,” Gautam added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bride-groom-to-face-fir-for-home-lpg-use-in-wedding/articleshow/80105406.cms||Arindam Ghosh
January 5, 2021||Kanpur||Governor exhorts industrialists to help eradicate malnutrition, tuberculosis||VARANASI: Governor Anandiben Patel has appealed to the industrialists to come forward for adopting Anganwadi centres and villages to eliminate the problem of malnutrition, and also assist in materializing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dream of making India free of tuberculosis by the year 2025. The governor made this appeal to the industrialists associated with sari industry, micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) at a meeting with them held at the circuit house on Monday. “The global target for TB elimination has to be achieved by 2030 but PM has targeted to make India free of TB by 2025,” she said mentioning that it would become possible easily if industrialists come forward to perform their social responsibility like the NGOs which helped government’s Clean India movement to ensure clean toilets in cent percent households of the country. She asked the industrialists to contact the district magistrate for the adoption of children suffering from TB and malnutrition. “The children suffering from TB need proper medicine and nutrition to recover in six months. If people will try to take care of them by visiting their places, it would boost their morale,” she said adding, “the education of such children should also not be disrupted.” The country’s 20% TB suffering children are in UP, she said stressing the need for taking these children to hospitals timely. She said that the state government is already carrying out a drive to identify TB patients by visiting each and every house. Later, the governor also inaugurated a three-day training programme for Anganwadi workers jointly organized by district administration and Vidya Bharti at faculty of science of Banaras Hindu University. Addressing the inaugural function, she praised the new education policy for integration of mothertongue in syllabus of basic education for making the process of learning for children below six years easier. Highlighting the importance of basic education, she said 80% habits of human beings are developed till the age of eight hence Anganwadi workers have a massive responsibility, especially for judging the qualities of individual child to ensure improvement in their behaviour, skill of learning and playing games.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/guv-exhorts-industrialists-to-help-eradicate-malnutrition-tb/articleshow/80103112.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Lucknow||UP: Mulayam Singh Yadav’s chhoti bahu says vaccine proud achievement of scientists||LUCKNOW: In a sharp contrast to former UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav’s ‘BJP’s vaccine’ jibe, Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav’s chhoti bahu Aparna Yadav on Monday said the Covid-19 vaccine was an achievement of Indian researchers, scientists and doctors and cannot be termed as a BJP, SP or a Congress vaccine. “Indian researchers, scientists and doctors have worked hard to develop the vaccine and this achievement has brought global recognition for India in the health sector. Regional Director WHO South-East Asia Region has said that emergency use authorization given to Covid-19 vaccines in India is the first in the South-East Asia Region and that it will help intensify and strengthen the fight against Covid-19 pandemic in the region,” Aparna told TOI. On the issue of SP chief's statement that he won't not take the vaccine, Aparna said it was his individual decision. On describing it as BJP’s vaccine, she said: “It would be incorrect to call it a BJP, SP or Congress vaccine. It is a vaccine developed by Indian minds and that it a matter of pride,” Aparna, wife of Mulayam's younger son Prateek, said. Akhilesh had triggered a row on Saturday when he announced that he will not take the vaccine and went on to describe it as “BJP’s vaccine”. Attacked by the BJP which described his comment as an insult to Indian scientists and doctors who worked hard to develop the vaccine, Akhilesh tweeted that Covind -19 vaccination is a sensitive exercise as it pertains to protecting human lives and the ruling BJP must not showcase it as just another gala event. On Sunday he said if people and political parties are asking questions about the vaccine on the social media and news reports, then it is the duty of the government to clarify these doubts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/msys-chhoti-bahu-says-vaccine-proud-achievement-of-scientists/articleshow/80105139.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
January 5, 2021||Lucknow||UP’s Covid-19 recovery rate better than national average||LUCKNOW: The Covid-19 recovery rate of UP was reported to be marginally better than the national average as per data from the Union health ministry and the state government. While in UP, 96.4% patients have recovered, the national average is 96.1%. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad stated that recoveries had been outnumbering new cases for nearly four weeks now. “Against 714 fresh cases, 1,054 persons recovered in the past 24 hours. The number of deaths was also 10 which speaks for the control on the Covid-19 situation,” he said. Stating that despite the improvement, Covid-19 prevention protocol must be followed as even the vaccine will take some time to build immunity against the pandemic virus, he said: “Though the cases and deaths were declining and vaccine programme launch was also on the anvil, but Covid-19 appropriate behaviour must be followed without fail even after people get the vaccine shots.” Meanwhile, the total number of cases in UP reached 5,88,885 of whom 5,67,964 have recovered, while 8,413 have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/states-covid-19-recovery-rate-better-than-national-average/articleshow/80105301.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 5, 2021||Lucknow||Railways realised Rs 10 lakh penalty for misusing senior citizen quota||LUCKNOW: Railways realized close to Rs 10 lakh in penalty from passengers caught traveling on senior citizen quota ticket while still being below 60 years amid coronavirus pandemic. Many passengers were caught travelling on tickets booked under various quotas like senior citizens, pregnant women, physically challenged despite not being eligible for the same. The travel of wait-listed passengers was banned during the pandemic, hence touts gave confirmed tickets of senior citizen, pregnant women, physically challenged and other quotas to passengers after charging a premium. The monthly internal audit report of railways reveals that Rs 59 lakh penalty was realized from 7,100 passengers caught traveling without proper tickets in eight trains passing via Gorakhpur and Lucknow divisions between April and December. Railway officials said most defaulters were lower middle class passengers heading to Mumbai post-lockdown in trains from Gorakhpur and Bihar. NER Lucknow division PRO Mahesh Gupta told TOI, “We caught 1,570 passengers traveling on senior citizen quota tickets while their age was below 60 years and realized Rs 9.67 lakh penalty from them. Similarly, 1,220 passengers were traveling on photocopies of tatkal tickets and paid Rs 8.75 lakh penalty in total.” “Touts sold confirmed tickets to passengers but the tickets were booked under some quota,” he added. “Among 68 divisions, NER Lucknow collected the highest revenue in the current financial year from passengers traveling without a proper ticket,” Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rlys-realised-rs-10l-penalty-for-misusing-senior-citizen-quota/articleshow/80105162.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath meets BJP core committee, discusses panchayat elections||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath held a meeting with the core group of senior BJP leaders including BJP vice-president and UP in charge Radha Mohan Singh and party national general secretary Arun Singh at the UP BJP headquarters on Monday evening. While party leadership chose to remain tight-lipped on what transpired at the meeting, sources said the BJP leaders sought a closer coordination with the party and the state government in the run-up to panchayat elections which are seen as a semi-final before the 2022 UP assembly elections. The meeting was also attended by both deputy CMs—Keshav Maurya and Dinesh Sharma—besides senior UP BJP leaders, including state chief Swatantra Dev Singh and general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal. Sources said that the leaders also discussed the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the new farm laws and its potential aftermath on the ruling party. “The agitation is being fuelled by the Opposition. We need to find a counter strategy,” said a leader. Sources said UP BJP leadership categorically discussed with CM Yogi the strategy to expedite the grassroots outreach in the run-up to panchayat elections. This comes a day after the BJP charted out programmes for district level meetings from January 7. The party leadership is also learnt to have discussed prospective candidates for the legislative council polls on 12 seats which fall vacant on January 31. The UP leaders will finalise the names before sending them for approval by the national leadership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-meets-bjp-core-committee-discusses-panchayat-elections/articleshow/80105383.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Patna||Bihar to build 120 bypass roads at cost of Rs 4,000 crore||PATNA: The road construction department (RCD) on Monday decided to build bypass roads at 120 urban locations across the state under the Saat Nischay Part-2 programme to ease traffic congestion. The CM on Monday gave his formal approval to the RCD’s proposal to build the 120 bypass roads during a meeting convened to review the works of the department. The meeting was attended by deputy CM Renu Devi and the RCD minister Mangal Pandey. The plan is CM Nitish Kumar’s directive of providing a hassle-free drive so that anyone can reach Patna within five hours from anywhere in Bihar. “The total length of these 120 proposed bypasses would be 708km and they would be constructed at an estimated cost of Rs 4,154 crore in the next four years,” RCD additional chief secretary Amrit Lal Meena told TOI over the phone. He said of the total 120 bypasses, 31 would be built alongside national highways, while the rest 89 parallel to state highways and major district roads. “At some locations, the bypass roads would cross through elevated structures,” Meena added. “While approving the proposal, the CM asked RCD officials to get the plan of all proposed bypasses formally sanctioned in the next two financial years and also ensure that the construction work of all 120 bypasses gets completed in the next four years,” Meena told TOI after the meeting. These bypass links would be constructed under the ‘Sulabh Samparkata’ (accessible connectivity) component of the Saat Nischay Part-2 programme, he further said. “The CM has also instructed that none of these proposed links has a width of fewer than 7 meters. The bypasses would be constructed with maximum possible width as per the availability of land and keeping in mind the requirements in future,” Meena said. “Once completed, these bypass roads would help fulfil the CM’s directive of providing such a smooth driveway that any person can reach the state capital within 5 hours from any part of the state,” he added. The CM also approved the RCD’s other ambitious plan to construct a new 11 KM long four-lane road from Saguna More to Sherpur in Patna district to end the perpetual traffic congestion on the road around Danapur Cantt. “Of the total 11 km length, 2 km will be elevated four-lane road from Saguna More to the south-west side of the Danapur Cant, while the rest nine KM would be a greenfield new four-lane road project, to be built after acquiring land from the villagers. The new road would be built south to the existing Danapur Cant-Maner road and it would connect to the proposed Sherpur-Dighwara four-lane road bridge over Ganga river near Sherpur,” Meena said. He said the greenfield four-lane road would be an alternative route for Bihta airport via the proposed Sherpur-Kanhauli six-lane ring road. The CM also instructed RCD officials to expedite work on the proposed four-lane road bridge on Ganga, parallel to the existing Digha-Sonepur JP setu, near the state capital. Earlier at the beginning of the meeting, Meena made a detailed presentation before the CM about the road and bridge projects being planned and executed by the RCD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-to-build-120-bypass-roads-worth-rs4k-crore/articleshow/80103470.cms||Madan Kumar
January 5, 2021||Allahabad||ABAP seers oppose granting recognition to any new akhara||Prayagraj: President of the Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP), Mahant Narendra Giri on Sunday said there are 13 recognised Hindu monastic orders and there will be no additions. Giri said, “Kul terah akhare hain aur terah hi rahenge (There are only 13 recognised Hindu monastic orders and the number will not increase).” “There is no dispute if the seers and saints associated with Kinnar Akhara join Shahi snan and other religious activities with Juna Akhara in the forthcoming Kumbh at Haridwar,” he added. Giri further made it clear that seers and saints associated with Akhara Parishad opposed recognition or registration of any new order as 14th akhara. “Humne bina kisi ka naam liye, 14th akhare ke roop mein kisi ko manyata dene ka virodh kiya (Without taking any names we opposed addition of another akhara as the 14th one), he added. The issue of granting recognition to a new akhara had come up during the Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad meet held in the Sangam City on January 1, wherein the members said they would lodge protest if any organisation is recognised or allotted akhara status. However, when seers and saints associated with Kinnar Akhara came to know about development, their head Acharya Mahamandaleshwar Swami Laxmi Narayan Tripathi expressed concern and said ABAP should involve it in more constructive and productive work. Tripathi said Prayagraj Kumbh had recognised us and despite acknowledging all the facts, there should be no unwanted statements or dispute on this issue. ABAP general secretary and patron of Juna Akara, Mahant Hari Giri told TOI, “We have promised seers and saints associated with the Kinnar Akhara to protect their rights as it is part of Juna Akhara. If seers of Kinnar Akhara are willing to take part in Shahi Snan and other religious activities, they are most welcome.” However, seers and saints associated with ABAP said they had not taken name of Kinnar akhara since it is a part of Juna Akhara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/abap-seers-oppose-granting-recognition-to-any-new-akhara/articleshow/80087346.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Lucknow||‘Will approach Pawar, Mamata to seek funds’||Kanpur: Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) vice president and Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust general secretary Champat Rai said on Sunday that Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and West Bengal chief minister Mamta Banerjee will also be approached for funds for the construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya. “We will visit each and everyone’s house, including NCP chief Sharad Pawar and West Bengal chief minister Mamta Banerjee, to collect funds for the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya,” said Rai. “Our volunteers would approach leaders of almost all parties and people from all faiths for their participation in the construction of a grand Ram Temple in Ayodhya,” he added. Rai also appealed to non-resident Indians (NRIs) to keep patience and assured that their monetary contribution will also be included for the construction of Ram Temple. “We have been receiving phone calls from NRIs eager for making monetary contribution for the construction of Ram Temple. We want to assure them that their contribution will also be included, as right now we are in the process of overcoming all legal hurdles in accepting their monetary contribution for the temple construction. We will not indulge in any kind of activities which violate law. Till then, we request them to keep patience and keep increasing their contribution for construction of grand Ram Temple,” said Rai. He further said that three to four lakh volunteers and workers have been roped in under the dedicated campaign for fund collection. “We are targeting to contact more than 55 to 60 crore people in the country and collect their contribution for the task,” Rai added. He also revealed that some people came with contribution of silver, but we want to tell all people that right now we are in need of money. “When we will feel there is a requirement of silver, we will definitely launch a campaign,” he said. Each day’s collection would be deposited in bank accounts, and for this, arrangements have been made in State Bank of India, Punjab National Bank and Bank of Baroda, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/will-approach-pawar-mamata-to-seek-funds/articleshow/80087735.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
January 5, 2021||Varanasi||Entrepreneurs now more willing to invest in UP: CM||Gorakhpur: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said many entrepreneurs are now more than willing to come to invest in Uttar Pradesh because of assured security and increased confidence in the state as the rule of law has been established. “The state, system and resources are same, only the government has changed and the positivity is visible. Our government is committed to development with a positive attitude,” Yogi said speaking after inaugurating and laying foundation of several projects worth over Rs 580 crore in Gorakhpur on Sunday. Referring to his recent visit to Mumbai for Lucknow Municipal Corporation bonds’ listing on BSE, Yogi said, “Since 2017, the perception about UP has changed due to development. Entrepreneurs, businessmen, filmmakers who came to meet me, expressed their desire to invest in UP.” Referring to development in east UP, once dubbed as backward, Yogi said this region now competes with others after a slew of development works. “Development is priority for us and the government is working with commitment. All the institutions have been linked with accountability in development works,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/entrepreneurs-now-more-willing-to-invest-in-up-cm/articleshow/80087458.cms||Arjumand Bano
January 5, 2021||Varanasi||Year-long prog to mark 100 yrs of Chauri Chaura incident: CM||Gorakhpur: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath inaugurated the Chauri Chaura martyrs’ memorial renovation on Sunday and announced a year-long programme to mark 100 years of the Chauri Chaura incident. The CM said, “In 1930, Pt, Ram Prasad Bismil was hanged in the district jail, but no renovation work was done since it was built. We did its renovation and will develop it as a tourist spot to apprise people feel about the heroes of the freedom struggle.” In a meeting with district administration officials on Saturday late evening, the chief minister issued directives to make preparations for a big programme which would continue whole year to mark completion of 100 years of Chauri Chaura incident. Yogi said the programme will start on February 5 and will continue for whole year. The programme will be held online and efforts will be made to invite President and Prime Minister, he added. The district magistrate said the event would include a light and sound show, competition and a postal ticket on Chauri Chaura incident would also be released. The CM also gave instructions for renovation of Chauri Chaura library and asked the DM to talk to railway officials for construction of overbridge or underpass at railway crossing on the road towards Chauri Chaura martyr’s memorial. He instructed officials to make arrangements for storage of Covid-19 vaccine as the dry run of vaccination is to be held on January 5. He also reviewed the preparation of Gorakhpur Mahotsav to be held on January 12 and 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/year-long-prog-to-mark-100-yrs-of-chauri-chaura-incident-cm/articleshow/80087408.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Nagpur||Discharged UK returnees unhappy with policymakers, recall plight||Nagpur: Three UK returnees, discharged on Monday night, lamented lack of a well-defined policy because of which they were “unnecessarily” separated from their families and kept at GMCH’s special ward for over two weeks. One of them, a 42-year-old woman said there was no point sending her to GMCH, especially when she had tested negative on December 29. “I am happy to leave this place. It was a bad experience. If the policy was well-defined, I wouldn’t have been separated from my nine-year-old daughter, whom I had to send to Mumbai as she can’t speak Hindi. I was hoping to immediately fly to Mumbai, but won’t be able to see her for another seven days as the administration has advised home isolation,” she said.The woman added that she had gone into isolation on December 12 itself after coming to know about a relative testing positive in Bilaspur. “I followed all norms and kept civic authorities informed about my travel history. Yet, officials portrayed me as a violator,” she said.Another UK-returnee, 28-year-old youth from Nandanwan said he was happy to walk out, at last. “I was Covid negative, but due to flaws in the system, I was held-up here. Due to lack of coordination among civic officials, we had frustrating experience. Even now, five others are yet to know about their fate,” he said.“Overall, the experience at GMCH was good as staff was supportive. But NMC wasn’t. They still have no policy for those testing positive in NIV sample, like they didn’t have a protocol for those who were negative all along. I am happy with GMCH, they took all efforts for us,” said 35-year-old Narendra Nagar man, who was disappointed with the governance.GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra said the new strain threatens our national security. “Hence, people must be a bit more tolerant and careful as the UK strain is more harmful. One or two day delay in reports or discharge must not be taken so harshly,” he said.IGGMCH dean Dr Ajay Keoliya, who is chairman of district task force, said the new strain suspects will have to complete 14-day institutional quarantine as per the protocol. “If they test RT-PCR negative twice on 14 and 15th day, they would be discharged. All such suspects will have to stay in hospital till they test negative twice,” he said.The task force was scheduled to meet the civic chief on Monday to decide the discharge policy amid the delayed NIV report, but the meet couldn’t be held.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/discharged-uk-returnees-unhappy-with-policymakers-recall-plight/articleshow/80102450.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 5, 2021||Lucknow||Dispose of issues related to industries timely: CS||Lucknow: Directing officials to dispose of matters related to industries in a time-bound manner and not to keep matters pending, chief secretary RK Tiwari on Monday asked the Gorakhpur Industrial Development Authority (GIDA) to take necessary action by January-end and issue a new policy to rationalise maintenance charges for industrial land bigger than 50 acres. The chief secretary was addressing a meeting of Invest UP in which seven matters pertaining to various industries were discussed and disposed of. The direction to GIDA pertained to a case of Ankur Udyog Ltd but it would benefit other units operating under the Authority, an official said. For waiver of mandi fee of JRG Foods in Amroha, additional chief secretary, agriculture, Devesh Chaturvedi said the provision for reduction in rate of mandi fee had been abolished and under the Industrial Investment and Employment Promotion Policy-2017, all eligible units would get full exemption from mandi fee for five years. In a case of pending electricity bill of Sadhari Shakti Pvt Ltd, Fatehpur, it was decided that the outstanding dues should be recovered from the old unit and related financial institution and not from the purchaser. Tiwari directed officials to issue a government order to define liabilities of the purchaser before the sale or transfer of an old unit. Additional chief secretary, energy, Arvind Kumar said a list of defaulters had already been made available on the portal to help a purchaser get information about a unit before auction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dispose-of-issues-related-to-industries-timely-cs/articleshow/80105335.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Smog keeps sun under the wraps; temperature rises||LUCKNOW: The city has recorded a rapid fluctuation in minimum temperature in the first four days of the New Year — from 0.5 degree to 14 degrees. However, temperatures will return to normal levels by this weekend. On January 1, the minimum temperature dropped to 0.5 degrees Celsius, seven units below normal, and on Monday it shot to 14.6 degrees Celsius, seven units above normal. Such huge swing was caused by the western disturbance (WD) which resulted in snow in hill states and rains in west UP. The WD first cut off the flow of icy winds from snowfed areas, which led to rise in temperatures by 6-7 degrees. Thereafter, overcast sky forced temperatures in the nights to rise by preventing ground heat from escaping into the atmosphere. However, despite the cloudy sky during the day, maximum temperature was 21.5 degrees Celsius, 0.6 degrees above normal, on Monday. The western disturbance was expected to bring some rains to the city as well, but it only drizzled on Sunday, while Monday remained overcast and dry. Smog formed by combination of moisture and pollutants in the air enveloped the city, giving appearance of dense foggy conditions. State Met director JP Gupta said that partly cloudy sky, smog and ‘warm’ nights are expected to prevail in the city till Wednesday. Rain and thunderstorm may occur at some places in west UP, while the rest of the state will generally remain dry, he added. Thereafter, with the weakening of the WD, cold winds will revive and temperatures will fall gradually in UP, including Lucknow, to the normal levels, he predicted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/smog-keeps-sun-under-the-wraps-temp-rises/articleshow/80105244.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Allahabad||Vaccine dry run today; Healthcare workers & CCTVs on ground||PRAYAGRAJ: A team of 650 healthcare workers would be roped in for the Covid-19 vaccine dry run scheduled for Tuesday on six locations in Prayagraj, ahead of the vaccination drive. The six locations where the mock drill would be conducted are MLN Medical College, Colvin Hospital, Jeevan Jyoti Hospital and, the community health centres in Kotwa AT Bani, Jasra and Pratappur. Nodal officer and deputy chief medical officer Dr Rahul Singh said, “As many as 650 healthcare professionals have been trained for the dry run. A network of CCTV cameras has been installed at all six locations and nodal officers have been appointed for each of them.” Health department officials have assigned specific duties to ensure that every location has a waiting area, a vaccination room and an observation room. The waiting and observation areas should have ample and distanced seats. Besides, vaccination teams should reach the site 45 minutes in advance, i.e., by 9.15 am. The drill will start at 10am and continue till 4pm. Moreover, vaccine, syringes, AEFI kits and other equipment needed for the dry run should reach the locations in time. The administration had deployed adequate force as part of security arrangements for the vaccine during storage, transportation and vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/vaccine-dry-run-today-healthcare-workers-cctvs-on-ground/articleshow/80101715.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Bhopal||621 new cases take state Covid tally to 2,44,647; trend of more recoveries than positives continues||Bhopal: With only 621 new positive cases of Covid-19 in the state on Monday, the tally of positive cases reached 2,44,647. And the number of people recovering from Covid-19 in a single day outnumbered the number of people testing positive in a single day on Monday. Against 621 people who tested positive, a total 857 people recovered, taking the overall count of recoveries to 2,32,390. As on January 4, the cumulative recovery rate of Covid-19 in the state reached nearly 95 per cent (94.98%). On Monday, seven deaths were reported in the state as per the state health bulletin released by the Directorate of Health Services. With these new casualties, the Covid death toll in the state reached 3,648. Districts where these deaths were reported include Indore where 3 deaths were reported, and Bhopal, Ujjain, Khargone and Rajgarh where one death each was reported. On Monday, new cases were reported from 44 of the 52 districts of the state. Districts where no new cases were reported on Monday include Morena, Damoh, Singrauli, Burhanpur, Datia, Alirajpur, Niwari and Agar Malwa. Fresh cases were reported in double figures from 15 districts. The highest number of cases were reported from Bhopal, where 175 people tested positive, followed by Indore where 107 people tested positive, Jabalpur where 35 people tested positive and then Khargone where 25 people tested positive. A total 25,025 samples were tested on Monday, of which 621 tested positive, thus the positivity rate—which is number of positive cases out of every 100 samples tested—for Monday stood at 2.4 per cent. As on January 4, there were 8,609 active cases in the state. GFX Districts where cases were reported in double figures Bhopal 175 39903 Indore 107 55582 Jabalpur 35 15630 Khargone 25 5158 Ratlam 19 4475 Rewa 18 3903 Mandsaur 18 2727 Betul 15 3267 Gwalior 14 16009 Sagar 14 5088 Ujjain 14 4718 Hoshangabad 11 3639 Balaghat 11 3051 Neemuch 11 2961 Chhindwara 11 2700||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/621-new-cases-take-state-covid-tally-to-244647-trend-of-more-recoveries-than-positives-continues/articleshow/80102470.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||PIL seeks ban on kite flying, related activities on Uttarayan||Ahmedabad: A PIL in the Gujarat high court has sought prohibition on kite flying activity during the festival of Uttarayan in cities and taluka centres in Gujarat for purpose of curbing Covid-19 spread. The high court has ordered to attach the PIL with the suo motu petition on Covid-19 and lockdown, which is scheduled for the hearing on January 8. In the meantime, the high court has sought reply from the state government on this issue. The petitioner, Maulik Mankad from Makarba area of Ahmedabad, has also requested the high court to prohibit sale and purchase of kites and threads for the purpose of kite flying. He has urged for issuance of guidelines in what manner the festival should be celebrated this year. The PIL is seeking complete prohibition on gathering for festive celebrations between January 9 and January 17. The petitioner has demanded that for enforcement of social distancing and other Covid protocols on the day of the festival, police patrolling and increase in drone surveillance. The petitioner’s advocate N M Kapadia submitted that there are gatherings at places of kite sales and where manjha is prepared. These gatherings should be restricted. Since the novel coronavirus spreads through objects also, the kite flying activity, use of threads etc. may result in community spread of the disease. It was submitted that various festivals were ordered to be celebrated in restricted manner including the Ganesh Chaturthi, Rath Yatra, Navratri and Ramzan. This was done with a view to save the population from the deadly virus. Therefore, a strong decision with regard to restraining festivities on Uttarayan is required to be taken. “If we survive this festival, we will be able to celebrate all the festivals in a grand style in the years to come,” the PIL reads. Last month, the high court instructed the government not to lower the guard during the festival of Uttarayan the way it happened during the Diwali. Following this, the state government came up with a decision that only 50 persons will be allowed on any terrace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pil-seeks-ban-on-kite-flying-related-activities-on-uttarayan/articleshow/80103539.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Goa||Goa: MPT chief shifty over coal handling, says have no role||VASCO: Just two months after chief minister Pramod Sawant announced that coal handling at MPT will be stopped in a phased manner within a year’s span, port trust chairman E Ramesh Kumar remained evasive about the reduction plans. Pointing to Adani Mormugao Port Terminal Pvt Ltd and JSW’s South West Port Ltd, Kumar categorically stated that MPT has no direct stake in coal handling. “Private players are there, and they employ so many people. We don’t handle coal directly. JSW and Adani handle and I can’t exactly give you the number (of employees involved in coal handling),” Kumar said. He said the Union ministry of shipping is still working on the modalities to reduce coal transportation and that no decision has been conveyed. “All this is being handled at a very high level and once all the issues and modalities are complete, it will obviously be put forward for the public,” Kumar said on Monday. TOI had earlier highlighted how the MPT and the shipping ministry were at variance over the issue of dropping some of the planned projects. The shipping ministry had said that none of the projects directly related to coal transportation through railways would be dropped. In November, Sawant had said that it is difficult to halt coal transportation since there are 2,500 families and 4,500 pensioners, who were dependent on the activity for their livelihood. The coastal state has been rocked by protests over the double-tracking of South Western Railway line to Vasco. Protesters have alleged that these projects are undertaken to help the coal handling companies transport their cargo from MPT. Under the masterplan report for Goa, MPT is envisaged as a coal/coke import hub with a projected capacity of 51 MTPA (million tonne per annum) by 2035 to cater to existing and proposed steel plants in and around Karnataka’s hinterland. The Sagarmala project envisages various infrastructural projects to evacuate this 51 MTPA coal/coke from MPT and enable a quick turnaround for the ships. Hence, it has proposed the double-tracking of Hospet-Vasco rail line, four-laning of NH-4 from Panaji to Belgaum and missing link of NH-17B connecting Verna and Ponda. In addition, several jetties are proposed along Goa’s rivers (national waterways) essentially for coal transportation. But Kumar said MPT is in search of alternative cargo to diversify operations away from coal handling. “It is our endless endeavour to see that MPT grows as well as see that environmental issues that need to be addressed are addressed in all totality. Our tireless efforts are towards making it a very clean, neat and endurable port,” Kumar said. He also said the shipping ministry is keeping a close track on the major projects that are in the pipeline at MPT, particularly efforts to set up a domestic and international cruise terminal, Vasco-Dona Paula ropeway project and other services. “We are working hard on the ropeway project. We are working on the international cruise terminal, domestic cruise terminal, ropeway, RO-RO, RO-PAX and ferry services,” he said on the sidelines of a function. Kumar said Goa and MPT stand to benefit from the projects being taken up by the Centre. When asked if the Centre has fixed any timelines for the completion of these projects, Kumar said that he was hopeful that they “happen at the earliest”. “This is high on our agenda. We are tirelessly working on it and minister of ports, shipping and waterways Mansukh Mandaviya is on an everyday basis monitoring the progress,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mpt-chief-shifty-over-coal-handling-says-have-no-role/articleshow/80104889.cms||Newton Sequeira
January 5, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Virtual election to mayor, deputy mayor posts today||NAGPUR: With Covid-19 scare continuing, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation has geared up to organize it’s first online election for mayor and deputy mayor posts on Tuesday at 11am. BJP, which has 107 seats in the 151-member NMC House, had earlier declared Dayashankar Tiwari as its mayoral candidate and first-time corporator Manisha Dhawde as deputy mayor candidate. Though the results of the contest are a foregone conclusion considering the BJP’s comfortable majority, the opposition Congress with 28 seats and the BSP with 10 have decided to contest the elections. The leader of opposition and senior Congress corporator Tanaji Wanve has formed an alliance with Shiv Sena (2) and NCP (1), both constituents of the Maha Vikas Aghadi at the state level. They have decided to field Congress corporator Manoj Gawande for the mayor’s post and Sena corporator Mangala Gaware for deputy mayor. Congress faction led by city party president Vikas Thakre also fielded Ramesh Punekar (mayor) and Rashmi Dhurve (deputy mayor). BSP, which has 10 corporators, has fielded Narendra Walde and Vaishali Narnawre for the posts. City’s new mayor and deputy mayor will be announced as soon as the results of the election are out. Leaving nothing to chance in case of a snag like in past online meetings, BJP has asked all its 107 corporators to remain present at the NMC Headquarters. Their seating arrangements have been made at different offices like ruling party leader, standing committee, etc on the premises itself. “If needed they will be asked to be present outside the election venue which is the standing committee hall,” said party sources. Sources said BJP decision to field Dhawad for the deputy mayor’s post has created resentment within the senior corporators. BJP corporators, requesting anonymity, said MLA east Nagpur Krishna Khopde was dominating the party and added there was no say of party’s city president and MLC Pravin Datke. Though BJP has a clear majority, party sources said there will be less voting during the deputy mayor’s election to give an indication of resentment among the corporators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/virtual-election-to-mayor-deputy-mayor-posts-today/articleshow/80102458.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 5, 2021||Surat||Surat: Special cell for migrant workers||SURAT: Union minister for petroleum & natural gas and steel, Dharmendra Pradhan, inaugurated Surat Municipal Corporation’s (SMC) ‘Migrant Cell’ on Monday. The cell has been linked with the livelihood centre in the city. According to SMC officials, thousands of people from across the country come to diamond and textile hub Surat in search of employment. The cell has been established to create a database of such migrants. The database will include details like their name, home state and address among other things. This cell will help in the implementation of various government schemes meant for migrant workers. On Monday, the Surat Urban Development Authority (SUDA) also launched an affordable housing rental scheme for migrant workers in Sachin area of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/special-cell-for-migrant-workers/articleshow/80103523.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Goa||Goa: More farmers back cane cultivators’ protest||POINGUINIM: The agitating sugarcane cultivators in Sanguem continued their indefinite dharna on Monday. While on the first day around 200 farmers were present at the dharna, by Monday the numbers swelled to over 400. Late Sunday, deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavalekar visited the farmers and said that he was hopeful of getting the issue resolved soon. On Sunday, over 50 farmers spent the night in the open in the cold, with Sanguem MLA Prasad Gaonkar accompanying them. He later received appreciation for his gesture from the agitating farmers. Farmers from other talukas joined in the protest and extended their support to the newly-formed Uss Utpadhak Sangarsh Samiti. This time, different political groups turned up in support. GFP president Vijai Sardessai, GPCC vice-president Sankalp Amonkar and former Sanguem MLA Subhash Phaldesai were among those who visited and assured the farmers of their support. “The inaction on the part of the government in resolving the problems of farmers is regrettable. If the government wants, it can easily fulfil their demands,” said Amonkar. AAP also extended its support to the sugarcane cultivators demanding better compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/more-farmers-back-cane-cultivators-protest/articleshow/80103634.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Nagpur||Short film shot in Akola village makes it big||Nagpur: Khisa (pocket), a Marathi short film shot in Amantpur village of Akola district with local artistes, has qualified to compete for the prestigious Golden Star Awards at the annual live screening gala of Istanbul Film Awards (IFA), which will be held in Istanbul, Turkey, in March.Khisa is also an official selection in Indian Panorama for 51st International Film Festival of India (IFFI), Goa 2020, scheduled from January 16-24.Raj Pritam More, director and co-producer of this film who also hails from Akola, said that the 16-minute film has won Best Screenplay award at 10th Dada Saheb Phalke Film Festival, New Delhi, in 2020 and many other awards on prestigious platforms. “It’s my debut short film and I am happy to have shot it entirely in my home district,” said More. The film was shot at real life locations like District and Zilla Parishad Marathi Varishtha Prathmik Shala in Amantpur, and a masjid in Balapur. “Viewers and juries have admired the locations. I am planning to shoot my next full-length movie in Vidarbha again. We will highlight Vidarbha’s local language, nuances and lifestyle to establish this way of life, like the North Indian lifestyle is established in Bollywood,” said More, who is an award-winning artiste from Lalit Kala Academy, Pune. Khisa is a story of a young boy who lives in a remote village in Maharashtra. He decides to get a large pocket stitched for his school shirt, in which he keeps all his precious belongings — petals, coins, marble balls. He is proud of the pocket. But the little boy does not understand the politics of symbolism that adults engage in, and his pocket soon becomes a bone of contention between elders in the village. This coming-of-age story and tragic tale of the loss of innocence is ironically symbolic of the times we live in.Written by Kailash Waghmare, the film is produced by More and Santosh Maithani who also edited it. Simarjit Singh Suman is director of photography while Parijat Chakraborty has handled the music. Kushal Sarda has recorded sounds. Kailash Waghmare, Meenakshi Rathod, Shruti Madhydeep, Dr Sheshpal Ganvir and child artiste Vedant Shrisagar have played main characters. All of them are from Vidarbha. Round of applause - Nominated Best International Short Film and Best Director at Dublin International Short and Music Festival 2020- Two awards at Mumbai International Cult Film Festival — Best Debut Director and Best Actor in Supporting Role (special jury mention) - Official selection at Montreal Independent Film Festival, Canada 2020 - Entered 26th Kolkata International Film Festival 2020, Jaipur International Film Festival 2020, Singapore International Film Festival 2020, Diorama Indie Shorts Awards Buenos Aires, Argentina 2020, Dharamshala International Film Festival||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/short-film-shot-in-akola-village-makes-it-big/articleshow/80102494.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 5, 2021||Kanpur||Teen hangs self as parents refuse to buy smartphone||Kanpur: A 16-year-old boy hanged himself after allegedly being denied a new Android mobile phone by his father at Naubasta's Hanumant Vihar in the city late on Saturday night. According to police, 16-year-old Satyam Dwivedi, son of Raj Kumar Dwivedi, was a student of class XII at a local college. Satyam was demanding an Android mobile phone from his father for the past few days. His father told him to wait for some time as he was facing financial constraints, police said. Unhappy over his father's reply, Satyam took the extreme step, his family informed the cops. According to inspector, Naubasta police station, Satish Kumar Singh: "On Saturday night, he repeated his demand. But when his parents turned down his demand, citing financial constraints, the boy locked himself in his room. When he did not come out for long, his mother Sulekha went inside the room and found him hanging. She immediately raised an alarm and informed her husband and other members of the family, who informed police,” Singh further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/teen-hangs-self-as-parents-refuse-to-buy-smartphone/articleshow/80087541.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||Forest dept says poisoning may be cause||Ahmedabad: The death of 53 birds at Bantva in Junagadh, the majority of them lapwings, has raised fears of bird flu in the state, The forest department said that their postmortems revealed that the birds may have died of poisoning. A senior forest officer said the birds died on Saturday and since then there have been no more deaths reported in the Bantva area. “The Union government issued an alert and the department has also issued an alert. Bird flu has already been reported from Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal, and Jharkhand,” said a senior officer in Gandhinagar. “An internal report stated that the postmortem, carried out by a panel of doctors, found that the in case of two birds, the deaths may have been due to poison. The gizzard was filled with wheat grain and samples were sent to the forensic laboratory for detailed investigation. The report stated that any symptoms of respiratory tract infection were not found.” Officials said that their investigation revealed that the birds had not died of bird flu and no deaths have been reported on Sunday or Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/forest-dept-says-poisoning-may-be-cause/articleshow/80103556.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur man claims to have murdered brother, cops find no evidence||NAGPUR: Parmanand Yadav (45) had claimed to have throttled his elder brother Sevanand to death at their residence at Gawalipura in Sudamnagari on Sunday but police were left baffled as no such tell-tale signs or injuries were found on the body. The case became more complicated after the preliminary reports by the forensic experts of government medical college and hospital (GMCH) too did not find any internal or external injury marks. Police said Parmanand had approached his neighbours after his brother’s death stating it was he who had murdered him by throttling. Stunned neighbours immediately alerted cops from Ambazari station. The cops were left wondering about the reason behind the man’s death as there were no signs of any injuries on his neck or anywhere else in the body. It’s learnt that Sevanand and Parmanand were addicted to liquor. Their wives too had abandoned them. The rest of the family members too had shifted elsewhere as the brothers would create a ruckus after consuming liquor. Senior inspector of Ambazari police station Narendra Hiware said neighbours did not hear any noise of any struggle or scuffle. “We have registered the case as an accidental death and would proceed further after the post-mortem report comes to us,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-claims-to-have-murdered-brother-cops-find-no-evidence/articleshow/80102473.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 5, 2021||Lucknow||Former judges & bureaucrats back UP ‘love jihad’ law||LUCKNOW: As many as 224 retired bureaucrats and judicial officers, including former chief justices of high courts, chief secretaries and DGPs, have sent a letter to chief minister Yogi Adityanath in support of the new law against religious conversions in the state. They have also criticised a group of 104 retired bureaucrats, who had earlier written to Yogi demanding withdrawal of the new law. The letter, signed by retired IAS officer Yogendra Narain, who has served as UP chief secretary and secretary general of Rajya Sabha, describes the new law as ‘much needed’ and that it is being misrepresented as anti-Muslim. Narain told TOI that he and other like-minded persons were forced to write this letter to defend the law and the “duly elected chief minister” of UP since the law itself was legally perfect and those critical of it could have chosen a better way to question its implementation. ‘UP law safeguards the dignity of women’“There have been several cases of forced conversions where women have been harassed or even murdered. The law covers all religions so why should there be any opposition to it. It is only regulating the process of conversion,” he said. Coming days after 104 former IAS officers wrote an open letter addressed to the UP CM, demanding a rollback of the ordinance, the signatories of this letter dissociated themselves with the previous group. "It's a matter of concern that one group of retired civil servants, visibly biased with an anti-establishment attitude despite overtly posing as ‘non-political’, repeatedly avail of every opportunity to put the Indian democracy, its institutions, and persons legitimately holding high offices in poor light before the whole world by making illconsidered public statements, or writing misconceived communications to various authorities," it said. Signed by 14 former judges, 108 retired bureaucrats, 92 retired officers of the armed forces and 10 intellectuals, the Monday letter says that the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance-2020 is applicable to all religions and “rightly provides that the marriages done for sole purpose of unlawful conversion can be declared void”. “The law safeguards the dignity of women involved in marriages leading to conversions, and further makes a special provision in favour of minors, women or anyone belonging to Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes. In a hasty generalization based on a solitary incident of alleged lapse in Moradabad while implementing the ordinance…the law itself has been dubbed as illegal and, in particular, anti-Muslim,” adding that it is a “shocking obsession of this biased group to stoke communal fire by instigating the religious minorities”, it says. The signatories to the letter have said that they have faith in the UP government to take action against officials guilty of mala fide intent in implementation of the law. Quoting instances where Hindu women were allegedly murdered in the course of inter-faith marriages, the letter says that for a group of former public servants to generalise on the basis of one incident and lose sight of cases where women genuinely harassed or even killed is “strange”. It adds: “New laws reflect the evolving needs of a dynamic society. A highly distorted reference of ‘Ganga-Jamuni culture’ has been given in wrongly criticising the UP law (in the previous letter). The ‘Ganga-Jamuni culture’ concept stands for harmonious inter-faith evolution and coexistence of art, culture, languages etc; but certainly not unlawful conversions with criminal intent, leading to murders, mutilation, torture and betrayal of women in particular”. Narain told TOI that the law had been formed on the recommendation of the State Law Commission and while it was in itself not unconstitutional, the implementation could have been a problem if vigilantes took matters in their own hands. However, he added, any law is open to misuse but then why blame the law. “Lots of states have laws on conversion so I did not understand why they had to specifically target UP,” Narain said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/224-ex-officers-judges-back-anti-conversion-law/articleshow/80105433.cms||Neha Lalchandani
January 5, 2021||Nagpur||Water association up in arms against closure of units||Nagpur: Agitated against the action being taken by civic authorities, the RO Chilled Water Manufacturers’ Welfare Association, Nagpur, has taken strong objection against closure of their units. In a deputation submitted to the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA), Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) on Monday, the association members have demanded that their units should not be sealed and they should be granted the mandatory consent to operate. About two months back, TOI reported about NMC initiating action against illegal bottlers of drinking water cans. The state government had ordered closure of unpackaged drinking water manufacturing units which are operating without the necessary permissions from different government agencies. The move came following an order of the National Green Tribunal (NGT). Following this, the civic body swung into action and started closing down such units. On Monday, the association members agitated outside NMC and MPCB offices. In their deputation, they highlighted how despite repeated appeals, they were denied the permits. “In 2017, we have sought all the mandatory permissions from different agencies. However, we never got it. We also filed a public interest litigation which is pending in the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court,” said a member. According to the members, some agencies had communicated that the units don’t come under their jurisdiction. “For instance, BIS told us that as our containers are not transparent, packed and sealed, they can’t give us consent to operate,” said members. NGT had directed closure of such units while hearing a petition which highlighted how unpackaged drinking water units were posing a serious threat to public health and environment. In their response, association members claimed that their drinking water was potable. “We have got our water tested from well-established laboratories. We have the latest reports too. Our water is completely safe for drinking purpose,” they said. Further pointing out that there are over 25,000 such units across the state, the members said, “In Vidarbha alone, there are around 10-15,000 plants. Closing them would lead to a huge livelihood loss for thousands of families.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/water-association-up-in-arms-against-closure-of-units/articleshow/80104897.cms||Manka Behl
January 5, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Groundnut oil export to cross 2 lakh tonnes this year||RAJKOT: The dragon is literally guzzling groundnut oil from Gujarat!. The total exports of groundnut oil to China has crossed a massive 1.10 lakh tonnes till the end of December as against the total export of 40,000 tonnes in the entire previous financial year. According to exporters, they already have confirmed orders of 70,000 tonnes for January and February and total export of the season is expected to cross 2 lakh tonnes. China’s total production of groundnut is around 1.5 million tonnes, but the floods last year ravaged nearly 35% of the standing crop. To fulfil the demand gap of 50 lakh tonnes, the country is importing the oil in huge quantities, industry sources said. Meanwhile, oil mills in Rajkot are working overtime to meet the demand. In fact, they have also started getting groundnut from Rajasthan for crushing over the last 20 days. Kishor Viradiya, president, Saurashtra Oil Mills Association (SOMA) said, “Millers are ready to buy groundnut from anywhere they get cheaper. We are getting nearly 3,000 tons per day currently from Rajasthan for the last 20 days.” Rajasthan’s produce is available at Rs 4,800 per quintal while Saurashtra’s groundnut costs Rs 5,300 -Rs 5,400 per quintal. On an average, the millers crush 10 lakh tonnes ground and extract three lakh tonn oil. Samir Shah, an oil miller, said, “Due to Covid-induced slowdown, the demand for groundnut oil in the domestic market fell sharply. The same stock is now being exported.” Generally, people buy groundnut oil stock of 12 months in bulk during October to December, but the purchasing has been hit this time. Praful Desai, an exporter of edible oil said, “We have orders booked till February. The oil deficit in China is so high that they want to import as much as possible of India’s production. They are also importing peanuts of even inferior quality to extract oil.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/groundnut-oil-export-to-cross-2l-tonnes-this-year/articleshow/80103617.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
January 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||Cept partially opens campus to students||Ahmedabad: Cept University on Monday became the second major institution in the city to start classes and interactions on the campus. The campus has been re-opened partially after nine months. Earlier, the IIM-A had taken a similar step. A statement issued by Cept University said that a survey conducted in October last year had revealed a strong desire among students to attend on-campus sessions. “Of the total 1,800+ students registered this semester, the university expects up to 400 students to attend sessions on the campus every day,” a Cept statement said. “Attending on-campus sessions is voluntary and based on students’ preference. This is well below the number allowed as per the UGC and state guidelines. Only students who provide a parental consent form are allowed to access the campus.” The faculty and staff will go to the university campus on alternate days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cept-partially-opens-campus-to-students/articleshow/80103570.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Nagpur||Stalled for 13 yrs, Kelibagh road work finallybegins; to have cycling track & utility spaces||Nagpur: Proposed 13 years ago, work on the widening of Kelibagh road, situated in the city’s most congested area — Mahal — has finally started. The state’s public works department (PWD) has begun the work from CP and Berar College side. At present, the road is 9-metre wide in some places and 12-15 metres on other spots. After completion, the entire 1,030-metre stretch from the college to Town Hall, Kotwali police station, Badkas Chowk to Gandhi Putla Chowk on Central Avenue will be 24-metre wide. Implementing city MP and Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari’s idea, the PWD has planned the road in a manner that it will be a model cement road with space for cycling track, footpath and all types of utilities. PWD superintending engineer Vidyadhar Sardeshmukh told TOI, “The road is situated in very congested area. Also, since it will be a cement road, it cannot be dug up for any work. Therefore, Gadkari had suggested to design the road by integrating all amenities like drinking water pipeline, sewage line, storm water drain, electric cable, optical fibre cable and street lights so that there would be no need to dig up the road in future. Because of such integration, this will be first of its kind road not just in the state but entire country.” Sardeshmukh, PWD executive engineer JH Bhanuse and Atul Gote have prepared the design and started the work. The highlight of the road will be 2.4-metre cycling track on both sides of the road. There will be space beneath the cycling track for laying drinking water pipeline, sewage line, electric cable and optical fibre cable, whenever required. Street lights will not be installed on road dividers, as is done at present, and have been planned between the cycling track and footpath. This will ensure proper illumination on the entire road. Another first for the city will be that the road divider will be 1.5-metre wide with landscaping and space underneath will be utilized for laying additional drinking water pipeline. The footpath will be 1.2-metre wide on each side with storm water drains. With an estimated durability of over 50 years, the main carriageway will be of cement with M-40 strength and 975mm thickness with five layers to increase its load-bearing capacity so that heavy vehicles can also ply on it. Gadkari, whose residence is situated along the same road, had sanctioned Rs50 crore for the project in 2016. In 2018, the then CM Devendra Fadnavis had approved 70% of the total Rs138 crore required for land acquisition and shifting of utilities. Work on the patch bewteen CP and Berar College and Kotwali police station can be completed soon. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has demolished its 36 shops, water pump house and zone office for the road widening. Also, the civic body, in association with collector office, has acquired 38 private properties and the process to acquire 33 more is in the final stage. BJP corporator and former MLC Pravin Datke, who is pursuing the project since 2007, said, “Acquisition of properties between Kotwali police station and Central Avenue will be completed soon. The new road is likely to be ready by July.” If everything goes as per plan, the road will come as a relief for thousands of people residing in Central and South Nagpur and also for shoppers who throng Mahal, Itwari and adjacent market areas. FOR DESIGN Road with be 24 metre wide 1.5 metre wide road divider with space for drinking water pipeline underneath 7.5 metre wide cement road on each side of the road divider 1.2 metre wide footpath on both sides, with storm water drain 2.4 metre cycling track on each side with space for drinking water pipeline, sewage line, electric cable and optical fibre cable beneath Street lights between cycling track and footpath and not on road divider The road with integrated amenities will be first of its kind in country, claim officials ----------------------------------------------------- IAN Kelibagh road is situated in city’s most congested area — Mahal in Central Nagpur It starts from Gandhi Putla Chowk on Central Avenue and ends at Ashok Chowk on Bhandara road Road from CP and Berar College to Ashok Chowk is 24 metre wide, but width varies from 9-12-15 metre from college to CA Then MLC Nitin Gadkari and corporator Pravin Datke had proposed to widen the road from CP and Berar College to CA in 2007 NMC general body passed resolution on March 29, 2008 On NMC’s request, state government amended rules to increase road width to 24 metre in city’s development plan on November 12, 2014 Shopkeepers moved HC which dismissed their plea on October 18, 2016 Shopkeepers challenged HC’s order in SC which also dismissed their contention on April 17, 2018 Gadkari sanctioned funds Rs50 crore for the road work in 2016 In 2018, then CM Devendra Fadnavis approved 70% of total Rs138 crore required for land acquisition and shifting of utilities 151 properties, including some part of plots belonging to Gadkari, royal families Bhonsle, Gujar and others, are situated on the proposed road widening area NMC demolished its 36 shops, water pump house, zone office etc in 2018 Acquisition of 38 private properties is over and process to get remaining 33 properties in final stage PWD has started work from CP and Berar College and it can complete road work up to Kotwali police station Acquisition of some properties on Kotwali police station to CA patch is pending||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/stalled-for-13-yrs-kelibagh-road-work-finallybegins-to-have-cycling-track-utility-spaces/articleshow/80104930.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 5, 2021||Nagpur||Dedicated test tubes, no team work in science practicals new normal||Nagpur: Though schools have started reopening from November itself, neither the state board nor the CBSE has come up with detailed guidelines on how to conduct science practicals for Std XII students. With board exams just two months away, many principals are at their wits’ end on how to first hold practicals in-house so that students are prepared for the board’s external examiners.Despite lack of detailed guidelines, schools are innovating.On day one of the reopening of schools in the city, TOI visited the chemistry lab at Centre Point School (Katol Road), where Std XII students got down to business right away. “We conducted both chemistry and physical practicals and many new measures have been adapted. First of all there is a limit on the number of students who can enter the lab. Then to reduce chances of contamination, each student has been given a dedicated set up and workspace,” said principal Shilpee Ganguly.This is different from the earlier practised model of having two or maybe three students working as a team. Separate sinks to marked standing positions to constant hand sanitization after touching some chemical bottles is now the new normal.For teachers, too, this new set up has led to some adjustments. “Earlier, I would give a demo or explain things to a group of students. But now, we can’t have them coming together in a huddle. We have to reach out to every student individually,” said teacher Kshama Yadav.Redundancy for teachers increases with restrictions on the size of the class. “The same section maybe split into two or three groups and so, the same laboratory practical will have to be conducted that many times by the teacher,” said Ganguly. The role of lab assistants has also been tweaked slightly as the role of dispensing most of the agents/chemicals has increased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dedicated-test-tubes-no-team-work-in-science-practicals-new-normal/articleshow/80102505.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
January 5, 2021||Trichy||Woman with 2 disabled sons seeks retro- fitted scooter||Trichy: A mother of two boys with locomotive disabilities has appealed to the Trichy district administration to provide her a retro-fitted scooter to take her sons to school.S Elavarasi, 35, from Sadaiyampatti village near Manapparai on the outskirts of Trichy, visited the collector’s office along with her eldest son aged 16 years during the grievance redressal day on Monday and submitted the petition seeking the intervention of the collector S Sivarasu.“Both sons cannot walk on their own since their birth. We have no idea about the medical reason for the disability. They are now studying Classes XI and VIII respectively in a government school in our village. I request the officials to consider my petition for providing one specially-designed vehicle,” Elavarasi, who along with her husband Subramani works in agriculture-related field, told TOI.In the petition, her eldest son stated in detail his ordeal to go to school and return home. The mother claimed that she submitted the petitions earlier also but there was no response from the officials concerned.“I take them to school since my husband is occupied with work. Without my assistance, they cannot go to the school,” she said.When asked, the district differently-abled welfare officer R Ravichandran, Trichy, assured to look into the issue. “We have to check the health condition and other aspects of the boys and decide on it,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/woman-with-2-disabled-sons-seeks-retro-fitted-scooter/articleshow/80104938.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Goa||Goa: ‘Need signboards telling visitors to wear masks’||PANAJI: Considering the rise in footfalls since December, the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) wants the government to install signages at strategic spots reminding visitors to wear masks. Presently, there are no signages or boards installed at any public and tourist area warning tourists and others that they will be penalised if found not wearing masks. The church square in Panaji is one place where hordes of visitors are regularly seen without masks. Crowding has also become a new normal in the area. “We had requested the government to put up signages at tourist places some time ago, but it has not been done. Even at the church square there is no signage though it has been reported that the most tourists are seen without masks here,” president of TTAG, Nilesh Shah, said. He said the signages have to be put as tourists will continue to visit Goa in the coming months. In the last few months, on a few occasions, the Corporation of the City of Panaji had penalised tourists found without masks, but it did not prove to be a deterrent. The TTAG president said that hotels have been scrupulously following the standard operating procedures (SOPs), but at tourist places like beaches, hardly anybody is seen wearing a mask. “All should show Covid appropriate behaviour. It is only then that the infection will be kept at bay,” he said. Last week, health minister Vishwajit Rane too had appealed to tourists to wear masks. In Goa, a person found not wearing a mask has to pay a penalty of Rs 200. However, since it appeared that the amount was not an adequate deterrent, the expert committee of the health department last week decided to put up a proposal to hike the penalty amount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/need-signboards-telling-visitors-to-wear-masks/articleshow/80104954.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||14 held for dancing at wedding||Ahmedabad: Police played spoilsport at a marriage function where people lost in dance moves were booked for not following the social distancing norms as mandated by the state government guidelines on Covid-19. The groom’s father was among the 14 persons booked in Kapadwanj. According to a complaint filed with Kapadwanj Town police of Kheda district, a team of cops was on patrolling near Dakor Crossroads when they came to know that people at a marriage function in Islampura village were flouting social distancing rule. When the police reached there, they found people dancing without maintaining the mandated distance, and there were more than 100 people at the function. Swayed by the occasion, father of the groom was dancing holding hands of others, said sources. The cops later identified 14 people who flouted the Covid-19 prevention rules. “Salim Shaikh, whose son’s marriage was being solemnized, failed to give satisfactory answers when asked why the state government guidelines are not being followed,” states the FIR. The cops booked 14 persons for allegedly spreading the Covid-19 infection, even though the cops had not ascertained whether any of the participants were Covid-19 positive. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/14-held-for-dancing-at-wedding/articleshow/80103615.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Nagpur||CCTV footage helps nab duo who set cars on fire||Nagpur: The crime branch has managed to nab Vishal Raut and Shambhu Mondal for their alleged role behind setting three cars on fire in Unthkhana in the wee hours of Sunday just to have fun under the influence of marijuana. The duo was later handed over to the Imambada police station. The court has remanded them in police custody for two days.The footage of the CCTV cameras of the command and control centre helped the police to track down the registration number of the mischief-mongers when they were fleeing after having set the vehicles on fire. The duo, waiters at eateries near the Ganeshpeth bus stand, are marijuana addicts. It’s learnt that they set cars with covers on fire after consuming marijuana. They were on their owner’s two-wheeler while heading towards Chandannagar where Mondal resides. Cops had first rounded up the bike owner and after questioning him, they arrested the accused. The accused hatched the plan to set cars afire for mere fun when they were on their way to Chandannagar. An offence was registered against Mondal and Raut at Imambada police station. CP Amitesh Kumar has intensified patrolling in the locality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cctv-footage-helps-nab-duo-who-set-cars-on-fire/articleshow/80102510.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: Habibganj new underbridge to open this year||BHOPAL: A new under-bridge near the existing Habibganj underpass will be ready before this monsoon. Officials of the Bhopal railway division said that the due installment has been paid by the Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC), after which the work has been speeded up. Bhopal railway division — in association with Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) — is constructing the under-bridge to ensure smooth flow of traffic. The initiative was taken by the Bhopal railway division last year in view of the inconvenience faced by the people of Habibganj and nearby areas in crossing the tracks through narrow roads in the rainy months. Work was stalled for the last four months due to the delay in payment of installment of the construction cost from the state government. After discussion between divisional railway manager, Bhopal, Uday Borwanker, and the Bhopal Municipal Commissioner about this, the next installment has been paid by the corporation. DRM Borwanker said the existing Habibganj under-bridge was not an underpass. “It was supposed to be a facility for water drainage. But gradually, people started using it as a road to connect Arera Colony with Hoshangabad road,” he expained. He added that the narrow space was affecting traffic during the rainy season. “As it was not meant for traffic movement, the road between two pillars was very narrow. Due to this, only a vehicle was able to move from there. Several accidents were reported in the past. It was a long awaited demand to construct an under-bridge for smooth traffic,” said Borwanker. The new under-bridge will be constructed near the existing bridge connecting the Fracture hospital road. “We are using the box push technology so that the train movement is not disrupted. Since the work has to be done without interruption to rail traffic, box pushing technique is largely favoured in comparison to conventional methods,” said Borwanker. He said that both rail and road traffic cannot the disrupted for construction of under-bridges or canal crossings, drainage by conventional method, which is the open cut system. “In the box push technique, RCC boxes in segments are cast outside and pushed through heavy embankments of rail or road by jacking,” explained Borwanker. About the bridge dimension, Borwanker said, “Two separate passages will be constructed. Each passage will be 6 m wide 3 m in height. We will use all modern technology for construction of the under-bridge. We plan to complete the work in the next six months,” said the DRM. The railways will also install a sensor-based water pumping system. “If water level goes beyond a certain level, the sensors will act and water pumping starts functioning. It will help during rainy season. No manpower will be required for this purpose,” said Borwanker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/habibganj-new-underbridge-to-open-this-year/articleshow/80102509.cms||Ramendra Singh
January 5, 2021||Vijayawada||Govt to bring back private contractors for sand supply||AMARAVATI: In order to streamline the supply of sand in the state, the government has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Metal Scrap Trade Corporation (MSTC) to auction sand quarries in the state. Faced with criticism about sand shortage, the government has decided to allow private contractors through MSTC to dig sand and sell the stocks to people. The government is also doing away with the online system to help the public get sand easily. The MoU was signed by VG Venkata Reddy, director, mines and geology, and Ganesh N Jayakumar, DGM, MSTC in the presence of panchayat raj minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy and principal secretary Gopalakrishna Dwivedi. MSTC will invite tenders and select the contractors to manage sand quarries. Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy said the government has been finetuning the sand policy for the past several months. He said that several rounds of discussions were held at the Group of Ministers (GoM) to bring in a scientific policy, adding that it took more than the expected time to correct the follies committed by the previous TDP government. The minister said the National Green Tribunal (NGT) imposed a Rs 100 crore penalty on the government during the TDP regime due to overexploitation of sand from the river banks. The minister, however, admitted that they found that people were facing trouble even after the government launched the new policy. He said the GoM made several recommendations, including removing the existing online system. “People can now go to any sand reach and buy at the price fixed by the government offline. No more online booking after the auction of sand reaches by MSTC,” said Peddireddy. The government removed all private players from the scene soon after the YSRC took over the reins of the state and tried to manage sand supplies on its own. Frequent floods and improper management at the field level resulted in severe shortage of supplies. This slowed down construction works in the state leading to massive unemployment. After several consultations, the government had floated a sand corporation and appointed exclusive district-level sand officers to oversee sand supply. However the corporation failed to meet the demand from the public. The government has finally decided to allow private contractors to return to the scene. However, the government has engaged MSTC to bring transparency to the system and avoid looting by private contractors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-to-bring-back-private-contractors-for-sand-supply/articleshow/80102512.cms||Samdani MN
January 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Gandhi Ashram opens after 10 months||AHMEDABAD: On Monday, the Sabarmati Ashram quietly opened to visitors but not many were noticed there. However, word has begun to spread in the city. On March 18, Sabarmati Ashram trustees unanimously decided to close the ashram to visitors till the Covid-19 pandemic situation eased up. “This was the first time in the ashram’s history that the complex had closed to visitors. Even during the 1917-1918 epidemics, the Ashram was a hub of activity. Many volunteers from the Ashram went into the field to help people,” said a senior ashram official. Each day, more than 3,000 people visit the ashram, including international and domestic tourists. Just before March 23, visitors numbers had fallen to between 800 and 1,000. When Gandhiji established his base in Ahmedabad in 1915 following his return from South Africa, he chose a bungalow at Kochrab village on the outskirts of the city. Two years later, in May 1917, a plague-like illness had broken out in the village and Bapu decided to set up his new base at Sabarmati Ashram. Since Bapu’s death the ashram had never closed to visitors, even on public holidays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gandhi-ashram-opens-after-10-months/articleshow/80103614.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Bengaluru||Feud intensifies, BS Yediyurappa and Basanangouda Patil Yatnal trade angry words||BENGALURU: A meeting of legislators called by CM BS Yediyurappa on Monday ended on an ugly note as a bitter spat broke out between him and senior BJP MLA Basanangouda Patil Yatnal in the presence of MLAs, ministers and senior party functionaries. Yediyurappa had called the meeting to defuse the brewing discontent among party MLAs following complaints that he was not devoting enough time and funds to them. Both senior leaders reportedly shouted at each other in the singular, MLAs witness to the incident said. The spat started after Yatnal, part of a meeting involving legislators from Mumbai-Karnataka region, reportedly complained about Yediyurappa’s son BY Vijayendra alleging that his increasing involvement in the administration was proving costly for the party and its government. “It’s not what senior party leaders such as AB Vajpayee and PM Modi have taught us (that to not involve the family). The (Lingayat) community had tall leaders such as Veerendra Patil and SR Bommai. You are dragging yourself through the mud,” Yatnal reportedly told the CM. According to an MLA, Yatnal started off his speech at the meeting, questioning Yediyurappa’s skewed fund allocation for constituencies of certain BJP MLAs. MLA questions CM on fundsWhy do Shivamogga and Shikaripura get more funds at the expense of other constituencies? Why haven’t you fulfilled the promise of setting aside Rs 25,000 crore for Upper Krishna Project,” Yatnal reportedly asked, hinting Yediyurappa was neglecting north Karnataka. Yediyurappa reportedly said he could not keep the promise due to financial constraints. Yatnal is said to have countered: “Why hasn’t the pandemic stopped you from giving funds to your district?” A miffed Yediyurappa reportedly said, “Are you trying to intimidate me and indulge in goondagiri? Get out!” Yatnal shot back, “I’m not indulging in goondagiri. You have called me for the meeting. I have not come to your house to be told to get out.” Yatnal reportedly said: “It’s your family — specifically your son Vijayendra, who is running this government — that will be the reason for your downfall. It is best if you resign as CM while you still have credibility.” Sources said he accused the CM of trying to send a mediator to his house asking him to meet Vijayendra. “Who is Vijayendra? Why should I talk to him? He is a bachcha (a kid) before me. When I’m dealing with his father, why should I, an experienced party MLA and former Union minister, meet a kid?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/feud-intensifies-bsy-and-yatnal-trade-angry-words/articleshow/80106429.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Bengaluru||Six students of Bengaluru medical college working in Covid wards reinfected||BENGALURU: Six medicos of Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI) working in Covid wards have contracted the virus twice in the past 3-4 months. Five of them are PG medicos and the sixth is an MBBS intern. A 24-year-old medico, who had recovered from Covid-19 in August and donated plasma, is positive again. The patient has been shifted to another dedicated government hospital in Bengaluru as Covid beds in BMCRI are occupied and some earmarked for isolating the UK returnees. “As we know, 145 PG medicos have so far tested positive for Covid. Among them five were re-infected. Another re-infected person was an intern at the hospital. Doctors pursuing post-graduation courses in BMCRI are frequently posted at Covid-19. Hence, they are most vulnerable,” said a doctor. Some PG medicos have completed eight rounds of Covid-19 duty: Each round includes 10 straight days of ward work. After every round of Covid duty, they are sent on quarantine for seven days and tested on the fifth day. Mulling genomic sequencing: Deanhe only relief is that none of the PG Tmedicos has suffered from severe forms of infection, though hospitalisation was needed in most cases,” said a PG medico. Senior BMCRI professors said a request has been made to conduct genomic sequencing of the swabs to gain clarity. “Genomic sequencing of the first and second swab samples helps us come to conclusions,” said a professor. That the reinfected medicos showed symptoms means they were probably exposed to a different variant of the virus now, said sources. BMCRI dean and director Dr CR Jayanthi said: “Five PG medicos and one internwere working in non-Covid wards too, besides doing stints in Bowring and Lady Curzon hospital. We don’t know the source of infection. We are considering genomic sequencing of samples, but their first swab samples need to be traced.” To term the second episode a case of ‘reinfection’, it is essential to prove the patient had tested RT-PCR negative after the first infection and genomic sequencing of the swabs is analysed to check if the virus variants were different. “These are to be seen as cases of reinfection. They tested positive during July, August and again in November, December and January...We suspect Covid antibodies don’t remain effective for more than 3-4 months or they were infected with a different variant now,” a doctor said. At Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases, five workers, including two doctors, were infected twice in three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/six-students-of-bluru-med-college-working-in-covid-wards-reinfected/articleshow/80106435.cms||Sunitha Rao R
January 5, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: CBSE, ICSE schools reopen; attendance remains poor||BENGALURU: On the campus of Delhi Public School-North, there are some signs of life on Monday morning. Cabs come in, drop students and leave. The students are seated far apart, waving at each other and gleaming as they see their friends again. An announcement is made every now and then, reminding students of the Covid protocol. The school had 155 students, of its total combined strength of 807 in class 10 and 12. The school is finally open after 10 months, but not to its full life. While the government had given the nod to reopen campuses for classes 10 and 12 from January 1, many private schools in the city had their Christmas break till January 4 and were expected to reopen on Monday. Several schools did not reopen their physical classrooms and continued with online classes. They included Bethany High, Vibgyor Group of schools, St Joseph’s Boys’ High School, Gear International, some branches of Kendriya Vidyalayas. Those who reopened had different experiences to narrate. Many received cold response. With online classes in full swing, schools say it’s not surprising that there were not many parents who want to send children to school. Transportation, fear deterrents, say schoolsIn Deens Academy, only five Iof the 129 students came to the campus to write preboards, while others took it online. “It was exciting to get back to my normal schedule of waking up at 5.30am, finishing household chores and getting to campus by 7.30am. But students did not turn up in good numbers. Even those who said they would report to school did not. Most said it was the fear of the new strain,” said Tina Sebastian, economics teacher at Deens. Transportation, some schools said, could be a deterrent. “At a home where both parents are working, it’s not feasible for them to pick up and drop students every day. Public transport is a big ‘no’ for parents,” said the principal of a school in Hebbal. At some other schools, attendance was overwhelming. Brigade School, Malleswaram, had 100% attendance. Presidency South had 50% attendance. “We had 90% students back on campus. Some car-pooled and some came by bicycle,” said J Bhuvaneswari, principal, Presidency South. Schools provided staggered timings for students. More entrances were made to avoid crowding. With the SOP mandating Covid tests for teachers, schools have started conducting them on campuses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cbse-icse-schools-reopen-attendance-remains-poor/articleshow/80106438.cms||Mrinalini Bhat
January 5, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Now, you can travel to KIA by suburban trains||BENGALURU: In a major relief to passengers and airport staff at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA), South Western Railway on Monday launched suburban train services to newly built KIA halt station. BIAL, which operates the airport, plies free shuttle services between the halt station and terminal, which is around 3.5Km. Passengers could check flight details at the halt station. A two-minute stoppage has been given for all trains at the station. 10 trains ran on MondayTrain no. 06285 KSR Bengaluru-Devanahalli Demu left at 4.45am from KSR Bengaluru City and reached the KIA station at 6am. Passengers on the first trip included Bengaluru Central MP PC Mohan and Bengaluru divisional railway manager Ashok Kumar Verma. The train had 50 passengers against its capacity of 2004.On Monday, SWR operated 10 trains to and from KIA halt station.“Train fare from KSR Bengaluru to the airport is Rs 10. This service eases traffic congestion and vehicular pollution on roads,” said Mohan. KN Krishna Prasad, founder-member of Karnataka Railway Vedike, an NGO, said: “BIAL has built this station from their funds but others took credit. If railways were genuinely interested, they should have doubled and electrified the Devanahalli line a long time ago. While the airport is operational for more than 12 years, a halt station is only ready now. They are now claiming it as a big gift to Karnataka and taking credit for it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/now-you-can-travel-to-kia-viasuburban-trains/articleshow/80106440.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Bhopal||Panna diamond mine will not be closed: Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan put all the speculation to rest on Monday and assured that National Mineral Development Corporation (NMDC) diamond mine in Panna will not be closed. Chouhan said the state government will talk to the union forest and environment minister, Prakash Javdekar, for environment clearance and seek approval from the National Wildlife Board to extend the mining lease. "People have expressed concern over the closure of NMDC diamond mine in Majhgawan, Panna. It will not be closed and all necessary aspects to keep it functional will be considered," assured the chief minister after a meeting with Khajuraho MP and BJP state president VD Sharma and minister (mineral resources) Brijendra Pratap Singh on the matter. The NDMC stopped operating from January 1 after its environmental clearance lease ended on December 31. The operations came to a halt after Panna Tiger Reserve (PTR) director, Uttam Kumar Sharma issued a letter to the general manager of the mine project, directing the closure of the excavation work from January 1, 2021. Panna is the only diamond mine in the country with more than 74 hectares of mechanised mining inside the protected area of Gangau Wildlife Sanctuary of PTR which is spread over an area of 54,200 hectares across Panna and Chhatarpur districts. With a capacity of mining about 84,000 carats of diamond per annum, over 13 lakh carat diamonds have been mined in Panna. Sources said that about 8 lakh carats of diamond deposits still exist in the mines where about 200 employees and officials work. It also generates indirect employment for hundreds of local dwellers who will be severely affected if the mines are closed. VD Sharma and minister Singh called on chief minister Chouhan on Sunday evening to draw his attention towards the problem and public demand to extend the lease of the mine. "We discussed with the chief minister the renewal process of the mining lease and smooth functioning of the NMDC mines in the public interest. All necessary steps will be taken to ensure that the mine is not closed," said Sharma. After the chief minister's assurance, fresh clearance will be issued by the MP State Wildlife Board (MPSWB) in a meeting to be held later this year. The board headed by chief minister Chouhan was reconstituted recently. After the clearance, the matter will be referred to the National Wildlife Board and later, to the Supreme Court-monitored committee. The Majhgawan diamond project of Panna was started in 1959; the Wildlife Protection Act came into existence much later in 1972 leading to the issues of environmental clearance. Earlier, the operations were shut down from August 2005 to June 2009. In 2005, the state wildlife board had given mining clearance to NMDC with the condition that it would phase out its operations by 2020. Later, NMDC moved the Supreme Court against the order. The apex court then appointed a seven-member central empowered committee that visited the diamond mines and the surrounding areas in 2008 to take stock of the ground reality. The Supreme Court-monitored committee had asked the NMDC in July 2019 to prepare a closure plan for Panna diamond mines in Panna Tiger Reserve (PTR) by the end of September 2019 so that it can be shut by June 2020 to prevent further degradation to the region where NMDC has set up a township with numerous labour camps and mine digging machines, threatening the ecology and wildlife, including big cats. The NMDC had, however, denied the allegations. Sources said that at a meeting held on July 6, 2019, under the chairmanship of Madhya Pradesh chief wildlife warden, the PSU officials asserted that since not all diamonds have been excavated and that diamond cutting and polishing industry is a major foreign exchange earner, so the lease of Majhgawan mine in PTR should be extended up to 2035.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/panna-diamond-mine-will-not-be-closed-cm/articleshow/80102563.cms||Rajendra Sharma
January 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||Vaccine dry run in city, district today||Ahmedabad: The state health department along with other departments will carry out a dry run for the Covid-19 vaccination programme for healthcare workers on Tuesday. Several districts, including Ahmedabad, will also see mock testing. “The dry run in the city will take place at old trauma centre of Civil Hospital. A total of 25 healthcare workers will be identified based on their registration in the software. Each vaccination takes two to three minutes,” said a senior Civil Hospital official, adding that about 7,000 staffers have already been identified for the drive. CM Vijay Rupani on Monday said that the state is prepared for the drive. “Cold chains have been set up, survey work has been completed, and training on vaccination has also been given to the personnel,” Rupani said. The state government will start the process in accordance with the Centre’s plan, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vaccine-dry-run-in-city-district-today/articleshow/80103630.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Nagpur||4 of a family killed as auto hit by truck trying save dog||Nagpur: Four members of a family were killed in a ghastly accident near Mangrool phata on Umred road on Sunday after a truck trying to save a stray dog hit their autorickshaw head-on. The dog too was killed after getting hit by the truck. Two children, including a two-and-half year old girl, were miraculously saved. The family from Shanti Nagar, Nagpur, had gone to a shrine at Girad for a ritual. The accident took place on their way back. Three persons Abdul Qadir Karim, 55, Jubiya Ali, 25, and Mohd Shakir, 34, were killed on the spot. Yasmeen Shaikh was declared dead on Monday at a hospital where she was admitted. Yasmeen’s daughter Zoya Shaikh, 12, along with two-and-half-year-old Junera Ali survived the tragedy. It is learnt the family used to regularly visit the shrine. Police said driver of the killer truck Guddukumar Rawani was driving towards Chimur from Girad. He had failed to control his vehicle after a dog strayed onto the carriageway and hit the auto coming from opposite direction. The three-wheeler got dragged for several metres with the truck. The autorickshaw was being driven by Shakir. Cops from Umred police station reached the place and tried to rescue the victims from the damaged autorickshaw. The injured were rushed to a hospital in Umred but the doctors there referred them to city. An offence was registered against the driver of the truck who was also arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/4-of-a-family-killed-as-auto-hit-by-truck-trying-save-dog/articleshow/80104952.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Agra||Saffron flags waved on Taj premises, video goes viral||AGRA: Four activists of Hindu Jagran Manch, including the outfit’s youth wing district president, were arrested for waving saffron flags on the Taj Mahal premises on Monday. A couple of videos of the incident went viral on social media platforms. In the purported videos of 15 seconds and 23 seconds, the activists — identified as HJM youth wing district president Gaurav Talwar, Rishi Lavania, Sonu Baghel and Vishesh Kumar — can be seen waving saffron flags on the Taj premises. SSP Babloo Kumar told TOI that all the four activists were booked under section 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion) of the Indian Penal Code and appropriate section of the Criminal Law Amendment Act at Tajganj police station, following a complaint lodged by the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF). When contacted, CISF commandant (Taj Mahal) Rahul Yadav said the activists bought tickets from the counter and “intentionally waved flags on the Taj premises in an apparent bid to gain popularity and increase their followers on YouTube. Our security personnel use metal detectors for frisking visitors, but it cannot detect a small piece of clothes. They used selfie sticks, which is allowed on the premises, for raising and waving the flags.” Yadav added that these people were involved in such activities last year, too. “We don’t want to spoil the atmosphere on the premises, so we lodged a police complaint against them.” It was not the first time when right-wing activists tried to stir controversy by waving saffron flags or performing puja on the Taj premises. Last year on October 25, activists of the same organisation had reportedly sprinkled Ganga Jal and waved a saffron flag on the Taj Mahal premises, claiming that they had come to “Tejo Mahalaya” to offer puja. In 2018, three women belonging to Antarrashtriya Hindu Parishad, a local right-wing outfit, offered puja at the 400-year-old mosque on the Taj Mahal complex with ‘dhoop-batti’ and Ganga Jal. In 2008, Shiv Sena activists had performed parikramas with folded hands at the Taj Mahal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/saffron-flags-waved-on-tajpremises-video-goes-viral/articleshow/80102534.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 5, 2021||Kolkata||In Covid year, 4,500-ranked gets into Jadavpur University engineering||KOLKATA: Jadavpur University has filled all the 433 seats, barring two in architecture department, that were vacant in the engineering department. The counselling was completed in a decentralized process. This time, the last rank taken on the general merit list was 4,500, way lower than the usual trend of stopping at around 2,800. Though there is optimism among engineering faculty members after seats filled up despite an inordinate delay in the beginning of the new academic session, a section seems concerned about students’ merit, given the lower ranks. However, the filling up of vacancies through decentralized counselling brought relief to the JU administration as any left-out seat at an institute such eminence led to loss of face, an official said. Analyzing the reasons for a high number of seats remaining vacant earlier despite three rounds of counselling, Partha Pratim Biswas, teacher of construction engineering at JU, said, “The counselling process has taken a long time to get over due to multiple complications, including the Covid crisis. Though WBJEE was held in February 2019, the results were published in July and the counselling finished in November. As a result, the best ones migrated to other states. Urban students, who have the resources, have grabbed the opportunity and without physically attending classes in other states, they are participating in online classes from home. A major section of urban students ranked among the top tier of WBJEE merit list.” He added that some high-ranking candidates took admissions in other technical colleges when they did not get seats in their coveted streams in JU initially. “These students hesitated to take admissions in JU even when seats in their preferred subjects were offered later. So, students with lower ranks got the opportunity,” said Biswas, adding the reluctance was due to the pandemic. While IITs and NITs managed to start classes from October, JU will begin its UG engineering classes from January after the orientation programme is held. “The delay will pose a challenge in finishing the curriculum as everything is now online, even lab classes. We are starting three months later than other national engineering institutes and we will have to finish the course without any academic dilution. In the first year, almost 40%-50% component is based on practical classes,” said another JU engineering department teacher. Biswas, however, refused to accept the students with a lower WBJEE rank joining the institute will lower the academic standard. “In WBJEE, even a single digit can lead to a massive change in ranks. It does not necessarily mean these lower-rank students are representing lower performance,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-covid-yr-4500-ranked-gets-into-ju-engineering/articleshow/80103641.cms||Somdatta Basu
January 5, 2021||Nagpur||Patole asks civic chief for detailed report in LED scam||Nagpur: Assembly speaker Nana Patole on Monday asked municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B to submit a detailed report into the alleged corruption in procurement of LED bulbs by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). Senior corporator Sandeep Sahare raised the issue with Patole, who is also a senior Congress leader, while the latter chaired a meeting organized at the Vidhan Bhavan over various issues related with the NMC. After failing to elicit any action by the BJP-led NMC House or the civic administration, Sahare through MLA Vikas Thakre’s letter sought Patole’s attention to NMC scams in the last five years. The Congress corporator said that a 100W LED floodlight bulb costs Rs3,400 in the open market, but the civic body procured each bulb at Rs9,000. He alleged corruption to the tune of Rs100 crore as “NMC had procured 1.38 lakh LED bulbs for street lights at 80% higher price than the market”. The electric department’s executive engineer Ajay Mankar failed to give any satisfactory reply to Patole. TOI was the first to report irregularities in purchase of LED bulbs. The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court had treated the report as suo motu PIL. Sahare also raised the issue of reinstatement of officials allegedly involved in spare parts procurement scam in the NMC’s workshop department. On December 8, 2017, Sahare had exposed serious irregularities in procurement of spare parts for vehicles over the last two years. According to him, the spare parts were procured at 2-10 times higher than the market rate, following which an inquiry had been ordered. Three officials including assistant commissioner Vijay Humne allegedly involved in the scam were suspended. He also drew the assembly speaker’s attention to usage of over 2,400 litre fuel by NMC vehicles in a fortnight. “Despite their role in the scam, how NMC could reinstate the officials?” said Sahare. Patole has also sought the civic administration’s reply on why it has not filed any police complaint against AG Enviro Infra Projects Private Ltd for lifting mud mixed garbage to earn more money from the civic body. MLA Vikas Thakre had exposed the scam, after which the NMC had levied Rs25 lakh fine on the operator. Patole sought to know why no police complaint has been filed yet against the firm. Patole then said a meeting will be convened in Mumbai on these issues after January 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/patole-asks-civic-chief-for-detailed-report-in-led-scam/articleshow/80104994.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 5, 2021||Bhopal||Justice Mohd Rafiq takes charge as 26th Chief Justice of MPHC||Bhopal/Jabalpur: The newly appointed Chief Justice of MP high court, Justice Mohd. Rafiq, took charge at a solemn function held in the south block of high court building in Jabalpur. Judges of the high court, lawyers and staff of MP high court were present on the occasion. Many senior lawyers of the high court, office-bearers of lawyers' associations and administrative officials of MPHC attended the function virtually.Speaking after taking charge, Justice Mohd. Rafiq said that ensuring quick justice to all the victims would be his top priority and reducing burden of cases on courts would also be among his priority areas.He also said that there are not enough judges in MP high court and he would try to get the vacant positions of judges, filled.He said , direct hearing of cases in the high court is not taking place due to coronavirus pandemic and he would decide on the issue in consultation with advocates' associations.Justice Rafiq, who has come on transfer from Odisha high court, is the 26th chief justice of MPHC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/justice-mohd-rafiq-takes-charge-as-26th-chief-justice-of-mphc/articleshow/80102574.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 5, 2021||Surat||Surat: ED attaches Rs 2.7 crore assets of BJP leader PVS Sarma||SURAT: The enforcement directorate has attached assets worth Rs 2.70 crore of Sanket Media Pvt Ltd and its director PVS Sharma, a BJP leader, in the cheating and forgery case. Sarma, currently lodged in Lajpore jail in Surat, was an income officer and joined BJP after voluntary retirement. The attached assets are in the form of immovable properties totalling Rs 2.46 crores comprising of seven shops measuring 1,460 sq ft at Savera Complex in the city, two flats measuring 485 sq ft each at Nova Complex Surat held in name of Sanket Media, one open plot, built-up house measuring 1975.73 sq m land and 77.73 sq m built-up area located at Palsana (Surat), one shop measuring 58 sq ft at Western Business Park, Surat, one plot measuring 215 sq m at Karunasagar all held in name of Sarma. Sarma. One plot measuring 243 sq m at Karunasagar is held in his wife P Annapurna Sarma’s name. The movable assets totalling to Rs 24 lakhs are in the form of fixed deposits and balances in bank accounts held in the names of Sarma, Sanket Media and his son Sushant. ED had initiated investigation under Prevention of Money Laundering Act on the basis of an FIR registered by Umra police station after investigation conducted by the income tax department against Sarma and his company. “Sarma is involved in printing and publishing the newspaper Satyam Times in Gujarati and English language. Though the circulation of the newspapers were shown at 23,500 and 6000-6300 copies daily for the Gujarati and English editions, actual circulation was only 300-600 and 0-290 respectively,’‘ an official added. “False figures of circulation were shown to attract more advertisement. In the name of Sanket Media, Sarma has indulged in conspiracy and cheated the government and private advertisement companies by performing forgery and by doing so they have received 2.70 crore towards advertisement,” said the official. They made bogus purchases of raw materials that were shown by making series in the books of account from bogus companies and creating fake documents. On November 26, 2020, ED had arrested Sharma under PMLA. Sarma had created a sensation by alleging multi-crore money laundering scam post demonetisation and claimed it was executed at the behest of the senior I-T officers, builders, jewellers, diamond and textile industrialists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ed-attaches-rs-2-7cr-assets-of-bjp-leader-pvs-sarma/articleshow/80103644.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Nashik||Nashik: Woman held for killing 7-year-old son||NASHIK: A 24-year-old woman and her 22-year-old partner have been arrested on charges of killing the former’s seven-year-old son. According to the police, the boy was beaten by the suspect duo and brought to the civil hospital for treatment on December 21. The child died while undergoing treatment and the suspects did not come to collect the body after the autopsy was conducted. During investigation, the Adgaon police managed to track down the suspects and arrested them on Saturday. The name of the woman has not been revealed by the police, while his partner has been identified as Somnath, alias Yogesh Vasant Kurhade. Irfan Shaikh, senior police inspector of Adgaon police station, said, “The suspect left her husband and was living with her partner along with her child in Nanduri Naka area of the city. As per the statement given by the suspects, the woman used to go out to work during the night hours and Kurhade and the child stayed at home. This is when Kurhade used to beat the child.” He added, “On the night of December 21, Kurhade beat the boy and banged his head against the wall. The child suffered serious injuries. The next morning, the couple brought the child to the Nashik civil hospital for treatment. Despite knowing that her son had suffered serious injuries after being beaten by her partner, the woman told the doctors that her son had fallen down while playing. She also gave a false name of the child.” Shaikh said the couple fled the hospital when they were expected to take the body for cremation after the post mortem. While a case of accidental death was registered initially, going by the post mortem report, which suggested that the child had multiple injuries, Adgaon police swung into action and traced the suspects on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/woman-held-for-killing-7-yr-old-son/articleshow/80086004.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 5, 2021||Dehradun||Mussoorie residents oppose to converting skating rink into restaurant by GMVN||Mussoorie: Several Mussoorie residents have opposed the proposal of converting the terrace of Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam’s (GMVN) Mussoorie unit (comprising a hotel and a restaurant) into an open air restaurant. The terrace was so far being used as a skating rink by locals and tourists. “This is amongst the last few remaining skating rinks in the town. It is unfortunate that the facility is now being converted into a restaurant. Roller skating has been extremely popular in Mussoorie and the town has produced a number of roller skaters and roller hockey players of national and international repute. Closing down this space will be a big loss for the town,” said Gopal Bhardwaj, a renowned roller skater who travelled on skates from Mussoorie to Delhi in the 1970s. Roop Chand, a national-level roller hockey player and coach said, “The roller skating rink set up in the GMVN complex used to attract a large number of skaters and a good number of tourists as well. Officials should not set up a restaurant here.” Meanwhile, Prem Singh Kandari, manager of the GMVN unit at Mussoorie, told TOI that renovation work is underway in our in-house restaurant and hence, a fast food eatery was set up on the terrace. When asked if this was a permanent arrangement, Kandari said, “This is for senior officials to decide. We are merely following orders.” Notably, this unit of GMVN located at the Mall Road has a large in-house restaurant which, according to sources, has been leased out to a restaurant chain from Haridwar. Talking to TOI, Ashish Chauhan, managing director of GMVN, said, “If someone has a grievance then the same should be submitted in writing to me. We shall look into the matter,” Chauhan told.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mussoorie-residents-oppose-to-converting-skating-rink-into-restaurant-by-gmvn/articleshow/80102591.cms||Anmol Jain
January 5, 2021||Chandigarh||Teacher found charred in house; wife among 4 booked for suicide abetment||Kurukshetra: Police on Monday booked four persons, including the wife of the deceased, in a abetment to suicide case. JBT teacher Ritesh, 34, was found charred inside his house in Sharma Colony of Ladwa town of Kurukshetra district, after his neighbours noticed smoke and called the fire brigade. Police registered the case on the complaint of Ritesh’s father Sulekh Chand, who accused his daughter-in-law and three others of pushing his son to commit suicide. “Ritesh’s wife had been harassing him and both used to have disputes. His wife in connivance with her brother and in-laws had been harassing him,” he told police. Ladwa police station house officer Kuldeep Singh said, “Ritesh’s wife had her HTET exam on Saturday in Ambala. They reached home on Sunday and had a fight in the evening. Around 1.30am on Monday, she left for her maternal house in Saha, Ambala, along with her brother, saying she will not return. Later, this incident happened. A has been registered against the deceased’s wife, brother-in-law and two others. The postmortem would be conducted by a board of doctors at BPS Medical College, Khanpur Kalan, Sonipat, on Tuesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/teacher-found-charred-in-house-wife-among-4-booked-for-suicide-abetment/articleshow/80105010.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata schools to continue with 20% fee waiver||KOLKATA: City schools will continue to give 20% concession in tuition fees in the fourth quarter. A special leave petition has been filed in the Supreme Court by schools against the high court order, which was heard on Monday. The SC in its order has allowed all the appealing schools to file a rejoinder to the counter reply to the SLP over the next 15 days. The matter will be heard again in the first week of February. The HC, in its order on October 13, had asked schools to waive 20% tuition fees and to restrict their profits to five 5%. This part of the order has been upheld by the Supreme Court as of now. “We will continue with the waiver. Many parents have paid 100% fees, many have availed of the waiver, and a few who came to us with the problems have been given 30%-100% waiver. A few are still defaulting on the last three quarters,” said Mukta Nain, director of Birla High School. Schools like Shri Shikshayatan, CNI schools, private schools of the Association of ISC schools, non-CNI schools run by Catholics, who are being heard in the SC, said they were continuing with 20% waiver “as of now”. All the schools were represented in the SC on Monday. “We will file the rejoinder in 15 days. After the pleadings are over, SC will start final hearing,” said Sourav Bhagat, lawyer for South Point and MP Birla Foundation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-to-continue-with-20-fee-waiver/articleshow/80103650.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
January 5, 2021||Nagpur||Parents, take cops’ help if minors insist on driving: CP||Nagpur: The commissioner of police Amitesh Kumar has urged parents to take help of Nagpur city police, especially traffic cops, if their minor children resort to any pressure tactics so that they are allowed to drive vehicles. “The city police intends to keep the children, their families and others safe from road accidents,” said the CP. The CP was addressing a counselling programme organized for parents of 125 minors who were caught by the police while driving two-wheelers. The parents claimed their children had pressured them to allow use of vehicles. They assured the top cop that henceforth they will not allow their wards to ride vehicles until they turn major. In the New Year, the city traffic police led by DCP (traffic) Sarang Award have launched a special drive across 10 zones to nab minors and youngsters riding triple seat, driving on wrong side, using modified vehicles, especially bullet etc. After catching the 125 minors and teenagers, cops had issued challans, seized most of the modified vehicles besides collecting hefty fines under various sections of the Motor Vehicles Act. The counselling programme was held at Nagpur City Police Gymkhana on Monday. To make it effective, the DCP showed six videos captured by CCTV cameras installed at different intersections. The videos showed different violations like wrong side riding by women motorists, reverse driving by a car driver to evade police action, zigzag riding by a minor rider etc. These videos left the parents shocked. “Data from different sources indicates that minors are vulnerable to road accidents. In accidents like skidding on roads, the riders mostly turn out to be minors,” said the CP. The CP also sought to know why parents were providing private vehicles to their minor children when the city has good public transport facilities like Metro Rail and city bus. He appealed to the parents to motivate their children to use public transport. “The minors know it well that driving without licence or under-age driving is illegal, still they want to ride two-wheelers to experience thrill,” said CP, and added, “But then, you are not only risking your life but also pushing others into danger.” Kumar also cautioned parents that they can be put behind the bars if they allow their minor children to ride two-wheelers or other vehicles “as the law has such provisions”. Box 125 minor ‘drivers’ held Zone —- Cases MIDC — 14 Kamptee — 06 Sadar — 23 Sonegaon — 06 Sakkardara — 07 Sitabuldi — 14 Indora — 19 Ajni — 03 Cotton Market -— 19 Lakadganj — 14 Total — 125||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/parents-take-cops-help-if-minors-insist-on-driving-cp/articleshow/80105042.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||Active Covid-19 cases in Ahmedabad dip to 2,408||AHMEDABAD: The city of Ahmedabad reported 142 fresh cases of Covid-19 and two deaths in the last 24 hours. On Monday morning, there were 2,408 active cases in the city. Officials said this was the first time since July that the number of active cases had gone below 2,500. Officials said that of the seven zones of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), only the South Zone comprising Maninagar, Khokhra, Behrampura and Danilimda had 418 active cases and the North West Zone comprising of Bodakdev, Thaltej, Gota and Ghatlodia had 411 cases. The number of active cases in the North West Zone had fallen below 400, but rose past it in the last few days once again. Officials said more and more cases were being reported from Gota and areas near it. All the other five zones had fewer than 400 active cases. The West Zone — Navrangpura, Naranpura, Paldi, Ranip and Vadaj — had 390 active cases. The South West Zone which covers Bopal, Jodhpur, Vejalpur and Sarkhej had 356 active cases. The Central Zone had 261 active cases, the North Zone 309 and the East Zone 263 cases. The officials said that the South Zone despite relatively more patients being discharged, had 410 active cases. Officials said this zone has constantly had more than 400 cases. Officials said the East, South West and Central Zones have been seeing a constant decline. Officials said that for the last two days there have been no new micro-containment zone notified and the city now has 19 societies in micro-containment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/active-cases-in-city-dip-to-2408/articleshow/80103646.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 5, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: SAD core committee member joins AAP||CHANDIGARH: SAD core committee member Tarsem Singh Bhinder joined AAP along with his associates on Monday. They were inducted into the party in the presence of AAP Punjab in-charge and Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh, leader of opposition in the Punjab Legislative Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema and MLAs Baljinder Kaur and Budhram. Cheema said leaders from other parties were joining AAP for its stand taken in favour of farmers and other communities. Bhinder is also a former president of Youth Akali Dal Malwa Zone 3. Others who joined AAP included former senior vice presidents of SAD Bhupinder Singh Sandhu, Maluk Singh and Satnam Singh Khalsa. Also, O P Jindal, convenor north India Punjab Republican Party and president Dr Ambedkar Education Society Chandigarh, Jaswant Singh Sandhu, president Punjab Agro Foodgrain Corporation Limited, Malkiat Singh, former district education officer, Fatehgarh Sahib and vice-president Lok Insaf Party Malwa Zone and Gurmail Singh Sidhu, former state convener of Sanjha Mulazam Manch and general secretary joint association committee Punjab and UT employees joined the party. On the occasion Narinder Singh Sandha, former Zila Parishad chairman, Ferozepur, announced to quit Akali Dal and rejoin AAP. AAP to contest Urban Local Body polls on party symbolAhead of the elections to urban local bodies in the state, AAP on Monday constituted election committees in 22 districts of Punjab. AAP Punjab in-charge and Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh and AAP state president and MP Bhagwant Mann said the committees would select suitable candidates for the elections.The elections to local bodies are likely to be held in early February. Jarnail said, “These elections will be fought on the party’s election symbol. It is a golden opportunity for the people this time to bring change in cities by electing councillors, who would work for the people.” “Congress, Akali Dal and BJP leaders had only filled their coffers after winning. Cities, neighbourhoods and roads are in a miserable condition and garbage is piled up everywhere,” said Mann.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-core-committee-member-joins-aap/articleshow/80105049.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Trichy||Decks cleared from Trichy-Pudukottai NH for road widening||Trichy: Project implementation unit (PIU) of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) in Trichy has embarked on widening the highway connecting Trichy and Pudukottai. One of the biggest road widening works undertaken within Trichy, the project aims at eliminating five blackspots on the stretch. NHAI has already completed the eviction of encroachments and sourcing of the required land for about 50% of the stretch identified for the proposal. Officials said that encroachments on the remaining stretch will be cleared in a week’s time and land will be acquired for the project soon.Starting from TVS tollgate situated on the intersection of Trichy-Pudukottai and Trichy-Chennai national highways, the proposal will cover a 10km stretch encompassing Trichy international airport, central prison and police commissioner’s office.Officials said that owing to the airport located on the highway the stretch witnesses frequent movement of VIPs, thus increasing the volume of traffic handled. For the first 4km of the 10km stretch identified from TVS tollgate covering Subramaniapuram, NHAI will provide paved shoulders for the existing four-lane road. The remaining portion which so far is a two-lane road will be widened to four-lane with a centre median. “Civil work for the project will commence soon and shall be completed within a year. Subramaniapuram and airport localities will get a service road each to help eliminate black spots,” an official said.The project costing Rs 69 crore will link Mathur-Thuvakudi and Mathur-Panjappur stretches of the semi-ring road with core parts of Trichy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/decks-cleared-from-trichy-pudukottai-nh-for-road-widening/articleshow/80105050.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 5, 2021||Goa||Goa CM calls protesting farmers for talks||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday invited sugarcane farmers for meeting to discuss and fine solution to their demands. Farmers wants written assurance from the government compensating their standing crop at Rs 3,600 per tonne till Sanjivani sugar factory becomes operational. “We are open for discussion,” Sawant said that the compensation offered by the state government is highest in the state of Rs 3000 per tonne. “We are paying farmers without buying their sugarcane. We have told them to sale their sugarcane to factory and government will pay Rs 3000 per tonne. Which government will pay that much of amount,” Sawant said Chief minister said if farmers sale their sugarcane for Rs 1000 per tonnes and consider Rs 3000 paid by government the total amount will be Rs 4000 per tonnes. Speaking to mediapersons Sawant said that the government is in discussion with the Sugarcane Farmers’ Facilitation Committee, headed by former MP Narendra Sawaikar to find out solution. Sawant said that despite everything is finalized and even if some people want to do politics then it is up to them. Deputy chief minister Chandrakant ‘Babu’ Kavalekar who is also agriculture minister said that we have asked farmers to Panaji for talks, but they have not come. Kavalekar said that it won’t be possible for chief minister to go there and discuss. “Unless they sit across the table the issue cannot be resolved,” Kavalekar said Farmers also demanded payment of compensation every year by February end and the basis for calculating it shall be the highest average of the sugarcane supplied by individual farmers during the last 10 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/04_murari-cm-on-sugarcane-farmers/articleshow/80103654.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Vijayawada||Temple desecrations meant to create unrest in Andhra Pradesh: YS Jagan Mohan Reddy||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday broke his silence on the series of temple desecrations in the state and held the opposition responsible for the incidents, which he said were aimed at diverting the attention of people from his government’s welfare initiatives. Stating that the political tactics of the opposition indicate the end of ‘Kalyug’, he said such desecration incidents are meant to create religious unrest and disturb communal harmony in the state. “Who actually benefits from smashing idols of God? Who benefits from anarchy in temples and chapels? Who benefits from provoking emotions and committing violence? Who benefits from making false propaganda that hurts people’s faith? Who are being targeted by these evil acts? People need to think,” Jagan said, and urged the police to come down hard on the opposition’s “political guerilla warfare”. To substantiate his charge, he cited some incidents which happened either before or after the launch of some schemes by the government. “The state government started Nadu-Nedu program in Ongole on Nov 14, 2019. On the same day the opposition brought the issue of demolition of Durga temple in Guntur district during road widening. In fact, that particular temple had been shifted to new premises even before the start of the road widening project,” he said. “On January 15 last year, the government set up a Rs 3,000 crore market intervention fund to purchase crops by paying minimum support price to farmers. To divert the attention of people from this, the opposition vandalised Anjaneya Swamy temple in Pithapuram on January 21. After one week of launching the first Disha police station, nearly three such incidents took place across the state. On September 7, the government announced launch of YSR Sampoorna Poshana. The previous night, the Antarvedi chariot was gutted in fire. Similar incidents were also plotted during distribution of house sites, like the desecration of Ramalayam in Vizianagaram district,” Jagan added. Referring to the temple desecration incidents as “new age crime”, he said the motive behind these incidents is to suppress communication from the government on welfare measures. “Temples where desecration incidents have been reported are mostly located in isolated places. We have already installed CCTV cameras in 20,000 temples, which is why temples away from habitations are being targeted. The incidents are happening in the dead of night when people are in deep sleep. Those perpetrating the incidents are taking photos and videos of the same and posting them in social media to create unrest,” Jagan alleged. The chief minister said people who have no faith or fear of God are indulging in such crimes. “They have political interests. They want to create unrest in the state on the basis of caste and religion. They also want to divert the attention of people from the government’s series of welfare programmes,” he added. A series of desecration incidents have been reported at places of worship over the last few months. On January 1, the idol of Lord Subramanyam Swamy at Lord Vighneshwara temple in Rajahmundry was found vandalised. On December 28, the idol of Lord Rama was found desecrated at the 400-year-old Ramatirtham temple in Vizianagaram district. Six days before, on December 22, animal flesh and blood were found strewn in the premises of a Krishna temple in Darsi town. In September, an idol of Nandi at a Shiva temple in Chittoor district was found broken. In September, a 100-year-old chariot at the ancient Antarvedi Lakshmi Narasimha temple in East Godavari district was found burnt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/temple-desecrations-jagan-raises-accusing-finger-at-opposition/articleshow/80105057.cms||Gopi Dara
January 5, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Four injured, vehicles damaged as Chitpore localities clash||KOLKATA: Tension gripped the Khagen Chatterjee Street area of Chitpore in north Kolkata after residents from two different neighbourhoods clashed with each other on Sunday around 9 pm. The incident has left at least four persons injured and four mini-trucks badly damaged. The locals, though, claimed that at least 14 persons received injuries and that the loss to public property was much higher than the official estimate. According to them, at least seven vehicles were damaged and two more were partially ransacked. The Chitpur police have arrested four persons in this connection so far. The incident, claimed locals, was triggered by rogue biking. Residents of Mondalpara — located close to the Cossipore Gun and Shell factory gate — alleged that residents from nearby Jyotinagar near the river banks had attacked them after they raised voice against rogue biking. “The young men from Jyotinagar would ride recklessly on Khagen Chatterjee Road leading to accidents. They even race at night,” claimed Suraj Prasad, a local resident of Mondalpara. The Jyotinagar residents denied the claims, saying the bikers from Mondalpara had come drunk to their colony and behaved indecently with a few residents. When they were going towards Mondalpara to lodge a complaint, they were allegedly attacked. “Both sides have received cut injuries indicating there was stone pelting between both sides,” said a police source. Though cops claimed that the clash lasted less than ten minutes, locals alleged that tension was such that police had to be posted in the area for the night. Janmajoy Pandey, a resident of Khagen Chatterjee Road, whose mini-truck was vandalized, said that he had no inkling of the trouble till 9 pm. “Suddenly, some people appeared from nowhere — they came walking and on bikes and smashed the vehicles parked in the area. They then fled in five minutes,” said Pandey. The police, though, claimed that the clash was a result of a drunken brawl between men from two neighbourhoods and that it had nothing to do with rogue biking and illegal parking. “We have drawn up a case and counter case and are investigating all claims. CCTV footages are being checked to identify the accused,” said an officer from Chitpore PS. Sources said the two neighbours had often been involved in petty arguments — especially in the past seven days — but this is the first time that the area has noticed an escalation in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/4-injured-vehicles-damaged-as-chitpore-localities-clash/articleshow/80103665.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 5, 2021||Dehradun||Ex-chief of U’khand Cong, 300 others test Covid-19 positive; Haldwani additional SP critical||Dehradun: Uttarakhand recorded 301 new Covid-19 infections on Monday. With this, the case tally of the virus breached the 92,000-mark in the state. Among those found infected was Kishore Upadhyay, former president of state Congress. He was shifted to Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH). Meanwhile, the additional SP of Haldwani, who tested positive for Covid-19 last week, was referred to Delhi after his lung infection reached a critical level. In another significant development on Monday, Savin Bansal, district magistrate, Nainital, cancelled the accreditation of a private pathology to conduct RT-PCR test for Covid-19. The move comes after the facility took 17 days to share the report of a Covid-19 positive 19-year-old. Dr Bhagirathi Joshi, chief medical officer (CMO), Nainital, told TOI that the order for the cancellation of RT-PCR test at the private facility was issued on Monday afternoon after the father of the girl approached the DM with the complaint. “This is a case of utter callousness. Such delays in Covid-19 reports can lead to fast spread of the virus,” said the CMO. According to data provided by the health department, around 13,155 samples were tested on Monday. "The maximum of 125 Covid-19 infections found on Monday were recorded in Dehradun, followed by 74 case in Nainital, 23 in Haridwar, 20 in Udham Singh Nagar, 17 in Champawat, nine in Uttarkashi, seven each in Pauri, Pithoragarh and Almora districts, six in Rudraprayag, four in Chamoli, and two in Tehri Garhwal,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Also, eight coronavirus-related deaths were recorded in the state on Monday, taking the toll of the virus to 1,535 in the state. Among the deaths recorded on Monday, two were reported from GDMCH, and one each from AIIMS Rishikesh, Himalayan Jollygrant Hospital, and Mahant Indiresh Hospital. “Two more deaths were recorded at Pithoragarh district hospital and another at Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani,” added Tripathi. On Monday, 695 patients recovered from Covid-19 infection in the state. With this, the total number of cured cases reached 85,400 and the recovery rate shot up to 93% in Uttarakhand. Among those recovered on the day was Ajay Bhatt, BJP MP from Nainital, who was admitted to AIIMS, New Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ex-chief-of-ukhand-cong-300-others-test-covid-19-positive-haldwani-additional-sp-critical/articleshow/80102602.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 5, 2021||Goa||CM keeps ‘controversial’ municipal ordinance on hold||Panaji: Following opposition from the All Goa Merchants Association, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday decided to keep the implementation of a recent ordinance concerning municipal shops and properties on hold. Association members subsequently withdrew their decision to keep their shops shut on Thursday. The Goa Municipalities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, lays down a new procedure for regularisation of civic properties and also lists stringent punishment for sub-letting. At a meeting with the association’s members, Sawant, who was accompanied by urban development minister Milind Naik and BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade, said the directorate of municipal administration had received several demands for amendments of rules governing municipal shops and properties. He told the association that the amendment was made in the interest of Goans and that leases pertaining to blood relations would continue. Congress on Saturday had claimed that many Goan families who had taken shops on lease at markets operated by municipal councils would no longer be able to run the stores for more than 10 years as per the ordinance. The chief minister, however, said that there have been several disputes following the transfer of leases, most of which are not regularised. “We introduced the amendment as a business-friendly measure, but if changes are sought, the government is open to it,” he said. Association member Narayan Karekar said members also had reservations about the inclusion of the word ‘auction’ in the amended section 88 of the Goa Municipalities Act, which contains provisions regarding transfer of municipal property. In response, Sawant said the word was added to deal with cases wherein a leaseholder dies and does not have any blood relation to whom the lease could be transferred. “When the bill is introduced in the assembly, we can have it rectified,” the chief minister said, even as he told the association that it could consult with an advocate with regard to any alterations sought to be made before the bill is finalised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-keeps-controversial-municipal-ordinance-on-hold/articleshow/80103664.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Shimla||Yellow, orange warnings issued in Himachal Pradesh||SHIMLA: The meteorological centre here has issued a yellow warning for thunderstorm, lightning in the plains and low hills and for heavy rain and snowfall in the mid-hills and orange warning for heavy snowfall in the high hills for Tuesday. Meanwhile light rain and snowfall were witnessed in some parts of Himachal Pradesh in the last 24 hours, officials said on Monday. Maximum temperature has increased by 5 to 6 degrees Celsius in the state during last 24 hours. Even minimum temperature was 2 to 3 degrees Celsius above normal. The tribal district of Lahaul and Spiti’s administrative centre Keylong continued to be the coldest place in the state at minus 4.5 degrees Celsius. Kalpa in Kinnaur recorded maximum temperature of 5.4 degrees Celsius and minimum temperature of minus 1.6 degrees Celsius. Shimla recorded maximum temperature of 16.1 degrees Celsius, which was 5 degrees above normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/yellow-orange-warnings-issued-in-hp/articleshow/80105090.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Nagpur||Guv to fete resident docs as Covid warriors today||Nagpur: Two city medicos Dr Mukul Deshpande and Dr Arpit Dhakate will be among 55 resident doctors who will be felicitated as Covid Warriors by Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Tuesday. “We will be receiving the honour on behalf of all resident doctors, who have worked hard as front-line warriors during the Covid pandemic,” said Dr Deshpande, who is in anaesthesia department. “It was tough time and under the guidance of our seniors, most of us are serving patients despite all odds,” he added. “Many of us tested positive, recovered and came back to the ward duty. As senior doctors had restrictions due to the pandemic protocol, it were the residents who handled many complex situations during the peak period,” said Dr Dhakate, who is from the radiology department. Both the doctors from Nagpur thanked Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) dean Dr Sajal Mitra and medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande for their constant support during the peak crisis period. They also mentioned that the idea of their felicitation in the Raj Bhavan was initiated by Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) director Dr TP Lahane. Dr Lahane told TOI that the residents have showed extreme resilience and willpower during this never-before crisis and they helped patients. “Residents are now a large part of our medical manpower and one of the aspects we are proudest is with regard to their work during the pandemic,” he said. There are close to 5,000 resident doctors in government medical and dental colleges in Maharashtra. During early phase of Covid-19, only government colleges served Covid patients as private hospitals were involved in the later phase. Residents had always been there in the front-line. In Nagpur, both Covid Hospitals were manned and operated mostly by resident doctors. Together, they have served more than 8,000 Covid-19 patients till date. State government had also given Rs10,000 per month hike to resident doctors in May 2020. Why The Residents Deserve Felicitation They showed quick growth in professionalism Despite being physically and mentally tired, they felt happy and proud about being part of this historical phase All realized the importance of their role in patient-care with 95% burden on them They served despite being anxious about changes and possible deficits in their professional training Overcame problems like reduced study time during pandemic, fear of becoming ill; and missing families, friends, and earlier way of life||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/guv-to-fete-resident-docs-as-covid-warriors-today/articleshow/80105110.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 5, 2021||Chandigarh||Record 202.78 lakh MT of paddy procured in Punjab in 2020: Min||Chandigarh: An all-time high quantity of 202.78 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of paddy was procured by the procurement agencies during the recently-concluded season, which followed 127.11 lakh MT of wheat procured in early 2020. Punjab food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Monday said the state government managed to successfully procure the two crops under the shadow of Covid-19 pandemic, while observing protocols pertaining to social distancing. “The state government set up 2,136 additional temporary purchase centres in the state, thus increasing the total number to 4,006 during wheat procurement in rabbi season of 2020-21. Total 127.11 lakh MT of wheat procured by all the procurement agencies benefited more than 10 lakh farmers from the MSP scheme. A total 202.78 lakh MT of paddy was procured during the season, which has been all-time highest paddy procurement in the state,” said Ashu, giving a wrap on the performance of his department during 2020. “The farmers were paid on time, along with other stakeholders through coordination and liaison with the RBI, Union ministry of finance and the consortium of banks led by SBI. In order to reduce the physical interface between the departmental functionaries and rice millers and to promote transparency and efficiency, the following services have been made online through the https://anaajkharid.in portal, includes registration of new rice millers, GPS mapping of rice mills on the portal, increase in capacity of rice mills, change in ownership of rice mills, registration of lessee rice mills,” he added. He said smart ration card scheme was also launched in the state for the benefit of 1.41 crore people, and 37,00,000 chip-based smart cards distributed under this scheme by the department. The scheme would eliminate the need for carrying any other document to get the entitled quota of foodgrains, and bring transparency in the public distribution system. The process for enrolling 9,48,801 eligible beneficiaries that constitute 2,37,200 families (considering four members in a family) under state-sponsored ration card scheme had already been commenced. The scheme would benefit the eligible beneficiaries who could not be enrolled under the National Food Security Act, 2013, and the state government would have to incur Rs 120 crore for one year on this initiative, he said. Ashu said the Punjab government had distributed 15 lakh dry ration packets consisting of 10kg of flour, 2kg sugar and 2kg pulses free of cost to the migrant labour during lockdown, for which the state spent Rs 78 crore. He said inter-state portability of ration distribution under the ‘One Nation One Ration Card’ scheme had been implemented in Punjab, under which migrants from other states, on arrival in Punjab, could avail their entitlement of ration from any fair price shops of their choice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/record-202-78-lakh-mt-of-paddy-procured-in-punjab-in-2020-min/articleshow/80105071.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Dehradun||Five cops in Champawat district tested positive for Covid-19||Rudrapur : Couple of days after a two day long lockdown was imposed in Pithoragarh district of Uttarakhand, five cops, including SO Banbasa and Sharda Barrage Outpost Incharge, have been found Corona positive in adjoining Champawat district. They have been home isolated by the health department. Chief medical superintendent (CMS) of the Tanakpur civil hospital, Dr. HS Hyanki told that five police personnel have been found corona positive on Monday after they went through antigen test. "All of them were asymptomatic. Tests were carried on precautionary basis. They have been administered treatment while being put in home isolation. A few employees of the assistant regional transport office at Tanakpur have also been found corona positive. They have also been admitted to the Covid facility in the district", Dr Hyanki added. Notably, 25 policemen of Tanakpur and Banbasa police stations in Champawat district have been found corona infected earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/five-cops-in-champawat-district-tested-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/80102610.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 5, 2021||Trichy||Consumer council to file plea to demolish Gandhi market||Trichy: Months after the Gandhi market reopened based on an interim directive from the Madras high court, the Consumer Protection Council of Tamil Nadu has planned to file a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking its demolition. The council has also pitched for relocating all wholesale operations to the Kallikudi integrated vegetable market on the city outskirts.Citing the parameters of the Tamil Nadu Specific Commodities Act 1996, the council said that waste accumulation on roads and encroachments in the southern and western portions of the market are creating inconveniences to the public, and shifting the market will only be the solution to alleviate the sufferings. A resolution was passed in the council’s general body meeting to file the PIL in the Madras high court against officials for not shifting the market to Kallikudi. “For decades, the market premises was neither strengthened nor redeveloped, and corporation officials are not divulging information about the safety. The dilapidated buildings must be demolished to make way for a multilevel car parking as there is a demand for parking space in the vicinity,” S Pushpavanam, secretary of the council said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/consumer-council-to-file-plea-to-demolish-gandhi-market/articleshow/80105102.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Goa||Sawant calls protesting farmers for talks||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday invited the sugarcane farmers from Sanguem for a meeting to find a solution to their problems The farmers wants a written assurance from the government compensating them for their standing crop at Rs 3,600 per tonne till the Sanjivani sugar factory becomes operational. “We are open for discussion,” Sawant said. The compensation offered is the highest in the state at Rs 3,000 per tonne, he said. “We are paying farmers without buying their sugarcane. Which government will pay that much,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-calls-protesting-farmers-for-talks/articleshow/80103672.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Bhopal||Eyeing ’23 polls, RSS looks to strengthen BJP hold on MP||Bhopal: With a goal to retain the saffron citadel in 2023 Madhya Pradesh assembly elections, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) has entrusted the responsibility of coordination with its political arm, the BJP, with four senior cadres directly monitoring affairs in the organisation and the administration. This is at a time when BJP at the national level has brought down the number of joint general secretaries to assert its position over the RSS. BJP national general secretary P Murlidhar Rao, state organising general secretary Suhas Bhagat, state joint general secretary (organisation) Hitanand Sharma and the newly appointed national joint general secretary (organisation) Shiv Prakash — all of whom moved from RSS to BJP — have been assigned a crucial responsibility by the Sangh Parivar to ensure that 2018 defeat would not get repeated in the Hindi Heartland. To supervise the Sangh cadre, BJP organising general secretary BL Santosh and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat have been holding meetings, personal outreach and feedback from the grassroot-level workers to ensure proper implementation of the agenda. BJP leaders who have moved to the party from the RSS base have also been entrusted with responsibility to access greater control of the Sangh Parivar on the BJP. They will ensure control if BJP leader or the party leadership “deviates” from the core RSS ideology of Hindutva. “RSS has an aim of streamlining the party functioning, to handle party-related matters in the state and the organisational affairs, and serving as a link between the BJP and the RSS. The Sangh Parivar will not allow repetition of any mistake committed earlier ahead of 2018 assembly elections. They also want the RSS leaders to play a proactive role, be more tech savvy and have their ears to the ground,” disclosed a senior RSS functionary. The alleged RSS interference in the government decisions was said to be the cause of delay in organisational appointments, expansion of cabinet and inducting new members apart from appointments in boards and corporations which were earlier done to allegedly satiate trusted lieutenants by the BJP brass. Decisions related to Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia and his loyalists, responsibilities assigned to BJP’s old guards were also finalised with the RSS consent. Shiv Prakash, who recently took charge of Madhya Pradesh, was a full-time pracharak in Uttar Pradesh. He was also responsible for streamlining the party's functioning in states like Maharashtra, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. His movement in the saffron party is said to ensure RSS more say in state politics and to push the saffron agenda on education policy and labour reforms. The RSS has also planned to prepare road maps of each constituency and departments under the government to ensure benefit of the welfare schemes launched by the state and the centre. All the incumbents will have a crucial role in the decision making process in 2023 assembly elections. RSS chief Bhagwat’s four visits in three months also hinted at a bigger plan to monitor party related affairs and create awareness among the public through outreach and door-to-door campaigns amid Covid-19 pandemic. MP BJP chief VD Sharma, who was also a pracharak before moving to BJP, has been entrusted with the awareness programmes highlighting the achievements of the Central government and the party’s ideology. The RSS is collecting, compiling and disseminating information gathered at the organisational level to ensure that decisions taken by the state government reflect the party's ideology and culture. The RSS has also involved disgruntled leaders with a clean image in the state affairs to contain dissatisfaction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/eyeing-23-polls-rss-looks-to-strengthen-bjp-hold-on-mp/articleshow/80102605.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Chandigarh||Forest area in Punjab rises by 2,872 acres, illegal encroachment removeds from 18,946 acres: Minister||Chandigarh: Punjab forests minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot on Monday said the state government had cleared illegal encroachment on 18,946 acres of forest area and forest area across the state has increased by 2,872 acres. He said during 2017-18, 879 acres of forest land was cleared from encroachment, 1,688 acres in 2018-19, and 13,132 acres in 2019-20. As per the latest forest cover report released by the central government, the forest area of the state has increased by 2,872 acres, said the forests minister. Dharmsot said that the department planted over 77 lakh indigenous varieties of saplings in 12,986 villages and established 432 ‘Nanak Bagichis’ with the cooperation of public to mark the 550th Parkash Purab of the first Sikh master, Guru Nanak Dev. To commemorate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur, 60 lakh saplings were planted in the state. During the Congress regime in Punjab, saplings were planted on 34,988 acres under the `Puncampa’ scheme, said the minister. In four years, under the agroforestry scheme, a subsidy of Rs 10 crore for over 1.15 crore saplings has been transferred to the Aadhaar-linked bank accounts of 10,204 farmers. Dharamsot said the department had proposed to plant saplings over 19,125 acres of land under the ‘Puncampa’ and ‘Green India Mission’ schemes in 2021-22 and the department would plant as many as 30 lakh saplings under the agro forestry scheme, besides distributing 15 lakh free of cost plants under the ‘Ghar-Ghar Hariyali’ scheme. Regarding his social justice, empowerment and minorities department, Dharmsot said during 2020, as many as 10,873 girls belonging to scheduled castes had been given the benefit to the tune of Rs 22 crore under Ashirwad Scheme, while Rs 17 crore was disbursed to 8,209 girls from backward classes and economically weaker families at the time of their marriages. He said that the Punjab government notified its own new BR Ambedkar SC post matric scholarship scheme on October 27, 2020, which had been applicable from the academic session 2020-21. Dharamsot said the state government was running three schemes in collaboration with the central government to extend benefit to students of minorities. These include pre-matric scholarship scheme, post-matric scholarship scheme and merit-cum-means based scholarship. During 2020, benefits to the tune of Rs 76.14 crore were extended to over 4.68 lakh students under pre-matric scholarship scheme, while under post-matric scholarship scheme 56,664 students got benefit of Rs 30.18 crore. Under the merit-cum-means based scholarship scheme, 2,404 students received scholarships worth Rs 6.45 crore through direct bank transfer (DBT) mode, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/forest-area-in-punjab-rises-by-2872-acres-illegal-encroachment-removeds-from-18946-acres-minister/articleshow/80105097.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Diluted LRS helping Telangana fill its coffers left dry by pandemic||HYDERABAD: Overcoming the pandemic blues and last year’s lockdown effect, Telangana is all set to net about Rs 1,000 crore through registrations in the first month of 2021. That the state is on the road to recovery can be gauged by the fact that it earned Rs 100 crore from registration of non-agriculture properties in the first two days of the year itself. Senior officials attributed this big turnaround to tweaking of the land regularisation scheme (LRS) rules. “There are more flexibilities available to landowners under the LRS now. We are hoping to garner more income through registration of properties this year. We are certain that the state will get Rs 1,000 crore income this month alone,” an official told TOI. Before the registrations were stopped and Covid-induced economic slowdown, the stamps and registration department was earning around Rs 600 crore a month. The New Year also began on a cheerful note for the stamps and registration department with a record 7,581 documents getting registered on January 1 and 2. Officials: Upswing in registrationsOfficials said there has been an upswing in the registrations, especially after the LRS relaxtions were announced soon after registration of non-agriculture properties began on December 14. The state earned nearly Rs 450 crore till December 31 through registrations as 47,072 documents had been registered till Decemberend. Clubbed with the first two days of the New Year, the total number of documents registered had gone up to 54,653. On normal days, the registration department earns Rs 25 crore per day. “The current trend shows that the collection has doubled. We are hoping that this trend will continue. The state stands to gain a good income through registration of properties,” a senior official said. Sounding optimistic, Telangana State Planning Board vice chairman B Vinod Kumar said registration of properties has picked up pace in and around Hyderabad. “Remember, the state’s GST collection was good despite the economic slowdown. With Hyderabad racing ahead, the state should be able to net more income this year,” he told TOI. Till November 2020, the state had earned only Rs 1,692 crore income while the targeted income was Rs 10,000 crore. This included non-agriculture and agriculture registrations. In the last financial year, the stamps and registration department earned Rs 7,061 crore, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ts-coffers-set-to-get-richer-with-record-registrations/articleshow/80105132.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 5, 2021||Ludhiana||Spurious milk: 2 arrested accused in 3-day police remand||Patiala: In a case of alleged spurious milk production in Patiala, police on Monday, secured three-day remand of two accused arrested a day earlier after a raid in Samana block of the district. Police said investigations are on and a case has been registered at Sadar Samana police station. The accused have been identified as Harpreet Singh and Gurpreet Singh of a village in Samana. Police said the accused used to manufacture spurious milk using glucose powder and poultry feed as ingredients. They claimed to have seized a milk machine and milk ultra-machine, more than six packets of glucose powder and 200 litres of spurious milk. They said the accused admitted to supplying around 500 litres of spurious milk daily in Rajpura area and in Ludhiana to a company. The accused, who have around one acre of farm land, opened a milk dairy a few years ago before switching to spurious milk production to earn easy money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/spurious-milk-2-arrested-accused-in-3-day-police-remand/articleshow/80105127.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Bhopal||BJP MLA: Would have brought devpt, had I been in power||Bhopal: BJP MLA from Bin Mahesh Rai has alleged ‘favouritism’ by the district administration and police while initiating action against the sand mafia in Bina. He said that it is not sand mining, it is “sand theft”. The two-time MLA also expressed “pain” that he has not been in power. “Had I been in power and occupying an important place in power, I would have also been able to bring development in my area.” Rai was talking to the media in Bina a day before cabinet expansion. Referring to illegal sand mining in Betwa river, Rai said that, “It is not a vyavsay (trade) but chori (theft) and people from all the parties are involved in it.” He said that those taking action “are partial”. “ Some officers take food in hotels and protect those who are involved in sand mining. This is wrong,” he said. Illegal sand mining is taking place in Bewta river in the region, he allege Without mentioning the names of Bhupendra Singh, the minister for UAD and an MLA from neighbouring Khurai, the BJP MLA said, “See in the neighbourhood there is so much development. Politics is a game of power. Had I also been in power, I would have developed my region.” The MLA was referring to a bypass road in Bina, a major railway junction “surrounded by railway tracks”. He said that he got a survey done and it would require Rs250 crore and that he would try to send the proposal for the bypass to Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-mla-would-have-brought-devpt-had-i-been-in-power/articleshow/80102611.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Kolkata||Inner vision: Blind poets launch anthology in Braille||Kolkata: An anthology of blind poets—possibly the only one in the world—was released in a Braille edition on World Braille Day in the city, expanding the world of visually impaired readers to the struggles and charisma of the sightless geniuses. The anthology, ‘Sparshanandan Alor Jharna (Sparshanandan Fountain of Lights)’, contains 157 poems and stories by visually impaired authors from across the world, 124 of whom are completely blind, including Homer and John Milton. The book also features works of poets from Bengal and other states, some of whom attended the launch at an auditorium in Gangulypukur on Monday. The anthology that was released in the form of a printed book last year is part of an initiative that began 28 years ago when the first Braille magazine, ‘Sparshanandan Drishtihinder Braille Patrika’, rolled out in the city. The anthology mostly contains poems in Bengali by authors from Bengal, Jharkhand and Odisha. It also has translated works of blind poets from other Indian states, Nepal and Liberia, West Africa, and that of greats like, Milton and Homer. “I lost vision in my eyes when I was seven. But it could not stop me from chasing my dreams. I kept studying and writing, but I had no place to showcase my works. That is when the Braille magazine supported me,” said Sanjib Rajak (45), professor at a Baruipur college, who is pursuing PhD in Bengali from Jadavpur University. Poetry has been an inspiration for homemaker Bithika Sarkar (41), who lost her sight at the age of three. “My world is different from most others’ and I have been penning down my feelings from an early age,” said the resident of Haltu. The editor and founder of the magazine, Satyajith Mondal, called Monday’s event a programme of “poetry defeating corona pandemic”. “The Braille conversion was done in the pandemic. We wanted all the authors to come to the event but only a few could turn up,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/inner-vision-blind-poets-launch-anthology-in-braille/articleshow/80103674.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
January 5, 2021||Trichy||Swampy roads in Trichy impact property value badly||Trichy:The poor condition of a few residential roads in Trichy city has started affecting the property value in the corresponding. Citing the poor conditions of roads, which were dug for underground drainage (UGD) and drinking water projects, property owners find it difficult to find tenants even after reducing the rental value.For the past two years, work on UGD and drinking water projects are continuing in the added wards covering parts of Thiruverumbur falling under Ponmalai zone. As the recent rainfall has made the roads swampy, the property owners in the area claimed that they struggle to find tenants for the vacant houses. “Due to the bad roads, a private bank functioning at a house has moved out. The bad approach roads are a spoiler for residents who are looking for renting or leasing out their houses,” Sathik Basha, a resident of Thiruverumbur, said. Several houses remain unoccupied for months in Amman Nagar, SAS Nagar and Gokula Nagar falling under ward 63 in Kattur on the Trichy-Thanjavur NH. The property owners who were forced to reduce the house rent due to the pandemic had to further slash the rent owing to the bad condition of approach roads, residents at Thiruverumbur said. Residents said that the civic body has been ignoring their demands to lay a temporary road using gravel mixture. The restoration work is one of the mandatory components in the contract signed between Trichy Corporation and the private contractor in executing the work. Although installation of pipelines is complete in Thiruverumbur, the damaged roads are yet to be repaired. “We have sanctioned Rs 40 lakh for repairing the roads, the residential roads in Thiruverumbur will be covered under the maintenance work,” a senior corporation official said.Property value downRent in Thiruverumbur (before)Rs 7,000 to Rs 8,000 for 2BHK Rs 10,000 to Rs 12,000 for 2BHK (gated community)nowRs 5,000 to Rs 6,000 for 2BHK Rs 8,000 to Rs 10,000 for 2BHK (in gated community)Localities with unoccupied flatsAmman NagarGokula NagarSAS NagarAffected houses: 15,000||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/swampy-roads-in-trichy-impact-property-value-badly/articleshow/80105146.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 5, 2021||Kozhikode||Hindu Aikya Vedi to step up campaign against ‘halal’ food in Kerala||KOZHIKODE: Hindu Aikya Vedi has decided to intensify its campaign against ‘halal branding’ and to approach authorities demanding a ban on such products and services. Vedi’s state general secretary R V Babu said the issue is not just about serving food or services that are acceptable to Muslims, but that it has assumed the level of an organized attempt at business monopoly on the part of a particular community. “We have no objection to hotels serving halal food, but things have reached a stage where non-Muslims’ jobs and business opportunities are being threatened because of halal certification,” he said. Babu said there is a stipulation that one-third of employees should be Muslims to get the certification. “People will be forced to opt for selling halal products to get business and those who refuse will naturally be losers. We now have halal-certified flats and even ayurveda products,” Babu said. “To say that upper castes will not eat food prepared by lower castes amounts to untouchability, which is banned in India. The assertion that Muslims cannot eat food prepared by non-Muslims is just another form of untouchability,” he said. The Vedi leader alleged a covert attempt to smuggle in a particular way of life in Kerala. “We see certain new symbols that were not part of society ten years ago. Recently, a bank displayed an advert about sharia-compliant transactions available at its branch,” Babu said. Apart from organising street-corner meetings and other forms of campaign, Vedi will seek the intervention of state and central governments to ban the sale of halal products. No major Muslim organization in the state has reacted to the controversy officially, but some preachers have come up with rebuttals in their individual capacity. Salafi preacher Mujahid Balussery has started a video series on his Facebook page against the arguments raised by Sebastian Punnakkal, a social media debater. In his videos Balussery says halal is an Arabic word which only means ‘allowed’. He said by raising certain issues vested interests are now trying to divide Muslims and Hindus like the British did in the past. Absence of halal-certified products in the past in Kerala means that there was less health awareness then. “It means there were no serious concerns about healthy food in Kerala. If you declare that you will not enter a hotel that has a halal board, you are indirectly asserting that you don’t need healthy food,” Balussery said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/hindu-aikya-vedi-to-step-up-campaign-against-halal-food/articleshow/80102614.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Kochi||Kerala HC allows marriage registration via videoconference||KOCHI: The high court ordered that registration of marriage through videoconferencing can be done in a case in which the husband is abroad and is unable to visit India for the registration. Justice P B Suresh Kumar ordered Kadukutty grama panchayat in Thrissur to conduct marriage registration through videoconferencing after considering a petition (WP-C No. 27387/2020) filed by Sreelakshmi J S of Annanad in Thrissur through advocate C V Milton. The petitioner had challenged the panchayat’s insistence for physical presence of her husband to sign the marriage register for marriage registration. After their marriage on August 24, 2019, the couple submitted an application for registration of marriage before the marriage registrar at the panchayat on September 6. As the registrar was on leave on that day, they could not sign on the marriage register. The following days were holidays and the husband had to urgently return to his workplace in South Africa. To join her husband in South Africa, the petitioner needed a marriage certificate to apply for a visa. But the marriage registrar insisted on physical presence of the husband to sign the register. While allowing the wife’s plea for conducting marriage registration via videoconferencing, the court noted that the high court had allowed marriage registration through videoconferencing in a similar case last year (T K Mathew vs secretary and registrar of marriages, Alappuzha and another). An authorized representative of the husband, preferably one of his parents, can sign the marriage register on behalf of their son, the court directed. The husband should appear before the registrar within a year and sign the register and the marriage registration can be revoked by the registrar if it is not done, the court’s order said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-allows-marriage-registration-via-videoconference/articleshow/80102631.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Amritsar||There’s no harm in politician heading SGPC, says Jagir||Amritsar: Describing the SAD as the “political panthic strength” of Sikhs’ largest representative body Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), its new president Bibi Jagir Kaur has said she didn’t see any harm in a politician heading a religious body. Kaur, herself a former minister, questioned people who made a “hue and cry” when SGPC members were elected on a SAD seat. When asked that it is generally believed that SGPC is run by SAD and the party also picks SGPC president, Kaur told TOI on Friday that this was an entirely wrong perception. “No doubt that being a political panthic party, SAD is our strength.” She said SGPC came into existence during Gurdwara Reform Movement, so it was formed at Akal Takht to provide strength to SGPC . “And this is the party on whose tickets Sikhs contest SGPC elections and become its members. It’s our political panthic power,” she said . She alleged that when the Congress was in power, they carried out Army action on the Golden Temple. On the other hand, she maintained that it was only SAD that talked about Sikhs. She claimed that no SAD chief has interfered when she has been the president of SGPC . When asked why many people, especially opposition parties, blamed SAD for running SGPC’s affairs, she said, “This ambiguous and deceitful propaganda is made by the people who have been rejected by the masses.” She said if a majority of 170 members of SGPC had won on the ticket of SAD, it meant people had accepted the party’s policies and had faith in it. “So there is no reason in making a hue and cry by others,” she said. When asked how she justifies running a religious body despite being a politician, Kaur said, “I am not just a politician. First, I am a devout Sikh. It’s not evil or criminal to be a minister.” She said SGPC president worked as per religious aspirations of the “sangat” (community) and people expected a lot from SGPC. “I don’t see any harm in a politician running the religious institution as long as political power remains under spiritual authority,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/theres-no-harm-in-politician-heading-sgpc-says-jagir/articleshow/80105148.cms||Yudhvir Rana
January 5, 2021||Kolkata||RKM to live-stream Sarada Devi birth anniversary programmes||HOWRAH: All centres of Ramakrishna Mission have geared up to celebrate the 168th birth anniversary of Sarada Devi on Tuesday. While the RKM headquarters at Belur Math is all set to ring in the day with the same devotion, focus will also be on the Jairambati (Bankura) centre and Mayer Bari at Bagbazar, the two places that are deeply associated with the life of Sarada Devi. While at all centres, gates will be shut to devotees this year due to the pandemic, at Jairambati, they will be allowed to enter the campus and go till a point for a darshan of the temple dedicated to Sarada Devi. Arrangements for live streaming through social media and audiovisual media have been made so that devotees can watch the celebratory programmes in all centres. Jairambati temple sees thousands of visitors on this day because Sarada Devi was born here. “This year, we will allow devotees to stand in front of the image of the mother at the main entrance of Natmandir,” said Tapan Maharaj, a senior monk. The prayers here, like in all centres of RKM, will start from 4.30 am on Tuesday with a ‘mangalarati’. Since the vice president of the order, Swami Gautamananda, is in Jairambati now, he will speak about the life of Sarada Devi. “Apart from devotional songs, yajnas and arati, three books will be released by our publications division,” said Swami Nityamuktananda, head of Mayer Bari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rkm-to-live-stream-sarada-devi-birth-anniv-programmes/articleshow/80103688.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
January 5, 2021||Trichy||Rain adds to woes of Karumandapam residents||Trichy: The residents of Karumandapam, which is situated around 15 km away from Thiruverumbur, are deprived of essential services during the rainy days owing to the poor condition of roads that are dug for UGD project. Citing the danger in riding two-wheelers on the swampy roads, milk and newspaper delivery boys skip the streets during rain, said the residents of Kalyanasundaram Nagar in Karumandapam. The residents said the civic body started digging the road only weeks before the onset of monsoon. Had the work been taken up much before the monsoon, the suffering would have been lesser. “In response to an RTI query, Trichy Corporation said that the road to our locality was last laid in 2003. The road was dug for UGD during monsoon, since then, our hardships have escalated,” Dr D Saminathan, a paediatrician in Kalyanasundaram Nagar, said. Local people said that they had to restrict their children from playing outside due to the bad condition of roads. Autorickshaws refuse to enter the area even to pick up aged people, while courier delivery boys are asking the residents to collect the parcels either at the arterial roads or from their offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rain-adds-to-woes-of-karumandapam-residents/articleshow/80105161.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 5, 2021||Chandigarh||ULB polls: Cong to finalise candidates soon||Chandigarh: Punjab Congress has set the ball rolling for elections to urban local bodies in the state by inviting applications from aspirants by January 12 and preference will be given to youth and women. Speaking after a meeting of the election committee, Congress MLA from Amritsar (West) Raj Kumar Verka said the party will also give sufficient representation to SC faces in the list of candidates. “The meeting was convened by state president Sunil Jakhar. The party observers have been asked to visit various poll-bound areas in the state to ensure smooth conduct of the entire exercise,” he said. After the Covid crisis induced a lull in political activity in Punjab, political outfits in the state are now gearing up for elections to 120 urban local bodies likely to be held in early February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ulb-polls-cong-to-finalise-candidates-soon/articleshow/80105163.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Kolkata||Urvi starts bridging last 800m gap of E-W Metro tunnel||Kolkata: Tunnel boring machine (TBM) Urvi has started building the final stretch of East-West Metro, 17m below Sealdah station. The gigantic machine on Monday started its journey to bridge the last 800m gap of the west-bound tunnel.Implementing agency Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC) and contractors ITD ITD Cementation are keeping their fingers crossed for a glitch-free end to the beleaguered project. If the TBM, nicknamed Urvi, manages to complete digging by April, operations till Sealdah could start in August or September. Currently, 7km of the corridor is functioning — from Sector V to Phoolbagan. Railway minister Piyush Goyal, while inaugurating the Phoolbagan station last October, had announced a December 2021 commissioning date for the entire 16km between Sector V and Howrah Maidan.Urvi on October 9, last year, completed one leg of the East-West Metro tunnel between Esplanade and Sealdah. From early Monday till late in the night ITD’s chief tunnel engineer Suvajit Besai was supervising the work as the machine was slated to break open the diaphragm wall inside the upcoming underground Sealdah Metro station. A diaphragm, or a D-wall, in engineering parlance, is necessary to integrate the station with the tunnel dug by the TBM.Urvi and its twin, Chundi, had started moving from Esplanade towards Sealdah in January 2019, but work had to be stopped after several buildings in Bowbazar collapsed when the TBM hit an aquifer in August 2019. The project was stalled for nearly six months. This is a rare instance when a TBM is recommissioned for back-to-back operations, making a U-turn to burrow the rest of the other tunnel from the opposite end till Bowbazar. “Through one whole month, Urvi has undergone complete refurbishment so that the 800m journey is smooth,” said an engineer involved in the project. This is, however, the TBM’s ‘initial’ drive. The ‘main’ drive will start a month later. The journey is split into ‘initial’ and ‘main’ drives because the TBM is 75m long. The main operative part (the cutterhead, the front body, middle body and the tailskin) is only 9m. To accommodate the entire machine (backup gantry), Urvi must initially dig 75m. Only then can the backup gantry be joined with the main part and the entire machine will be inside the tunnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/urvi-starts-bridging-last-800m-gap-of-e-w-metro-tunnel/articleshow/80103689.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
January 5, 2021||Kozhikode||Kerala HC allows marriage registration via videoconference||KOCHI: The high court ordered that registration of marriage through videoconferencing can be done in a case in which the husband is abroad and is unable to visit India for the registration. Justice P B Suresh Kumar ordered Kadukutty grama panchayat in Thrissur to conduct marriage registration through videoconferencing after considering a petition (WP-C No. 27387/2020) filed by Sreelakshmi J S of Annanad in Thrissur through advocate C V Milton. The petitioner had challenged the panchayat’s insistence for physical presence of her husband to sign the marriage register for marriage registration. After their marriage on August 24, 2019, the couple submitted an application for registration of marriage before the marriage registrar at the panchayat on September 6. As the registrar was on leave on that day, they could not sign on the marriage register. The following days were holidays and the husband had to urgently return to his workplace in South Africa. To join her husband in South Africa, the petitioner needed a marriage certificate to apply for a visa. But the marriage registrar insisted on physical presence of the husband to sign the register. While allowing the wife’s plea for conducting marriage registration via videoconferencing, the court noted that the high court had allowed marriage registration through videoconferencing in a similar case last year (T K Mathew vs secretary and registrar of marriages, Alappuzha and another). An authorized representative of the husband, preferably one of his parents, can sign the marriage register on behalf of their son, the court directed. The husband should appear before the registrar within a year and sign the register and the marriage registration can be revoked by the registrar if it is not done, the court’s order said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/hc-allows-marriage-registration-via-videoconference/articleshow/80108350.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Bhopal||MP: MLA’s remarks creates stir over Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet expansion||BHOPAL: Resentment over cabinet expansion of the Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led BJP government in Madhya Pradesh surfaced again with former minister and senior MLA Ajay Vishnoi raising the issue of regional imbalance in the team. Vishnoi said that Mahakaushal and Rewa divisions have only one berth each in the 31-member cabinet and leaders eyeing for a berth “can react but cannot do anything”. Vishnoi’s statement came in the wake of re-induction of two Scindia loyalists, Tulsiram Silawat and Govind Singh Rajput, who took oath, on Sunday. “One each of the 13 BJP MLAs from Mahakaushal and 18 in Vindhya have got the privilege of becoming a minister of state (MoS). Mahakaushal and Vindhya can flutter but cannot fly. Mahakaushal and Vindhya will have to be happy now ... will have to keep flattering ... Congratulations,” read a tweet by Vishnoi. The former minister further said, “The government has been fully expanded in Madhya Pradesh. Every second BJP MLA from Gwalior, Chambal, Bhopal, Malwa regions is a minister. Every third BJP MLA from Sagar, Shahdol divisions is a minister. Mahakaushal cannot fly high, can only flutter,” he further tweeted. After BJP’s bypoll victory in November, Vishnoi, who is MLA from Patan in Jabalpur, had called on chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan at the latter’s residence where Chouhan had offered him sweets on party’s performance. On Sunday. when two Scindia loyalists were sworn-in as ministers, several senior leaders in the BJP were expecting to get a berth as four more members could be adjusted in the cabinet. But, none of the old guards appeared in the list and Scindia emerged dominating among other leaders. Sources said that chief minister had recently convened closed door meetings with senior BJP leaders who could not be adjusted in the cabinet. It was surmised that the party organisation might accommodate them in the state body. Apart from Vishnoi, Rampal Singh, Rajendra Shukla, Girish Gautam, Kedarnath Shukla, Yashpal Singh Sisodia and many more were eagerly waiting for a coveted post, but nothing came out after the meetings. Vishnoi is not the only leader who has bluntly reacted to the recent developments in the party. Recently voice of dissent also emerged from Bina MLA Mahesh Rai who took a swipe at the cabinet expansion saying it is a “power game”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mlas-remarks-creates-stir-over-shivraj-cabinet-expansion/articleshow/80102619.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala HC allows marriage registration via videoconference||KOCHI: The high court ordered that registration of marriage through videoconferencing can be done in a case in which the husband is abroad and is unable to visit India for the registration. Justice P B Suresh Kumar ordered Kadukutty grama panchayat in Thrissur to conduct marriage registration through videoconferencing after considering a petition (WP-C No. 27387/2020) filed by Sreelakshmi J S of Annanad in Thrissur through advocate C V Milton. The petitioner had challenged the panchayat’s insistence for physical presence of her husband to sign the marriage register for marriage registration. After their marriage on August 24, 2019, the couple submitted an application for registration of marriage before the marriage registrar at the panchayat on September 6. As the registrar was on leave on that day, they could not sign on the marriage register. The following days were holidays and the husband had to urgently return to his workplace in South Africa. To join her husband in South Africa, the petitioner needed a marriage certificate to apply for a visa. But the marriage registrar insisted on physical presence of the husband to sign the register. While allowing the wife’s plea for conducting marriage registration via videoconferencing, the court noted that the high court had allowed marriage registration through videoconferencing in a similar case last year (T K Mathew vs secretary and registrar of marriages, Alappuzha and another). An authorized representative of the husband, preferably one of his parents, can sign the marriage register on behalf of their son, the court directed. The husband should appear before the registrar within a year and sign the register and the marriage registration can be revoked by the registrar if it is not done, the court’s order said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/hc-allows-marriage-registration-via-videoconference/articleshow/80108352.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Kolkata||Republic Day gift for New Town: A 400m smart service road||KOLKATA: A stretch of a service road in front of the New Town fair ground is going to be the city’s first smart street from January 26 when the project is completed by New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA). Officials said about 400 metres, from Swapno Bhor to the end of the New Town fair ground, off the arterial road in Action Area I, is being developed as the city’s first smart street. “The tools and facilities along the stretch will use solar energy and will have environment-friendly systems,” an official said. For example, the stretch will have CCTV camera coverage from all angles, solar benches (with powering facility), solar trees (a solar cell hub) and internet hotspot. The stretch has already been laid with shredded plastic waste not only to add strength to the surface, but also as an effective recycling process to dispose of plastic waste. The solar benches that are being set up will have solar panel on the sheds and sensors. Energy will be generated throughout the day and once someone sits on the bench, the sensor will send signals as the solar lights will automatically get switched on and will be switched off once s/he leaves. The authorities are also installing solar power trees, which are artificial tree-shaped installations that have branches made of steel and hold photovoltaic solar panels on its branches. Such installations will have power generation capacity of about one kWp. Also there will be hotspot zones with the authorities setting up white metal leaves installations. The pavements have been resurfaced to have a slope for the convenience of the elderly who find it difficult to step up. NKDA has also decided that anyone damaging the pavements would have to pay the restoration charges. “The pavements have been built and will be maintained by NKDA. It has been noticed at some places that they are damaged by people driving or parking their vehicles on the. Sometimes they are dug up. From now on, a restoration charge will be imposed,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/r-day-gift-for-new-town-a-400m-smart-service-road/articleshow/80103693.cms||Suman Chakraborti
January 5, 2021||Trichy||Farm labourer, 25, killed in wall collapse||Thanjavur: A 25-year-old farm labourer was killed near Papanasam in Thanjavur when the wall of his house collapsed on him. The area has been witnessing continuous rain for the last few days. Police identified the deceased as R Aathi, a resident of Sarukkai village near Kabisthalam at Papanasam in Thanjavur district. The wall of his house became weak due to the rain and at one point a portion of the wall started falling on one side. To avert the damage, Aathi tried to straighten the wall with the help of wooden logs. While he was engaging in the work, a portion of the brick wall collapsed on him. Seriously injured Aathi was rushed to the government medical college hospital in Thanjavur. However, doctors declared him brought dead, police said. Based on a complaint, Kabisthalam police registered a case and investigation is on. In another incident, eight goats were killed in a wall collapse near Papanasam on Monday. Palaniswami, a villager, was rearing goats near his house in Bharathidasan Street at Soolamangalam. Due to rain a side wall of his house collapsed on his eight goats killing all of them on the spot. Doctors from the veterinary department visited the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farm-labourer-25-killed-in-wall-collapse/articleshow/80105198.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Nagpur||One more leopard with missing head, paws found||Nagpur: After a leopard with missing paws and a nilgai were found poached in Tilli-Mohgaon under Goregaon range of Gondia forest division, one more leopard carcass with missing head and paws was found on Monday, hardly 50 metres away from the same spot in the same area. The twin villages fall in the buffer zone of Navegaon-Nagzira Tiger Reserve (NNTR) but even after five years, the area has still not been brought under the administrative control of wildlife wing, violating NTCA guidelines. The buffer zone was notified on September 7, 2016. As reported by TOI, on Sunday, an unidentified person informed foresters about a leopard carcass with missing paws dumped in a farm well owned by Deochand Sonwane. A blue bull with only skull and legs remaining was also found outside the well. On Monday, a leopard carcass with its head and two paws missing was found. No arrests have been made yet. Goregaon RFO Pravin Sathawane did not respond to TOI’s calls. Former honorary wildlife warden of Gondia Sawan Bahekar says Tilli-Mohgaon villages are known for poaching due to electrocution. On February 16, 2017, a sloth bear was electrocuted there and all its body parts were removed and carcass was burned to destroy evidence. “Eight days ago, I had a meeting with villagers who expressed resentment against the forest department for not paying early compensation for crop depredation by wild animals. There is no regular interaction between villages and foresters. Farmers keep electric fence active during the night to save their crops from wild boars,” said Bahekar. “As the villages fall in the NNTR corridor, there is always animal movement. However, no measures have been taken to stop electrocution. Local poachers are still active, who remove body parts and sell bushmeat to select customers,” said a section of local NGOs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/one-more-leopard-with-missing-head-paws-found/articleshow/80105207.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 5, 2021||Ludhiana||Jagraon bridge: MC told to recover excess payment||Ludhiana: Even as the Jagraon bridge completion took a long time, now construction of the retaining wall and approaches to this flyover has come under scanner. A third party financial audit has brought out the facts that the civic body made excess payment totalling Rs 44.70 lakh to the contractor. Now, officials have been told to recover the excess payment and submit the action taken report. The officials of the bridges and road department had also made a proposal to increase xonstruction cost of this flyover due to changes in designs. The matter came to light of MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, who further recommended to the government for a third party audit. The third party audit was conducted by Wapcos Ltd. In the report it was highlighted that the MC made excess payment of Rs 44.70 lakh to the contractor. On the basis of this report, the Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Company has asked the MC to recover the excess amount and submit a report. The commissioner has asked additional commissioner Rishipal Singh to conduct an inquiry and submit the report in 15 days. The government has sought certain clarifications from the civic body related to revision in design of the retaining wall and also for non-compliance of awarded conditions for use of RMC from plant of cement manufacturing companies. Earlier, an inquiry was conducted, according to which two superintending engineers, an SDO and JE were issued show-cause notices, but no action was taken against these officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jagraon-bridge-mc-told-to-recover-excess-payment/articleshow/80102626.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Kochi||Kerala HC cancels Thwaha Fasal’s bail, orders him to surrender||KOCHI: The Kerala high court on Monday held that the order of NIA special court at Ernakulam granting bail to law student Allan Shuaib and journalism student Thwaha Fasal, facing UAPA charges, is unsustainable. However, a division bench comprising justices A Hariprasad and K Haripal allowed Allan, who was 19 years old when the case was registered in November 2019, to continue on bail considering several mitigating circumstances in his favour, such as age, ongoing treatment for psychiatric issues, and that the materials seized from him are less serious. Bail granted by the special court to Thwaha, who was 23 years old then, was reversed by the court and he was ordered to surrender. The court noted that 15 copies of the literature was found in Thwaha’s possession and that it is alleged that he shouted slogans in support of the Maoist organization when taken to his residence. The court accepted NIA’s contention that the special judge ventured into a threadbare analysis of materials as if in a trial and he overstepped while deciding the bail pleas of the accused. While the special judge held, on September 9 last year, that bail is the rule and jail is the exception, the HC said such a principle cannot be applied in a case like this, especially when offences under chapters IV and VI of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act are alleged. Chapter IV deals with punishment for terrorist activities and chapter VI is about offences relating to membership, support, and raising funds for terrorist organizations. The special judge held that Maoist literature allegedly seized from the accused do not make out a prima facie case to proceed against them. It was contended by counsels representing the accused that the materials only show youthful affinity to novel ideologies. The HC pointed out that the accused had carried only literature or writing published by the proscribed Maoist organization. If they were interested in understanding novel ideologies, a bunch of materials published by a particular outfit alone would not be found in their possession, the court said. Further, the court said the special judge failed to differentiate between ‘terrorist acts’ and ‘activities of a terrorist organisation’. It seems the judge was under the mistaken notion that in order to attract the alleged offences, violent acts were necessary, the bench said. The judge also failed to consider witness statements on the accused’s rapport with persons having close links with the banned organization and that they were regularly attending meetings of such organizations. The materials and oral testimony of witnesses suggest that the accused were protagonists of such an ideology, the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-cancels-twahas-bail-orders-him-to-surrender/articleshow/80102676.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Mumbai||Soured affair? 2 found dead on road in Mumbai with bullet wounds||MUMBAI: A 27-year-old man and his 22-year-old female friend were found dead, with gunshot wounds on heads, at Malad (W) late Monday. Police suspect the man shot the woman before turning the gun on himself. Prima facie, the motive appeared to be a soured relationship. Around 9.30pm, residents heard gunshots and dialled the police control room. Police suspect the man, Rahul Yadav, had a criminal history and that he probably took along the countrymade revolver, used in the crime. The couple had met at a stretch behind Infinity mall, which is off New Link Road, after a long time and ordered food from a stall. They sat at a corner of the street, where couples usually hang out. Police sources said they had an argument. “The woman had got engaged to someone else few days back, which probably infuriated the man,” a police officer said. Cops probing if it was pre-planned murder at MaladPolice, who found a couple dead with gunshot wounds on their heads, are probing if it was pre-planned murder as the weapon was brought along. Crime branch units rushed to the crime scene at Malad to check for any gangland connection. Joint commissioner (law & order) Vishwas Nangre Patil and other senior officers have also gone to the spot. The couple was declared dead at a public hospital. Bangur Nagar police have recorded two accidental death cases. Police said the unemployed Rahul Yadav lived at Laljipada in Kandivli (W), while the woman lived in Kurar village with her family and cames from a middle class background. The woman worked in a private company and drew around Rs 13,000 a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/soured-affair-2-found-dead-on-road-with-bullet-wounds/articleshow/80105816.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Nagpur||Standing panel nod to strengthening of Ambazari lake embankment||Nagpur: The NMC standing committee on Monday gave its nod to the administration to execute work worth Rs21.06 crore to strengthen the Ambazari lake embankment, including the spillway. The standing committee meeting chaired by Vijay Zalke also decided to seek the required funds from the state government. The decision was taken almost three years after the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court had set a deadline for the civic body to execute the strengthening work of the lake and its embankment. The panel also gave its nod to increase charges of documents provided by NMC’s town planning department and zone offices related to the building plan and city’s development plan. Citing an example, Zalke said the existing charges for providing a part plan was Rs160 and now it will be increased to Rs6,800. Similarly, charges of 13 more such services were increased to a great extent and the proposal has been sent to the general body meeting for approval. The meeting also gave its nod to extend the tenure of 99 retired servicemen working in NMC’s nuisance detection squad for 11 months. The panel also approved the social welfare department’s proposal to give financial assistance of Rs195 crore to 118 persons with disabilities and one organization related to them for generating self-employment. Meanwhile, the civic administration submitted its revenue from property tax and water department before the committee. Till January 1, the property tax department earned was Rs157.55 crore from property owners, while the water department generated Rs102 crore from consumers. Besides this, the committee was informed that 9,849 property owners availed the amnesty scheme and the civic body had generated Rs10.78 crore unpaid tax from them, while 10,448 consumers availed one time settlement scheme by paying Rs2.68 crore water bills. Meanwhile, the implementation of the seventh pay commission for NMC employees hit a roadblock on Monday after civic body’s chief accounts and finance officer Vijay Kolhe sought a letter of guarantee from deputy municipal commissioner Milind Meshram that it will achieve 90% of property tax collection against the target set for the financial year. The one-page letter sent to Meshram has mentioned that as promised the civic body should achieve all terms and conditions laid down by the state government while implementing the seventh pay commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/standing-panel-nod-to-strengthening-of-ambazari-lake-embankment/articleshow/80105227.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 5, 2021||Varanasi||People won’t elect SP govt in next 25 years: Keshav Prasad Maurya||GORAKHPUR: Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said on Monday that people of Uttar Pradesh won’t elect Samajwadi Party government in next 25 years and added SP head Akhilesh Yadav has insulted scientists and doctors of India. “Akhilesh Yadav should apologize to the scientists and doctors of the country by saying he has no belief in corona vaccine. Raising questions on vaccine is an insult of doctors and scientists of our country. The people of the country will give an answer for this. The people won’t give a chance to Samajwadi Party to form a government in next 25 years,” he said. Maurya inaugurated and laid foundation of 50 projects worth of Rs 12618 lakh on the birth anniversary of freedom fighter Bhagwat Khanjri Wale Baba at Bangra Bazaar at Bhatparrani in Deoria district. “In less than four years of its term, the BJP government has done more work in the state than what was done in the 15 years’ rule of SP, BSP regimes,” he added. “SP, BSP and Congress should wear spectacles as they are not able to see development in the state. Farmers are getting direct benefit from Kisan Nidhi scheme and extensive work on power, roads and water has been done in the state and is still going on,” said Maurya. Our government is constructing gates and roads till the houses of martyrs of armed forces and police force and is also naming roads after martyrs and players, he added. When local MP Ravinder Kushwaha demanded construction of four-lane road from Salempur to Ballia via Bhagalpur, Deputy CM gave his approval and asked officials to send the detailed project report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/people-wont-elect-sp-govt-in-next-25-yrs-maurya/articleshow/80101857.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 5, 2021||Ludhiana||Residents resent ban on vehicle entry at rly stn from old city side||Ludhiana: With a few trains running again between Ludhiana and other destinations, some activity is being witnessed at the railway station again. Majority of rush is during the morning hours, when right from 5.30am the trains for Delhi start. On Monday, some of the major trains which halted here included 22440 Vande Bharat Express, 02904 Amritsar-Mumbai Central , 04650 Amritsar-Jay Nagar, 02026 Amritsar-Nagpur and 02926 Amritsar-Bandra Terminus. Meanwhile, with the entire operations still not back to normal after the lockdown, followed by the ongoing farmers’ agitation, the regular passengers and businessmen are facing several problems at the railway station. The biggest problem being faced by the people is the ban on entry of vehicles into the railway station from the old city side, where access to platform 1 is available. Sharing more information about this problem, city resident and social activist Kimti Rawal, said, “In big problem for the passengers, both entry and exit to the railway station for vehicles has been blocked and as a result the passengers have to alight on the main road and have to carry their luggage all the way to the platform. Earlier, private and public transport was allowed to enter the station and passengers used to get off either near the current reservation window or the main entry to the platform number 1.” Rawal added that, “This is nothing less than a nightmare for passengers who have excess luggage as they struggle to make it to the platforms because no one else except for the passenger is allowed to enter the railway station. Moreover, coolies too are mostly available only near the platform. The entry blockage has also led to a big issue of parking of the vehicles of the persons coming to pick up their friends, family or associates as the main road is very congested and swarmed with all types of vehicles and pedestrians. The railways must do something to resolve this issue at the earliest.” Meanwhile, giving insight on why the decision to block the entry and exit of the railway station has been taken, Tarun Kumar, station director, Ludhiana, said, “This decision has been taken to facilitate screening and ticket checking as per the existing guidelines. Because currently, even for entry to the platforms a single entry is open in order to adhere to the guidelines. Also, no other person except those having confirmed tickets are allowed to enter the railway station.” In another problem being faced by the passengers is the non-operation of majority of vends on the station. According to city businessman, Sukhjit Singh, “Only a handful of vends on platform number 1 and 2 are operational right now, due to which there is very limited availability of tea, mineral water, eatables, etc. Moreover, unlike earlier times when even there were vendors selling general items like locks, toiletries, etc., they too are missing from the station now.” Explaining the reason for the situation, Ramesh Chand, a vendor said, “Earlier, there was lockdown and hardly any people were travelling on trains, but since October when the farmers’ agitation started in Punjab all trains remained cancelled and even now only handful of these are running and very less percentage of passengers are travelling. So, in such a situation it is impossible for every vendor to earn enough to sustain his living expenditures, because of which some of them have still not resumed their operations. They will return only when the situation returns to normal.” With majority of superfast trains, including Shatabadi, Rajdhani, Sampark Kranti, etc. still remaining cancelled, residents, especially businessmen, are demanding that these be resumed at the earliest. According to Gurwinder Chabra, a businessman, “The only superfast train running at this moment via Ludhiana is Vande Bharat Express, but its time does not suits everyone. Earlier, after almost every 2-3 hours there was a superfast train like Shatabadi, Shan-e-Punjab, Rajdhani, Duronto, etc. The railways, central and state governments must chalk out a plan to resume these trains at the earliest as in the wake of non-reliability of air service from Ludhaina and no hope of road route to Delhi being cleared any time soon, these trains will prove to be a blessing not only for Ludhiana, but other neighbouring cities too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/residents-resent-ban-on-vehicle-entry-at-rly-stn-from-old-city-side/articleshow/80102642.cms||Mohit Behl
January 5, 2021||Dehradun||After Muradnagar accident, Rudrapur admin issues advisory to city crematoriums||A crematorium in RudrapurRudrapur: A day after a roof collapse at a cremation ground in Ghaziabad’s Muradnagar claimed the lives of 25 people, the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) of Rudrapur on Monday issued an advisory to all the crematoriums under the division, asking them to review the condition of the roofs and the walls. Talking to TOI, SDM Vishal Mishra said, “We require periodical inspections to check that such facilities are not in dilapidated conditions. The Muradnagar incident is unfortunate and we need to learn from it. We are issuing an advisory to all the religious organisations which look after these cremation grounds and are directing them to make sure that every structure is in good shape. If monetary assistance is needed in any case, the administration will render support.” Meanwhile, city-based civil engineer, Dharmendra Singh, said, “The accident claiming 25 lives is a grim reminder of our perpetual state of unpreparedness when it comes to mitigating disasters. The roofs at cremation grounds tend to crack as the high temperatures of the pyres result in expansion of the steel used in their construction. Further, this steel contracts at night time, during rainfall, and winters. This expansion and contraction result in cracks, making the structure vulnerable.” Sanjay Juneja, president of local traders’ union, said, “When in public spaces, it’s our responsibility to check if the buildings are safe.” He added that there are more than 20 cremation grounds under the Rudrapur division and the biggest one is located at Kichha Road — the Rambagh crematorium. “The roof of one of its shelters had partially broken a couple of years ago. Though the managing committee renovated it, periodic inspections by specialists should be conducted to avoid any untoward incident,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-muradnagar-accident-rudrapur-admin-issues-advisory-to-city-crematoriums/articleshow/80102635.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 5, 2021||Kolkata||After poor festive show, West Bengal hall owners want to go the Tamil Nadu way with 100% seating capacity||KOLKATA: After the Tamil Nadu government granted permission to cinemas, theatres and multiplexes to increase the seating capacity from the existing 50% to 100% on Monday, stakeholders in Tollywood are expecting a similar move in Bengal where the number of Covid-19 cases, too, has taken a dip. This, they say, is one of the ways the dying exhibition industry here can be revived. Ratan Saha, chairman of the exhibitor’s section of the Eastern India Motion Pictures Association (EIMPA), said, “We will be writing a letter to chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday. We will attach the order issued by the Tamil Nadu government along with our letter.” Usually, the festive period starts from Christmas and lasts till the first week of January. Tentatively, this is a two-week period that generates bulk business. In some years, certain movies have done better business during this phase than the Pujas. Covid-19, however, has changed the narrative completely. This time, box-office collections in cinemas across the city have been abysmally low. Carnival Cinemas, which has been operational since 2011, said this has been the worst Christmas at the box-office. According to Sujit Kumar Bhukta, general manager (east) of Carnival Cinemas, “We have four screens in Kolkata. Approximately, the collections were 10% of what we did last year during Christmas. The figures at our three screens in Barasat for Christmas are slightly better at approximately 12%.” In 2017’s festive period, Navina’s net collection was Rs 30 lakh. In 2018, this figure was Rs 24 lakh. Last year, the figure was Rs 26 lakh. This year, the net collection for the Christmas week has been Rs 1.5 lakh only. “The two weeks’ collection during 2020’s festive period will be Rs 2.5 lakh. So, we are effectively making less than 10% of what we did in 2017,” said Navina’s owner Navin Choukhani. Manik Banik, the owner of Jaya in Lake Town, has never seen such collections since the hall was inaugurated in 1968. “This Christmas, the collection was just 10% of what we did in earlier years,” Banik said. Arijit Dutta, owner of Priya, said “10% of one day’s figure last year” was what Priya did for “the entire Christmas week of 2020”. “The situation is tense. Some 500 cinemas across India have downed shutters,” Dutta said. Joydeep Mukherjee, who has the lease for Star Theatres, said December 25 and January 1 have always had four full house shows. “This year, in contrast, we had just one full house show each on these two days. There, too, the SOP allowed sale of only 50% tickets,” he said. Owners of Navina and Jaya see a ray of hope in the second week of ‘Chini’. Dutta said ‘Pratidwandi’ collections of New Year were better than what Christmas releases had done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-poor-festive-show-bengal-hall-owners-want-to-go-the-tn-way-with-100-seating-capacity/articleshow/80103711.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
January 5, 2021||Nagpur||Another illicit tree felling incident in South Umred||Nagpur: Even as dust is yet to settle over large-scale tree felling in South Umred for railway line upgradation, one more incident of illicit felling has come to fore. Foresters have seized a tractor-laden with teak timber poles and other wooden logs. The trees were felled in a reserve forest under Indapur beat by locals from Mandwa. In reserve forest, all activities are prohibited unless permitted. The incident occurred on Wednesday but even after six days, the culprits have not been produced in the court. Sources said the plan was to free the tractor by registering offence for transporting illegal timber. However, after TOI called assistant conservator forest (ACF) Narendra Chandewar, the panchnama was changed and after spot verification, an offence was registered under various sections for illicit felling and transportation. The ACF confirmed 19 logs were felled by one Ravi Manoji Rathod from Mandwa village. South Umred RFO Vaishnavi Jhare said, “During spot verification, we saw 10 stumps of teak trees. Three persons have been booked and will be produced in the court on Tuesday. The tractor used to transport the material has also been seized. The accused, all locals, had felled the trees to construct a shed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/another-illicit-tree-felling-incident-in-south-umred/articleshow/80105271.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: BJP ends dharna before time, to hold another today||LUDHIANA: Continuing with its series of protests against Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu, the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) on Monday, staged another dharna demanding an FIR against him. This time, the protest was held near its office located in the busy Ghanta Ghar. But in an unprecedented chain of events the BJP wrapped up its dharna before time. It was scheduled to be held from 11am till 3pm, but was ended at 1pm because the police had sealed the entry and exit points of the entire area, which is among the busiest in the city. Due to the area being cordoning off, the movement of traffic and people in the area came to a complete halt after which BJP leaders got furious and claimed that the police was harassing businessmen and commuters on the pretext of closing the roads. Besides, it claimed that the cops were forcibly closing shops near Ghanta Ghar to tarnish BJP’s image. Therefore, they said that they were wrapping up their protest. BJP leaders have now decided that on Tuesday, they will stage their protest outside the police commissioner office. Meanwhile, giving more information, Pushpinder Singhal, district president of BJP Ludhiana unit, said, “People of Ludhiana sent Bittu to the Parliament in the hope of development of the city, but instead of working in that direction, he started showing his real colours of being an anti-national. It is very unfortunate that just to grab media attention Bittu made such insensitive remarks that if the demands of farmers were not accepted, then the bodies would pile up and even the Sikh soldiers fighting China and other enemies of India would revolt. This kind of ideology clearly shows the anti-national mindset of Bittu, who by riding the sympathy wave for his grandfather has managed to grab the seat of an MP. What is even more sad that even after his comments doing rounds on social media, chief minister Amarinder Singh was silent on the issue and no action had been taken against Bittu. Therefore, we have been forced to take action by staging protests against Bittu and the Congress until an FIR against him was registered in Punjab.” Singhal added that, “On Monday, we had to end our protest at 1pm instead at the scheduled time of 3pm as Ludhiana police while completely playing in the hands of the Congress had sealed the entire area. Even some shops in the area were forcibly shut down by the police to project that our agitation was causing problems to the general public. As this is the most busy area of Ludhiana city and there are thousands of shops here, but due to police action the businessmen and the people coming to the area saw themselves at the receiving end. As we are a responsible party and we cannot afford even a single rupee loss to our business community, we decided to end this dharna before time. But now in order to wake up the police and make them realise that they should act in an impartial way and also do their duty of registering an FIR against Bittu, we have decided that Tueday’s dharna will be organised outside the police commissioner’s office between 11am and 3pm.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bjp-ends-dharna-before-time-to-hold-another-today/articleshow/80102668.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Nagpur||3-week state budget session in Nagpur if situation normal: Dy speaker||Nagpur: As the winter session of the state legislature could not be held in the city due to Covid-19 pandemic, there was speculation that budget session would be held here in March. Maharashtra assembly deputy speaker Narhari Zirwad on Monday said the session would most likely be held here only if normalcy is restored. Zirwad was in the city to attend the inaugural function of Maharashtra legislature’s secretariat office at Vidhan Bhavan on Monday. “The budget session would be of three weeks to compensate for the loss of two previous sessions, which were held only for two days due to the pandemic situation. Even last year’s budget session was curtailed for the same reason,” he told TOI. The Nagpur Pact of September 28, 1953, mandated a winter session to be held in Nagpur for resolving issues pertaining to the region. According to Zirwad, three-time MLA from Dindori constituency in Nashik district, the upcoming session should be held for a longer period as it would also have supplementary demands, which would need time for elaborate discussions. “Since last three sessions, the newly elected legislators hardly got a chance to speak or learn. They couldn’t witness new discussions,” he added. While addressing the function, the NCP MLA stressed on training sessions for legislators’ personal assistants at Vidhan Bhavan so that they should be aware of rules and regulations of the legislature. He also suggested council chairman Ramraje Nimbalkar, speaker Nana Patole, deputy chairman Neelam Gorhe along with himself should visit the new office here at least once in a month. Zirwad later told TOI that he had planned to visit the city at least once in a week after taking over the deputy speaker’s charge. “However, there’s a lot of work and it’s not possible to take time out in a week. However, I will make it a point to visit Vidhan Bhavan here once in a month, like I have suggested.” On Patole’s announcement of opening secretariat office in Pune shortly, Zirwad said they had proposed it in Camp area of Pune where the legislature office is already present. “It will be on the same lines of Nagpur and people from that area would be befitted. There’s an immediate need for decentralization of powers for improving efficiency. It’s also very feasible in terms of expenditure,” he said. Endorsing deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar’s demand to employ only interested staffers in the new office here, the deputy speaker said the administration can depute people from this area so that they can’t get bored. “Those coming from far off places may not work with the same intensity due to homesickness,” said Zirwad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-week-state-budget-session-in-nagpur-if-situation-normal-dy-speaker/articleshow/80103720.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 5, 2021||Trichy||Huge rush at PDS shops for Pongal gift||Trichy/Madurai: There was a huge rush for Pongal hampers distributed through ration shops across the state as cardholders without tokens and those with tokens for another date also queued up on Monday. In the central districts, about 32.6 lakh family cardholders received the hampers through 5,817 ration shops. The process will continue till January 13. Most of the southern districts completed distributing hampers to just over 15% of their cardholders on the first day. “I shifted from the address which is mentioned in my card, so there was no way I would get the token. I took an auto and came early to receive the gift,” said Shankaran of Pudur in Madurai. Many like him were told by the workers that they should come and collect their gifts on January 13, but they continued to demand that it be given to them. Family cardholders have to receive the hamper on the date specified on the token. Pongal gift packages will be given to 100 people in the morning and 100 in the afternoon in ration shops till January 13. In many shops, the entire day’s quota was over in the morning session itself. Cardholders are given Rs 2,500 along with 1kg each of raw rice and sugar, one whole sugarcane, 20g each of raisins and cashews, and 5g of cardamom. In Trichy 8.4 lakh cardholders will receive the hamper through 1,225 shops. Tourism minister Vellamandi N Natarajan inaugurated the process at an event held in Trichy. In Madurai, 8.9 lakh cardholders will receive the hamper. Meanwhile, 50 DMK cadres headed by party’s union council chairman Jayaprakash staged a road roko demanding to remove a flux board erected by AIADMK functionaries in front of a ration shop at Darghas village near Kollidam in Mayiladuthurai district. On information, Pudupattinam police rushed to the spot and removed the banner and booked the DMK cadres for staging the protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/huge-rush-at-pds-shops-for-pongal-gift/articleshow/80105258.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana businessmen’s thumbs down to new e-bill validity||LUDHIANA: Four days after the amendment to the e-way bill system came into effect from January 1, city businessmen have given it a thumbs down. Transporters too are of the view that the new change under which now one day has been given to cover a distance of 200km instead of the earlier provision when for every 100km, one day was allowed. According to businessmen, the government should revoke this decision at the earliest before it’s too late. Giving more information, Dinesh Kalra, president of Ludhiana Business Forums, said, “From January 1, 2021, the validity of the e-way bill has been changed. Earlier, the e-way bill used to valid for one day for every 100km travel, but now it will be valid for 200km travel in one day. It clearly means that the distance to be covered under the new provisions has been doubled. But this is not viable at all for the industry as it means that the means through which the goods have to be transported now is required to cover double the distance per day as compared to earlier times. Already, confusion has started prevailing as some of the transporters have put long distance consignments for a few destinations on hold as they are still trying to calculate whether it is possible to transport these under the time allowed as per the new guidelines. I think it will be better if the decision to change the validity could be deferred.” According to Charan Singh Lohara, chairman of All India Motor Transport Congress, “The Centre is bringing one rule after the other, which is hitting the transport industry adversely. Operating transport business has become a Herculean task, particularly in the wake of fuel hike and insurance charges and huge losses due to coronavirus and now the sudden change in the e-way bill rule. Just when the transporters and businessmen started adapting a bit with the complex e-way bill system, the government has doubled the kilometre limit, but did not increase the duration. Confusion has started prevailing in the market already, especially for the consignments for far-off states as transporters will have to carefully calculate the number of days of validity of e-way bill when the validity of e-way bill has been halved. We demand immediate revocation of the new amendment as it will lead to huge problems for us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmens-thumbs-down-to-new-e-bill-validity/articleshow/80102679.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Surat||Surat: Eunuchs reach out to lockdown-hit needy||SURAT: Their community is known to make their ends meet by seeking alms from people. But a group of eunuchs from the city set a shining example by helping out the needy during the lockdown announced by the government in March last year. These eunuchs donated food items, masks and sanitizers worth Rs 11 lakh to people whose movements were restricted due to the lockdown. The group that started Sakhi Saheli Trust and Navoday Trust to offer aid, first identified the areas where residents needed help. “Members of our community regularly visit different areas in the city throughout the year. So we had some idea about the areas where people may need our help. We identified such places and started channelizing our resources,” said Payal Kunwar, member of Sakhi Saheli Trust. They distributed food kits that were enough for a family of four to survive for two months. “We started distributing food kits from March and continued the drive for the next couple of months. We are still offering help to the needy if they contact us,” added Payal who is employing the skills she learnt during a short term course on social work. These groups distributed sanitizer and masks in different areas and also educated people on ways to prevent Coronavirus infection. “We distributed kits of masks and sanitizers to the needy,” said Noorie alias Namrata Kunwar of Navoday Trust.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/eunuchs-reach-out-to-lockdown-hit-needy/articleshow/80103698.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
January 5, 2021||Bareilly||4 booked for abetting Dalit youth to commit suicide||Pilibhit: Four people were booked for allegedly abetting a 28-year-old Dalit youth in committing suicide at Vijay Nagar village under Pilibhit’s Hajara police station on Sunday afternoon. Before hanging himself, the youth recorded a video where he purportedly said he had been duped of a large sum of money by the four on the pretext of securing him a job in the railways. He said he was taking the extreme step as he neither got the job nor the refund of his money which his father had borrowed at a high rate of interest. Umesh Kumar Solanki, SHO, said four people who allegedly duped the youth are Afsar Hussain and Shairif of Vijay Nagar village and Jitendra and Avdhesh of Madhpur village in Gorakhpur district. They were booked under IPC section 306 (abetment to suicide) and provisions of the SC/ST Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/4-booked-for-abetting-dalit-youth-to-commit-suicide/articleshow/80100579.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 5, 2021||Goa||Even after 2 more rounds, half of Goa’s engineering seats vacant||PANAJI: Nearly 550 seats in Goa’s four private engineering colleges will remain vacant this academic year, as two more admission rounds conducted by the directorate of technical education (DTE) saw no response. The vacant seats are around half the total number of engineering seats in Goa. Only one institute — the state-run Goa Engineering College, Farmagudi, in which fees are subsidised — has managed to fill all its 450 seats. “In the two rounds, even the usual criterion — that students need mandatorily to have answered the Goa Common Entrance Test (GCET) — was relaxed,” said a DTE official. “Students were allowed to apply if they fulfilled the criteria of the All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE), which is 45% marks combined in Class XII board exams in physics, chemistry and maths. Yet, we did not see any takers for the seats. Therefore, we have no intention of having any further rounds.” AICTE norms also required all admission rounds for engineering seats to be completed by December 31. Earlier, it was felt that students may not have appeared for GCET for the fear of the pandemic, which has led to poor response for engineering seats this year. But since the GCET criteria was dropped and students still did not come forward, it is likely that fees was a major consideration in a year that parents’ incomes were affected. This is especially evident in the fact that all government college seats have been filled. Last year, after seats were added to provide quota for Economically Weaker Sections (EWS), 350 seats remained unfilled. That number increased further this year. While around 3,000 students appeared for GCET, which is the qualifying test to get an engineering seat in the state, only around 2,000 applied for a seat. Normally, the number of applicants itself is around 2,500, said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/even-after-2-more-rounds-half-of-goas-engg-seats-vacant/articleshow/80105282.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
January 5, 2021||Agra||Wanted criminal involved in bank loot held by Agra police||AGRA: A wanted criminal carrying a reward of Rs 50,000 was arrested on Sunday night after being injured in an encounter with the city police in connection with the loot at the Indian Overseas Bank, last month. However, one of his accomplices managed to flee. According to police officials, two bike-borne youths were intercepted by a police party during a vehicle checking after a tip off. The duo opened fire in a bid to escape. In retaliatory firing, the criminal, identified as Bunty, was injured while his accomplice managed to flee. He was rushed to the hospital for treatment. SSP Babloo Kumar said that five persons had been earlier arrested in connection with the bank loot of Rs 56.94 lakh. Bunty was the sixth person who was involved in the loot. He said police have recovered illegal country-made pistols, a motorcycle and Rs 6 lakh cash from him. A manhunt has been launched for his accomplice. Notably, five persons, including the bank employee, who had planned the robbery, were arrested by the police. Agra police had earlier announced Rs 1 lakh reward for providing information about the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/wanted-criminal-involved-in-bank-loot-held-by-agra-police/articleshow/80101926.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Girder-launch boost to Majerhat Metro station work||KOLKATA: The construction work of Majerhat Metro station, which was stalled since September 2018 due to the reconstruction of Majerhat Bridge, gained momentum on Saturday, with the launch of a crucial girder in front of Alipore Mint without disturbing its domed heritage sandstone gateway. The launch of the girder symbolises the momentum of Metro construction work that resumed after two years in December last year. But saving the heritage gate of Alipore Mint is an engineering feat. Earlier, the gate was supposed to be partially razed to accommodate the Metro piers, said a senior official of RVNL, the executing agency for Joka-Esplanade Metro. TimesViewThis route will solve commuting problems of residents of the Behala-Joka belt to a large extent. All agencies involved in this project must employ whatever means they have at their disposal to remove the roadblocks and ensure this line starts functioning as soon as possible.The momentum is necessary to meet the new deadline of running the service on the 6.5-km stretch — the first phase of the Metro corridor from Joka to Taratala — in December this year. In the second phase, the 2.6-km stretch between Taratala and Mominpore is slated to be functional by December, 2022. The entire first and second phase stretches are on elevated tracks while the stretch from Mominpore to Esplanade that will come up in the third phase will be underground. “If we had razed the structure, we would have to rebuild it. Besides, razing such old structures with intricate sandone domes always runs the risk of complete collapse even after taking all necessary precautions. That is why, we changed the position of piers and the girders were launched on Saturday,” said a RVNL engineer. Earlier, RVNL shifted Mint Post Office from the northern end to southern end and the boundary wall by a few meters for the construction of piers and Metro viaduct. “There was a row of palm trees along the boundary fence of the mint. We need to replant trees in another row. Only after 100% survival of the trees, we fell the old palm trees and shifted the fence,” said the official. The ornate wrought iron grill fence was replaced by a brick and mortar wall, depriving the passers-by of a view of the majestic mint. The mint posed one of the biggest challenges to the Metro viaduct. The ministry of finance had not only objected to the viaduct’s construction in front of the mint but also directed that no station should be constructed within a kilometre on either side of the building. This became a stumbling block for the project as the site of Majerhat station is within 250m of the mint. The 6.5-km stretch from Joka to Taratala is progressing steadily with the RVNL giving finishing touches to the six stations — Joka, Thakurpukur, Sakherbazar, Behala Chowrasta, Behala Bazar and Taratala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/girder-launch-boost-to-majerhat-metro-stn-work/articleshow/80103746.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
January 5, 2021||Ludhiana||‘Police to go hi-tech in 2021 with apps on missing persons & stolen vehicles’||The year 2020 has been a roller-coaster one for the Ludhiana police. On one side the city witnessed big sensational robberies, armed firing cases, controversies of police personnel amid the Covid-19 pandemic, while on the other hand, the city police also worked beyond their duty limitations by distributing ration and cooked food among the needy ones. Besides, the city police also started some new projects, which included creche facility for girls to curb minor girls’ rape cases, clamp down on illegal lottery, disposal of pending complaints, handing over of seized vehicles, etc. In the New Year, city residents may expect Ludhiana police to be more hi-tech. The city police are planning to come up with some mobile applications to trace the missing children and stolen vehicles and manage auto-rickshaws also. This was stated by commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal in a conversation with the TOI correspondent Payal Dhawan. Q: How do you see the previous year, which witnessed crimes like gold robberies, lootings, etc? A: There were some major robberies in the previous year, including cash and gold ones. However, the police have managed to solve all cases and arrested gangsters and notorious criminals. The main reason for these robberies was the lack of security, therefore, to ensure proper security the police have come up with certain guidelines for the jewellers and gold loan companies. Those not complying with the guidelines are also being booked. Besides, the Ludhiana police started several schemes in 2020, including hassle-free registration of FIRs via email, organised camps to dispose of complaints, to return case properties and a mega camp was also organised for women related complaints. Besides, a drive against begging was also organised under which steps were introduced to check child begging. Since March, the more focus of the administration and Ludhiana police was to handle the situation caused by the pandemic outbreak. The police had to enforce curfew, lockdown and also remained on its toes while distributing ration and cooked food. It was a challenging year and we the police had to do several other things besides regular policing. Q:What will be the focus of Ludhiana police in 2021? A: The main focus of the city police will be making the working of the police department hi-tech. The Ludhiana police are working on a few mobile applications, including those on missing people, especially children, on stolen vehicle tracing and for auto-rickshaws also. In the application of missing persons, the access will also be given to the complainants to update the status of their complaints as the police have found that in several cases the missing children had returned home, however, the families did not inform the police. The details of the missing person, along with their pictures, will be uploaded on the application. Further, the application of tracing the stolen vehicles is almost ready and we will be launching it within the next 10 days. When a vehicle is stolen, its registration number plate is removed by the accused. The police will upload the engine number and chassis number also on the application. The details of every recovered vehicle will be updated on the application and the complainant can also access the details. The complaint status of the stolen vehicle will also be updated there. Further, the application being made for the auto-rickshaws will help is curbing the nuisance of auto gangs. Under this, UID numbers will be issued to autorickshaws and thus police will also have the details of auto drivers. People will only have to remember the UID number of the auto in case they are harassed or looted by the auto gang. Further, the action against the illegal travel agents will continue. In all big cities community policing has been a support system for the police administration. Why in Ludhiana, it has not been effective? Community policing will also be made effective this year. Last year also, we had plans for this but due to Covid-19, the police administration had to change the priorities. Although, through use of social media the Ludhiana police has made efforts to involve people in the police functioning. In the last year, the city police had sought suggestions from the city residents while coming up with new projects. The social media platforms like Facebook and Twitter have made it easier for the police and public to interact and share the ideas and even complaints. Soon, with the help of the community policing, we will get the issue of servant verification resolved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/police-to-go-hi-tech-in-2021-with-apps-on-missing-persons-stolen-vehicles/articleshow/80102686.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Nagpur||ACB nabs Ghatanji PSI accepting Rs1L bribe||Yavatmal: The sleuths of anti corruption bureau (ACB) in Yavatmal caught a police sub-inspector (PSI) attached to Ghatanji police station while allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs1 lakh from a firecracker dealer of Ghatanji. According to the ACB police inspector Harsharaj Alaspure, he received a complaint from the dealer who claimed PSI Rajabhau Trambakrao Ghogare was demanding a bribe of Rs6 lakh to stop his establishment from being raided by the SP’s special squad. “He further alleged that after bargaining, the PSI settled for Rs1 lakh which he said would be given to the special squad,” said Alaspure. “On Monday, a trap was laid at the police station where the complainant handed over Ghogare marked currency notes. The PSI was nabbed red-handed and later arrested,” said Alaspure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/acb-nabs-ghatanji-psi-accepting-rs1l-bribe/articleshow/80105309.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Kochi||Alappuzha: Anil Panachooran cremated, unnatural death case filed||ALAPPUZHA: Kayamkulam police registered an unnatural death case in connection with the death of poet and lyricist Anil Panachooran, based on a relative’s statement. “The relative of Panachooran told us that they wanted to know the exact cause of his death. So, a case has been registered under section 174 (suspicious death) of CrPC. The body was handed over to his relatives after completing legal and medical formalities. His autopsy was conducted at Thiruvananthapuram medical college hospital and as per the preliminary findings, he died of heart attack. However, we are awaiting the detailed autopsy report,” said Kayamkulam police inspector Muhammed Shafi. His cremation was held on his house premises at Kayamkulam on Monday. Panachooran, 55, a native of Kayamkulam in the district, died in Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday at a private hospital and he tested positive for Covid-19. According to relatives, he collapsed on Sunday and was taken to hospitals in Mavelikkara and Karunagapally before being taken to the hospital in Thiruvananthapuram. He was a lawyer by profession and rose to fame in Mollywood through his songs ‘Chora veena mannil’ and ‘Thirike njan’ in film Arabikatha. Before entering films, Panachooran penned poems like ‘Anaadhan’ in the 1990s. His song ‘Vyathyasthanamoru barbaram balane’ in the film Kadha Parayumbol, is one of his hit songs among Keralites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/panachooran-cremated-unnatural-death-case-filed/articleshow/80102684.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Mumbai||Facebook Ireland alert helps save Dhule lad in nick of time||MUMBAI: An alert from Facebook’s Ireland office helped police save a 23-year-old Dhule college dropout within an hour of his slitting his throat live on social media. Cyber police DCP Rashmi Karandikar got the alert about the suicide bid by Dnyaneshwar Patil around 8.10pm on Sunday. And within 15 minutes, technical officer assistant inspector Ravikiran Nale tracked Patil’s location and informed Nashik SP Chinmay Pandit. “By 9pm, a Deopur police team reached the youth’s house and rushed him to hospital. He was given timely medical assistance for the cut which was not deep,” Pandit said. Patil was in an inebriated state and alone at home. In the past too, he had tried to end his life, said his mother, a home guard. “The SP has counselled Patil and advised him to get a job,” said a police officer. Suicide prevention helplines and counselling help in preventing suicides, say experts. For help, one can call BMC’s helplines on 24131212 or 91-2224131212.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fb-ireland-alert-helps-save-dhule-lad-in-nick-of-time/articleshow/80105821.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
January 5, 2021||Agra||Over 5,000 highly malnourished children identified in Agra district||AGRA: A joint survey conducted by the health and child development department has identified over 5,000 highly malnourished children in Agra district. Out of these, around 943 were found in city areas. These children are between the age group of six months and six years. The survey has raised questions over implementation of the integrated child development scheme in the district. According to the health department officials, the identified children are being provided nutritional diet while the children suffering from diseases have been admitted in hospitals. In 2019, Agra district had around 4,200 highly malnourished children. Last year, the survey conducted by the department found total 5,442 children in city and 15 blocks of Agra district suffering from severe malnutrition. Marked under ‘red category’, these children were found underweight and their various body parts underdeveloped. Besides 943 in the city, 423 malnourished children were found in Fatehpur Sikri block, 430 in Baroli Ahir, 429 in Kheragarh, 207 in Bichpuri, 240 in Bah, 294 in Khandoli, 243 in Shamshabad, 291 Kirawali, 444 in Akola, 288 in Etmadpur, 365 in Fatehabad, 192 in Saiyan, 372 in Jaitpur Kalan, 207 in Jagner and 74 in Pinahat. District program officer Sahab Singh said, “Required steps are being taken for health recovery of malnourished children. They are being provided nutritional diet through Anganwadi centres. Children suffering from diseases are being given full medical assistance. Mothers of the majority of these malnourished children were found weak or suffering from various health issues. Anganwadi workers have been directed to ensure that pregnant women get suitable nutrition under the integrated child development scheme.” Child rights activist Naresh Paras said, “The state of malnutrition among children from poor families in Agra district is alarming. The survey conducted by the health and child development department is based on the number of children registered at the Anganwadi centres. A large number of poor families are not getting any benefit from the integrated child development scheme. Authorities should organize camps at different places to identify all the children suffering from malnutrition and register them at local Anganwadi centres. The highly malnourished children should be admitted to the nutritional rehabilitation centre run by the state government in each district.” In December last, a 30-year-old Dalit woman who tried to sell her 45-day-old baby for Rs 10,000 outside the SN Medical College in Agra had claimed she didn’t get any help from the local Anganwadi centre before and after delivery. Her malnourished child was not covered under the integrated child development scheme and no nutritional aid was provided. In November last, UP state commission for protection of child rights member Dr Sakshi Baijal had conducted an inspection at the state government-owned children’s home where three infants had died within 48 hours. The SCPCR member found infants at the centre ‘weak and malnourished’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/over-5k-highly-malnourished-children-identified-in-agra-district/articleshow/80101939.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 5, 2021||Nagpur||No liquor consumption on roads or eating joints: CP||Nagpur: City police chief Amitesh Kumar has warned that consuming liquor at any public places like roads, roadside vendors, eating joints etc would invite legal action. Consuming liquor would be allowed only at permit rooms or at places where it is legally authorized. City police had raided as many as 1,534 places between December 20 and 26 last year and initiated action against 74 persons apart from registering 74 cases related to liquor and it’s consumption on roads and other places. During the period, police had also removed roadside vendors selling Chinese fast food, boiled egg sellers and roadside joints, at different places, including in the stretch between Kamal Chowk and Rani Durgawati Chowk. Kumar said a meeting of detection branch personnel of every police station, beat marshals and officers of different units, including civic bodies, was convened in which instructions were issued to them regarding zero tolerance towards nuisances like liquor consumption on roads and places like eateries. “Not a drop of liquor would be allowed on the road. One can consume liquor only in permit rooms,” he said. CP also said there would be strict action on illegal activities at the public places. City police have also decided to continue the raids on a regular basis to ensure the troublemakers do not return once they are removed. Two drug peddlers were also arrested and several others were slapped with preventive action during the drive. “We would also monitor makeshift shanties being erected illegally at public places where mostly illegal activities take place,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-liquor-consumption-on-roads-or-eating-joints-cp/articleshow/80103792.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 5, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: New special prosecutor in actor rape case||KOCHI: After Advocate A Sureshan, the special public prosecutor in actor rape case, resigned on November 23, Advocate V N Anil Kumar has been appointed as the new SPP. He is likely to appear before the trial court on Friday. The case, which came for consideration on Monday, was posted to Friday. Advocate Anil Kumar was the former special prosecutor for Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) from 1993 to 2015. The senior lawyer, a native of Haripad, Alappuzha, has handled several controversial cases in his tenure. Advocate Sureshan who was handling the case had resigned days after Kerala high court dismissed a plea seeking to change the judge in the actor abduction and rape case. The prosecution had alleged that the present court was biased and that a fair trial was not possible. The HC, however, had held that most of the contentions raised by the survivor and prosecution for transfer of the case were unsustainable. The high court had then called for the judge, prosecutor and defence lawyers to work in sync so as to prevent the guilty from escaping the clutches of law or the innocent from being punished. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/new-special-prosecutor-in-actor-rape-case/articleshow/80102704.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Bareilly||9 Gangetic dolphins sighted at 7 spots in Budaun’s Ganga stretch||BAREILLY: After a gap of five years, nine Gangetic dolphins (Platanista gangetica) were sighted at seven spots in a 130-km stretch of river Ganga in UP’s Budaun district by a joint team of the biodiversity unit of the WWF-India and forest department. Now, the district administration is planning to send a report to the state government for dolphin conservation project. The Gangetic dolphins, listed as “endangered” in the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s Red list, were sighted between Kachchla Ghat and Atena Ghat in Budaun. What is encouraging was the presence of a calf in the herd at one of the spots, said Shahnawaj Khan, project officer of biodiversity team WWF-India. In 2015-16, presence of these aquatic mammals was recorded at four locations in this stretch of the Ganga. Since then, no surveys have been conducted here, he added. Khan surmised that the dolphins had migrated downstream towards Ghatiya Ghat in neighbouring Farukkhabad district when the river water levels dipped in March in Budaun. Low levels of water and encroachment on floodplains of the river are a threat to dolphins. These mammals cannot breathe inside water and must surface from time to time for air, he explained. The dolphins are also potential ecological indicators as their presence in the river suggests a healthy ecosystem. They cannot survive in highly polluted waters, said Khan. After spotting the dolphins, local fishermen have been directed to be cautious so that they are not harmed. “The dolphins have a unique ability to control their heart beat. But now, it is going against them. In case if they are accidentally caught in a fisherman’s net, they cannot surface for air and unable to breathe, they can lose consciousness. In such conditions, it is extremely difficult to revive them. This is a why dolphin rescue is quite difficult,” Khan added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/9-gangetic-dolphins-sighted-at-7-spots-in-budauns-ganga-stretch/articleshow/80102699.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 5, 2021||Trichy||Tamil Nadu businessman booked for hitting MNREGA worker with slipper||PUDUKOTTAI: A businessman in Pudukottai district was booked under four different sections including the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act for hitting a MNREGA worker belonging to the scheduled caste, with a slipper. The incident occurred a couple of days near Karambakudi when Kulanthiranpattu panchayat was conducting a sapling plantation drive on the bunds of a village tank. The accused, P Karikalan who had offered the saplings was also the chief guest of the event. The victim was planting saplings when Karikalan asked him to plant them properly. An altercation broke out between them, and Karikalan abused the worker using his caste name and then hit him using his slipper in a fit of rage, police said. Following the incident, the victim lodged a complaint with Karambakudi police on Saturday. Based on the complaint, police booked Karikalan under section 294 (b) (use of vulgar and abusive language), 355 (Assault or criminal force with intent to dishonour person) of IPC, 3 (1) (r) (s), 3 (2) SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act. While the accused is yet to be arrested, further investigation is on. Condemning the act, S Kavivarman, Pudukkottai district secretary of the CPI(M) urged the police to arrest the accused. He said that police should have arrested the accused by now. But the victim has been pressurised to take back his complaint. Therefore, adequate security should be given to the victim’s family members, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bizman-booked-for-hitting-mnrega-worker-with-slipper/articleshow/80105333.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Trichy||People in state preparing to bring a change in regime: Stalin||Tiruvarur: DMK president M K Stalin on Monday said that people are preparing to “bring about a change in regime” in Tamil Nadu. When DMK comes to power, the problems which have been faced by people from all walks of life, including farmers and self-help groups, will be solved, Stalin said. Addressing the people’s grama sabha meeting held at Avalivanallur village near Nannilam in Tiruvarur district here on Monday, Stalin assured that once the DMK assumes power, a separate committee would be formed for monitoring and taking care of the women’s self-help groups, responding to a complaint from woman, who said no banker was coming forward to give her a loan.Stalin also listed out various women-centric welfare schemes that were implemented by the DMK regime for the empowerment of women in the state.When a farmer cited his ordeal in getting a crop loan from the primary agriculture credit cooperative societies in the AIADMK regime, Stalin said it was the DMK that always supported the farmers, while referring to the free power introduced to farmers by former chief minister M Karunanidhi. “Soon after assuming power as chief minister for a fifth term, Karunanidhi signed an order cancelling entire crop loans to the tune of Rs 7,000 crore. Compared with farmers affiliated to the DMK, those with the AIADMK benefitted a lot by the order,” he claimed.Referring to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s claim that he too is a farmer, Stalin said that he has been denigrating the farmers. Despite severe cold in Delhi, thousands of farmers have come out as a family and are protesting against the three farm laws, he said.But Palaniswami, who calls himself as a farmer, has not even convened the state assembly and pass a resolution against the farm laws like several other states have done, he said.“I demanded the government to disburse Rs 30,000 per acre for crop losses due to the recent cyclones to farmers. But, the chief minister calls himself a farmer after announcing just Rs 20,000 for 2.5 acres as input subsidy,” Stalin said.Stalin also hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not keeping his promises such as depositing Rs 15 lakh to each individual’s bank accounts and providing jobs to two crore youths yearly.Stalin also came down heavily on food minister R Kamaraj for alleged corruption in his department. Illegal sand mining is rampant in the region and an AIADMK functionary is behind it, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/people-in-state-preparing-to-bring-a-change-in-regime-stalin/articleshow/80105372.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Agra||UP: Four wanted criminals of Dhakad gang arrested on way to looting petrol pump||AGRA: Firozabad police arrested four wanted criminals while they were on their way to loot a petrol pump in Shikohabad after a late-night encounter on Sunday. Three gang members, though, managed to escape. All of those arrested have criminal cases against them pending in at least three police stations of Firozabad district. According to police, the arrested men are members of the Dhakad gang, including gang leader Kullu Yadav alias Dhakad. Four illegal weapons, three stolen motorcycles, Rs 50,600 in cash and jewelry worth Rs 20,000 were recovered from the accused. The gang is accused of involvement in three cases of loot in the neighbourhood in the month of December. Following those back-to-back cases of loot, Firozabad SSP Ajay Kumar had formed a team headed by ASP (rural) Rajesh Kumar to arrest the culprits. The special operation group of police was also involved in the probe. After investigators identified a pattern in all three prior incidents, their informer network hinted at the involvement of the Dhakad gang in the cases. The ASP said, “On Sunday evening, we received a tip-off that the Dhakad gang was planning to loot a petrol pump. Accordingly, we conducted a raid at a house on Nasserpur road. When our team surrounded the house, the criminals opened fire. Following the exchange of fire, four members of the gang were arrested, while three managed to escape. They will be arrested soon.” Besides gang leader Kullu Yadav, the other criminals arrested were identified as Rahul Yadav, Akash Yadav and Ajay Yadav, while those who escaped were identified as Vikas, Ramshankar and Kailash Yadav. The SSP said, “Those arrested have confessed to their involvement in the three cases of loot under Makkhanpur, Shikohabad and Nagla Khangar police stations. Illegal arms and ammunition, stolen bikes, jewelry and cash were recovered from them. The gang has seven members. All of them are well-educated and had been carrying out crimes in a planned manner, not leaving any clue.” “We’ll develop a history-sheet against all gang members. They will be booked under the Gangster Act. The police team which prevented the loot at the petrol pump and arrested the notorious criminals will be rewarded,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/4-wanted-criminals-of-dhakad-gang-arrested-on-way-to-looting-petrol-pump/articleshow/80101949.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 5, 2021||Chennai||I want to ensure empowerment of women ... 2G allegation baseless: M K Kanimozhi||Lok Sabha MP and DMK women’s wing chief M K Kanimozhi has been fervently campaigning for the party over the past few weeks for the Tamil Nadu assembly polls. In an interview with M K Ananth, she speaks about the anti-incumbency sentiment in the state due to unfinished projects and graft, the DMK’s pitch of a people-friendly growth-centric government and how the 2G barbs are to the DMK’s advantageQ: What is your assessment of the mood of the people?The mood of the people is definitely anti-AIADMK and anti-incumbency. They are fed up because unemployment is rampant. The farmers and the farming community are upset with the new laws. Economic growth has slipped to a great extent. It was 10.5% during the DMK government and now it is around 8%. Industries have taken a huge hit after demonetisation, GST and now Covid-19. The textiles, fireworks and match industries and many others have been affected. The state government has not reached out to them and resolved their problems. There have not been any new investments. Government schemes are not reaching the people, old age pension is one example. They are also hit by inflation due to petrol and gas price hike. After the Covid-19 pandemic hit us, the government has given just `1,000 per family. How will a daily wage earner face the crisis? There is a lot of anger against the government. They said they will desilt water bodies and waterways, but nothing was done. This has affected farmers. Q: What is your campaign strategy and what are the issues you are highlighting?We are talking about unemployment, corruption and inefficiency of the government. The chief minister thinks that putting up a plaque saying he has started a project is equal to finishing it. You can call him Adikal Nayagan (foundation stone hero). After laying the foundation stone for the collectorate in Tenkasi, he talks as if he has completed the project. What happened to AIIMS after the foundation stone was laid years ago? It is the same case with every project. Q: Would the DMK manifesto focus on populism, welfarism or policies?I don’t think you can call it populism. The DMK’s manifestos have always been and will focus on welfare schemes with an equal emphasis on development, growth and sustainability. It would most probably be ready by January-end. Q: The DMK is harping on corruption. But how will the 2G scam impact the party’s prospects?The 2G case was tried for seven years. The trial court judge has clearly said there is no proof and it is a case which is baseless. I don’t think that it will have an impact on the elections, because we have been acquitted. When you are convicted it will have an impact. When you are acquitted it should have a positive impact. Q: The AIADMK ministers and BJP leaders are repeatedly making allegations about the 2G case. How are you going to counter them?This is as baseless as the Sarkaria Commission allegations. On what basis are they making it? Nothing. What is the meaning in repeatedly talking about a case in which the accused have been acquitted? They can keep talking about it whenever elections come. It is to cover up the corruption allegations against them. Q: How do you see Stalin’s leadership, especially with this being the first assembly election with him at the helm?He is a very seasoned politician who has been around for many years and has a great deal of experience with elections. We saw him leading the Lok Sabha election campaign. He was mentored by Kalaignar. He strongly follows DMK’s ideologies and principles. He is an able administrator and he proved it when he was the deputy CM, local administration minister and Chennai mayor. So, people have confidence in him. Q: Over the years parties have been driven by the wisdom of veteran leaders. This is the first time that poll strategists are leading the campaign. Comment?Even now, it is the leaders who are driving the party and taking the final decisions. How to take the message to the people is what strategists and people working with us can do. We will not deviate from the core ideology. The DMK will continue to stand firm by its ideologies. Q: Do you think the DMK should make room for younger leaders at the top?Younger leadership will keep emerging. But you need the experience and capability too. Q: Do you think there is a dearth of women leaders after former chief minister J Jayalalithaa?We need more women to come into politics, not just in Tamil Nadu but all over the country. That is why the DMK is insisting that the bill on reservation for women in the Parliament and the assembly be passed. Q: But some leaders are not raising their voice for the bill …50% is a dream. First let us reach 33%. Q: The CM has listed out pending cases against former ministers in the DMK government. How are you countering it?We all know that it is political vendetta. The cases are false allegations that they have not been able to prove. The CM is the one who has not explained (the tender allegations). He says tenders awarded by the government have been stopped. Why did he have to go to the Supreme Court to stop the case if you [CM] are confident that nothing has gone wrong? Q: What do you think is the challenge posed by Kamal Haasan’s MNM?I don’t want to comment on the Makkal Needhi Maiam. I think it is a definite win for the DMK. People are looking at the DMK and its leadership for a government which will actually put TN back on the growth map because all the human index factors and development factors are falling. People want a government which they can trust, and they know for sure what will put the state back on the right track. Q: Where do you see yourself in future in politics?I don’t plan that way. I don’t have any personal plans. But I like to play a part in women’s empowerment, in creating a more inclusive society and development of the state and the country. I would definitely be a voice for the freedom of expression and ensure a secular fabric. Q: Are you planning to continue with national politics or are you ready to serve at the state level?As I told you, I don’t have any personal plans as such. I do what I believe in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/i-want-to-ensure-empowerment-of-women-2g-allegation-baseless/articleshow/80106108.cms||M K Ananth
January 5, 2021||Nagpur||At 11, Vidarbha reports lowest Covid toll in a day in January||Nagpur: Vidarbha region reported 11 deaths due to Covid-19 on Monday, lowest in a day in January so far. Overall Covid toll of the region reached 6,616 with this. Despite reporting 56 deaths in the first four days in January, the case fatality rate of Vidarbha remained under 2.6%. The region reported 643 new cases (lowest in 2021 so far), 636 recoveries (once again lowest in January) even though the number of Covid-19 tests conducted across the region was more or less constant. Now, out of 2.55 lakh total patients, 2.41 lakh have recovered. Recovery rate is 94.6%. But, on Monday, state’s average recovery rate increased to 94.9% and surpassed Vidarbha’s recovery rate. National recovery rate is more than 96% already. Day’s 11 deaths came from Nagpur 6, Bhandara 1, Wardha 1, Chandrapur 1, Gadchiroli 1, and Yavatmal 1. Out of six from Nagpur, 3 were outstation/out of stare patients reached in critical condition and died on Monday itself. Except Nagpur and Yavatmal, no district in Vidarbha reported more than 50 cases on Monday. Cases came from Nagpur 379, Yavatmal 52, Buldhana 46, Amravati 36, Bhandara 34, Akola 33, Wardha 30, Chandrapur 19, Washim 8, and Gadchiroli 6. Recoveries came from Nagpur 394, Bhandara 46, Amravati 45, Yavatmal 40, Chandrapur 39, Akola 21, Buldhana 19, Washim 18, Wardha 8, and Gadchiroli 6. Gondia district’s data was not received on Monday. Now, there are 7,043 patients under treatment in Vidarbha region. Out of these, more than 65% are in home isolation. Amravati: Forty-five recoveries as against 36 new cases took the district’s total recoveries to 19,205 and caseload to 19,937 on Monday. There were no deaths, keeping the toll constant at 399. Chandpraur: While one death was reported, 19 tested positive on Monday. In all, 39 patients were discharged, leaving 368 active patients. The total is now 22,421, recoveries 21,681 and toll 372. Yavatmal: The district recorded one death, a 54-year-old woman from Kalamb tehsil, taking the toll to 406. Out of the 247 tests, 47 tested positive. Currently there are 367 active positive patients undergoing treatment. Wardha: A 56-year-old man from Wardha died. The toll is now 275. With 30 testing positive on Monday, the caseload reached 9,212. Recoveries are now 8,636 after the discharge of 8 patients on Monday. Akola: The district reported 33 new cases and 21 recoveries on Monday. This took Akola’s total Covid-19 caseload to 10,617, including 9,842 recoveries. The district reported no death due to Covid-19 on Monday. Covid toll of Akola is 323. Now, 452 patients are under treatment. Washim: With eight new cases and 18 recoveries, the district now has lowest number of under-treatment Covid-19 patients in Vidarbha. With 6,435 patients recovering out of 6,710 total cases, now 124 patients are under treatment in Washim. The district has reported 150 deaths due to Covid-19 so far. Buldhana: The district received 500-plus reports of Covid-19 tests on Monday and 46 of them tested positive. Due to this, number of Covid cases in Buldhana reached 12,725. With 19 recoveries in the day, total 12,251 of these have recovered so far. No death was reported so the toll remained constant at 152. Now, 322 patients are under treatment in the district. Bhandara: The district reported 34 new cases on Monday while 46 patients recovered. Death of a Covid patient on Monday took the toll in Bhandara to 294. The district has seen 12,510 total cases, 11,871 recoveries, and 275 deaths. Now, total 345 patients are under treatment in the district. Gadchiroli: Six new patients were reported on Monday while six recovered in the day. Now, the district has 9,094 total cases, and 8,812 recoveries. The district’s recovery rate is 97%. A 79-year-old Covid-19 patient died on Monday. Due to this, the district’s toll reached 103. Now, 179 patients are under treatment in Gadchiroli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/at-11-vidarbha-reports-lowest-covid-toll-in-a-day-in-january/articleshow/80103906.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 5, 2021||Surat||Covid-19 slashes crime rate by half in Diamond City||Surat: Amid the negativity of positive counts, Covid-19 also managed to spread some positivity for the residents of the Diamond City. The one most serious cheer that it could spread was of lesser crime rate — a drop by more than 50 percent drop in top 10 major indicators of overall crime scenario of the city. Going by the crime figures in the city, the dip takes the city back to almost a decade ago making it even more significant looking at the police strength in the city. In this span of around 10 years, the population increased by almost 20 lakh according to an estimate. Against the 66 lakh estimated population, police has a force of around 4,000 in the city making it nearly 61 cops per lakh population. On the other hand, Ahmedabad has around 175 cops per one lakh population. While in 2019, total 6,015 major crimes had been reported, Covid times count only 2,990 in 2020. City witnessed 22 percent rise in crimes in 2019, while in 2018 the number of serious crimes reported in the city were 4,950. “Coronavirus and lockdown resulted in not only a drop in crime figures in the city, but the steepest fall among all the cities of the state in 2020. All other cities have less than 20 percent drop in crime while Surat has dropped by nearly 50 percent,” city police commissioner Ajay Tomar told TOI. In overall crime the drop is 45 percent, according to police. “Speedy detections, presence of police on road and quick response to crime or incident are the other main factors for the dip,” Tomar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-19-slashes-crime-rate-by-half-in-diamond-city/articleshow/80103807.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
January 5, 2021||Nagpur||Kogare of Congress is new Ytl dist bank president||Yavatmal: All three major constituents of Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) dominate the Yavatmal District Central Cooperative Bank Limited as Congress’s Tikaram Kogare was elected president unopposed, while two vice-presidents are from NCP and Shiv Sena. Vasant Ghuikhedkar of the Nationalist Congress Party (NMC) and Sanjay Derkar of Shiv Sena have also been elected unopposed as vice-presidents I & II, respectively. The poll, conducted on December 21 to elect 21-member board of directors, assumes significance as it was held after 13 years. Manish Uttamrao Patil was president for 10 years before resigning understandably under pressure from guardian minister Madan Yerawar, who wanted his supporter Aman Gawande in the chair. Gawande’s tenure lasted for three years. According to sources, the MVA partners had reached a power-sharing formula under which Chandrapur MP Balu Dhanorkar’s close associate Kogare from Wani would be the president for first two years, followed by former president Manish Patil in the chair for remaining three years. Meanwhile, there was resentment among Sena leaders over Derkar’s election as vice-president. Derkar was elected from Maregaon taluka constituency. The other VP Ghuikhedkar has been elected from the district-level constituency. Prominent among those present in the meeting included Manikrao Thakre and Wazhahat Mirza of Congress, Indranil Naik and Khwaja Baig of NCP and Sanjay Rathod, Parag Pingale of Shiv Sena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kogare-of-congress-is-new-ytl-dist-bank-president/articleshow/80103815.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Trichy||Over 800 students from Trichy join JEE exam coaching||Trichy: More than 800 students from government and government-aided schools in Trichy district have joined free online coaching for IIT-JEE entrance examination this year given by the school education department.Totally, 848 students from Trichy district have registered for the classes with 463 from Class XI and 385 from Class XII. They will be trained for admission to centrally-funded technical institutions from this year. While the classes started from Monday, students will be trained online between 5 and 6 30pm to ensure that the classes don’t clash with the NEET coaching. An official from Trichy district chief education office said that they will focus more on Class XI this year as the examination is tough and requires dedicated training. Students from government schools got medical seats this year with the 7.5% reservation. But a similar reservation isn’t there for IIT-JEE. Therefore, the interest level among students is not high, said a government school headmaster in Trichy. Further, the coaching is given in English medium whereas many government school students belong to Tamil medium. This has also been a reason for low enrollment, said the HM. Since IIT-JEE coaching is given for the first time, the school education department has decided to not pressurize the teachers on the outcome of the coaching this year. It has asked the mentors to help students get their basics improved without worrying about the outcomes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/over-800-students-from-trichy-join-jee-exam-coaching/articleshow/80105355.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Digital loan apps, stakes games need regulation||KOCHI: Proliferation of digital loan apps that charge hefty interest rates and online rummy websites that lure players with cash bonuses are trapping Keralites in massive debts, often pushing them to the verge of suicide. The loan apps are also a privacy nightmare, with payment defaults resulting in cyber crimes of intimidation and defamation. The suicide of 28-year-old Vineeth, a contract staffer with Isro in Thiruvananthapuram on New Year eve, allegedly after running up a debt of Rs 21 lakh in online rummy, has brought sharp focus on the perils of leaving digital finance and gaming in the state unregulated. “Regulation is something that a state can easily do since betting and gambling falls under state list as per 7th schedule,” says Amit Nair, an advocate with Gujarat high court, who had moved a public interest litigation against online rummy, resulting in a directive to the state government. “As far as rummy is concerned, there is a settled judgment by the apex court which called rummy a game of skill. But there is one line that comes as help for us, which says if it is played with stakes then it would attract appropriate laws,” he said. Assam, Odisha, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Nagaland and Sikkim have laws restricting such games. The financial distress triggered by Covid-19 lockdown is cited as one reason for dependence on hassle-free loans driven through social media websites and SMS. “These apps, most of them hosted on Chinese servers, have been there for the past two years but they gained users from the state during the lockdown,” says Sebastian Varghese, a financial adviser, who tried to create awareness on the pernicious nature of these apps through YouTube videos. “The moment you default, harassment begins and they would post pictures of your wife with defamatory content on WhatsApp groups they create and call up people on your contact list,” says Varghese. Anivar Aravind, a digital rights activist, says it is high time that digital lenders are brought under the ambit of Kerala Money Lenders Act of 1958. “There is also a need to make them GST compliant and review online information database and retrieval services to ensure better revenue for the state,” says Aravind.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/digital-loan-apps-stakes-games-need-regulation/articleshow/80102731.cms||Binu Karunakaran
January 5, 2021||Chennai||How Manchester of south India was lost over the past decade||Despite Coimbatore receiving heavy rain over the past three years, the water-dependent cotton crop cultivation in the district has reached a 10-year low. Agriculture department data shows cotton is being raised in 339 hectares in 2020, which is 40% less acreage than a decade ago. Farmers say the reasons for the crop losing favour is availability of shorter duration, less demanding options like vegetables and millets, water shortage in the cotton belt and lack of affordable labour for cotton picking."I usually grow cotton in 3.5 acres of land. But this year I cultivated tapioca and small onions instead because of labour shortage in my area. During pickings, some ask for Rs600 per day. Comparatively, small onions can be harvested in 70 days and tapioca is drought resistant so less risky," says K C Gopal, of Konarpalayam. He made Rs60,000 this year, compared to Rs50,000 last year with cotton. Cotton cultivation which began falling in the early 1990s due to droughts and water shortage is yet to recover. In 2010, cotton was cultivated across 877 hectares and it has steadily been eased out of the farmer’s crop menu since. The crop is cultivated in pockets in the district at Madukkarai, Annur, Kinathukidavu and Pollachi. However, Madukkarai which had around 20 acres of cotton in its block, this year declared that no one was raising the crop. "Coimbatore’s urban areas receive good rainfall, but the cotton farming belts like Madukkarai and Annur had deficit rainfall this year. The southwest monsoon, which is when cotton is sowed by farmers, set in late causing a water shortage," says Murugan, Annur agriculture officer. High cost of cultivation is another deterrent. Though the price is good at Rs6,300 per quintal of cotton, farmers say the expenses are too much. "Finding affordable labour for cotton pickings is a challenge as massive industrialisation has given workers other job opportunities," says Mani Chinnaswamy, a third generation cotton farmer from Pollachi.Cotton and textile experts say cotton seems to be dying a slow death over the past 30 years in the region. Coordinator of the Central Institute of Cotton Research (CICR), A H Prakash says in the 1980s cotton was cultivated across 1.2 lakh hectares in the district. "Coimbatore would contribute more than 40% of the cotton produced in TN, but it has now dwindled to hardly 8%," says an officer in Indian Cotton Federation. "It was the availability of long staple cotton that brought textile mills to the district and gave it the name Manchester of South India," says secretary general of South India Mills Association, K Selvaraju. The arrival of BT cotton in 2002 created an increase, but made them prone to pests and diseases leading to farmers losing money, says scientist Asha Rani of SIMA’s cotton development and research association.At present Coimbatore at the rate of 3.5 bales per hectare, produces hardly 1,500 bales a year. In the rest of Tamil Nadu, cotton production is expected to increase from 2.5 lakh to 5.5 lakh bales a year. "The increase is expected due to good rainfall, the Centre declaring a minimum support price and farmers deciding not to store their kappas in fear of another lockdown," says Selvaraju. Cotton mills now buy mostly from Gujarat, Karnataka and Telangana, where long staple cotton with 28mm to 30mm counts are easily available and acreage under cultivation is increasing with state support. As a way forward, institutes such as TNAU, CICR are coming up with long staple cotton, with good fibre quality that can be harvested at one go with a machine. However, farmers are yet to adopt the new varieties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/how-manchester-of-south-india-was-lost-over-the-past-decade/articleshow/80106110.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Kochi||‘Digital loans drove us to verge of suicide’||KOCHI: One of the victims of the digital loan mafia speaks to TOI about her experience. We first availed a digital loan from an app during the start of the lockdown, a time when we were going through a financial crisis. It was impossible for us to get a loan from regular banking channels and the apps that promised instant loans suddenly sounded attractive. The only requirements were a copy of our Aadhaar card and PAN card and selfie taken using the app. So far, we have availed loans from around 50 apps, Rs 7,000 being the largest sum. The combined value of all the loans is less than Rs 1 lakh but the amount we had to repay was a staggering Rs 3.5 lakh. It took us some time to realise that these hassle-free loans are a maze from where you cannot escape because the apps would continue to lure with offers. If you apply for a loan of Rs 3000, they would grant only Rs 2,100. The rest of the money is charged on various heads like the GST and processing fee. The money we own them on pay-by-date would be Rs 3,500. If the payment is delayed even by an hour or so, harassment would begin. In my case, the loans were taken in my husband’s name and they created a WhatsApp group in his name, added people in our contact list to it and started posting messages calling him a fraud. They also made pesky calls to people we knew, resulting in further mental torturing, which pushed us to the verge of suicide. It was a timely call from a friend, who promised financial help, that saved our lives. But the moment we really felt let down was when we approached the cyber cell with a complaint. The official asked us to repay the loan and expressed inability to help us. We are alive because of timely intervention but we are not sure about many others who have been caught in similar traps. (Sreeja and her husband Prashant (names changed) had availed loans from around 50 apps during the lockdown)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/digital-loans-drove-us-to-verge-of-suicide/articleshow/80102745.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Pune||Congress must contest civic elections in state separately, says its Maharashtra chief||MUMBAI: A month after CM Uddhav Thackeray declared that the Congress, Shiv Sena and NCP would contest the forthcoming civic polls in various parts of the state jointly, state Congress president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat said he was in favour of his party contesting separately. However, NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik and Shiv Sena minister Anil Parab said NCP president Sharad Pawar and Thackeray were keen that the polls must be fought jointly to keep the BJP out of power. Civic polls are to be held in Kolhapur and Aurangabad, among other places in the state; they will be held in Mumbai in 2022. The new city Congress chief Bhai Jagtap had earlier said the party would fight the BMC polls on its own.“In my opinion, we should contest the polls separately,” Thorat told TOI. Elaborating, he said that if constituents of the Maha Vikas Aghadi contest jointly, there will be complete uncertainty over transfer of votes, and the possibility of large-scale rebellion cannot be ruled out. He however added that “even if we contest the elections separately, we will have to draft a new strategy to keep BJP out of power.” Asked if there would be a threat to the MVA government if the three parties contested independently, Thorat said, “We have come together on a common minimum programme. I am sure there will be no threat to the government.” Skill development minister Nawab Malik of the NCP said, “Sharad Pawar’s instructions are clear. Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena should contest the civic polls jointly in the larger interest of the MVA government.” But he said that in the past, when the state the was ruled by the Congress-NCP alliance, the two parties had contested elections against each other in certain districts, but the alliance had remained intact. “Congress and NCP contested elections separately but it had no adverse impact on the government, it completed its tenure. In fact, the alliance was in power in the state for 14 years,” Malik said. Sena leader and transport minister Anil Parab said he was confident the polls would be fought jointly by the MVA allies. “I do not see any problem. In my opinion, senior leaders of the three parties will sit together and work out a plan,” he said, adding that regardless of how the elections were fought, there was no danger to the MVA government. “People of Maharashtra have given a mandate to the MVA,” Parab said. On November 28 last year, the CM had declared that the three parties in the MVA would contest the civic polls together. However, Mumbai Congress president Bhai Jagtap recently said, “Our dream is to have a Congress nominee as mayor of Mumbai.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cong-must-contest-civic-elections-in-state-separately-says-its-maha-chief/articleshow/80106963.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
January 5, 2021||Dehradun||Denotification of Shivalik Elephant Reserve: U’khand HC takes suo motu cognisance, issues notices to Centre & state||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Monday took suo motu cognisance of the denotification of the Shivalik Elephant Reserve – Uttarakhand’s only elephant reserve — and issued notices to both the state as well as the central government. The division bench of acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Alok Kumar Verma issued the notice. Speaking to TOI, an advocate who wished to remain anonymous said, “ The court has given the respondents four weeks to file their counter affidavits in the matter and has listed the case for further hearing after the winter vacations.” According to court records, the central government as well as officials of the state government like the principal secretary forest and environment, principal chief conservator of forests (general), principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife), chief wildlife warden, state wildlife advisory board and director of Rajaji National Park have been made respondents in the case. The Shivalik Elephant Reserve was notified in 2002 through a government order. However, the state government in November 2020 denotified the reserve for the expansion of Dehradun’s Jolly Grant Airport. The state government also said that denotification of the reserve, which spans across over 5,400 sq km and covers both Kumaon and Garhwal regions, will pave way for development projects. The government plans to expand the Jolly Grant airport by procuring around 87 hectares of forest land and felling around 10,000 trees. The proposed move has been opposed by environmentalists who say that the reserve needs protection as the cases of poaching and human-animal conflicts are already threatening the existence of animals. Interestingly, the central government, to,o had asked the state to look for any other land space for the expansion of the airport but the state government responded saying no such alternative is available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/denotification-of-shivalik-elephant-reserve-ukhand-hc-takes-suo-motu-cognisance-issues-notices-to-centre-state/articleshow/80101968.cms||Prashant Jha
January 5, 2021||Bareilly||Farmers happy with rain & cold, say it will help pulses, wheat & mustard||Pilibhit: The persistent cold wave along with spells of rain in Pilibhit, has proven to be highly advantageous for Rabi crops like wheat, mustard and lentils. The light rainfall has replenished the depleted soil moisture in sugarcane fields too. Farmers say to a great extent, nature has compensated their losses from being deprived of full minimum support price (MSP) during procurement of their Kharif paddy crop. Not only did Pilibhit farmers have to sell their common variety Kharif paddy at prices much lower than the MSP of Rs 1,668 per quintal, due to the messy government procurement system, but they had also been compelled to sell almost their entire fine paddy crop to private traders at a rate Rs 600-700 below the MSP of Rs 1,888 per quintal, after the state government refused to procure it on the pretext that rice millers had complained of low recovery of rice from the fine paddy, which had been sown by Pilibhit farmers on around 50,000 hectares, yielding 50 quintals a hectare on average. “Amid the cold wave, the intermittent light rains have uniformly irrigated the cropped fields. The minimum temperature of between 3-8°C supports growth of wheat, mustard and lentil seedlings, while the ideal rainfall contributes to their healthy and rapid growth,” said Dr Shailendra Singh Dhaka, an agricultural scientist at Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Pilibhit. He claimed the cold wave and rainfall would increase yield of wheat by 15-20%, and augment the production of lentils and mustard by 25-30%. According to district agriculture officer Dr Vinod Yadav, wheat has been sown in Pilibhit over 1,39,363 hectares, while mustard and lentils on 30,578 and 379 hectares respectively. “The intermittent rains have replenished soil moisture in sugarcane fields, which will help the cane maintain desired level of juice,” said Dr Jai Singh, director of Uttar Pradesh Council of Sugarcane Research. Farmers felt happy at the favourable conditions for healthy growth of their crops. Indrajeet Singh of Puranpur, P S Bindra of Marauri, Sukhveer Singh Gill of Amaria and Mahip Singh of Blisanda block were among farmers who told this reporter that “compassionate” nature has compensated their losses from the “heartless” government procurement system to a great extent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/farmers-happy-with-rain-cold-say-it-will-help-pulses-wheat-mustard/articleshow/80100664.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 5, 2021||Kolhapur||Congress must contest civic elections in state separately, says its Maharashtra chief||MUMBAI: A month after CM Uddhav Thackeray declared that the Congress, Shiv Sena and NCP would contest the forthcoming civic polls in various parts of the state jointly, state Congress president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat said he was in favour of his party contesting separately. However, NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik and Shiv Sena minister Anil Parab said NCP president Sharad Pawar and Thackeray were keen that the polls must be fought jointly to keep the BJP out of power. Civic polls are to be held in Kolhapur and Aurangabad, among other places in the state; they will be held in Mumbai in 2022. The new city Congress chief Bhai Jagtap had earlier said the party would fight the BMC polls on its own.“In my opinion, we should contest the polls separately,” Thorat told TOI. Elaborating, he said that if constituents of the Maha Vikas Aghadi contest jointly, there will be complete uncertainty over transfer of votes, and the possibility of large-scale rebellion cannot be ruled out. He however added that “even if we contest the elections separately, we will have to draft a new strategy to keep BJP out of power.” Asked if there would be a threat to the MVA government if the three parties contested independently, Thorat said, “We have come together on a common minimum programme. I am sure there will be no threat to the government.” Skill development minister Nawab Malik of the NCP said, “Sharad Pawar’s instructions are clear. Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena should contest the civic polls jointly in the larger interest of the MVA government.” But he said that in the past, when the state the was ruled by the Congress-NCP alliance, the two parties had contested elections against each other in certain districts, but the alliance had remained intact. “Congress and NCP contested elections separately but it had no adverse impact on the government, it completed its tenure. In fact, the alliance was in power in the state for 14 years,” Malik said. Sena leader and transport minister Anil Parab said he was confident the polls would be fought jointly by the MVA allies. “I do not see any problem. In my opinion, senior leaders of the three parties will sit together and work out a plan,” he said, adding that regardless of how the elections were fought, there was no danger to the MVA government. “People of Maharashtra have given a mandate to the MVA,” Parab said. On November 28 last year, the CM had declared that the three parties in the MVA would contest the civic polls together. However, Mumbai Congress president Bhai Jagtap recently said, “Our dream is to have a Congress nominee as mayor of Mumbai.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/cong-must-contest-civic-elections-in-state-separately-says-its-maha-chief/articleshow/80111666.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
January 5, 2021||Mumbai||Congress must contest civic elections in state separately, says its Maharashtra chief||MUMBAI: A month after CM Uddhav Thackeray declared that the Congress, Shiv Sena and NCP would contest the forthcoming civic polls in various parts of the state jointly, state Congress president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat said he was in favour of his party contesting separately. However, NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik and Shiv Sena minister Anil Parab said NCP president Sharad Pawar and Thackeray were keen that the polls must be fought jointly to keep the BJP out of power. Civic polls are to be held in Kolhapur and Aurangabad, among other places in the state; they will be held in Mumbai in 2022. The new city Congress chief Bhai Jagtap had earlier said the party would fight the BMC polls on its own.“In my opinion, we should contest the polls separately,” Thorat told TOI. Elaborating, he said that if constituents of the Maha Vikas Aghadi contest jointly, there will be complete uncertainty over transfer of votes, and the possibility of large-scale rebellion cannot be ruled out. He however added that “even if we contest the elections separately, we will have to draft a new strategy to keep BJP out of power.” Asked if there would be a threat to the MVA government if the three parties contested independently, Thorat said, “We have come together on a common minimum programme. I am sure there will be no threat to the government.” Skill development minister Nawab Malik of the NCP said, “Sharad Pawar’s instructions are clear. Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena should contest the civic polls jointly in the larger interest of the MVA government.” But he said that in the past, when the state the was ruled by the Congress-NCP alliance, the two parties had contested elections against each other in certain districts, but the alliance had remained intact. “Congress and NCP contested elections separately but it had no adverse impact on the government, it completed its tenure. In fact, the alliance was in power in the state for 14 years,” Malik said. Sena leader and transport minister Anil Parab said he was confident the polls would be fought jointly by the MVA allies. “I do not see any problem. In my opinion, senior leaders of the three parties will sit together and work out a plan,” he said, adding that regardless of how the elections were fought, there was no danger to the MVA government. “People of Maharashtra have given a mandate to the MVA,” Parab said. On November 28 last year, the CM had declared that the three parties in the MVA would contest the civic polls together. However, Mumbai Congress president Bhai Jagtap recently said, “Our dream is to have a Congress nominee as mayor of Mumbai.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cong-must-contest-civic-elections-in-state-separately-says-its-maha-chief/articleshow/80105938.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
January 5, 2021||Surat||Woman who killed her molester gets bail||Surat: A 35-year-old woman accused of murdering a man while resisting rape attempt was granted bail by the Surat court on Monday. The woman is accused of murdering a labourer Ganesh alias Rupesh near Parvat Patiya under the Puna police station jurisdiction in October last year. The woman has been in judicial custody since October 5, 2020.According to case details, body of Ganesh was found with head injuries below an over-bridge in Parvat Patiya. Ganesh was killed allegedly by the woman while trying the resist rape attempt, It was also revealed that the woman had physical relations with Ganesh for sometime, but later she broke all relations with him.On the night of the offence, Ganesh tried to force himself upon the woman, who initially resisted and went away. But when Ganesh tried to force himself on her again, the woman pushed him away and in fit of rage rammed Ganesh’s head on the pillar of the over-bridge.The woman is mother of two children. One of her children, who is five-year-old is living with her in jail. “The victim was also under the influence of alcohol when he tried to rape the woman. Whatever happened was an act of self-defence,” the woman’s lawyer R V Modi argued in court.“Prima facie it appears that the victim (Ganesh) has tried to molest the woman (accused) and in retaliation she smashed his head on the nearby pillar and due to the said injuries the victim died,” the court observed in its order while granting bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/woman-who-killed-her-molester-gets-bail/articleshow/80103863.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
January 5, 2021||India||Now, Covaxin to be tested on toddlers as young as 2 years||HYDERABAD:After becoming the first Covid-19 vaccine in the world to be tested on children as young as 12 years, Covaxin will now also be tested on infants as young as two years, Bharat Biotech chairman and managing director Dr Krishna Ella said on Monday. “…we are now planning a clinical trial on children between two and 15 years. We are going to submit (proposal) to SEC (subject expert committee) soon for that,” Ella said during a virtual interaction with reporters. Pointing out that Covaxin is an inactivated virus vaccine based on a tried and tested vero cell platform that has been used for multiple vaccines, he said: “The injectable polio vaccine we have given to a newborn baby… it’s a proven platform and the safest to give to children.” Covaxin, being developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with Indian Council of Medical Research and National Institute of Virology, was the first Covid-19 vaccine to begin testing (in September) on children. Covaxin Phase II trials, a double-blinded study, was conducted on 380 volunteers in September 2020 and included participants in the 12-to-65-years age bracket. The Pfizer vaccine commenced testing on 12-year-olds in October and Moderna began enrolling participants aged 12 years and above in December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/now-covaxin-to-be-tested-on-toddlers-as-young-as-2-years/articleshow/80106527.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
January 5, 2021||Visakhapatnam||State reports lowest 1-day total since Jun 3||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 128 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,83,210. This is the lowest single-day case total in the last seven months — the state had reported 180 cases on June 3 last year. The toll increased to 7,118 as three more people succumbed to the novel coronavirus. The three deceased are one each from Chittoor, Nellore and Srikakulam. As many as 252 patients were declared cured. Active cases have now dropped below the 3,000-mark to 2,943, besides 8,73,149 cumulative recoveries and 7,118 fatalities. For the first time in months, all 13 districts posted less than 30 new cases, with five districts reporting single-digit case numbers. The active caseload is less than 200 in seven districts, with Vizianagaram having as few as 35 active cases. East Godavari continues to lead the table with 1,23,785 cumulative cases, while neighbouring West Godavari is a distant second with 93,927 cases. Five districts have so far achieved 99% recovery rate, including the top two coronavirus hotbeds of the state — East and West Godavari districts. Andhra Pradesh tested 29,714 samples on Monday to detect 128 cases, translating to a case positivity rate of 0.4%, again the lowest in at least the last seven months. The state has so far conducted 1.2 crore Covid-19 tests with an overall positivity rate of 7.3%. The national average positivity rate stands at 5.9%. The state’s mortality remains stable at 0.8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/state-reports-lowest-1-day-total-since-jun-3/articleshow/80102743.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Nagpur||MSRTC set to start Orange City tourism bus from January 10||NAGPUR: Grappling with huge losses and poor income in the aftermath of the Covid-19 crisis, the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) is exploring new sources of income. In one such attempt, the MSRTC has decided to start ‘Orange City’ tourism bus from January 10. “Starting January 10, the bus will run from the Ganeshpeth stand every Sunday and on public holidays considering the weekend tourism fad among people,” said divisional controller Nilesh Belsare. The places to be visited include Suraburdi, Dhapewada, Adasha, Ramtek, Khindsi and Dragon Palace in Kamptee before returning to Nagpur. The bus will leave at 8am and will be back at 7pm. For adults, the fare for the entire route has been fixed at Rs250 per person and Rs130 for children between 5 and 12 years. For the same tour, a private taxi charges more than Rs3,000 considering the increase in diesel prices. “The journey mostly caters to temple tourism spots in the region. As per the policy decision, similar buses will be launched in every district. Pune has already launched such tourist buses for Asthavinayak, Raigad, Bhimashankar and Konkan,” said Belsare. “The Nagpur division also plans to launch a tourism bus with one night stay for Chikhaldara soon. Earlier, the MSRTC Nagpur division had launched such a bus nicknamed ‘Fulrani’ on August 28, 2010. However, it was abruptly discontinued after 10 months,” said Belsare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/msrtc-set-to-start-orange-city-tourism-bus-from-jan-10/articleshow/80103985.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 5, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand minister Madan Kaushik skips debate with Delhi dy CM Sisodia||Dehradun: Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia was left waiting on stage at the ITDA auditorium in Dehradun on Monday as the state government spokesperson and cabinet minister, Madan Kaushik, failed to turn up for an open debate on achievements of the BJP government in last four years. Sisodia had thrown an open challenge to the state government to have a debate on the five major works that they have done for Uttarakhand. Kaushik, who had earlier said that there were hundreds, not five, achievements of the government, failed to turn up for the debate. “It seems that Madan Kaushik has nothing to show as his government’s achievement, which is why he did not turn up for the open debate. This shows that the BJP government’s claims on development are hollow,” said Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia. Sisodia further said that state government’s reluctance to discuss its achievements in the public shows that the ‘Trivendra model of development’ cannot be compared with the ‘Kejriwal model of development.’ A day before Sisodia had come to Doon, urban development minister Kaushik had called Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) a “non-serious player” and Manish Sisodia a “tourist politician”. Later on Monday, Sisodia also visited a government-run school in Jeevanwala in Dehradun – which falls under CM Rawat’s Doiwala constituency – and said that the pathetic condition of the school shows the kind of work done by the state government. “If this is the condition of a government school within the CM's constituency, we can imagine the condition of schools in other parts of the state. The state government is forcing the poor parents to opt for private schools by not modernizing the state-run schools,” said Sisodia, who also challenged Madan Kaushik to visit Delhi and see the modern schools of Delhi government. Later, BJP MLA and party’s chief spokesperson Munna Singh Chauhan said that the AAP has no existence in Uttarakhand and “hence their leaders deserve no answer from the state government”. He added that Sisodia is just “attempting hard to fit in the political frame of the Himalayan state, but they should be aware that they have no ground in Uttarakhand”. Reacting to Sisodia’s visit to a dilapidated school in the CM’s constituency, Chauhan said that the first instalment of Rs 4.1 lakh for renovation of the same school building was released in September 2020. “The construction work got a little delayed as schools were closed at that time and even now. Even the trees around the school that were a threat to students will soon be cut down by the forest department,” said Chauhan. He claimed that the Delhi deputy CM didn’t visit the secondary school adjacent to the primary school in Doiwala which he visited, “because the former was even better than schools in Delhi”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-minister-madan-kaushik-skips-debate-with-delhi-dy-cm-sisodia/articleshow/80101980.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Pune||Pune: Just a trickle, but students back in schools||PUNE: Senior class students, though few, walked confidently into classrooms on Monday in schools that opened across Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. They followed Covid-19 rules, including wearing masks and kept a distance, inside classrooms where they sat on benches with alternate seating arrangements. Of the 600 schools in the Pune Municipal Corporation areas, just 5% had opened on Monday, the first day in this academic year, for standards IX to XII. In Pimpri Chinchwad, 35% students from the senior classes reported to school. Many schools were awaiting for the RT-PCR test results of their staff members and the mandatory inspection by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) for compliance with the norms to reopen. Schools have been preparing for the reopening for over two weeks, yet some private schools decided to wait before they begin. Some heads of institutions said the test reports were pending while others said they were ready, but the inspection nod from the PMC authorities was awaited. PMC education board chief Shivaji Daundkar said as per the SOP, a mandatory inspection to check whether the schools have necessary infrastructure like a thermal gun, physical distancing markers is compulsory before reopening. “This inspection has to be carried out by officials from the primary education department. Once they give a written permit for reopening, the schools can reopen. There are some schools where the inspection is yet to be carried out. But this will be completed in two days and those schools will also reopen,” he added. Shehnaz Cottar, principal of Podar School, affiliated to CBSE, said, “We are all set to reopen our schools. We are awaiting the reports of our staff members for the Covid-19 test. This is the second time the staff is undergoing the test. Last time, during Diwali, when the civic body had plans to reopen, they underwent the mandatory test.” The school has taken consent from its parents and there has been a mixed response as some parents are apprehensive while others are willing to send their wards. Cottar said the students are eager to join school. C P Goenka International School was taking consent from parents before they reopened while the C M International School was in the planning stage to reopen. New English School did not reopen on Monday because the school’s administration felt very few parents had given consent while Pratibha International School authorities said they would reopen from January 11. A standard IX student, Diya Pandhare from Sharda Vidyalaya, said, “Of the 30 students in my class, 19 were present. We were made to sit separately with just 5-6 students in a class. There was no assembly or lunch break. We were given timetables and classes for three hours were held. It was nice to see my friends again.” Principal of Vimalabai Garware High School and Junior College, Ramdas Abhang, said, “Our inspection is yet to happen and without the nod from the inspectors, we cannot reopen. We have got about 35% students who had consented to coming whenever the school reopen. We are totally prepared and we will reopen the very next day after the inspection is complete.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/just-a-trickle-but-students-back-in-schools/articleshow/80103943.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 5, 2021||Vijayawada||Three teams to probe murder of TDP leader||VIJAYAWADA/VISAKHAPATNAM: Guntur rural police formed three teams to probe into the murder of former sarpanch and TDP leader Puransetti Ankulu on Monday. According to Guntur Rural SP Vishal Gunni, the teams are looking into possible reasons behind the incident. The SP said Ankulu was attacked in the past as well. Police sources noted that the former sarpanch’s mobile phone was missing at the scene of crime and suspect that it might contain crucial evidence. Cops are also questioning Ankulu’s car driver and other associates. The SP said they suspect four persons behind the attack. Call data of the deceased is also being retrieved. Meanwhile, Vizianagaram police booked criminal cases against 28 TDP activists and leaders, including P Aditi Gajapathi Raju, in-charge of Vizianagaram assembly constituency. It may be recalled that TDP leaders staged a rally against comments made by endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivas against P Ashok Gajapathi Raju and burnt the minister’s effigy. There was subsequently a jostle between police and TDP cadre. K Kiran Kumar, a sub-inspector, lodged a complaint that TDP leaders had obstructed him from carrying out his duties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/3-teams-to-probe-murder-of-tdp-leader/articleshow/80102752.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Pune||Gold chain worth Rs 12k snatched||Pune: A man snatched a gold chain worth Rs12,000 of a medical student (22) on the Bhandara Dongar (hillock) near Dehu, where she had gone with one of her friends on Saturday evening for offering prayers at the Sant Tukaram temple. Sub-inspector Rahul Koli of Talegaon MIDC police said the victim and her friend stayed in their college hostel in Talegaon. On the way back, the duo sat along the road. “They saw a person coming towards them. He went ahead and pretended to drink water from a pipe. Then he suddenly came near them, snatched the gold chain and disappeared into the bushes on the hillock,” Koli said. The student lodged a complaint on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gold-chain-worth-rs-12k-snatched/articleshow/80103986.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Delhi||Caught: Bihar gangster wanted in 16 heinous cases in last 5 months||NEW DELHI: Notorious interstate gangster Aditya Tiwari, who was wanted in 26 criminal cases ranging from murder to extortion and robbery, has been arrested by Special Cell of Delhi Police. DCP Pramod Kushwaha said in the past five months, Tiwari had committed 16 heinous crimes, 13 of them being extortion cases. The 24-year-old gangster was arrested by a team led by inspector Shiv Kumar, which began trailing him at the request of Bihar Police. A reward of Rs 50,000 had been announced by Bihar Police on information leading to the arrest of the accused, who was absconding since 2018. Tiwari had shifted base to Delhi four months ago after police mounted pressure on his syndicate. Kushwaha said his teams had been informed about two criminals from Bihar hiding in Delhi. After a week-long probe, police managed to get a tip-off about his movement. An informer told police that Tiwari would come near Rajokri flyover on Gurgaon-Kapashera link road to meet a contact. Subsequently, a joint team of policemen from Delhi and Bihar nabbed him after a brief scuffle around 7.45pm. Tiwari had been running an extortion racket in Bihar with his associate Manish and other members of his syndicate, who are currently being tracked down. Around 10 days ago, the accused had tried to extort from a Bihar resident through a voice message on his phone. The complainant was also asked to warn sub-inspector Dinesh, the Station House Officer of Vishambharpur police station in Gopalganj, of dire consequences if he continued chasing them. The criminal, who handled the on-ground operations of jailed ganglord Vishal Kushwaha, had shot into the limelight after an extortion bid on the owner of a hospital in Gopalganj in July last year. Tiwari and his gang members had shot at the doctor to terrorise him as he didn’t pay them the extortion amount. The gang members had also hurled four hand grenades at the hospital when the doctor lodged a complaint with the local police. They also fired at the hospital with AK-47 rifles and carbine machine guns, police said. A native of Pachrukhiya village in Gopalganj, Tiwari recently got his henchmen to fire at a contractor and another doctor for extorting Rs 20 lakh. A cloth trader was also shot at for not giving them money. Police said he had also killed a general store owner for refusing to pay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/caught-bihar-gangster-wanted-in-16-heinous-cases-in-last-5-months/articleshow/80104003.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Pune||20 of 44 PMC-run institutions begin with 5% attendance||PUNE: Twenty of the 44 schools run by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) reopened on Monday. Education officials said the response would improve as the week rolls by. The remaining 24 schools will reopen on Tuesday, they added. There are 7,400 students in civic schools with 4,000 pupils in standard IX, 3,000 in class X and around 400 in standard XII. Admissions to standard IX have not been completed. Hence, those classes have not started as yet. PMC’s education officer Shivaji Daundkar said, “In standard IX, 196 students were present, while in standards X and XII, the numbers were at 198 and 32 respectively. The remaining 24 schools run by private trusts will start from Tuesday.” Daundkar added that the numbers are sure to increase in the coming days especially in standards X and XII due to board examinations that are likely to be held in April and May. “Students and parents will feel more confident about sending their wards to school after seeing their peers attend school without any issues. Cleanliness is being taken care of by the respective ward offices. The PMC has already supplied all schools with soap, thermal guns, pulse oximeters and other equipment,” he added. Education officials who visited two schools found that the students were happy to be back in class. “They have met their friends and teachers after a long gap, and hence they were very excited to be back in school. Almost all teachers have done RT PCR tests, and not a single positive case has emerged,” he said. The state government had permitted reopening of schools from standards IX, X and XII from November 23, but because of the Covid-19 cases in the city, the PMC had decided to postpone the reopening till December 13. It was again postponed before the PMC decided to allow schools to start for the senior classes from Monday. Waiting to startSahil Kedari, a standard XI student of Vimlabai Garware school, said they were told to submit their leaving certificates on Monday, a process necessary while joining another institution. “We had no classes and no timetable was given to us. The college will let us know when the classes will start. We were instructed not to loiter and return home immediately,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/20-of-44-pmc-run-institutions-begin-with-5-attendance/articleshow/80103968.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 5, 2021||Kochi||Rs 1.9 crore cash seized from car, 4 in custody||ALAPPUZHA: Kayamkulam excise team seized Rs 1.88 crore cash from a car on NH 66 at Madhava Junction, Haripad here on Sunday. They took four persons in the car into custody, three of them being natives of Maharashtra. Excise inspector S Anirsha said they seized the money from the car during vehicle checking at around 11pm on Sunday. “We seized Rs 1,88,16,930 from the four persons in the car. They kept it under the mat in the car and under their dresses in special arrangements. The arrested are identified as Deepak of Thamarakulam, Kollam, Rajesh of Kallumthazham, Kollam, Athul of Pilappuzha, Karthikapally, Alappuzha and Prasanth, Chirakadavu Muriyil, Kayamkulam. Of them, Athul, Deepak and Prasanth, hail from Maharashtra and they settled in Kerala many years ago. All of them gave mismatching statements about the money and tried to mislead us,” said Anirhsa. “One of them told us that they went to Thrissur for buying gold from a wholesale shop. But they could not buy the gold as the shop was closed on Sunday. One of them told us that they got cash after they sold gold. But we felt they were lying and were hiding things from us. They could not prove the source of their money. They owned houses in Alappuzha and Kollam districts and they told us that they engaged in business related to gold ornaments. We also found extra tyre in the car, which we suspect may have been used for concealing something earlier. They were handed over to Haripad police on Monday for detailed investigation,” the excise officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/rs-1-9cr-cash-seized-from-car-4-in-custody/articleshow/80102772.cms||Sajimon P S
January 5, 2021||Pune||Pune civic body’s property tax revenue highest in 6 decades||PUNE: The nine months of the 2020-2021 financial year saw the civic administration mopping up the highest ever revenue from the property tax in six decades of its imposition — with the corporation adding over Rs1,300 crore in its coffers until December 31. According to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials, the civic body had collected close to Rs1,100 crore of property tax dues in the 2019-2020 fiscal. The officials cited the availability of the online payment facility and the introduction of the amnesty scheme for tax defaulters for the revenue boost. The PMC had started collecting tax from property holders in 1952. The amnesty scheme, offering 80% waiver on the penalty amount in the first phase, was introduced in 2020 to encourage defaulters to settle property tax dues. “The waiver helped the PMC in recovering the arrears,” PMC’s standing committee chairperson Hemant Rasane said. The PMC records show that owners of around 7.8 lakh properties cleared their tax dues in 2020-2021 fiscal. The amnesty scheme helped the PMC in recovering Rs350 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-bodys-property-tax-revenue-highest-in-6-decades/articleshow/80104006.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Visakhapatnam||4 Reds, including Maoist carrying Rs 4L reward, surrender||Visakhapatnam: Four Maoists, including a woman Maoist carrying a cash reward of Rs 4 lakh on her head, surrendered before deputy inspector general of police (Visakha Range) LKV Ranga Rao at the district police office in Vizag on Monday. The surrendered Maoists have been identified as Korra Seetha (25), area committee member (ACM) of Pedabayalu and a native of Sakirevu under Pedabayalu mandal in Vizag Agency; Pangi Musiri (36), militia commander of Busiput pocket; Korra Venkata Rao (37), militia member and Pangi Gopala Rao (55) alias Gopal, militia member. Ranga Rao said Seetha is an important member of the outfit in Pedabayalu Area Committee. Belonging to the local Kondu tribe, she had command over remote villages. Since 2010, Seetha has worked in various ranks in the party, including ACM of Pedabayalu, in Galikonda, Korukonda and Pedabayalu, among other areas. In the past decade, Seetha has been wanted for her involvement in various crimes, including nine cases of murder, blasting of land mine, six exchanges of fires, two ambushes, arson, one famine raid, one Praja court, as well as other cases. Police said Seetha surrendered due to ill-health and the struggle for food, sleep and other basic needs following the increasing combing operations by police. Speaking to reporters, Seetha said people lost faith in the Maoists for obstructing development activities. Tribal youth are not interested in joining the outfit and want development of the region instead, she added. Ranga Rao said the main reasons for the surrender of the Maoists are an increase in police combing operations, pressure from family members, extensive awareness programmes by police and development activities and a disillusionment with leaders of the party allegedly killing innocent tribals. The DIG called upon the Maoists to leave their weapons and to join the mainstream and assured that cases against those who surrender will be dropped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/4-reds-including-maoist-carrying-rs-4l-reward-surrender/articleshow/80102756.cms||Nalla.Babu
January 5, 2021||Delhi||Delhi HC permits woman to abort 25-week-old abnormal fetus||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Monday allowed a woman to medically end her 25-week pregnancy as survival of the fetus, suffering from serious abnormalities, was unlikely. The court allowed the petition by the 25-year-old pregnant woman who was seeking permission to abort the fetus on the ground that it was suffering from Bilateral Agenesis and Anlyaramni (both kidneys absent). Justice Navin Chawla granted the relief after the plea cited Section 3 of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act that does not permit termination of pregnancy in case the period of gestation is more than 20 weeks. The court had earlier set up a medical board at AIIMS to examine the condition of the woman, whose fetus was suffering from serious abnormalities. It had asked the medical superintendent of AIIMS to submit a report regarding the medical condition of the fetus and the possibility of the fetus not surviving the term of the pregnancy. She informed the court that during an ultra-sonography conducted on her, it was discovered that the fetus suffered from Bilateral Renal Agenesis thereby making it incompatible with life. She submitted that under the circumstances it would be futile to compel the petitioner to undergo the full terms of pregnancy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-permits-woman-to-abort-25-week-old-abnormal-fetus/articleshow/80104015.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Visakhapatnam||IIPE set to launch doctoral programmes this academic yr||Visakhapatnam: Nearly four years after classes commenced, the Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy (IIPE) has decided to launch doctoral programmes from this academic year in a number of research fields related to the petroleum and energy sectors. The Institute of National Importance would offer a maximum of 20 PhD seats in the starting year in disciplines such as biology (bioinformatics and molecular modelling based approaches for protein engineering), chemical engineering, chemistry, computer science (distributed systems and data sciences), mathematics, petroleum engineering among others. Research scholars would be offered a stipend/research assistantship equivalent to that of the IITs. IIPE started off its first batch in 2016 with two undergraduate engineering programmes—BTech petroleum engineering and BTech chemical engineering. Now, the institute is all set to introduce research programmes. IIPE director, Professor VSRK Prasad, said the major objective behind establishing the institute is to meet the quantitative and qualitative gap and supply of skilled manpower for the petroleum sector. “It is also mandated to boost research activities needed for growth of the sector. In this direction, we have now decided to launch doctoral programmes. A notification with regard to the same was issued a few days ago,” Professor Prasad said. He added that the research programmes would help the institute evolve as a knowledge resource centre for research-related activities in the petroleum and energy sector. “Apart from improving industry linkages and making the faculty continuous learners, the students would gain a lot from up to date knowledge of the faculty as it would be passed on to them. Being close to the advancements in their academic programmes, the students would also get insights into the latest scientific and technological happenings in the sector. If students are interested in some research work or want to publish a research paper, they can join the faculty and research scholars. Further down the road, the research work would make IIPE a distinguished and diverse educational institution in the petroleum and energy sectors,” said Dr Prasad. The IIPE director said that the institute is also planning to introduce two postgraduate programmes from the 2021-22 academic year — MTech (petroleum engineering) and MTech (energy). “During the recent General Council meeting, it was suggested the PG programmes be rolled out,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/iipe-set-to-launch-doctoral-programmes-this-academic-yr/articleshow/80103636.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
January 5, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Ramateertham case: Govt to hand over probe to CID||Visakhapatnam: The government has decided to hand over the probe into the desecration of the Lord Rama idol at the Sri Kodanda Ramaswamy temple at Ramateertham temple complex in Vizianagaram district to the Crime Investigation Department (CID). While there are several angles to the case, Vizianagaram police are struggling to get concrete information to identify the culprits. Speaking to TOI, Vizianagaram superintendent of police B Raja Kumari said as the incident took place atop the hill where there were no CCTV cameras or persons present at the time of incident, police are collecting clues and seeking people’s help to follow up on leads. While some persons have been interrogated so far, police are yet to gather any major clues. Raja Kumari said that in view of the prevailing circumstances at the Ramateertham complex and Covid-19 safety protocols, no public meetings or protests are being allowed at Ramateertham. The region witnessed large scale protests on Saturday, following which police deployed personnel as a safety measure. The SP also appealed to the people to support the police in connection with the case and added that they have imposed Section 30 of the Police Act, 1861. “We will initiate action against the violators of the Act,” Raja Kumari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ramateertham-case-govt-to-hand-over-probe-to-cid/articleshow/80102774.cms||Nalla.Babu
January 5, 2021||Nagpur||Neta turns teacher at Mohalla School started for needy students||Chandrapur: There are many examples of teacher turning into politician, but here is a local politician who has taken up the mantle of teaching school children whose education has been impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. Pappu alias Pradeep Deshmukh, a coroporator known for his innovative agitations, has turned a schoolteacher at the ‘Zero Contact Mohalla School’ that was launched thanks to his initiative. Deshmukh, who is also founder president of Jan Vikas Sena, and some of his acquaitances have been running the unique initiative in Wadgaon ward since a month. “While students of private schools are attending online classes, these children from poor strata of society are completely cut-off from studies. Even as schools are shut to prevent phyiscal contact among students, these children can be seen playing together against all Covid norms,” said Deshmukh. The school located near the municipal primary school in Wadgaon ward begins at 8am and concludes at 10am. The corporator said parents of such students are worried about loss of studies. “The school is the brainchild of Deshmukh and was started on his birthday on November 22 last year,” said his colleague and school mentor Akshay Yergude. According to Yergude, over 40 students from nursery to Std VIII regularly attend the school. “The teachers ensure social distancing and all other Covid precautions are followed. Students are admitted only after written request from their parents. A bunch of trained teachers are helping in the cause and holding classes,” he said. Deshmukh said he plans to start similar classes at 7-8 places in his ward. “It was just a pilot project which is running successfully,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/neta-turns-teacher-at-mohalla-school-started-for-needy-students/articleshow/80104035.cms||Mazhar Ali
January 5, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Hit by lockdown, L Vannamei broodstock now ready for sale||Visakhapatnam: The Visakhapatnam-based L Vannamei Brood-stock Multiplication Centre (BMC) has placed 15,000 pairs of specific pathogen free (SPF) L Vannamei broodstock for sale across coastal states in the country. The BMC is the only government centre in the country that imports L Vannamei baby shrimp from the Oceanic Institute of Hawaii Pacific University, then grows them into mother shrimp in Indian climatic conditions before selling them to hatcheries. The hatcheries develop shrimp seed for farmers. The BMC operates under the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Aquaculture (RGCA), a research and development wing of Kochi-based Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA), Union ministry of commerce and industry. Demand for L Vannamei is high in southeast Asian countries as well as in the US, said K Shanmukha Rao, chief executive officer, National Centre for Sustainable Aquaculture. “We give technical knowledge to 20,000 farmers across the country, thus helping in production of 50,000 metric tonnes of antibiotic free L Vannamei shrimp,” Rao added. BMC project in-charge and assistant project manager DVSN Raju said, “We were supposed to sell the broodstock last November, but postponed it to January due to Covid-19. Ten hatcheries from Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu have booked 2,000 pairs of broodstock. Each pair costs Rs 6,000 under the early-bird scheme that lasts up to January 10,” Raju told TOI. Each shrimp lays between two to three lakh eggs each time and has the capacity to lay eggs 10 times. RGCA project director S Kandan said, “We develop L Vannamei as one of the best broodstocks in the world. It can withstand all climatic conditions, disease and bring highest profits to hatcheries and farmers.” Speaking to TOI, MPEDA chairman KS Srinivas said Covid-19 affected seafood exports but sale of the Visakhapatnam BMC broodstock is a first step in recovery after the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/hit-by-lockdown-l-vannamei-broodstock-now-ready-for-sale/articleshow/80103668.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
January 5, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Head constable tries unfair means for son’s job, both held||NEW DELHI: A Delhi Police head constable was arrested, along with his son, for making someone else appear on behalf of his son in the Delhi Police constable recruitment exam held in November last year. The arrests were made on Sunday, following a complaint by the Staff Selection Commission (SSC). According to police, a complaint was received from SSC about a man appearing in place of a candidate for the constable recruitment exam. “The exam was being conducted in Muzaffarpur, Bihar, on November 27, 2020. The candidate who was to appear was Kashish (21), son of head constable Vineet who is deployed with the New Delhi railway station,” said a senior police officer. Kashish is pursuing BCom from open university. A case was registered with the Crime Branch and investigation was taken up. Investigations revealed that Vineet had arranged for a candidate from Hyderabad to appear in place of his son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/head-constable-tries-unfair-means-for-sons-job-both-held/articleshow/80104021.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Vijayawada||HC judges bid adieu to CJ Maheswari||Vijayawada: Chief Justice JK Maheswari on Monday said that he was proud of his tenure at the helm of Andhra Pradesh high court. The outgoing judge, who has been appointed Chief Justice of Sikkim, was felicitated by the high court. The farewell function was attended by the judges of high court who applauded Maheswari’s services. The registrar judicial said that 4,620 cases were resolved by the Andhra Pradesh high court during Justice Maheswari’s tenure with 2,650 cases being settled in the Lok Adalat held at the high court. Addressing the gathering, Justice Maheswari said that he, with the support of his colleagues, had worked to enhance the pride of the high court. The outgoing judge recalled his journey from his beginnings in a middle-income family and how he worked hard to reach his position. He said that he faced many challenges initially as the high court was newly formed. “We were able to host judicial officers’ conference successfully in my tenure and I thank my colleagues for their support. Conducting court proceedings in Covid-19 time is a big challenge and we managed to hear many important cases during this period successfully,” he said. Meanwhile, Justice Joymalya Bagchi sworn in as a Judge of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh on Monday morning. He was administered the oath of office by Chief Justice Maheswari. Justice Bagchi was transferred from Calcutta High Court where he was appointed as a permanent judge in June 2011.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-judges-bid-adieu-to-cj-maheswari/articleshow/80103613.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 5, 2021||Vijayawada||DGP: AP police should be role model for India||Tirupati: The first AP police duty meet in the temple city got off to a colourful start on Monday, with state DGP Gautam Sawang urging the force to become a role model for the rest of the country. “Safety and security are two basic fundamental tenets which every human being seeks. It is a sacred responsibility entrusted to the police to make every citizen of the state and the country feel safe and secure. Andhra Pradesh police has a rich legacy of being the frontrunners in terms of professionalism and professional competencies in the country. The motto of this duty meet is to rededicate ourselves in the pursuit of professionalism,” Sawang said. AP police also inked MoUs with IIT-Tirupati, IISER-Tirupati and IIIT-Sri City to help and train the cops in artificial intelligence, forensic science with focus on DNA finger printing, physical instrumentation and chemical analysis. Deputy CM K Narayanaswamy, Tirupati legislator Bhumana Karunakar Reddy, and senior police officials attended the inaugural event. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dgp-ap-police-should-be-role-model-for-india/articleshow/80103675.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Vijayawada||AP: Tobacco farmers wary over proposed changes in law||AMARAVATI: The new laws proposed by the Centre to restrict use of cigarettes is creating ripples among tobacco growers. Farmers’ associations say the move would affect livelihood of growers despite having adverse impact on the country’s economy. The Union health ministry issued the draft guidelines for the proposed amendments to the Cigarettes and other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) (COTPA Amendment) Bill, 2020, has led to a debate. The Federation of All India Farmer Associations [FAIFA] said the proposed amendments in COTPA Bill are unwarranted. It said the move would have huge impact on tobacco farmers and workers. Tobacco is one of the few cash rich crops cultivated in select soil regions in India. It is drought-tolerant, hardy, and a short-duration crop which can be grown on soils where other crops cannot be cultivated profitably. Presently, India stands second in the global production of tobacco (800 million kg) after China. It provides employment directly and indirectly to 45.7 million people, including 6 million farmers and 20 million farm labour engaged. “Tobacco is giving Rs 43,000 crore revenue to the government besides fetching Rs 6,000 crore in foreign exchange due to exports,” said Mittapalli Umamaheswara Rao, a leading tobacco exporter. “The proposed amendment in the Bill seeks to introduce excessive and arbitrary restrictions on sale of tobacco products and imposes penalties that are draconian and we are concerned that it will impair our livelihoods,” said FAIFA general secretary PS Murali Babu. The provisions of original COTPA were studied, debated and deliberated prior to its enactment to give due consideration to the impact of tobacco regulation on the livelihood of people involved in the tobacco sector, he said. “Similar amendments proposed to COTPA in 2015 were withdrawn in 2017 on the ground that a Bill amending COTPA should not be introduced until farmers shift to alternative crops. The government is yet to identify and help the growers migrate to other crops,” said Murali Babu. The growers and traders say the proposed amendment would terrorise retailers and traders, who would not want to engage in the business of sale of tobacco products at all, lest they be harassed under the pretext of the new law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tobacco-farmers-wary-over-proposed-changes-in-law/articleshow/80103569.cms||Samdani MN
January 5, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Man, 31, held on charges of raping 71-year-old neighbour||BENGALURU: A 31-year-old man who allegedly raped a 71-year-old homealone woman on Saturday after breaking into her house has been arrested. The accused was identified as Julie Rosa, who claims to be a transgender and lives with two of his friends in a rented house next to the survivor’s residence. The woman, Maya (name changed), approached Koramangala police with the help of relatives on Saturday evening and filed a case against the suspect. Maya told police she had finished her household chores by 2.30pm and was taking rest on the first floor of her duplex house when the miscreant entered her residence. “I heard the calling bell around 3pm and found my neighbour Rosa on the first floor. I asked him how he had entered my house. He told me the glass door of my house was broken. I went to to the ground floor and found the door was broken,” she told police. Maya alleged Rosa dragged her into a bedroom and sexually assaulted her. She stated in her complaint that she lost consciousness due to heavy bleeding and regained it only around 6pm. “I called my relatives over phone. They came to my house by 7.30pm and brought me to the police station,” Maya said. Koramangala police have registered a case of rape and house trespass against Rosa. A police team rushed to the spot and picked up Rosa. He was subjected medical examination and doctors confirmed he is a male. “We produced Rosa before the court, which remanded him in judicial custody. Further probe is under way,” a police officer said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/man-31-held-on-charges-of-raping-71-yr-old-neighbour/articleshow/80103267.cms||Santosh kumar.B
January 5, 2021||Vijayawada||Jagan Mohan Reddy to launch second edition of Amma Vodi on Saturday||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy will launch the second edition of Amma Vodi scheme in Nellore on Saturday. Around 44 lakh women would get Rs 15,000 for sending their wards to schools. The state government has also granted exemption from the 75% attendance rule keeping in view of the closure of the schools for most part of the academic year due to Covid-19. However, the streamlining of ration cards by the civil supplies department has resulted in elimination of several hundreds’ of eligible beneficiaries from Amma Vodi. Realising the anger of the parents, the school education department has started the re-verification process to include all the eligible beneficiaries in the final list. Teachers and staff in village/ward secretariats are on their toes for the past few days to update the beneficiaries’ lists as Monday was the last day to authenticate the beneficiaries’ lists. “Technical glitches in updating Aadhaar data has become a big headache in readying the lists,” said Y Prameela, a school head master. Meanwhile a deputation of municipal teachers, including HMs for Cambridge University sponsored training programme, aired their views. “We have made several requests at least to exempt HMs to assist parents get Amma Vodi. But our pleas were ignored resulting in at least 5-10 percent of parents missing the benefit in urban areas,” said S Ramakrishna, state president, Municipal Teachers Federation (MTF). Education minister Dr Adimulapu Suresh, however, assured that all eligible parents would get the benefit even after release of the final lists. “About 44 lakh mothers would get the benefit on January, 9 as the CM is launching the programme at Nellore,” said Suresh. He said that the state government is spending close to Rs 6,400 crore for the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jagan-to-launch-2nd-edition-of-amma-vodi-on-saturday/articleshow/80103628.cms||Samdani MN
January 5, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Moment of pride as inspector dad salutes DSP daughter in Tirupati||TIRUPATI: For Y Shyam Sundar, who has rendered nearly two decades of selfless service in the police department, moment couldn’t come prouder than this. On Monday Shyam Sundar was pictured, during the first state police meet in Tirupati, saluting his daughter Y Jessy Prasanthi who now serves as the deputy superintendent of police (DSP) in Guntur district. The heartening moment was captured and circulated on social media and went viral among netizens in no time. Speaking to TOI, DSP Jessy Prasanthi said that she was extremely moved by her father’s gesture to salute her at the state police meet. “My father is a role model and an inspiration for me. He has served the police department relentlessly over the years. This was the first time we came across each other on official duty and both of us were completely emotional when we saw each other. Following the ideals taught by my father, I will give my best in serving the people and the police department,” the 2018 batch DSP said. Meanwhile, Tirupati superintendent of police (SP) A Ramesh Reddy, who appreciated the young DSP for choosing to follow her father’s footsteps to serve the people, said that such heart-warming experiences should motivate more youngsters to consider joining the police forces as a career option. #APPolice1stDutyMeet brings a family together!Circle Inspector Shyam Sundar salutes his own daughter Jessi Prasan… https://t.co/LFHLWIMtRR— Andhra Pradesh Police (@APPOLICE100) 1609694673000Andhra Pradesh Police tweeted a pic of the father-daughter duo with the caption, "Circle Inspector Shyam Sundar salutes his own daughter Jessi Prasanti who is a Deputy Superintendent of Police with pride and respect at IGNITE which is being conducted at Tirupati."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/moment-of-pride-as-dad-salutes-daughter/articleshow/80103653.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
January 5, 2021||Bareilly||Two Mathura residents killed as car crashes into tree in Budaun||Bareilly: Two people were killed after the speeding car they were travelling in crashed into a tree near Karua Bridge in Ujhani area of Budaun district late Sunday night. The victims, Nand Kishore and Anil Kumar, both residents of Mathura district, were on their way to Bareilly to meet their relatives, said police, adding that one of them died on the spot while another on his way to a hospital. Police sent the bodies for autopsy informed their family about the accident.Ujhani police station SHO Vinod Kumar said, “The driver of the speeding car lost control over the vehicle and crashed into a tree. The collision was son massive that the co-traveller died on the spot, while the drive died on his way to the hospital. The bodies were handed over to their family after autopsy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-mathura-residents-killed-as-car-crashes-into-tree-in-budaun/articleshow/80100718.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 5, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Vizag police carry out safety audit at places of worship||VISAKHAPATNAM: In the wake of recent incidents of attacks on places of worship in Andhra Pradesh, Vizag city police have held meetings with committee members of various temples and conducted safety audits. Only a little over 37 per cent of places of worship in the city, it was found, have CCTV surveillance. City police data show that Vizag has 1,580 places of worship, which includes 1,223 temples, 263 churches and 95 masjids. As many as 982 establishments are yet to install CCTV cameras. Data also show that 1,533 places are equipped with proper lighting and 620 places have security guards or volunteers. To avoid a repeat of similar incidents, police have developed plans that state volunteers must sleep inside temples, created temple beats under all police station limits, preventing drunkards from roaming nearing temples, awareness of the modus operandi of criminals and observing their movements and roping in Mahila police for security at temples. Gopalapatnam police verified security measures at the Sri Varahalakshmi Nrusimha Swamy temple in Simhachalam and at temples located downhill, such as Bairava Kona temple, Pydimamba temple, Bangaruthalli temple and Sri Venkateswara Swamy temple. Police observed that temple authorities have recently posted four security guards at Bairavakona and Sri Venkateswarsa Swamy temples and installed 16 CC cameras at the uphill temple. Police also examined security measures in place at a number of temples in the city and asked committee members of the temples to improve security to prevent the occurrence of any untoward incidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-police-carry-out-safety-audit-at-places-of-worship/articleshow/80102807.cms||Nalla.Babu
January 5, 2021||Vijayawada||VMC sets up home for Vijayawada’s elderly population||VIJAYAWADA: With an aim to help the elderly who live alone and without support, the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) has undertaken an intiative of setting up an old age home in the city. The home will be established at Rajiv Nagar and is expected to be soon ready for inauguration. It will be able to accommodate 37 persons. Moved by stories of the elderly in need of care, VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh along with employees of VMC took the decision to start the old age home. “A couple of months ago our staff informed us that a volunteer had noticed a pensioner who was sick and in need of immediate attention. She was cast aside by her family members and there was no one to shift her to the hospital. I ordered our staff to attend to the case and provide treatment for her. But she died before our teams reached her. This incident moved me very much,” Prasanna Venkatesh said. “We have decided to provide a shelter with healthcare facilities and caretakers for the eldery who don’t have any support from their family. Our staff immediately accepted my proposal to the home and came forward to contribute,” Venkatesh said. Volunteers and ward secretaries who make door-to-door visits to distribute pensions and benefits of other welfare schemes will inform higher authorities about elderly persons living alone and “we will shift them to the shelter with their consent,” Prasanna Venkatesh added. The civic body has already arranged beds, kitchen and a dining room at the old age home and VMC staff have pitched in with voluntary contributions. “We have decided not to take any monetary support from the donors for running this old age home. Our staff will contribute to it and the civic body will provide resources. Donors can provide essential commodities,” estate officer Dr Nuthalapati Sridhar said. The civic body also hopes to construct additional floors and accommodate around 100 persons at the home by the end of 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vmc-sets-up-home-for-citys-elderly-population/articleshow/80102822.cms||Venu Lanka
January 5, 2021||Dehradun||Five members of inter-state held in Kotdwar loot case||Dehradun: Five members of an inter-state gang were arrested by the Pauri police on Monday. The arrest was made from Muzaffarnagar district of Uttar Pradesh in connection with the loot case that took place in Kotdwar on December 25. To recall, five armed persons broke into the house of one Pramod Kumar Prajapati and looted jewellery and cash worth several lakhs at gunpoint. “Seven teams were formed to work out the case and nab the culprits. On the basis of CCTV footage and other evidence collected from the crime spot, police traced the location of culprits to Muzaffarnagar from where all five accused were arrested,” said Deputy Superintendent of Police (Dy SP) Pauri, Anil Kumar Joshi. The arrested accused have been identified as Raj Kumar, Kapil Kumar, Sandeep Kumar, Sanjeev Kumar and Dheeraj, all residents of Muzaffarnagar district. During interrogation, prime accused Raj Kumar told the police that they hatched the plan of carrying out a loot at Prajapati’s house on the basis of inputs they received from one of his close relatives. They also confessed to committing a Rs 22 lakh robbery in Haridwar in September 2020. Police have also recovered valuables worth Rs 4 lakh and Rs 2.6 lakh in cash from their possession, said an official. Meanwhile, Uttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar on Monday announced a cash reward of Rs 20,000 for the police team which worked out the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/five-members-of-inter-state-held-in-kotdwar-loot-case/articleshow/80102008.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 5, 2021||Nashik||Woman cops’ good work recognized||Nashik: Commissioner of police Deepak Pandey on Monday felicitated woman police officers and constables who did outstanding work during a special drive to clear pending cases of crime against women. The felicitated woman officers and constables were from the city police commissionerate’s Zone 1 that comprises Adgaon, Sarkarwada, Bhadrakali, Panchavati, Mhasrool, Mumbai Naka and Gangapur police stations. Deputy commissioner of police Amol Tambe said a special drive was planned in December to clear all cases related to crime against women. “These cases were pertaining to abduction, rape, molestation, domestic violence and abetment of suicide. Women officers and constables were from police stations were sensitized about the importance of clearing the pending cases that were related to crime against women,” he said. “During one month’s time, complete investigation and documentation of 14 abduction, 20 molestation, three rapes and 36 domestic violence cases were completed and charge-sheets were filed in the court. Other than this, the preventive action was taken against 29 people accused in cases of crime against women,” he added. In a special remark, Tambe mentioned the name of constable Mangala Jagtap of Mumbai Naka police station who completed the investigation of a domestic violence case and submitted a charge-sheet against the accused in just 17 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/woman-cops-good-work-recognized/articleshow/80102007.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 5, 2021||Pune||Seven stray dogs & two crows found poisoned to death in Pimple Gurav||PUNE: Seven stray dogs were found poisoned to death, one of them stuffed in a gunny bag and burnt, since Sunday night at Shivneri colony in Pimple Gurav. Animal lover Vinod Murar (50), who claims to have had adopted one of these dogs, lodged an FIR with the Sangvi police. “We have registered an offence under sections 428 and 429 (both related to mischief by killing, poisoning, maiming or rendering useless any animal or animals) and Section 11 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. We are investigating the case,” inspector Ajay Bhosale of the Sangvi police told TOI. The bodies of the four stray dogs were found on Sunday night, while another three were found on Monday. Besides, two crows were found poisoned to death, residents said. Their bodies have been sent for postmortem. “In the early hours of Sunday, my five-year-old dog started shivering, vomited blood and died, following which we had decided to bury the animal in a ground near our house. When we reached the ground, we saw a half-burnt body of a dog there. The dog was stuffed in a gunny bag. I then became suspicious and called up Kunal Kamat of the stray dog feeders’ group in Pimple Gurav,” Murar said. Kamat said six puppies were also missing. “We found chicken pieces in the area and suspect someone must have given chicken laced with poison to these dogs,” he said. Monika Kamble of the stray dog feeders’ group said many canines in the area might have eaten the chicken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/seven-stray-dogs-two-crows-found-poisoned-to-death-in-pimple-gurav/articleshow/80104025.cms||Mihir Tanksale
January 5, 2021||Dehradun||Decomposed body of missing man found in Sainik Farm||Rudrapur: The decomposed body of a 45-year-old man was recovered by the Pantnagar police from Sainik Farm in Patharchatta area on Monday. The deceased was identified as Jaswant Singh, a resident of Sanjaynagar Pratham village of Bindukhatta area in Nainital district. The deceased had gone missing on December 27, told the police officials. Circle officer (CO) Amit Kumar said, “A watchman at Sainik Farm told us that a dead body was lying near Kalyani river. When we reached the spot, we found the decomposed body. Subsequently, we frisked the records and found that a missing complaint was registered at Lalkuan police station. The victim’s son was called to the spot and he identified him.” CO Kumar told TOI that the victim’s son said that his father was mentally challenged and had left the house without telling anybody. “We have sent the body for post mortem examination and will start the probe after the exact cause of death is ascertained,” CO Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/decomposed-body-of-missing-man-found-in-sainik-farm/articleshow/80102011.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 5, 2021||Pune||Eight of a family hurt as tempo tips over||Pune: Eight persons, including five women, were injured after a tempo they were travelling in hit a road divider and turned on its side following a deflation in the front tyre near Navale bridge on Katraj-Dehu Road Bypass on Sunday. An officer from the Bharati Vidypaeeth police said the incident occurred when the tempo was heading towards Katraj from Navale bridge. All the injured persons belong to a joint family in Paud. They were heading towards Sukhsagarnagar near Katraj to attend a wedding ceremony. “They were discharged from the hospital after primary treatment,” the officer said. “We are in the process of registering a case against the tempo driver. We have also called officials from the Regional Transport Office (RTO) for an analysis of the tempo, hired by the family to travel to the venue of the ceremony,” senior inspector Jagannath Kalaskar of the Bharati Vidyapeeth police said. Kalaskar said the probe indicated that the tempo driver lost the control over the vehicle due to the tyre deflation after it hit the road-divider. “All the family members managed to come out of the tempo and were shifted to a nearby hospital,” he said. Since none of the family members came forward to lodge a complaint, the police decided to register an FIR on their own.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/eight-of-a-family-hurt-as-tempo-tips-over/articleshow/80104037.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||For 3rd time, tender floated for East Fort subway project||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Smart City Thiruvananthapuram Limited has retendered the project for constructing a subway at East Fort under smart city project. This is for the third time, the project has been tendered. Two tenders issued earlier had received a single bid and the amount quoted was excessively higher than the project estimate. The officials said they are hopeful of finding competitive bidders this time so that project can be executed at an affordable cost. The contractor has reportedly quoted high price for the project taking into account risk factors involved in undertaking a project in a spot with high traffic volume. The project is implemented at a cost of Rs 22 crore. The project has also been incorporated with safety provisions like air and noise barriers during construction. The contractor will have to comply with NGT norms and follow all safety standards, including providing noise and air barriers, during the construction. Traffic management during the construction has also been included in the scope of work. The contractor shall be responsible for preparing the final execution plan in consultation with Smart City Thiruvananthapuram Limited and approval from agencies concerned will have to be taken. The contractor will have to get the traffic rerouting plan approved from authorities and approval shall have to be ensured prior to execution of the work. Upgradation and augmentation of footpath, providing road markings, utility trenching/ducting works, construction of new drains and street-light poles and landscaping will also be carried out as part of the project. Special emphasis is laid on preventing waterlogging in the area for which stormwater drains have been made one of the components. It will have inclusive elements for disabled and blind people. Tactile floors, disabled-friendly lifts with voice prompter and warnings ahead of obstructions will be integral components of the project. The integrated transit node will have four major components — subway, smart road, restoration of Gandhi park and construction of bus queue shelter. The road around Gandhi Park would be developed as smart road which will have stormwater drain and underground multi-utility ducting. The area in Gandhi Park which would be affected by the project will be restored under the scheme. As per the scope of work in request for proposal document, the integrated transit node at East fort envisions a well-connected, safe and accessible city centre with the integration of all public amenities like religious, commercial as well as city-level functions in a more cohesive and continuous way. The focus is on ensuring pedestrian safety in a place with high pedestrian footfall and recurring conflicts of pedestrian and vehicular movement, the document notes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/for-3rd-time-tender-floated-for-east-fort-subway-project/articleshow/80102841.cms||Aswin J Kumar
January 5, 2021||Nashik||Couple, their grandson injured in gas explosion||Nashik: Three members of a family suffered burns in an explosion from gas leakage in the Khutwadnagar area of the city on Monday morning. The injured have been identified as Bairam Pagar (56), his wife Pushpa (52) and their grandson Rohan. A fire tender from Satpur was rushed to the spot to douse the fire. Though the fire was doused, the entire bungalow was damaged in the explosion. Kumar Chaudhary, the senior police inspector of the Ambad police station, said, “There were two domestic gas cylinders in the house. One in the kitchen and other in the bathroom. Gas had leaked from one of the cylinders, which led to an explosion when someone tried to light the stove.”The explosion was so strong that a wall of the house was blown away and windscreen of a car parked nearby shattered. “Pushpa Pagar has suffered 80% burns, her husband, who tried to save her, suffered 40% burns, while their grandson escaped with minor injuries,” the PI said.The couple has been admitted to a private hospital while the child in another hospital. The couple’s son and daughter were on the other floor of the house at the time of the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/couple-their-grandson-injured-in-gas-explosion/articleshow/80102012.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 5, 2021||Rajkot||Rajkot: Ex-Cong councillor’s husband, two kin held for land grabbing||RAJKOT: In another case of land grabbing registered in Rajkot under the new law, a former Congress councillor’s husband and his family members were arrested for encroaching upon a plot of land on Gondal Road owned by a 60-year-old woman. In protest of the FIR, Congress workers submitted a memorandum to the district collector and police commissioner on Monday. The land grabbing offence was registered at Rajkot Taluka police station on Sunday night following an order by the district collector. The complainant Renu Mehta had given a complaint against the former Congress councillor’s husband Kanaksinh Jadeja, his father Mahendrasinh Jadeja and Mahavirsinh Jadeja on the illegal occupation of 2,126 square metre area of her ancestral land. Mehta, a resident of Nana Mava Road, alleged that the three accused intruded the land at Vavdi village in Rajkot through their men in September and started construction activity. A part of the compound wall was also breached by them. The land was purchased by Mehta’s mother Meenakumari Parekh from Kanaksinh’s grandfather in 1970. In her complaint, Mehta also stated that the accused are asking her to give money for the land they have illegally occupied and are threatening her. Kanaksinh was detained by police on Sunday night following the registration of FIR. Meanwhile, Congress party leaders alleged that the administration is harassing its leaders since the local body elections are around the corner. They have demanded that if Kanaksinh is not released, they will start a non-violent protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ex-cong-councillors-husband-two-kin-held-for-land-grabbing/articleshow/80104030.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Nashik||Cops mull cancelling licences of shopkeepers selling manja||Nashik: With an aim to tighten the noose around shopkeepers selling nylon manja, the Nashik police have now decided to send proposals of cancelling their shop licences to the concerned department. Over the past few days, the police have upped their ante against the shopkeepers found selling nylon manja. Spools of nylon manja have been seized from Bhadrakali, Panchavati and Gangapur areas of the city. “Despite taking action against the shopkeepers and seizing their stock, many shopkeepers are tempted to sale nylon manja to earn profits given that there is a huge demand for the sharp thread and its sale commands a heavy price as it has to be sold illegally. Thus, the purpose gets defeated,” said commissioner of police Deepak Pandey. “Against this backdrop, we have decided to take strict action against the shopkeepers. If the licence of the shop is cancelled, the shopkeeper would not be in a position to do any business. This in turn would deter other shopkeepers from selling nylon manja,” said Pandey adding that the action would be taken in a fortnight. The commissioner said they want to find out the source where manja is being manufactured. “According to our information, nylon manja is procured from Hyderabad. We are planning to take action against the manufacturers so that the import of this banned product stops completely,” said Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cops-mull-cancelling-licences-of-shopkeepers-selling-manja/articleshow/80102027.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 5, 2021||Nagpur||On Day 1 of school reopening, 14k students mark attendance||Nagpur: Just over 14,000 students attended schools across the city on Monday following a nine month hiatus. Attendance figures in Nagpur rural schools have more than doubled to 38,000 ever since reopening on December 14. Now that Nagpur city has finally joined the school reopening club, every district in Vidarbha now has schools/junior colleges operating. Agamveer Singh Renu, a Std XII student, said his first day in school was a pleasant surprise. “I thought I would be bored in school because of the multiple restrictions in place. But I did not even realize how the time went by and it was indeed a lot of fun,” said Renu. As of now, only Std IX-XII have permission to reopen in Maharashtra. Reopening is not mandatory, nor are parents bound to send their children to school. In Nagpur city, around 11% of parents allowed their wards back on campus. Chintaman Vanjari, district education officer, said, “The attendance figures as well as consent statistics will definitely go up. We have seen that happen in schools outside the city limits and the same pattern will be repeated here. It’s natural for all parents to be initially apprehensive but when they hear about the safety protocols through other students, their approach too changes.” Vanjari’s claim is backed up by evidence. Across Maharashtra, the trend of rising attendance in schools is seen. Ever since schools reopened on November 23, attendance figures have jumped more than 300%. Post Christmas break figures are awaited and it is expected the increase will breach the 500% mark. Adarsh Vidya Mandir (Gandhibagh) witnessed a strong response from students with more than 50% landing up in school. Ashnarayan Tiwari, principal of the institute, said, “We had to split the students as more than expected came to campus. While it’s clear that slowly more and more students will start attending school, this brings a bigger challenge for all of us. The government needs to bring in a policy for testing all students as this will help avert problems later.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/on-day-1-of-school-reopening-14k-students-mark-attendance/articleshow/80104060.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
January 5, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Vehicles used for reclaiming Akkulam wetlands seized||Thiruvananthapuram: A revenue team led by sub-collector Madhavikutty M S seized four vehicles that were used for reclamation of wetland at Akkulam on Monday. The vehicles were impounded by Thumba police. The sub-collector had received a complaint on reclamation and conversion of wetland at Akkulam from Sanjeev S J, president of environment protection council. Attipra village officer submitted a report to the sub-collector regarding reclamation of the wetland. The sub-collector directed police to register a case against the people engaged in reclamation of wetland. The sub-collector inspected the site on Monday along with revenue officials and seized the vehicles. The officials said the land on which levelling was done has been notified as wetlands. The action was carried out invoking relevant sections of Kerala conservation of paddy land and wetland act, 2008. The provisions state that the wetlands of the state shall be maintained as such and there shall be a total prohibition on reclamation of wetland and removal of sand. It empowers an authorised official to seize any vehicle or implements used in contravention of the provisions of the act and send a report to the district collector for initiating proceedings for their confiscation. The collector is also empowered by the act to restore the original position of any paddy land or wetland reclaimed violating the provisions of the act and realize the cost incurred in this regard from the holder or occupier of the said paddy land or wetland, as the case may be, so reclaimed after giving him a reasonable opportunity of being heard. The president of environment protection council said Akkulam lake was levelled and encroached upon by land mafia some time ago. “In 2019, a stop memo was issued against unauthorised levelling and reclamation. There was no order revoking the stop memo and yet land-levelling went on unabated,” Sanjeev said. The state government is in the process of implementing a project to rejuvenate Akkulam lake. Despite spending 10 years on another project for lake revival, the government had ended up losing crores due to unscientific dredging process which even invited a vigilance probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/vehicles-used-for-reclaiming-akkulam-wetlands-seized/articleshow/80102881.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Nashik||3 Mumbai youths on their way to Shirdi die in bike accident, 2 survive||NASHIK: Three of five youths from Mumbai, who were on their way to Shirdi on two motorcycles, died after being run over by a speeding truck. Two of the young men survived. While one is under treatment at a private hospital in Nashik, the other who received minor injuries, has returned to his home in Vile Parle. The deceased have been identified as Vaijnath Jalinder Chavan (21), Siddharth Bhagwan Bhalerao (22) and Ashish Mahadev Patole (19) — all residents of Dr Ambedkar Nagar, Shitala Devi Chawl in Vile Parle, Mumbai. Rakesh Shewale, the API of the Ambad police station, said the accident took place around 12.45 am on Sunday on the elevated corridor over the Mumbai-Agra highway opposite Lekha Nagar. “The five friends from Mumbai were riding just two bikes. On top of the flyover (opposite the Bal Bharati office), the bikers were riding side by side. While the biker on the left had one pillion, the one on the right had two. Suddenly, an unidentified vehicle sped past them — getting very close. The biker on the right lost control and rammed into the bike on his left. In the process, all five youths fell off their respective bikes. A truck, which was right behind the bikers, ran them over. Three of the youths died on the spot,” said Shewale. Nilesh Dhawade (22), who was the pillion on the bike ridden by Siddharth Bhalerao, fell a little distance away and received minor injuries. Passers-by immediately called the police. The deceased and the injured youths were taken to the Nashik civil hospital. Shewale said the other injured youth, Anil Wakale, has shifted to a private hospital in Nashik. A complaint has been registered against the unidentified truck driver who mowed down the youths and fled the scene. Shewale said the spot where the accident took place is on the downward slope of the flyover and it is difficult to control the speed of heavy vehicles there. Nonetheless, the truck driver should have maintained sufficient distance from the bikers. The case is being investigated further, added Shewale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/3-mumbai-youths-on-their-way-to-shirdi-die-in-bike-accident-2-survive/articleshow/80102023.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 5, 2021||India||Post-vaccination, those reinfected may have milder symptoms: Guleria||NEW DELHI: Even as chances of reinfection with Covid-19 are low, vaccination against Covid-19 is likely to protect people from severe symptoms if a fresh infection occurs after the immunity from the vaccine lapses, says AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria. Dr Guleria said long term studies will be required to assess how long immunity lasts among vaccinated people. But, even in case of reinfection, it is more likely to be mild. Doctors said the immunity from the current vaccines may last for 9-12 months. However, since these are current generation vaccines, both efficacy and immunogenicity of Covid vaccines are likely to improve in future. “Even if one has recovered from Covid-19, they can still benefit from vaccination. There is evidence in hospitalised patients that the infection was so overwhelming that the immune response became exhausted and so immune memory to the virus was not created efficiently. Also, if you had a very mild infection, your immune system may not have reached a required level to give protection for a long time. So vaccination can help irrespective of severe or mild disease,” a health ministry official said. The drug regulator on Sunday announced approvals to two vaccine – Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin — against SARS-CoV2 infection — for restricted emergency use. The government is now likely to roll out the mega vaccination drive soon to inoculate 30 crore priority population in the first phase by July. The government has also said that it is advisable to receive a complete schedule of the vaccine irrespective of past history of infection as it will help in developing a strong immune system. However, experts emphasise that wearing of masks, social distancing and hand hygiene practices should continue to rule out any reinfection even after vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/post-vaccination-those-reinfected-may-have-milder-symptoms-guleria/articleshow/80106535.cms||Sushmi Dey
January 5, 2021||Hyderabad||ZP schoolgirls walk away with top innovation honour||HYDERABAD: Three girls from a zilla parishad high school bagged top prize for their zero-waste Sthree Raksha Pads at grand finale of Telangana School Innovation Challenge held in the city on Monday. The competition for the event was evident from the fact that more than 7,000 teams had submitted their ideas, with only 25 making it to finale. Students from Mahabubabad earned second spot for their multi-purpose bag for agricultural use to balance physical pressure on the complete body. Idea of organic chalk pieces by students from Adilabad fetched them third price. “School Innovation Challenge is a practical example of how to identify a student’s creativity. From the number of schools to teachers to students, the decentralised efforts led to organic growth of the challenge. These challenges should be organised in every district and I request the education department and Telangana State Innovation Cell to look at sector-specific innovation event that can lead to ecosystems being built,” said KT Rama Rao, IT minister, Telangana. He said that while interacting with students, he learnt that all the ideas came from problems faced by their communities. “Beyond innovation, the change in government school students is witnessed through clarity of thought,” he said. Education minister Sabitha Indra Reddy, referring to the vision of CM K Chandrasekhar Rao, said innovation challenge is a creative approach to nurture kids even during pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/zp-schoolgirls-walk-away-with-top-innovation-honour/articleshow/80104055.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
January 5, 2021||Dehradun||7-yr-old boy crushed under mining truck||Nainital: A seven-year-old boy identified as Mithun was crushed by a mining truck in Haldwani on Monday morning. Enraged passersby started pelting stones at the truck and thrashed the fleeing driver before police stepped in. Several local children – many of whom live in the slums near Gaula River – would often come to play in the area where the incident took place. Talking about the case, station house officer (SHO) Sanjay Kumar said, “The boy’s parents lived in a nearby slum and worked as labourers.” He added that Mithun was playing near the river when the truck hit him and its front tyre crushed him. The locals also tried to set the truck on fire, but police officials reached on time and talked to the parents. After deliberations, police were able to persuade the locals to let go of the driver and not damage the truck. Kumar added, “We have arrested the driver and seized the truck. An FIR has been filed against him under Section 304-A of the IPC (causing death by negligence). We have sent the boy’s body for post-mortem and an investigation is underway.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/7-yr-old-boy-crushed-under-mining-truck/articleshow/80102032.cms||Prashant Jha
January 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Accidents dip, but new black spots a worry||HYDERABAD: In a disturbing development, black spots in the city have gone up to 30 from just 20 in 2019, even as road accidents, including fatal ones, have come down in 2020. Hyderabad police said they are now declaring a location a black spot even if non-fatal mishaps occur frequently. As per the Union ministry of road transport & highways, a location will be declared a black spot if five mishaps, either fatal or non-fatal ones, take place in a stretch of 500 metres. Lack of traffic signals at a few busy areas are a major cause of accidents. At Lakdikapul on the stretch between Rangareddy collectorate and Ravindra Bharati, accidents are regularly happening at the inter-junction near Old Saifabad police station. Motorists moving from Secretariat and heading towards Lakdikapul flyover have to travel diagonally to pass through the junction, which obstructs free flow of traffic coming on the stretch between Rangareddy collectorate and Ravindra Bharathi. As a result, manning of the junction became mandatory as there are no signals. At other black spots like Maitrivanam in Ameerpet and Umesh Chandra statue at SR Nagar, speeding and pedestrians ignoring Metro stations, which act as road over bridges (RoBs), are primary reason for many accidents. Locals said setting up rumble strips on the wide road could alert motorists to control speed. At Panjagutta crossroads, signal jumping, especially during night-time and right-turn by motorists despite being barred, are primary cause of road accidents. On the other hand at GHMC zonal office, Khairatabad, the stretch becomes narrow due to a religious structure in the middle of the road, causing confusion as motorists have to circumvent it. Motorists come at high speed from Nirankari side, but have to cut acceleration and take right diversion.  Road No. 3 Banjara Hills and the Erragadda- Maitrivanam stretch continue to pose serious threat to road users. Lack of gaps in median, not following lane discipline by motorists were adding to blood spill on the roads. At Sangeet junction, crossing the road is still a herculean task. Police said new black spots cropped up in SR Nagar, Panjagutta, Saifabad, Asif Nagar, Tolichowki, Falaknuma, Bahadurpura, Charminar, Malakpet, Sultan Bazar, Mir Chowk, Nampally, Kachiguda, Marredpally and Trimulgherry police station limits. Hyderabad additional commissioner of police (Traffic) Anil Kumar said. “In most accidents, we found it was due to human error and not due to any engineering defects. Whenever we come across any engineering problem or others, we coordinate with GHMC.’’ In 2019, Hyderabad recorded 2,496 accidents, while it logged only 1,645 in 2020, due to lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-accidents-dip-but-new-black-spots-a-worry/articleshow/80104061.cms||Srinath Vudali
January 5, 2021||Nagpur||3 UK variant suspects discharged as NIV finds samples unfit||Nagpur: After keeping them pending for 5-10 days, National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, on Monday informed Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) that swab samples of three of the eight suspected patients of Covid-19 virus variant that emerged in UK were not eligible for genome sequencing as their RT-PCR tests were negative. Accordingly, the GMCH has discharged the three suspected patients — 28-year-old man from Nandanvan, 35-year-old man from Narendra Nagar and 42-year-old woman from Wardhaman Nagar. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B told TOI, “NIV first did RT-PCR test on swab samples of the three suspected patients. As the reports came negative, genome sequencing could not be done. It is a major relief for the city that no case of the new variant has been detected till date,” he said. He informed that swab samples of three of the remaining five patients are under consideration by NIV and results are likely in next two-three days. These three patients are mother (42)-daughter (16) duo from Deendayal Nagar and a 35-year-old man from Mahal. The civic chief also said swab samples of remaining two suspected patients were sent after they tested negative. “To get desired results, GMCH has obtained old samples which had tested positive and will be sending them to NIV on Tuesday,” he said. These two patients are six-year-old son of the Mahal resident and 38-year-old man from Vitthalwadi. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde said, “It is a simple understanding that genome sequencing is done only if virus is present in swab samples. Also, patients of Covid-19 are not infectious after 10 days,” he said. It raises a big question on GMCH and NMC which sent swab samples of three suspected patients to NIV after they tested negative in retest. Also, the patients were not discharged from special ward of GMCH for want of results from NIV. Youth from Nandanvan was admitted on December 23 and completed 12 days in GMCH and 20 days after testing positive. He had returned from UK on December 2 and tested positive in rapid antigen test on December 15 after developing symptoms. His four family members also tested positive on December 15 and 16. The youth tested negative at GMCH on December 24. The same day, after TOI alerted the civic chief, the NMC through IGGMCH sent swab samples of three family members of the youth to NIV. Samples of all four were sent to NIV on December 25. TOI on January 2 had reported there are little chances of first suspected patient coming negative or positive for UK variant as his swab samples were sent after testing negative in retest. Radhakrishnan said, “Results of three family members are also awaited.” They are in home isolation. Man from Narendra Nagar returned from UK on November 28 and reported positive on December 26 after NMC asked him to get tested. He too tested negative after admission at GMCH. His samples were sent to NIV on December 27. Woman from Narendra Nagar arrived in Mumbai from UK on December 5 and reached city on December 16. She also went for test following NMC’s call. She tested positive on December 28 but admitted on December 30. Her samples were sent to NIV on December 30. GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra said they have been directed to send samples of all suspected patients to NIV. “We are not microbiologists and NIV has the expertise,” he said. NMC officials said, “Government had made RT-PCR tests mandatory for all persons who returned from countries of Europe, Middle East and South Africa between November 25 and December 23. SoPs also mentioned their swab samples have to be sent to NIV. We have to follow government guidelines,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-uk-variant-suspects-discharged-as-niv-finds-samples-unfit/articleshow/80104110.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 5, 2021||Dehradun||Outsourced employees working in polytechnic institutes to be reinstated||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand higher education department has ordered the officials of the polytechnic institutes to reinstate outsourced employees. The order comes after the institutes complained of a staff crunch as outsourced employees completed their contractual period. Earlier, the department had decided to not renew the contracts of the outsourced employees. Meanwhile, the department has also ordered officials to speed up the process for the construction of the Industrial Training Institute (ITI) centres in Srinagar and Thalisain. Notably, the department has completed several formalities regarding the same and the construction of the institute will start after the state government gives the nod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/outsourced-employees-working-in-polytechnic-institutes-to-be-reinstated/articleshow/80102036.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Soaring bus fares and fewer trains turn Sankranti spoilers||HYDERABAD: With less than two weeks for the festival of Sankranti, people who plan to go to their native places have no easy way to go home. With reservations for buses and trains almost full, the private bus operators and cabs using own plate (white number plate) have hiked the fares drastically in the last few days. On the other hand, despite extending the festival special trains that are heading towards Andhra Pradesh and other states, there is a waiting list of 250 to 500 to some places between January 9 and 13, with chances of seat confirmation very bleak. G Sunita, a resident of Miyapur said, “We usually travel by train because the ticket prices are less compared to cabs or private buses. But this year, when I wanted to book tickets for myself and my parents from Secunderabad to Vishakapatnam, the waiting list was 163 in a sleeper class compartment. The railways should increase the number of special trains or it is going to be very difficult for people like us.” SCR officials said, “The waiting lists are being monitored systematically to plan for more special trains.” So far, SCR has announced 58 festival special trains originating and terminating from the zone to cater to the passenger rush. With no other option, Sunita had to pay Rs 7,500 for three people to a private bus operator to book tickets for their travel during the festival. “The ticket cost in a private bus from Hyderabad to Vishakapatnam is usually between Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,500. But since there are not enough TSRTC buses or trains available, the private players are charging three times the usual amount,” she said. Many say that the option of travelling by private cabs is also getting too expensive, as a one-way trip to districts across Telangana, AP, Bengaluru and a few places in Maharashtra from Hyderabad are costing between Rs 7,000 to Rs 13,000, depending upon the type of car. “I regularly travel in these private cabs from Hyderabad to my native place in Kurnool. Usually, they charge anywhere between Rs 500 to Rs 1500 depending on the number of passengers and distance but since Friday evening, they are charging four to five times the amount,” said P Ramaprasad, a resident of KPHB. Shaik Salauddin of Telangana Four Wheeler Drivers Association said that there is a significant increase in these illegal cab services every festive season, especially near Uppal, LB Nagar, Aramgarh and airport areas. “We conducted special drives last month to seize these vehicles that are operating illegally and fleecing passengers. While our team has seized about eight such vehicles near Uppal, another five to six vehicles were seized near LB Nagar with the help of police,” said P Ravinder, RTO, Uppal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/soaring-bus-fares-and-fewer-trains-turn-sankranti-spoilers/articleshow/80104047.cms||Moulika.KV
January 5, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Two call centres under scanner for threats over loan recovery||PUNE: The police are investigating two call centres — one each in Pune and Mumbai — accused of making threatening and abusive phone calls to a man and a woman, who took small loans through instant financing applications. Police said the complainants, a man and a woman, had secured the loans after they lost their jobs during the lockdown. The woman, who used to make a living as a domestic helper, had taken a loan of Rs7,000 while the man, who was a salesman with a private company, borrowed Rs20,000. Last Thursday, they lodged separate complaints stating that they were being abused and threatened by tele-callers who demanded that the money be returned. “The woman broke down while filing her complaint. She told us she was feeling suicidal. It is a very serious crime to name, shame, abuse and threaten those who borrow money,” deputy commissioner of police (cyber) Bhagyashri Navatake told TOI. “Both secured the loans through mobile apps. When they failed to repay EMIs, prompting these abusive calls from the call centres,” senior inspector Rajkumar Wakchaure of the cybercrime cell said. “Both the call centres are licensed and have been operational for a few years. But this does not mean they can abuse people,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-call-centres-under-scanner-for-threats-overloan-recovery/articleshow/80104105.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Two directors of firm held for duping staff||HYDERABAD: Central Crime Station (CCS) police arrested three persons, including two directors of a software company, for allegedly duping employees of about Rs 1 crore. Sanjay Kanodia, 52, Seema Kanodia, 48, directors of M/s Pervacio India Pvt Ltd, and the company employee, Bheemreddy Shamsundar Reddy, 40, were arrested. CCS Joint Commissioner Avinash Mohanty, in an official statement issued on Monday, said: “The main accused, the directors, have 61 employees. The accused deducted nearly Rs 1 crore from their employee salaries towards PF, TDS and failed to remit the same in respective accounts with the departments concerned.” The company has office in Jubilee Hills and police arrested the trio on Monday. They would be produced before court for judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-directors-of-firm-held-for-duping-staff/articleshow/80104056.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Hyderabad||SCB ward members rush to get works done in fag end of tenure||SECUNDERABAD: With just over a month left for the completion of the current Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) elected members’ tenure, ward members are mounting pressure on the heads of the government departments concerned over sanction of various pending works. The term will end on February 10. A few ward members have also reached out to SCB chief executive officer B Ajith Reddy. Sources said that at least two to three works are grounded in each ward everyday. Meanwhile, works pertaining to laying of sewer trunks at Ramannakunta are moving at a brisk pace. Road repairs and laying of new water and sewer lines have also begun. “After receiving funds of nearly Rs 35 crore from the state government, the SCB officials have sanctioned Rs 2 crore for each ward,” SCB vice-president J Maheshwar Reddy said. “Once the works are sanctioned, at least a month’s time is taken for finalising tenders, therefore, the ward members have rushed to the board office to obtain clearances,” he added. Ward members are also inviting ministers Ch Malla Reddy and T Srinivas Yadav for inauguration of works that have been completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-ward-members-rush-to-get-works-done-in-fag-end-of-tenure/articleshow/80104062.cms||Sunil Mungara
January 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Man gets life term for minor’s rape||Hyderabad: A 25-year-old labourer was sentenced to life imprisonment by a local court for the rape of a 12-year-old girl in 2016. The offender, Ch Sailu, 25, befriended the 12-year-old girl from his neighbourhood in KPHB police station limits and took her to Visakhapatnam by promising to marry her. “At Visakhapatnam, he raped the girl. Based on the complaint of the victim’s family, we have registered a case against the accused and arrested him,” said assistant commissioner of police (ACP), of Shadnagar, Ch Kushalkar, who investigated the case in 2016. After the trial, the I Additional District Judge Court, LB Nagar, on Monday convicted Sailu under Sections 366 (A), 376 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act 2012 and sentenced him to life imprisonment along with 10,000 fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-gets-life-term-for-minors-rape/articleshow/80104112.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 5, 2021||Pune||Pune city to get six new police stations, Pimpri Chinchwad 3||PUNE: A meeting of senior police officers and government officials, chaired by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, in Mumbai on Monday approved the proposals for setting up six new police stations in Pune city, besides three in Pimpri Chinchwad and one in Pune rural. In Pune city, the new police stations would be Wagholi, Kharadi, Kalepadal, Phursungi, Nanded City and Baner. Mhalunge, Ravet and Shirgaon police stations would come up in Pimpri Chinchwad. Uruli Kanchan would be the new addition to police stations in rural Pune. An office of the sub-divisional police officer would be opened at Shirur near Pune. State home minister Anil Deshmukh, MLAs Ashok Pawar (Shirur), Sunil Tingre (Vadgaonsheri), Chetan Tupe (Hadapsar), additional chief secretaries Sitaram Kunte (home) and Debashish Chakravarty (finance), director-general of police Subodh Kumar Jaiswal, finance secretary Rajiv Mittal, PMRDA commissioner Suhas Divse, and Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioners Amitabh Gupta and Krishna Prakash, respectively, attended the meeting. Wagholi, Kharadi and Phursungi police stations would be carved out of the existing police stations at Lonikand in rural Pune and Chandannagar, Wanowrie, Hadapsar and Kondhwa in Pune city. Baner police station would be carved out of the Chatushrungi (in Pune) and the Hinjewadi police station (in Pimri Chinchwad) areas, while Nanded City would be carved out of the Haveli police station area in rural Pune. The Pune district planning committee would provide Rs1 crore each to Pune city and Pune rural police, and Rs2 crore to the Pimpri Chinchwad police for purchasing vehicles. Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said, “We wanted new police stations at Wagholi, Kharadi, Kalepadal, Baner and Nanded City. The government accepted our proposal, but it wants us to open a new police station at Phursungi. The government also wants Bavdhan, under the Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits, to be a part of the Baner police station. We shall submit fresh proposals with these in three days.” Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash said, “The government has agreed in principle to give three more deputy commissioners of police.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-city-to-get-six-new-police-stations-pimpri-chinchwad-3/articleshow/80104090.cms||Asseem Shaikh
January 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Sangareddy branch of SC corporation drives in She Cabs||HYDERABAD: In a move to provide equal opportunities and economic empowerment to SC women, the Sangareddy branch of SC corporation launched She Cabs in the district on Monday. Finance minister T Harish Rao who handed over the keys to 18 women drivers of She Cabs at the collectorate travelled in one of the She Cabs driven by a beneficiary and called upon women cab drivers to make the initiative successful so that similar opportunities could be provided to more women across the state. The minister said that the SC corporation has provided vehicles to women by spending about Rs 1.32 crore as a pilot project in Telangana. “The success of the programme will make it possible to extend the scheme to other districts. I request the SC corporation officials and the traffic police to help them sustain themselves for the first three months and at the same time, we will also try to link these cabs with some companies who hire vehicles on a monthly basis so that there will be an income to drivers,” said Rao, adding that the state government has been extending subsidy to the extent of 90% for SC beneficiaries and that nearly 1.6 lakh SCs benefited with a spending of Rs 2,300 crore by the government so far. In the pilot project, the corporation tied up with Uber to utilise the She Cab services in Hi-Tec City to provide safe transportation for women in the IT sector. SC corporation executive director Babu Rao said the women had successfully completed their training and the cars were bought with loans and the corporation providing 60% subsidy. “All women drivers are given safety kits along with pepper spray to protect themselves in case of emergency. Out of 25 women who were trained in driving, 18 of them passed the driver’s license tests and were handed over the keys in the pilot programme,” said Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sangareddy-branch-of-sc-corporation-drives-in-she-cabs/articleshow/80104067.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Hyderabad||TSRTC parcel services rake in Rs 15 crore revenue||HYDERABAD: The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation’s (TSRTC) cargo and parcel services seems to be garnering a decent response with the demand for transportation of bulk goods growing significantly. According to the officials, the first day saw approximately Rs 15,000 as revenue. But as of December, a total revenue of Rs 15 crore has been realised by transporting over 15 lakh parcels and another Rs 4 crore has been realised from both private and government cargo services. After passenger transport was abruptly stopped due to the pandemic, TSRTC launched the cargo and parcel services on June 19, 2020 to overcome the revenue deficit. “While the home delivery services of parcels still need to pick up, the regular cargo and parcel services, expanded to 147 bus stations, are seeing a decent turnover. As far as the home delivery is concerned, agents have been deployed in Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka and other places. So, parcels from all these places can be delivered to Hyderabad and vice versa,” said TSRTCPCC special officer S Krishna Kanth. According to RTC officials, MGBS and JBS bus stations have been involved in dispatching and receiving parcel counters. “On arrival at receiver counters in JBS and MGBS, the parcels will be segregated as per the pin code of the area for handing over to the receiver at the doorsteps,” said Krishna Kanth. TSRTC has also roped in three agencies, Dunzo, Smart Ship Logistics and Adnigam for dispersal of parcels at JBS, MGBS and Kukatpally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsrtc-parcel-services-rake-in-rs-15cr-revenue/articleshow/80104074.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Agra||9 new Covid-19 positive cases detected in Agra||AGRA: Nine new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Monday evening, taking the district’s tally to 10,295. Among those infected were two staffers of Agra Municipal Corporation. A total of five people were tested positive in random testing conducted by the health department. Meanwhile, 31 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Monday. Out of the 10,295 cases reported in the district, 96.94% have been declared cured of the infection and discharged till date. The number of active Covid-19 cases decreased from 167 on Sunday to 145 on Monday. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “The sample positivity rate has reduced to 2.34%. So far, 9,980 people have recovered and discharged from hospital. People who had come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened. Random testing is being conducted in different parts of the city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/9-new-covid-19-positive-cases-detected-in-agra/articleshow/80102055.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Nashik||Stir for Nandgaon train halt||Nashik: The residents of Nandgaon staged an agitation against the Railways and observed a bandh over the cancellation of the stoppage of all five trains at the taluka headquarters. These trains helped the villagers in their travel to Nashik and even Mumbai. Lead by MLA Suhas Kande, the commuters presented them a memorandum seeking immediate starting of the train halt at Nandgaon. “There were five trains that helped villagers reach Nashik and Mumbai for their daily jobs. The Railways on December 29 announced cancellation on the stoppages of all the trains and instead announced a stoppage at Nepanagar. We are at loss to understand this,” said Tushar Pande, the taluka president of the railway commuters’ association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/stir-for-nandgaon-train-halt/articleshow/80102089.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 5, 2021||Nashik||Water released from dams for rain-shadow regions||Nashik: The district administration has released water from the Gangapur and Darna dams to meet irrigation and drinking needs of Ahmednagar, Aurangabad and Nashik districts. The rotation of water — process of release from the dams — will continue for about 30 days and about 2 thousand million cubic feet (TMC) water will be released from both the dams. “The water needs of the people in Ahmednagar, Aurangabad and Nashik districts are met by the Godavari left bank canal and the right bank canal,” said Sagar Shinde, executive engineer of Nashik Irrigation Division (NID), water resources department. The water released from the two dams meets the needs of the residents living in the rain-shadow areas like the Rahata and Kopargaon talukas in Ahmednagar district, Vaijapur in Aurangabad district and parts of Niphad and Sinnar talukas in Nashik district. The water released will flow through the Godavari river for a distance of about 45km from each of the dams and thereafter flow for another 100km in the canals of the river that were constructed by the British in 1909. The current water discharge is being carried out for the first time since the end of the monsoon season. The last time water was discharged for these rain-shadow regions was around seven months ago. About two more rotations will be carried out for the region at regular intervals depending upon the need for replenishing water resources like wells and minor irrigation tanks that are fed by the water from the canals. A total of 5,000 hectare of the land will also be irrigated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/water-released-from-dams-for-rain-shadow-regions/articleshow/80102058.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 5, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Downturn can’t dent ponk demand||SURAT: For the die-hard Surti foodie who swears by ‘Surat nu jaman and Kashi nu maran’ (meal of Surat and death in Kashi) food is spelt as salvation — even from pandemics of all size and duration! So, what if a year was spoilt by Covid-19, green ponk is the proper panacea for all the aching spirits. And thus, this year of uncertainties too will get its share of send off from Surtis with a huge ladle of steaming roasted ponk. Along with vaccines, ponk is keeping the market on a high with freshly roasted delicacy coing for as high as Rs 500 per kg, adversities or none! Ponk is tender roasted sorghum, enjoyed roasted in wooden chulhas and served piping hot with sev (crispies). It’s almost a festival in itself throughout winter for south Gujarat residents who especially visit the diamond city to savour ponk in four flavours — black pepper, lemon, garlic, chili or even just plain — as kisoks dot the landscape selling the delicacy at every possible corner. Food aficionados even make efforts to enhance the taste buds with items like Ponk Vada and Ponk Patties. With the global pandemic, farmers were afraid ponk may suffer a viral backlash, but thanks to the insatiable palate, demand for the product hasn’t dented much even amid the limitations, claim market sources. “First there is fear of coronavirus, poor economic conditions, delayed crop of ponk and night curfew kept us worried but looking at the response we are happy. People are readily paying even hiked prices,” said Kamlesh Patel, a leading ponk grower and seller in Adajan. “Snack rates also spiked with high overall costs. Even amid this, people are coming out to enjoy the seasonal delicacy,” said Dipak Patel, a snack stall owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/downturn-cant-dent-ponk-demand/articleshow/80104115.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
January 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: HR manager held in instant financing loan apps case||HYDERABAD: An HR manager, who is linked to one of the companies operated by Chinese national Zhu Wei alias Lambo who organised the instant financing apps, was arrested by Hyderabad central crime station sleuths in Bengaluru on Monday. CCS officials said the HR manager was responsible for hiring the employees who worked in call centres from where the loan defaulters were defamed and abused by tele-callers. The CCS officials had earlier arrested Zhu Wei, linked to four different companies, along with several other Indian associates. Police said that based on the leads which they got during the investigation, they are suspecting that the accused used call routing technique to avoid getting under the radar of government agencies. Generally, call routing is used for making international calls by criminals. In this case, the accused, to given an impression that they are making calls from abroad and to maintain anonymity, used call routing technique to make calls within India, investigators found out. Police’s suspicions grew after they recovered different gadgets, which are generally used by criminals to facilitate multiple persons make calls in one go using the routing techique. Police said the call routing technique is a search threat to security. It also causes revenue loss to the government, they added. The arrested HR manager, during questioning, denied asking tele-callers to harass the defaulters. Police said she is the one who facilitates training employees to harass defaulters||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hr-manager-held-in-instant-financing-loan-apps-case/articleshow/80104138.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Madhapur logs most drunk driving cases in Cyberabad||HYDERABAD: Just a few weeks after a drunk driver jumped a traffic signal and rammed his car into a motorbike killing Secunderabad Club manager, Gautam Dev, on the spot at Madhapur, the menace of drinking and driving continues unabated in the area. Out of the 3,571 drunk drivers caught under Cyberabad limits in the last one week between December 27 and January 3, majority were from Madhapur, where 714 cases were booked. The Cyberabad police, who have been conducting special checks in the area for the seventh consecutive day also mentioned in their data that the highest number of cases were booked in Madhapur area followed by Gachibowli. These are the areas where majority of the city’s pubs are located. Speaking to TOI, M Srinivas, inspector (traffic), Madhapur said, “We have sent notices to the owners of these bars and pubs asking them to either provide a cab to the customers who consume alcohol or inform the police. In case they fail to do so and the customer who visit the establishment is caught in drunk and drive checks, a legal action will be taken against the pub or restaurant owner.” “For instance, if the person who is drunk driving is booked for causing a road accident, the restaurant or the pub owner is also made equally responsible for the offence and can be booked under the same sections as the person who is driving under the influence of alcohol,” he added. After Madhapur, the second highest number of violators were recorded in Gachibowli, where 709 cases were booked. According to the data, most of the offenders are two-wheeler riders, aged between 26 and 45 years. During these special drives, traffic police were deployed not only at junctions, but also in residential areas to curb the movement of drunk drivers and other traffic violators for public safety. Officials said all offenders will be charge sheeted in court. Their driving licences will be seized and referred to the Regional Transport Authority (RTA), seeking suspension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/madhapur-logs-most-drunk-driving-cases-in-cyberabad/articleshow/80104125.cms||Moulika.KV
January 5, 2021||Hyderabad||High Court bids farewell to CJ Chauhan, advocate general calls him ‘Art 21 judge’||HYDERABAD: Judges, advocates and officials of Telangana high court on Monday bade a farewell to Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan, who is heading to Uttarakhand high court as its CJ on a transfer. Representing the bar, advocate general BS Prasad and Telangana Bar Council chairman A Narasimha Reddy heaped praises on the outgoing CJ for his liberal approach and gentle ways. Prasad described him as ‘Article 21 judge’ for not only putting the authorities in their place whenever they transgressed into liberties of individuals but also struggled to ensure that organisational problems like lack of judges, etc, did not result in long incarceration of people in jails. “CJ Chauhan ensured that special benches are formed and sat even on Saturdays to hear criminal appeals, bail pleas, etc. He himself heard several cases pertaining to habeas corpus pleas, preventive detention cases, family court appeals, etc, ” Prasad said. Thanking the CJ for not hesitating to record a word of appreciation for the state whenever it was due, the AG said Justice Chauhan made great efforts to uplift the judicial system in the state and also the conditions of the advocates. “The seeds he had sown here would certainly bear fruits in the future and further strengthen the institution of justice in the state,” the AG said. He also referred to the case of Irrum Manzil heritage building which stood protected on account of an order pronounced by a bench headed by Justice Chauhan. Recalling his words in the judgment that read, “While it is important to plan for the future, it is equally important to protect, preserve, and promote the past,” the AG said at the same time the CJ refused to interfere in the decision of the state government to construct a new secretariat and also to delve into the budget required for the purpose. The CJ in his speech thanked all the judges, wife Rekha Chauhan, officials and staff for enabling him to discharge his duties. Earlier in the day, bar association president Suryakaran Reddy and others felicitated Justice Chauhan at the inaugural function of the renovated library on the HC premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/high-court-bids-farewell-to-cj-chauhan-advocate-general-calls-him-art-21-judge/articleshow/80104158.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Jaipur||Dead crows found in Pushkar and Ajmer too||Ajmer: Carcasses of three crows were found in Pushkar on Monday and the samples were sent to a laboratory to know the cause of death. About 19 crows were found dead on Sunday at Baradari and Pati Katla in Ajmer. The carcasses were decomposed to such an extent that it was not possible to get samples. On receiving information, a forest department team reached Pushkar on Monday and found the carcasses near a gaushala. The team collected samples and sent them to the veterinary laboratory at Shastri Nagar. Preliminary report suggested that the crows died of severe in Ajmer. Forest officer Deshraj Meghwanshi said the department is on high alert after the possibilities of bird flu in Rajasthan. The carcasses in Ajmer were disposed of as per the forest department rules, the official added. In 2019, hundreds of crows and other birds were found dead near Baradari of Anasagar Lake and also in Beawar. Those birds had died of severe cold and contaminated grains, said reports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dead-crows-found-in-pushkar-and-ajmer-too/articleshow/80104171.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 5, 2021||Nashik||Tax consultant’s eyes saved by spectacles||Nashik: Most people use spectacles to just improve vision, but tax consultant Nitin Dabholkar credits his glasses for actually saving both his eyes from permanent and irreparable damage. In 2014, his spectacles shielded his eyes from a length of nylon manja that could have critically injured him. Instead, he escaped with a deep wound on his nose that required four stitches. Dabholkar was on his way back home in Rane Nagar when the incident occurred. It was just days before the Sankranti festival. “I was returning home when I suddenly felt pressure on my spectacles that jerked my head back. Just as I stopped my vehicle, a sharp pain shot up my nose. Even before I could understand what was happening, I started bleeding profusely. There was a deep wound on my nose where the nylon manja had cut in,” said 48-year-old Dabholkar. Dabholkar had to stay at home till the four stitches on his nose were removed. However, he acknowledges that things could have been worse. “I often used to take my daughter with me on the two-wheeler whenever I returned home in the evening. That day too she was waiting,” he said adding that fortunately, the incident occurred before he picked up his daughter. “Had it not been for the spectacles, I might have lost vision in both my eyes that day,” he said. “It is beyond my understanding why the people use manja — and not just plain string — to fly kites in the first place. Why is it that people are unable to understand the ill-effect nylon manjas have on birds and humans?” Daholkar asked. Dabholkar said the issue of stopping the use of manja was less a bureaucratic one and more a behavioural one. “People must understand what they are doing,” he said. Dabholkar also has a piece of advice for people who go to their terraces for strolls. “I have told my mother to keep a pair of scissors with her whenever she goes to the terrace. If she sees any manja, she should just cut it. If any body part gets entangled in the manja, the cut could be very deep,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/tax-consultants-eyes-saved-by-spectacles/articleshow/80102093.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 5, 2021||Jaipur||Bird deaths continue across Rajasthan||JAIPUR: A total of 110 birds’ death were reported in nine districts of the state on Monday due to suspected Bird Flu (Avian Influenza), taking the toll to over 522, till January 4. As per the officials, the highest number of deaths in crows (104) were reported on Monday. The death of other birds includes 5 herons and a peacock. Read AlsoBird flu scare: All you need to knowAmid the pandemic, there are reports of another scare in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala and Himachal Pradesh. Bird flu virus — that was first reported in Rajasthan — has been detected in Madhya Pradesh's Indore, Kerala and now Himachal Pradesh too. Rajasthan animal husbandry minister LalchandDirector animal husbandry, Virendra Singh said, “The highest number of deaths of crow (36) was reported from Jaipur. Till January 4,391 crows have died across the state.” Other than state capital, two new cases were reported in Jhalawar, where crow deaths were witnessed for the first time in the state. Similarly, in Kota (12), Baran (12), Bikaner (11) deaths were reported. In Dausa district, six deaths were recorded including 2 crows and 4 herons. Also, death of a heron and 4 crows was reported in Jodhpur. A senior animal husbandry official said, “Migratory birds are suspected to be the source of this virus. The National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal had confirmed that the death of crows in Jhalawar was due to bird flu. The guidelines and protocol of the avian flu is followed in the state and departments while burying the carcasses,” As a precaution, the animal husbandry department has also directed officials to collect 10 samples each from every wetland in Rajasthan, especially Keoladeo Ghana in Bharatpur and Sambhar Lake. Rajasthan has around 6 notified wetlands and over 50, which are proposed to be notified. The department claimed that no poultry death has been reported so far, but administration has started preventive exercises. “Over 75 samples have been sent from various places for testing. The situation is not alarming but we are vigilant, ensuring that this virus does not affect domestic animals,” said an official The forest department also sounded high alert against the possibility of spread of bird flu in migratory birds present in many waterbodies. A senior forest official said, “Directions are issued to the team in Jhalawar and other districts to monitor the health of migratory birds. We have asked our teams to inform immediately if indifferent behaviour is observed in migratory birds. Immediate action will be taken, if any death is reported in migratory birds.” On December 25, the death of crows was reported in Radi Ke Balaji, Jhalawar area for the first time. The state animal husbandry department on December 27 sent the samples of dead crows NIHSAD, Bhopal. The administration swung into action when samples of dead birds including three jungle crows and two house crows had tested positive for the H5 avian influenza virus that is responsible for the infectious scourge in avian species. Meanwhile, agriculture minster Lal Chand Kataria and cooperative minister Udailal Anjana met governor Kalraj Mishra and apprised him about the situation in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bird-deaths-continue-across-raj/articleshow/80104154.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Body of woman found near tracks||Hyderabad: Putrified body of an unknown woman was found near the railway tracks at Ankushapur in Ghatkesar. The assailants burnt the victim’s body to prevent police from identifying her. At 8 pm on Monday, railway key man, Balaswamy, alerted Ghatkesar police about the woman’s body. “The victim was aged about 45 years. Her face was burnt. The deceased was clad in a red sari and blouse. Body was in a putrified condition. We shifted the body for postmortem,” Ghatkesar inspector N Chandra Babu said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/body-of-woman-found-near-tracks/articleshow/80104167.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Plaint against fake doctor||Hyderabad: Shahinayatgunj police received a complaint against a fake doctor operating a clinic at Begum Bazar. According to Shahinayatgunj inspector Chand Pasha, the complaint was received against Sanjay Roy, who was operating Durga Clinic at Begum Bazar for the past six years. “He produced a first aid treatment training certificate and claims to have a Bachelor in Indo-Allopathic Medicine degree. We sought legal opinion and will also verify with health department officials about Sanjay’s clinic before proceeding further with the probe,” inspector said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/plaint-against-fake-doctor/articleshow/80104177.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 5, 2021||Jaipur||CM extends defect liability period for construction works by PWD||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has decided to increase the defect liability period from three to five years. This is to ensure the quality of road development and other construction works of more than Rs 10 lakh carried out by the Public Works Department. According to the proposal, to maintain the quality of road renovation and special repair works, new roads, buildings, bridges, CD works, road widening, strengthening and upgrading works, the fault prevention period has been extended to 5 years. With this decision, the quality of roads and other construction works will improve and the responsibility of the contractors will be fixed for poor construction. This will also reduce load on the treasury due to repair of roads and other construction works. 511 posts of junior clerk in mandi committees, 253 posts of information assistants approved Jaipur: The chief minister approved recruitment on 511 vacant posts of junior clerk in agricultural produce market committees. In addition, he has also given administrative approval to create 253 new posts of information assistant in mandi committees. There is a need for information and technology personnel to run schemes like Rajasthan Agro Processing, Agri-business and Agriculture Promotion Policy, 2019, Pradhan Mantri Micro Food Upgradation Scheme and e-NAM. In view of this, Gehlot has given administrative approval to create 253 new posts. Gehlot also approved creation of six different posts for prosecution in the Special Court No. 4 Jaipur and Special Court No. 1 Jodhpur created under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. Similarly, the creation of a total of five driver posts for the District Legal Services Authority offices in Jaisalmer, Pratapgarh, Dungarpur, Banswara and Balotra were also approved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-extends-defect-liability-period-for-construction-works-by-pwd/articleshow/80104189.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Disturbed man makes bid to jump off police booth at Panjagutta, rescued||HYDERABAD: The busy Panjagutta junction witnessed commotion on Monday noon when a barechested man tried to jump from the traffic police booth under the flyover. The unusual drama during the rush hour lasted 20 minutes before police managed to get him down with the help of an RTC bus driver. Police later said Raju (35) is a car driver and is mentally disturbed. He was being brought to NIMS by his family members for consultation when he pushed them away near Panjagutta and fled. Raju then got onto the Panjagutta flyover. By holding on to a cable wire, he jumped into the gap between the two bridges. Luckily, he landed on the traffic police booth. As he again tried to jump from 10-ft high police booth, onlookers and commuters gathered. Traffic cops immediately made an RTC bus stop next to the booth and tried to calm his nerves. Even as onlookers were shouting, Raju jumped on top of the bus. A policeman then brought him down from the bus. “We handed him over to the family members. They took him to hospital for medical treatment. No case has been registered,” Panjagutta SI D Nagaraju said. As the family could not afford the private hospital charges, they decided to consult doctors at NIMS. “When we were bringing him to NIMS, Raju pushed us away and fled near Panjagutta,” brother-in-law Yesanna said. Watch Hyderabad: Man climbs atop traffic police post, rescued by locals and cops||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/disturbed-man-makes-bid-to-jump-off-police-booth-at-panjagutta-rescued/articleshow/80104192.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Nashik||Exports of onions restart at Nashik||NASHIK: Onion exports have finally restarted from Nashik after the central ban was lifted on January 1. Halcon — a JV between Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL) and Container Corporation of India (Concor) — exported the first batch of 12 containers, with around 375 tonne of onions, to Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and other counties. The Centre had imposed a ban on onion exports on September 14 following a steep rise in wholesale prices. The onion prices in the retail market had shot up to Rs 80-100 per kg in Mumbai, Delhi and other cities then. “Although the onion exports have begun, the volume is still low. It is expected to increase gradually. We are receiving enquiries from exporters,” said Sudhakar Sen, the chief executive officer of Halcon. Halcon facilitates exports and provides all customs clearance and plant quarantine facilities required by the exporters. Danish Shah, the vice-president of Horticulture Produce Exporters’ Association (HPEA) said it will take a few days to get better and bigger export orders. “The government also needs to give incentives to boost onion exports. Currently, the demand is from countries like Bangladesh, Malaysia, Sri Lanka, Singapore and Dubai,” said Shah. “Although the Centre lifted the ban from January 1, there was a weekend in between. It will take at least a fortnight for the exports to pick up,” added Nitin Jain, an onion exporter. Meanwhile, the average wholesale onion price at Lasalgaon APMC increased to Rs 2,640 per quintal on Monday, against Rs 2,350 per quintal on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/exports-of-onions-restart-at-nashik/articleshow/80102131.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 5, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: NCPCR finds anomalies in 2 homes for kids||NEW DELHI: The apex child rights body, National Commission For Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), on Monday said that it had found irregularities in the infrastructure, registration and information on funding shared during the inspection of two children homes in Delhi. It also expressed dissatisfaction with the action taken in cases of child sexual abuse reported from one of the homes in 2012, 2013 and 2016 and sought a police inquiry into the matter. NCPCR recommended that the children of both homes be shifted to another facility by Delhi government’s women and child development (WCD) department. The report was based on an inspection carried out in October after the commission took cognisance of a complaint regarding violation of Juvenile Justice Act in Umeed Aman Home for Boys and Khushi Rainbow Home for Girls in south Delhi established by Centre for Equity Studies. Activist Harsh Mander, trustee member of Centre for Equity Studies, called the allegations “unjustified” and, in response to TOI’s queries, said in a statement that they had not received a copy of the inspection report till date. “It is also valuable to note that the original complaint or its content are not with us. All of this contravenes the most elementary aspects of due process,” he added. Regarding his role into the running of the homes, Mander said as founder of the programme he had an informal personal relationship with the children, but he was not personally involved in the management in any way. Asked about the child sexual abuse cases, Mander said, “The details of the three cases that occurred in the past decade, along with FIR copies and court orders were shared with NCPCR and necessary action was taken. NCPCR has failed to elaborate and substantiate any claim of recent and ongoing abuse as they do not exist.” In its recommendations related to reports of sexual abuse at the boys’ home, NCPCR stated, “The commission has observed that since the incident that took place in 2012, no satisfactory action was taken by WCD department in the matter and that there were two more incidents of such nature reported in 2013 and 2016. It is reiterated that the commission has been informed by an employee of the home that such incidents of sexual abuse are still taking place, which have not been reported.” “It is due to the lack of strict and appropriate action by the authorities that such incidents continue to take place in this home. This has threatened the well-being and security of the children,” NCPCR observed and sought an action-taken report from WCD department within 10 days. NCPCR said Umeed Aman Ghar’s registration was not renewed. However, Mander said they had applied for renewal. The commission also raised the issue that children were being made to participate in a protest against Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Denying the charge, Mander said, “This is not true. The children went for Savitri Bai Phule Divas function organised at Jantar Mantar on January 3, 2020.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ncpcr-finds-anomalies-in-2-homes-for-kids/articleshow/80104232.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Aurangabad||School reopening Day-1: Student attendance low||NASHIK/AURANGABAD: On the first day of schools reopening for students of classes IX and X, Nashik city recorded 16% attendance while the schools run by the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) saw student turnout of 36% on Monday. According to the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), 384 of 2,318 students from 13 municipal schools in the city attended the classes on the first day. Earlier, the state government had allowed schools to resume for students of classes IX to X from November 23. However, Nashik district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal had postponed the reopening of schools in view of the second wave. The NMC’s education department officials said some schools had only called students of class IX on the first day, and students from Class X from Tuesday. Therefore, fewer students attended the classes on Monday. “We expect attendance to increase gradually. We were prepared for the reopening and have taken all precautions as per government guidelines,” said Sunita Dhangar, the administrative officer of the NMC’s education department. “Although we had online classes, they did not give the feel of real school. Sometimes, it was difficult to understand maths and science topics online,” said Gayatri Koli, a Class IX student. “I was so eager to attend the classes. I did not even realise when the school started and when it ended on the first day. Learning in the classroom is different from online classes,” said Dhanashree Malode, another student. “The response was good considering it was just the first day. Parents, who were earlier not willing to send their children to schools, had also sent their wards. Some students, whose parents had given the consent letters, did not come on the first day,” said Y Shelke, principal of an NMC-run school. In the rural parts of Nashik, nearly 1.2 lakh of the 1.7 lakh students attended the schools after presenting their parental consent letters. “The government protocols of health screening, sanitization and mask-wearing were followed by the teachers, headmasters and the students. The students were very happy to return to the schools after a long time,” said Vaishali Veer, the education officer (secondary), Nashik Zilla Parishad. As many as 846 schools with, classes from IX to XII, resumed for the first time this academic year. However, classes for class XI and XII students are yet to start. After administration allowed reopening of the schools, the RT-PCR tests of 9,563 teachers and non-teachers were conducted. “After almost eight months, I have worn my school uniform again today. I will be meeting my teachers, friends and get the feel of the discipline in school,” said Rakesh Kshatriya, a student from Sinnar. Meanwhile, in Aurangabad, many schools reopened without school bus services, which is believed to be one of the reasons behind the moderate attendance on day-one. Of the total 1,869 students, 685 were present in the AMC-run schools on Monday. Surekha Mane, the principal of SBOA Public School, said around 70 students of classes IX and X, which have a combined class strength of 300, attended the school. “It is not feasible for schools to operate the buses only for students of classes IX and X. We hope the parents will work out ways to transport the students,” she said. Anju Bhalerao, a parent, said she is planning to hire an autorickshaw for her son and few of his friends living nearby. Ramnath Thore, the education officer with AMC, said the attendance will increase over the next few days. “Fortunately, there is no major second wave. Schools can resume activities by following all Covid prevention norms,” he said. The local civic body runs 17 secondary schools, which have reported moderate attendance on day-one, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/school-reopening-day-1-student-attendance-low/articleshow/80111649.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Jaipur||4k officials who took benefits under NFSA identified in dist||Jaipur: The district administration has identified around 4,000 government officials in Jaipur who had purchased wheat under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) in the district. The administration is in the process of recovering Rs 2.37 crore from these government officials who have been identified over the past five-six months. “Notices have been issued to nearly 4,000 people. Recovery is being done after proper verification and screening of records,” said district supplies officer (DSO-1) Kailash Yadav. “While recovering the money, we face situations when officials say they were not in government job when they purchased the wheat. Therefore, in such situations, we decide on recovering only after proper verification. In many cases, even as one of the family members had joined government job, their poor parents in the villages continued to purchase wheat under NFSA. It was not done intentionally. Many were not aware of the fact that they were not supposed to purchase wheat at a subsidized rate,” he added. ‘Take action use of plastic bags once a week’ Jaipur: District collector Antar Singh Nehra on Monday directed the nodal officers of the municipalities to take action against use of plastic carry bags at least once a week. He also asked the officials to write to forest and agriculture department for the use of compost plant set up in Sewapura for the purpose of solid waste management. Nehra expressed displeasure over the slow progress of solid waste management in several municipalities and instructed the authorities concerned to issue showcause notices to officials who came for the review meeting without preparation. The district collector also instructed the representatives of CMHO office to submit the list of private hospitals, which haven’t got their certification for biomedical waste done yet, to the pollution control board so that notices could be issued to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4k-officials-who-took-benefits-under-nfsa-identified-in-dist/articleshow/80104202.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 5, 2021||Coimbatore||2 DMK men arrested||Coimbatore: Two DMK men were arrested on Monday for posting comments against women in Madukkarai on social media.The arrested people were identified as N Shahrukhan, 25 and his brother N Salmankhan, 29, of Iyappan Kovil Street at Madukkarai. Shahrukhan is a DMK member and Salmankhan is a member of DMK youth wing.J Rafiq of Muslim Colony in Madukkarai, an AIADMK member, had lodged a police complaint against the brothers for allegedly posting derogatory messages on social media to tarnish the image of women in the area. When he questioned the duo, they scolded him and attacked him with a stone, Rafiq said.Based on Rafiq’s complaint, the Madukkarai police registered a case against the siblings and arrested them. They were booked under sections 294 (b) and 324 of the Indian Penal Code. They were let off on bail later.Police are looking for Ajithkhan in connection with the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-dmk-men-arrested/articleshow/80104198.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Goa||After 6 months, less than 50 Covid cases in Goa||PANAJI: Goa’s daily case tally of Covid-19 dropped below the 50-mark for the first time in six months. On Monday, the state reported 40 new cases, 88 recoveries and two deaths. With it, the active case count reached 850 while mortality rose to 744. While the number of new cases were less, the samples tested were also comparatively fewer. In the last two months Goa has been conducting 1,500 to 2,000 tests a day. On Monday, 1,177 swabs were tested. The case positivity rate dropped to 3%. Over the last one month the positivity has ranged between 4% and 8%. The state’s recovery rate has been static at 97% for over a fortnight. A 59-year-old woman from Kankavali, Maharashtra, died within ten hours of hospitalisation. Dean of Goa Medical College (GMC), Dr S M Bandekar, said that the patient suffered from chronic kidney disease besides diabetes and hypertension. “The patient presented with severe renal function derangement and evidence of fluid overload. As a prerequisite for performing invasive dialysis procedure, a TrueNat test done on her returned positive for Covid-19,” he said. A 43-year-old man from Bicholim who was presented with acute respiratory distress syndrome(ARDS) also died due to Covid in GMC. Besides diabetes, he also had bronchial asthma and obesity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-6-months-less-than-50-cases/articleshow/80104197.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Chandigarh||Reliance moves Punjab and Haryana HC: ‘No contract farming plans’||CHANDIGARH: At the receiving end of the ire of farmers protesting against the Centre’s three new agriculture laws, corporate giant Reliance Industries Ltd has claimed before the Punjab and Haryana high court that the company has absolutely no plans, now or in the future, to enter into corporate or contract farming. The company has even claimed that it has not purchased any land to run any business to benefit from the farm laws and their business is completely in favour of "farmers’ interest". It also blamed "vested interests" behind vandalisation of the firm's telecom towers in Punjab. "The Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited and its parent company, including its retail arm Reliance Retail Limited (RRL) have not purchased any agricultural land, directly or indirectly, anywhere in India for the purpose of corporate or contract farming and have absolutely no plans, now or in the future to do so. The business practices of petitioner, including its affiliates are completely in favour of and in furtherance of the farmers’ interest," Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd has stated in a petition filed on Monday before the high court. These assertions have been made by the Mukesh Ambani owned corporate giant in its plea filed before the HC against the recent attacks on its telecom towers and other business stores in Punjab. It has also argued that its subscribers are being forced to port to other networks by the miscreants and vested interests. According to the petitioner company, the attack by miscreants on their around 1,500 towers and some employees engaged in telecom work has affected their 1.4 crore customers in the state. The plea, which is expected to come up for hearing on Tuesday, said, “The petitioner and its affiliates share the aspiration of Indian farmers to get a fair and profitable price for what they produce with exemplary hard work and dedication and seek an augmentation of their incomes, and pledge to work towards this goal... Indeed, the petitioner, its parent entity, and its affiliates shall insist that their suppliers strictly abide by the minimum support price (MSP) mechanism, and or any other mechanism for remunerative price for farm produce, as may be determined and implemented by the government." The company has sought directions to the Centre as well Punjab to identify the vested interests and miscreants and probe their well-orchestrated and sustained disinformation campaign being carried out against the petitioner company and take action including providing prosecution. According to the company, on account of the sustained disinformation campaign run by the vested interests, including through social media channels, the petitioner’s business and its assets have become a target of attack and destruction by miscreants purporting to be engaged in public demonstrations and protests against the farm legislations, the company has stated in its plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/reliance-moves-hc-no-contract-farming-plans/articleshow/80105642.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Man arrested for sexually assaulting 13-year-old girl||COIMBATORE: A 36-year-old man was arrested on Sunday for sexually assaulting a 13-year-old girl. The accused, E Sathishkumar, hails from a village on the city’s outskirts and was working as a labourer, police sources said. “He had been sexually assaulting his neighbour, a school student staying with her grandmother, from last October. He threatened her with dire consequences if she revealed about the incident to anyone. On Sunday, when Sathishkumar forced the girl for physical contact, she told some neighbours about the assault. They informed Child Line officials. Child Line staff visited the village and met the girl,” a police officer said. The staff rescued the girl and lodged a complaint with the Perur all women police against Sathishkumar, who was booked under sections 5 (l) read with 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The girl was produced before the child welfare committee and later was handed over to the grandmother. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-13-year-old-girl/articleshow/80104196.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Fruit vendor from UP succumbs, customer booked for murder||HYDERABAD: A 30-year-old fruit vendor, who suffered internal injuries when he was allegedly roughed up by a customer and his friends following a petty argument at Pragati Nagar in Kukatpally on January 1, succumbed while undergoing treatment at Osmania General Hospital (OGH) on Sunday night. Police registered a murder case and launched a manhunt to nab the accused. The victim, Sakeb Ali, 30, was a native of UP. At 7.30pm on January 1, a customer approached Sakeb to purchase fruits. He tasted a few pieces of pineapple and also ate some grapes. While leaving the place, the customer paid only for pineapple and refused to give money for the grapes. When Sakeb insisted on payment for grapes, customer picked up an argument and called three of his friends. “The four men abused Sakeb, punched him. One of them hit Sakeb with an iron light stand in the stomach. Sakeb was rushed to OGH,” Sakeb’s brother Md Ateef said.  One of the accused has been identified as Afsar and police launched a manhunt to nab Afsar and his friends||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fruit-vendor-from-up-succumbs-customer-booked-for-murder/articleshow/80104193.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Nashik||School reopening Day-1: Student attendance low||NASHIK/AURANGABAD: On the first day of schools reopening for students of classes IX and X, Nashik city recorded 16% attendance while the schools run by the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) saw student turnout of 36% on Monday. According to the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), 384 of 2,318 students from 13 municipal schools in the city attended the classes on the first day. Earlier, the state government had allowed schools to resume for students of classes IX to X from November 23. However, Nashik district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal had postponed the reopening of schools in view of the second wave. The NMC’s education department officials said some schools had only called students of class IX on the first day, and students from Class X from Tuesday. Therefore, fewer students attended the classes on Monday. “We expect attendance to increase gradually. We were prepared for the reopening and have taken all precautions as per government guidelines,” said Sunita Dhangar, the administrative officer of the NMC’s education department. “Although we had online classes, they did not give the feel of real school. Sometimes, it was difficult to understand maths and science topics online,” said Gayatri Koli, a Class IX student. “I was so eager to attend the classes. I did not even realise when the school started and when it ended on the first day. Learning in the classroom is different from online classes,” said Dhanashree Malode, another student. “The response was good considering it was just the first day. Parents, who were earlier not willing to send their children to schools, had also sent their wards. Some students, whose parents had given the consent letters, did not come on the first day,” said Y Shelke, principal of an NMC-run school. In the rural parts of Nashik, nearly 1.2 lakh of the 1.7 lakh students attended the schools after presenting their parental consent letters. “The government protocols of health screening, sanitization and mask-wearing were followed by the teachers, headmasters and the students. The students were very happy to return to the schools after a long time,” said Vaishali Veer, the education officer (secondary), Nashik Zilla Parishad. As many as 846 schools with, classes from IX to XII, resumed for the first time this academic year. However, classes for class XI and XII students are yet to start. After administration allowed reopening of the schools, the RT-PCR tests of 9,563 teachers and non-teachers were conducted. “After almost eight months, I have worn my school uniform again today. I will be meeting my teachers, friends and get the feel of the discipline in school,” said Rakesh Kshatriya, a student from Sinnar. Meanwhile, in Aurangabad, many schools reopened without school bus services, which is believed to be one of the reasons behind the moderate attendance on day-one. Of the total 1,869 students, 685 were present in the AMC-run schools on Monday. Surekha Mane, the principal of SBOA Public School, said around 70 students of classes IX and X, which have a combined class strength of 300, attended the school. “It is not feasible for schools to operate the buses only for students of classes IX and X. We hope the parents will work out ways to transport the students,” she said. Anju Bhalerao, a parent, said she is planning to hire an autorickshaw for her son and few of his friends living nearby. Ramnath Thore, the education officer with AMC, said the attendance will increase over the next few days. “Fortunately, there is no major second wave. Schools can resume activities by following all Covid prevention norms,” he said. The local civic body runs 17 secondary schools, which have reported moderate attendance on day-one, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/school-reopening-day-1-student-attendance-low/articleshow/80102159.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara: Heritage building to house cycling centre||VADODARA: Nearly nine decades ago, it used to power the erstwhile Baroda state that was ushering in the modern era. Now, this heritage building on Jail Road is all set to house the state’s first cycling centre. Plans are afoot to set up a unique centre that will not just promote biking among urban crowd but also rent out cycles to the needy. “Over last few years, citizens have taken to cycling in a big way for better fitness. The craze has only gone up after the lockdown ended. Everyone from youngsters to elderly, have begun biking for fitness as well as environmental reasons,” said Priyank Shah, chief architect, Vadodara Smart City Development Ltd (VSCDL). So, BYCS that promotes cycling in cities across the globe has joined hands with Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) and various cycling clubs to set up this unique centre. “It is a part of the cycling challenge that the ministry of housing and urban affairs has floated. So, all the stakeholders have to come together to take up the project. VMC will invite interested stakeholders to fund this centre,” Shah, who is also nodal officer for cycling initiative, told TOI. One of the key aims of the cycling centre will be to reach out to thousands of school children and promote biking among them. “We have made plans to visit schools across the city and hold educational talks with the students who will be explained the benefits of biking. The motive is to ‘catch them young’ and instil habit of biking. We have to make biking cool again,” Shah added. The centre will also promote community biking wherein cycles will be given on rent to those who want to bike for leisure or for travelling short distances. “There are many who want to ride bikes for fitness or travel around in the city. We will lease out cycles to such needy citizens through this centre. They can ride the bike all day and return it at the centre,” Shah said. Also on cards is a non-motorised transport policy that will guide such cycling projects in urban areas. One of the key features of this first-of-its-kind centre would be the heritage building where it is being set up. The building that is in dilapidated condition will be refurbished and made biker friendly within the next few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/heritage-bldg-to-house-cycling-centre/articleshow/80104188.cms||Tushar Tere
January 5, 2021||Coimbatore||2.2L beneficiaries in Nilgiris dist||Udhagamandalam: Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya inaugurated the distribution of Pongal gift hampers at the Ooty Cooperative Store - market branch on Monday.Of the 2,17,794 ration cardholders in the district, 2,15,601 rice cardholders are eligible for the gift.The district has been allotted 216 tonnes rice, 216 tonnes sugar, 4,312kg cashew nut and raisins and Rs 1.62 crore for distribution. Also, 2,03,914 women will get saris, while 2,02,877 dhotis will be distributed to men, said the collector.As many as 5,000 sugar cardholders had switched to rice cards in the district. “Tokens mentioning the date and time of distribution of the gift hampers were distributed to the eligible cardholders. The distribution takes place between January 4 and 12,” said the collector. The cardholders have been requested by the district administration to approach designated PDS shops with the token and avail the gift.There are 402 PDS shops in the district, which will distribute the gift hampers to at least 200 cardholders per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-2l-beneficiaries-in-nilgiris-dist/articleshow/80104204.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Nashik||MTDC to build convention centre near boat club||Nashik: The Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC), in order to attract corporate companies and boost tourism, is coming up with a state-of-the-art convention centre near the boat club at the Gangapur dam — on the outskirts of the Nashik city. The MTDC has already started construction of the convention centre that will have a seating capacity of 1,000 people and corporate events like training, conference or even small exhibitions can be planned there. The project, which is being constructed on an area of around eight acre, is estimated to cost Rs 9 crore. According to MTDC, the construction of the centre will be completed by March-end this year and it will be inaugurated after getting all the necessary permissions. “The construction of the proposed convention centre is already in progress. Around 60% of the construction is over and all construction works will be completed by March-end, while it will take around three months for interiors. If everything goes as per schedule, the convention centre will be inaugurated by June-end,” Mahesh Bagul, an MTDC official, said. “The convention centre will have three halls with a total capacity of 1,000 seats. There will be a big hall with capacity of 600 seats and the remaining two halls will have a capacity of 200 each,” said Bagul. MTDC has already built a resort with 35 rooms near the Boat club on Gangapur dam and it was recently inaugurated by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and the tourism minister Aditya Thackeray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mtdc-to-build-convention-centre-near-boat-club/articleshow/80102179.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 5, 2021||Nashik||64 fined for not separating waste||Nashik: With the central government teams expected to visit Nashik city in this month for Swachh Survekshan 2021, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has slapped erring citizens with a fine for not segregating the waste into dry and wet in the last few days. A fine of Rs 21,000 has been collected. The civic body has formed flying squads in each of the six divisions, that randomly accompany the garbage collection vans to see whether the residents are segregating the waste before handing it over to the garbage vans. Fine of Rs 300 will be slapped for not segregating the waste and Rs 500 will be fined if caught for the second time. There is a large section of people who are still not segregating the garbage. This causes problems during disposal at the compost plant at Pathardi, on the outskirts of the city, said Kalpana Kute, director of NMC’s solid waste department. “We are also slapping fine against people who are littering , using banned plastics and not wearing a mask,” added Kute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/64-fined-for-not-separating-waste/articleshow/80102168.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 5, 2021||Coimbatore||25,000 govt staff to be roped in for election duty||Coimbatore: The Election Commission of India (ECI) has instructed officials to collect the details of government employees, who will be deployed for the 2021 assembly election duty.Details of 25,000 employees in the district will be collected, an official said. The selected employees will be given training to conduct the election.Coimbatore collector K Rajamani had released the draft electoral roll on November 16. As per the roll, the district has 29,70,733 voters, including 1,468,222 male voters, 1,502,142 female voters and 369 voters in the third gender category. There are 3,048 polling stations.According to sources in the election department, ECI will need at least 14,000 people to manage the election in Coimbatore alone. “We have sought the details of staff in each department. So far, we have compiled details of 10,000 and will collect details of 15,000 more. We will then create a database,” said an official. “Pregnant women and those who are sick will not be deployed.”Meanwhile, ECI has launched PWD (persons with disability) app to help people with disabilities. The app was introduced during the Bihar assembly election. It will enable use of wheelchairs, ramps and transport from home to polling booths for disabled voters.The final electoral roll will be released on January 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/25000-govt-staff-to-be-roped-in-for-election-duty/articleshow/80104200.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Five-year-old girl abandoned by doctor mom dies||COIMBATORE: A five-year-old girl, who was abandoned in an unconscious state by her mother, a doctor, in a bus stop at Thandukkaranpalayam near Cheyur in Tirupur district on December 25, died without responding to treatment at a private hospital here on Monday evening. Police said the girl's mother, an ENT specialist, was running a clinic in Bengaluru and was separated from her husband four years ago. Due to the pandemic, her revenue dwindled. Gripped under the depression, the woman reached Thandukkaranpalayam near Cheyur on December 25, where she abandoned her daughter in the bus stop in an unconscious state. The villagers rescued the minor girl and admitted her at the Tirupur government hospital. On the next day, police traced the mother of the girl. She had attempted suicide by consuming rat poison and was admitted at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. During inquiry, she told the police that her daughter was suffering from severe fever and she had administered heavy dosage of drugs due to which she developed fits. So, she abandoned her daughter at the bus stop. Police registered a case against the mother. The minor girl was shifted to CMCH. As the girl’s condition turned critical, she was shifted to a private hospital two days ago, where she died without responding to treatment. The body was sent to the CMCH for postmortem. Tirupur district superintendent of police Disha Mittal said the cause of the death will be known only after getting the postmortem report. "If the minor girl died of poison, we will alter the case to 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code," Disha Mittal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/five-year-old-girl-abandoned-by-doctor-mom-dies/articleshow/80104201.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Coimbatore||Nilgiris sees 17 new Covid cases||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district recorded 17 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the tally closer to 8,000-mark. As many as 7,839 Covid patients recovered so far with the recovery rate standing at 98%.Of the 108 active cases, at least 25 people are admitted to government and private medical facilities in Coimbatore, while 16 patients are in home quarantine. The remaining are in government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur.The number of tests per day continues to be 2,000 in the district despite decrease the number of the fresh cases. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-sees-17-new-covid-cases/articleshow/80104208.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Business||Fintech body publishes e-lending ethical code||Pune: The Fintech Association for Consumer Empowerment (FACE), which describes itself as a self-regulatory body for this growing industry, has published an “ethical code of conduct” for tech-based commercial lenders. FACE currently has five founding members, with 10 interesting in joining their ranks, per the body. FACE founding member, Akshay Mehrotra, who is also a co-founder and CEO of EarlySalary, said the guidelines were needed for the constantly evolving industry. He said a regulatory environment was a must for the industry to work with banks, policymakers like the NITI Aayog, and the regulator — in this case, the Reserve Bank of India. RBI had warned in December about the “unscrupulousness” of unauthorized fintech firms, some of which are available as mobile applications. The code of conduct is largely centred around seven principles, including transparency about the fintech firm and its lending policy, a fair rate of interest and related charges for borrowers, privacy of data collected from the consumer, and fair collection practices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fintech-body-publishes-e-lending-ethical-code/articleshow/80104214.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
January 5, 2021||Coimbatore||Pvt firm ready to provide 400 acres for defence corridor||Coimbatore: A private firm that owns 400 acres at Selakarichal Village near Sulur here has expressed interest to provide the land to set up the Tamil Nadu defence industrial corridor.The corridor, comprising Chennai, Trichy, Coimbatore, Salem and Hosur, was inaugurated on January 20, 2019. It is expected to have new defence production facilities and promote clusters with necessary testing and certification facilities and export facilitation centres. Several private industries had committed investments up to Rs 3,123.50 crore and many, including Coimbatore-based Lakshmi Machine Works, L&T Defence and Roots Industries, made investments. Last year, the State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu Limited (Sipcot) identified 500 acres near Sulur and Karanampettai to set up the corridor. Tata Group and Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), which manufactures light combat aircraft Tejas, had approached Sipcot to buy land to set up units.However, the project was bogged down by the pandemic. Meanwhile, a Bengaluru-based private firm approached the Coimbatore district administration to provide its land to set up the corridor at Selakarichal. “We have sent the details to Sipcot,” said district revenue officer Ramadurai Murugan.The firm has also approached the ministry of defence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pvt-firm-ready-to-provide-400-acres-for-defence-corridor/articleshow/80104221.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Jaipur||Prohibitory order for sale of Chinese manjha issued||Jaipur: The home department on Monday issued an order advising all the district magistrates to consider issuing orders under Sec 144 with immediate effect to prohibit sale and stock of Chinese manjha i.e. plastic and synthetic thread or thread coated with substances like glass, iron for kite flying. “As you would be aware ‘Chinese manjha’ i.e. plastic or synthetic thread, or such thread coated with substances like glass, iron etc used for kite-flying is dangerous and likely to cause serious injury, even loss of life of innocent children/person, as is evident from certain past as well as recent incident in Jaipur,” remarked the order issued by special secretary V Sarawan Kumar. The prohibitory order was issued in view of this. “These prohibitory orders may be renewed from time to time,” it added. “In addition to this, awareness campaign must be initiated in schools and colleges apprising the youths of the dangers of using such artificial/reinforced manjha for kite-flying.” “Meetings may also be held with the distributors of Chinese manjha and kite sellers to apprise them of the prohibitory orders,” it stated. 10 FIRs lodged against traders Jaipur police lodged 10 FIRs against various traders involved in selling metallic, iron, plastic glass-coated manjha. A good amount of manjha charkhees were seized by the police. Section 188 of IPC is a bailable offence in which seizures were made. “As per the orders of commissioner of police, selling and purchase of glass, metal, plastic and other coated manjha is banned in Jaipur. We have lodged 10 FIRs so far and will continue to crack the whip as it is dangerous for commuters and birds,” said Rahul Prakash, additional commissioner of police, Law and Order while talking to TOI on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/prohibitory-order-for-sale-of-chinese-manjha-issued/articleshow/80104227.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana yet to draw up list of vaccine beneficiaries||HYDERABAD: Rollout of the Covid-19 vaccine in Telangana is 10 days away, but when it comes to the collection of data for people above 60 years and those below 50 years with comorbidities, the state is seriously lagging behind others. These two categories together account for nearly 64 lakh of the total 77-80 lakh beneficiaries who are supposed to be covered in the first phase of the vaccination programme. While Telangana is still warming up to the daunting exercise, Gujarat and neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, have completed the entire exercise about a month back. Also, other states like Uttar Pradesh have begun the process in full steam. Officials at the state health department said they are still currently waiting for some guidelines to be issued by the Centre on the collection of data. “The Centre is likely to issue some guidelines on these. We are yet to begin the process and will be using the census data for the same. We will also be asking people to self-register on the CoWin software,” said a senior official from the state health department. Earlier, health authorities had drawn up an estimate of 77-80 lakh vulnerable people in the state- including healthcare workers, front line workers from police, municipal administration and panchayati raj department. They also added people above 60 years and people below 50 years having comorbidities. Of these, the state government has already identified and prepared a list of 2.88 lakh healthcare workers. The list of front line workers is currently underway, while the fate of the remaining hangs in thin air. When asked about the people who are not capable of self-registering, officials had no clear answer on the issue. Some of the other states have drawn up concrete plans on how to address this issue of illiteracy and hesitancy, affecting the vaccination programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-yet-to-draw-up-list-of-vax-beneficiaries/articleshow/80104223.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 5, 2021||Pune||Colleges under SPPU to reopen from January 11||PUNE: Practicals, theory, industrial training projects and dissertations of undergraduate, postgraduate and doctoral programmes in the 800 colleges affiliated to the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) in Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar will start from January 11. A circular issued late on Monday by deputy registrar Uttam Chavan said practicals, internship and dissertation-related work for odd semesters for students from the second-year onwards will be conducted from next Monday. After completion of the odd semesters, the theory and practicals of the even semesters of all programmes will be conducted in the offline mode. All colleges and university departments will have to follow the guidelines set by the University Grants Commission for reopening. Chavan said practicals for students from the second-year onwards for engineering, architecture, pharmacy, management, hotel management, physical education, law and other similar programmes will also begin from the same day. Courses such as arts, fine arts, science, commerce, social sciences, library science, communication and journalism and other similar programmes can start their practicals and industrial training projects in the offline mode from January 11, he added. Commencement of theory and practical classes of all postgraduate courses for the first year, whose admissions were not made under the common entrance test examination conducted by the state government or competent authority, will also begin on the same day, as will first-year undergraduate programmes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/colleges-under-sppu-to-begin-offline-from-jan-11/articleshow/80104220.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 5, 2021||Coimbatore||Incessant rain, thick mist hit normal life in Nilgiris district||Udhagamandalam: Off-season rain combined with thick mist threw normal life out of gear in the Nilgiris district, especially in the Coonoor taluk, on Monday. Weather reports predict moderate to heavy rain in the district for the next six days. While Hulical in the Coonoor taluk received the highest rainfall of 20mm for 24 hours ending 7am on Monday, Coonoor town and Kotagiri registered 15mm and 5mm of rain respectively. Ketti and Avalanche recorded 9mm of rain while Ooty recorded only 1mm of rain.The rain started on late Sunday evening and continued throughout the night into Monday. Heavy clouds hung over the hill on the day and except for Gudalur and Pandalur, the remaining taluks experienced continuous rain.Motorists found it difficult to navigate on the ghat road and thick mist hindered vehicle movements in Ooty, Coonoor and Kotagiri. “It was very difficult to drive on the Ooty-Kotagiri road because of the thick mist,” K Kumar, a resident of Ooty, said. Only some vehicles with fog light managed to ply to their destinations.According to revenue officials, no reports of damage from rain were received. The district administration has instructed the disaster management teams to remain alert to face any situation that may arise out of the rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/incessant-rain-thick-mist-hit-normal-life-in-nilgiris-district/articleshow/80104210.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Business||Bajaj posts record Dec exports||Pune: City-based automaker Bajaj Auto reported its highest monthly export figures in the two-wheeler and overall segments for December 2020, though its sales remained sluggish in the domestic market for the month. Bajaj said it exported 2,09,942 two-wheelers overseas in December, which represents its highest ever monthly export numbers. In December, Bajaj’s exports amounted to 62% of its 3, 38,584 two-wheelers’ sale. Factoring in its commercial vehicles business, Bajaj sold 2, 32,926 units abroad. Despite roaring exports, the total sales were softened by sluggish sales of two-wheelers and commercial vehicles in the India. Bajaj sold fewer two-wheelers in India in December than November.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bajaj-posts-record-dec-exports/articleshow/80104226.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
January 5, 2021||Coimbatore||Dhayanidhi Maran begins 2nd leg of his campaign in Salem||Salem: DMK MP and former Union minister Dhayanidhi Maran met weavers, truck owners, drivers, loading and unloading workers as well as Muslim community leaders in the city, where he started the second phase of his election campaign, on Monday.Hearing the problems faced by weavers, Maran promised to take steps to set up a textile park in Salem district. “I will see if yarn could be sold through cooperative stores to protect weavers from high price,” he added.Earlier, weavers said that GST was destroying the handloom industry. Many weavers have switched to some other works for better prospects, they said.The truck owners, drivers and loading and unloading workers urged the MP to set up a truck stand in the city. Maran assured that their request would be fulfilled once DMK forms government after the election. He also hit out at the Centre for not reducing fuel price even during the lockdown period.To Muslim leaders, Maran assured to protect the minorities in DMK regime.He will continue his campaign in the city on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dhayanidhi-maran-begins-2nd-leg-of-his-campaign-in-salem/articleshow/80104225.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana reports 238 new Covid-19 cases||HYDERABAD: Authorities in Telangana on Monday said it has completed testing 70 lakh samples for the coronavirus infection, even as 238 new cases of Covid-19 and two deaths were recorded. The new cases have taken the caseload to 2,87,740 and the death toll to 1,551. With 518 patients released on Monday, a total of 2,81,083 patients have recovered from the coronavirus infection in the state so far. There are 5,106 active cases currently in the state. The current recovery rate is 97.7 percent in the state against the national average of 96.2 percent. Meanwhile, the case fatality rate (CFR) is constant at 0.53 percent in the state indicating two deaths every 200 patients. Altogether 27,077 samples were tested on Monday. With this, a total of number of samples tested have crossed 70.1 lakh now and Telangana has reached 1,88,569 sample testing per million population. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-reports-238-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/80104228.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Jaipur||Bird flu scare in Rajasthan: Samples collected from Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: Amidst the bird flu scare in many parts of the state, a flock of crows was found dead at Narsinghon ki Dhani area in Jaisalmer. The animal husbandry and forest department teams reached the spot and collected samples, some of which were sent to Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Bhopal for testing. The forest department has started efforts to create awareness in DNP area about the bird flu as it can put the Great Indian Bustard (GIB) in danger. The department is conducting a survey of all the water bodies in the district. The villagers are being made aware to immediately inform the nearest employee of the forest department or the team of animal husbandry, on seeing any dead birds in their areas. The district administration has also taken many preventive measures and are identifying meat shops in the district by conducting a survey. DNP deputy conservator forest Kapil Chandrawal, who was in the team that went to Narsinghon ki Dhani, said that some crows were found dead in a school and other areas in the hamlet, and that some samples from the carcasses have been sent to Bhopal. The test report will reveal whether these crows died of bird flu or any other reasons. Vigil has been increased in DNP and other closure areas but so far, there is no information of death of any birds in DNP. However, the team is continuously keeping a watch. Survey of all water bodies is being done to find out whether any bird has died or not and awareness campaign is being carried out in rural areas. Conservation work of GIB is going on in DNP and other areas. All precautions are being taken at the hatchery centre made in DNP for GIB breeding so that no disease is spread there. Many migratory birds have also come to the desert areas and so vigil has been increased. Villagers have been asked to stay alert and that gloves should be used while touching any dead or ill bird. District collector Ashish Modi, confirming the death of birds in Narsinghon ki Dhani, said that on Sunday late evening, information was received about the birds’ deaths, and animal husbandry team and forest department teams were sent. After sending the samples, the remaining dead crows were buried as per the protocol. Order has been given to remain vigilant in the entire district. After cases of bird flu in the state, regular monitoring is being done and vigilance has been increased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/samples-collected-from-jaisalmer/articleshow/80104236.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Min asks CS to modify promotion norms||Hyderabad: On a day when chief secretary Somesh Kumar directed all the district collectors, heads and secretaries of all the departments to complete promotions by month-end, excise and sports minister V Srinivas Goud asked him to take a two-year continuous service period as the criteria instead of three years for affecting promotions. The minister, who is also the honorary president of Telangana gazetted officers and various other associations told the CS that he has been receiving representations on a large scale from the employees to make two years of continuous service as the criteria. The minister submitted a representation to the CS on behalf of the associations. Though the TRS government had reduced the service period from three to two years when it gave promotions to employees in 2015, it was confined only to that panel year. Now, the employees are urging the government to continue the two-year continuous service relaxation. The minister also asked the chief secretary to complete the promotion exercise by January 31 as directed by the chief minister. He also discussed various issues regarding transfer, promotions and other service-related matters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/min-asks-cs-to-modify-promotion-norms/articleshow/80104212.cms||Roushan Ali
January 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyd, Dubai airports ink deal on vaccine logistics||Hyderabad: With the date of the Covid vaccine rollout inching closer, the Hyderabad and Dubai airports, on Monday, signed an MoU to ensure safe and efficient movement of the vaccine across the world. As part of the agreement, the two will build an exclusive Vaccine Air Freight Corridor—‘HYDXB-VAXCOR’ (‘Hyderabad to Dubai global Vaccine Corridor) -- that will provide a seamless green-channel along with integrated temperature tracking and other facilities for the vaccine. The MoU gains prominence since Hyderabad is positioned to be the global hub for production of the vaccine while Dubai will be the global air cargo hub. “The partnership also entails technology collaboration, under which both the entities will explore and work together on an integrated IT solution that will provide end-to-end visibility, including shipment temperature and status tracking for the customers while cargo is in transit between Hyderabad and Dubai and during its onwards journey to various global destinations,” a release issued by the GMR-led city airport, stated. Speaking about the agreement, Paul Griffiths, CEO of Dubai Airport said that is has been timed perfectly—just as global race to develop the vaccines enters the final stage. “This corridor is the result of our strategy to be ready with innovative, collaborative and agile shipping solutions for the industry,” he added. Apart from the corridor, the Hyderabad airport is significantly upgrading its handling capacities for Covid-19 vaccine shipments that require “cold to ultra-cold temperature ranges and become India’s largest air cargo centre for export/imports and domestic distribution of the vaccine”, added Pradeep Panicker, CEO, GMR Hyderabad International Airport Ltd. Welcoming the collaboration Emirates SkyCargo said that the corridor will “greatly facilitate the rapid and secure transportation of Covid-19 vaccines from Hyderabad to Dubai and beyond”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-dubai-airports-ink-deal-on-vaccine-logistics/articleshow/80104257.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 5, 2021||Coimbatore||Distribution of Pongal gift hampers begins||Coimbatore: Municipal administration minister S P Velumani on Monday launched distribution of the special Pongal gift package and a cash incentive of Rs 2,500 to rice cardholders in the district.Of the 10.11 lakh cardholders eligible for the gift, 1,65,587 received it on the first day. Velumani said the state government allotted Rs 269.83 crore – Rs 252.96 crore to distribute Rs 2,500 and Rs 16.87 crore for the gift hampers – for Coimbatore. “People are yet to recover from the Covid-19 pandemic and the initiative will help them celebrate the festival,” he said.The gift hamper contains Rs 2,500, 1kg sugar and rice, sugarcane, 20g cashew nuts and raisins, and 5g cardamom along with a sari and dhoti. “This year, the state government increased the dole from Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,500 and instead of two pieces of sugarcane, a full cane was given,” said an official from the office of the district supply officer. “To prevent crowding in front of ration shops, tokens were distributed to the cardholders, so as to accommodate 200 people a day. The hamper will be distributed till January 12. Those who fail to collect it by then can get it on January 13.”“Instead of employing the biometric process, which is time-consuming, the hampers will be given after scanning smart ration cards. When we were distributing ration products by scanning smart cards, we could accommodate 300 to 400 people a day. Going by that number, we are confident of distributing the hampers to 80% of people within four days,” the official said.Several beneficiaries had gathered in front of ration shops to receive the hamper. M Somasundaram of Puliyakulam said he had reached the shop at 9am but could get the hamper only at 1pm. “I am a mason and had taken half-day leave to get the hamper. Now, I will have to apply for a full-day leave. The inconvenience would have been avoided if the officials had planned it properly,” he said.Crowding at shops might fuel the spread of the coronavirus, said R Sherin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/distribution-of-pongal-gift-hampers-begins/articleshow/80104235.cms||Nivedha Selvam
January 5, 2021||Coimbatore||Electric vehicle recharging station inaugurated||Coimbatore: The city’s first 60 KW public electric vehicle charging station was inaugurated on Monday.The initiative is a part of MG Motor and Tata Power. According to a statement, the public EV charging station installed at MG dealership is available to all vehicles compatible with combined charging system (CCS) fast-charging standard. Talking about the time taken for charging, the statement cited the example of MG’s electric SUV `MG ZS EV’ which can be charged up to 80% in 50 minutes at the facility.Gaurav Gupta, chief commercial officer, MG Motor India, called upon India’s business leaders and industry veterans to actively participate and drive the much-needed change towards green and sustainable future.Rajesh Naik, chief - New Business Services, Tata Power, said that as India moves towards the adoption of sustainable practices, the company will continue to provide customers with the best sustainable energy solutions. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/electric-vehicle-recharging-station-inaugurated/articleshow/80104230.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Graduate MLC polls: TRS may spring surprise to best BJP||HYDERABAD: With the poll notification to the two graduate MLC constituencies in the state likely to be announced by month end or early February, TRS aspirants are expecting that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao will soon finalise candidates for the two council seats. The talk in political circles is that KCR’s announcement to hike salaries of over 9.3 lakh employees, fill up vacancies in government sector and give promotions and transfers has given an edge to the ruling TRS as a majority of the electorate for the two MLC seats comprise these sections of people. The term of the two sitting MLCs would end on March 29. TRS sitting member Palla Rajeshwar Reddy is likely to get the ticket from Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam seat. He is a loyalist of the chief minister. However, the ruling TRS is still in search of a winnable candidate for the Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar seat which it had lost in 2015. Though Greater Hyderabad mayor Bonthu Rammohan, CM’s secretary and poet Deshapati Srinivas, former TNGO leader Devi Prasad are among the front runners, sources did not rule out the possibility of the ruling party indirectly supporting the candidature of independent candidate Prof Nageshwar to defeat BJP, whch had won this seat in 2015. Nageshwar also has the backing of Left parties. On its part, BJP is likely to continue with sitting MLC N Ramachander Rao from Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar and is yet to finalise the candidate for the other seat. The name of Premender Reddy among others is doing rounds in saffron party circles for Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam seat. There was an overwhelming response from Congress aspirants for the two MLC seats as 50 members, including some senior leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/grad-mlc-polls-trs-may-spring-surprise-to-best-bjp/articleshow/80104207.cms||Roushan Ali
January 5, 2021||Delhi||Delhi court gives bail to three riot accused for lapses in probe||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Monday granted bail to three men accused in a northeast Delhi riots case, saying the investigation carried out was “perfunctory” and the chargesheet filed in a “lackadaisical” manner. “After going through the bail applications, reply and particularly chargesheet, I cannot help but notice the carelessness with which the chargesheet has been prepared and filed. The investigation carried out is perfunctory,” said additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat. The court granted relief of bail to Osama, Aatir and Gulfam on a bond of Rs 10,000 with one surety of like amount each. The case related to the alleged looting and burning of a fruits storehouse during rioting in Jafrabad on February 25, 2020. “Some witnesses are mentioned. However, no statement under section 161 CrPC has been filed with the chargesheet. The chargesheet was filed on May 22, 2020 in a very lackadaisical manner,” the court noted. It noted the reply to the bail applications mentioned one witness, who is the complainant in another FIR pertaining to adjoining premises (of the present case)and was an eyewitness in the present case as well. “Moreover, two more eye witnesses’ statements are stated to have been recorded under section 161 CrPC and the same will be filed with the supplementary chargesheet,” the court observed. The court directed the three accused persons not to tamper with evidence or leave Delhi without its permission. Advocate Abdul Gaffar, appearing for the accused, had submitted that his clients had been falsely implicated in the case. Special public prosecutor Uttam Dutt had opposed the bail submitting they were allegedly involved in the rioting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-gives-bail-to-three-riot-accused-for-lapses-in-probe/articleshow/80104264.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Coimbatore||Lake beautification project: Boon or bane?||Coimbatore: In the past couple of years, the city has been witnessing the widening of bunds of lakes and construction of promenades under the smart cities project by the Coimbatore municipal corporation. A few activists and former officials point out that the beautification and rejuvenation of lakes have led to the reduction of water storage capacity significantly in these lakes. On the flip side, it might affect the groundwater recharge in areas surrounding the lakes. Besides Valankulam lake, the corporation has widened bunds to beautify and setup multiple concrete structures in Ukkadam Periyakulam, Kurichi kulam and Kumarasamy tank, where smart city works are being implemented."It looks like the corporation has taken inspiration from foreign countries without actual understanding and is blindly implementing the designs provided by consultants. Most of the lakes in Coimbatore are man-made unlike the ones in foreign countries which are natural and have sufficient space around them to install ornamental structures. More than beautification what we need in Coimbatore is rejuvenation and restoration of the lakes," a retired public works department (PWD) official, S Thirunavukarasu, said. Ideally, the focus of the corporation should have been on increasing the water spread area of the lakes, removal of encroachment, restoration of supply channels and water treatment, he said. "The concrete structures and other works carried out along the lakes would affect groundwater recharge, micro-climate and ecology of the area," he added. Mac Mohan, a city-based environmentalist, said the lake projects are nothing but the poorly made decision and unwanted expenditure."Without restoring the lake and preventing sewage water from entering into the lake, how will public visit the place often. The public may visit the lakes once or twice attracted by the beautification works. But without creating a healthy environment, it cannot sustain and the present condition of wet lands reflect the failure in solid waste management system and management of sewage water," he added. K Kathirmathiyon, a city-based activist, has issued a contempt of court notice to the corporation commissioner, district collector, PWD and Union ministry of housing and urban affairs. He is planning to move the court. He said, "The Madras high court has directed the district administration to remove all the encroachments along the Noyyal basin with a few exemptions like railway track and powerhouse in 2016. The then collector, TN Hariharan, gave an undertaking before the court to remove the encroachments within a year. Until recently, the corporation has been removing houses along the water bodies. But, now, they have started to encroach the water bodies in the name of smart city works." The corporation is acting against the government norms and high court directions, and it is condemnable, he added. When contacted, corporation commissioner P Kumaravel Pandian said, "Earlier, the lake bunds were being encroached and garbage were being dumped along its bund. Now, we have removed the encroachments and are carrying out works to restore the lakes. We will also be setting up sewage treatment plants to treat the sewage water."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lake-beautification-project-boon-or-bane/articleshow/80104234.cms||Nivedha Selvam
January 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Minor fire at Nagarjuna Sagar plant||Hyderabad: Even as the fire accident in which nine persons died in the Srisailam power plant in August last year is still fresh in memory, a fire mishap occurred in the Nagarjuna Sagar hydel power plant in the early hours of Monday. Senior officials, however, said it was a small fire which happened at around 5am. Staffers put out the fire immediately. According to sources, the fire occurred in the transformer which was in the eighth turbine of the power plant. “It was a small fire. There were no casualties or damage,” director (hydel), TSGenco, Ch Venkata Rajyam told TOI. Rajyam, who rushed to the spot, said the fire started from a tarpaulin which was kept the transformer for drying. “The staff who put it on the transformer are not supposed to do that,” Rajyam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/minor-fire-at-nagarjuna-sagar-plant/articleshow/80104203.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 5, 2021||Pune||Testing count tops 19 lakh-mark in PMR, 11 more dead||PUNE: The Covid-19 testing count surpassed 19 lakh-mark in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Monday, with 6,244 tests in the last 24 hours taking the total testing to 19,00,702. With 327 cases on Monday, the Covid-19 caseload in PMR surged above 3.65 lakh. The daily new cases continued to remain less than the discharges in the region on Monday. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that as many as 394 patients recovered in the last 24 hours, including 202 recoveries from the PMC limits, 117 from the rural areas and 75 from the PCMC areas. Incidentally, the PCMC and rural areas reported similar number of positive patients and recoveries on Monday. Of the total samples tested so far in the region, the PMC has accounted for more than 9.32 lakh samples, followed by the PCMC limits (5.57 lakh) and the rural areas (4.11 lakh). The report stated that 11 patients succumbed to the infection in PMR on Monday, including five from the PMC limits, three each in the PCMC and rural areas. The region’s death count has reached 8,855. The region’s active caseload reached 5,672 on Monday, which was slightly lower than Sundays’ case tally of 5,749. The active cases have been on the decline in the region since last month. On Monday, as many as 3,641 patients were in home isolation, while 2,031 were in hospital isolation. The PMC limits had the highest number of active cases in the region, followed by the PCMC limits and rural areas, the report stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/testing-count-tops-19l-mark-in-pmr-11-more-dead/articleshow/80104246.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 5, 2021||Goa||To lure charters, TTAG to ask Centre to reduce costs on operators||Panaji: Tourism stakeholders eager to resume charters fear that heightened competition may impact their business volumes. In light of this, the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) is looking to submit a proposal to the government to lower the fees paid by aircraft companies and is collating data on the various types of levies charged. The state government has assured stakeholders that it will request the Centre to give flight operators concessions for landing and other fees. Tourism secretary J Ashok Kumar told TOI that they have asked TTAG to submit details of existing fees so that the matter could be taken up with the central government for seeking concessions. Prior to Covid-19, annually Goa received about eight to nine lakh foreign tourists comprising two to two and a half lakh charter tourists. “Goa will face a lot of competition from rival destinations when the industry fully opens up. Besides lessening landing charges, we are also keen to see that visa fees are lessened,” TTAG president Nilesh Shah said. Shah said that they sought details of various charges from the airport authority as different fees are applicable for aircraft depending on their size. “The work of collecting information is underway,” he said. It’s been a while now that local operators have been seeking relief to make Goa more attractive to charters even as south Asian destinations, including Sri Lanka, pose a tough competition with some even not charging visas fees. The demand for lessening landing charges has grown over the past three years after the state started witnessing a drop in charter tourists. These tourists have begun choosing other destinations offering better packages. A tourism stakeholder said that though the government has neglected their requests so far, at least some relief needs to be offered now when commercial flights resume operations. Otherwise the going will get tough, he said. “At this moment European destinations appear unapproachable with Covid-19 still playing havoc there, but our best bet appears to be Russian destinations,” the stakeholder said. In the past decade, the majority of charters to Goa have been from Russia, followed by the UK. “We have seen small hotels and shack operators suffer in the the absence of charter and other foreign tourists. We can’t sustain on domestic tourists alone,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/to-lure-charters-ttag-to-ask-centre-to-reduce-costs-on-operators/articleshow/80104310.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Jaipur||NSUI organises cycle rally in support of farmers||Jaipur: The state NSUI on Monday organised “Kisan Chhatra Cycle Yatra’ in support of the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws. The yatra was flagged off by state Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasra at Amar Jawan Jyoti on Janpath. Pratap Singh Khachariwas, Bhanwar Singh Bhati, Harish Chaudhary, Ashok Chandna and Krishna Poonia were also present on the occasion. The rally was led by NSUI national president Neeraj Kundan, Rajasthan NSUI in-charge Gurjot Sandhu and state president Abhishek Chaudhary. The rally will leave for Delhi from Behror on Tuesday morning. Meanwhile, the situation continued to remain tense at Rajasthan-Haryana border on Jaipur-Delhi national highway after Sunday’s lathicharge on the farmers from Ganganagar-Hanumangarh. Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana, who had come to Shahjahanpur border on Sunday with 325 tractors under the leadership of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta) Ugrahan to extend their support to the farmers’ agitation, left for Tikri border on Monday via Rewari and Jhajjar. Before leaving, the farmers returned the blankets and mattresses, which were presented to them for welcoming on Sunday at Alwar’s Shahjajanpur border, so that the farmers protesting in Rajasthan do not suffer due to shortage of blankets in winter. Farmer leaders like Yogendra Yadav, Amra Ram, Pema Ram and Deepak Lamba were present there to bid farewell. The residents of Rewari received the tractor rally, stretching up to kilometers, by showering flowers and offering them food before letting them move ahead. Haryana Police on Sunday lathicharged and used tear gas shells on Ganganagar-Hanumangarh farmers, who had crossed over to the state breaking the barricades four days ago, when a large number of protesters tried to block the main road at Dharuhera in Haryana’s Rewari district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nsui-organises-cycle-rally-in-support-of-farmers/articleshow/80104272.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 5, 2021||Pune||MedBros waits for order to close jumbo care centres||Pune: The MedBros agency, which runs the Covid-19 jumbo units at the College of Engineering, Pune (CoEP), and also at Annasaheb Magar Stadium, said it was yet to receive any official order from the administration regarding the closure of these centres.Sangram Kapale, director, MedBros Annasaheb Magar stadium jumbo unit, said it would not lay off any staff members until the order for closure was received. Currently, both the medical facilities employ 1,000 medical and paramedical staff members.Kapale told TOI, “The officials have verbally told us to stop new admissions at both the facilities and continue with the treatment of admitted patients until their discharge. Most probably, we will get some clarity by next week as review meetings with the state ministers are likely to be held then.”Activist Maruti Bhapkar said the administration should remain on high alert considering the rise in the number of cases of the UK strain. Moreover, schools are scheduled to reopen from January 4. The administration as well as the MedBros agency should be prepared to handle any eventualities, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/medbros-waits-for-order-to-close-jumbo-care-centres/articleshow/80104273.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 5, 2021||Pune||Pune man with variant remained asymptomatic||Pune: A 26-year-old Pune man who tested positive for the UK strain of SARS-CoV-2 remained asymptomatic until his discharge. He was discharged from isolation on January 2 after testing negative twice. He had returned from the UK on December 17. “He has now been advised home isolation for 28 days. His family, who tested negative, have also been told to isolate,” said Rubal Agarwal, additional commissioner of the PMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-man-with-variant-remained-asymptomatic/articleshow/80104283.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Two boys in custody for sexual assault of girl||HYDERABAD: Two minor boys were handed over to police by women and child welfare authorities for alleged sexual assault of a girl in December in Nagarkurnool’s Lingala mandal. The accused even attempted to sexually abuse her sister. Cases under the POCSO Act will be registered against the boys who will be produced before the Juvenile Justice Board, officials said. One of the boys also has a criminal history, officials said. The boys reportedly consumed liquor during the New Year-eve revelry and tried to sexually assault the girls. One of the accused also took a video of his accomplice sexually assaulting one of the sisters. Officials verified the video. The girl who was videographed will be produced before the child welfare committee, which will provide shelter to her. The girls have no father and their mother earns her living by selling fruits. The girls have another sister. Women and child welfare minister Sathyavathi Rathod instructed the women and child welfare officer Prajwala to ensure that quick action is taken against the boys under the POCSO Act. The minister assured to provide compensation to the girls. The girls have been sent to the government area hospital in Nagarkurnool where they will undergo medical tests. Meanwhile, the local authorities have been asked to give protection to the girls’ family. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-boys-in-custody-for-sexual-assault-of-girl/articleshow/80104229.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 5, 2021||Jaipur||Bird flu: Stay away from winged pets, says Rajasthan health dept||JAIPUR: Alert has been sounded across the state after hundreds of birds including crows and migratory birds were found dead due to bird flu. Following deaths of birds, the health department in Jhalawar issued an appeal to the people to stay away from pet birds such as parrots and pigeons. Health department has swung into action and issued an alert to all the chief medical health officers across the state to monitor the situation and intensify surveillance as the flu may transmit from birds to humans. “Birds have been found dead in different parts of the state, which is a serious concern for us. Bird flu may transmit from birds to humans. We have directed our officials to keep a close eye on poultry farms and other areas where birds are inhabited. The health of staff or caretakers in poultry farms should be monitored regularly and in case any health-related issues are found, they have been directed to inform the higher authorities while taking other necessary measures,” a senior health department official told TOI. Birds have been found dead in Jhalawar, Jaipur and some other parts of the state. Acting on the health department’s direction, chief medical health officer in Jhalawar, Dr Sajid Khan said, “We have issued an appeal to people asking them to maintain distance from their pet birds such as parrots and pigeons. The flu may transmit from birds to the humans and one should remain careful. The common symptoms of bird flu are diarrhoea, vomiting and nausea.” The health department is taking more information from the animal husbandry department, which is closely monitoring the situation and taking measures to control the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/stay-away-from-winged-pets-health-dept/articleshow/80104307.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Salem||Kamal Haasan sees corruption in Tamil Nadu government’s ‘kudimaramathu’ scheme||SALEM: Taking a swipe at the ruling AIADMK, founder of Makkal Needhi Maiam Kamal Haasan on Monday said the state government’s ‘kudimaramathu’ scheme was not for desilting water bodies but totally meant for ‘commission’. Releasing his party’s seven-point agenda to save and protect the ecological system at a press conference in the city on Monday, Kamal Haasan said circular economy, monitoring and enforcing pollution standards, stringent groundwater regulation, environmental atlas, progress with sustainable development goals, ensuring local community participation and protection of ecosystems were the seven agendas. When asked about corrupt officials becoming a hurdle in implementing his agenda, Kamal Haasan said people should not give bribes to officials when they demand. "We will give more teeth to Lok Pal to punish corrupt officials when we come to power in the state," he said, adding that officials would change their mindset once the head of the government is corruption-free as MNM would not support corruption at any stage. While campaigning in the city, Kamal said that several people especially women attend our party meetings. "It’s our duty to give protection to women now and even after we formed the government," he said. Kamal later went to Namakkal district on the same evening and addressed the gathering at Tiruchengode, Namakkal town and Rasipuram. He will be campaigning in Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts on Tuesday. Environmental activist Padmapriya joined MNM. "With the support of the party, she would save the state’s ecological system," Kamal Haasan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/kamal-releases-mnms-agenda-to-protect-ecosystem/articleshow/80104268.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Jaipur||Ajmer dargah files FIR against provocative video, youth booked||Ajmer/Jaipur: Ajmer police have registered a case against a person for uploading a 2.20-minute video containing provocative and objectionable remarks against Ajmer dargah, on Sunday. In the video, a youth, standing in front of a lake which he refers to as Pushkar Sarovar, in a running commentary can be heard abusing the Sufi saint. The video came to light on January 3. The prima facie police investigation on the basis of Call Detail Report (CDR) of the youth says that he has not visited Pushkar in the last few months. Police have registered a case under Sections 153A, 295, 295A, 296 and 298 of IPC. His location in the last one week as per the number accessed by the police says that he was in Madhya Pradesh. “It appears to be an older video which might have surfaced now or the place may not have been Pushkar Sarovar and could be another place,” said an official analysing the video and CDR. Dalbeer Singh, circle inspector of Dargah police said that the matter is being investigated and soon, the culprit will be behind bars. “The person has been identified in the video as Swami Jitendranand Saraswati, who runs a Youtube video. Once he is traced, more details will be shared,” he said. The Dargah Committee, a body under minister of minority affairs and Anjuman Syed Zadgan (a body of priests) has filed a complaint against persons for promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion. “The contents of the video are disturbing and it is believed to disturb the peace and harmony of the nation. Those behind it should be exposed before the nation,” said Ashfaq Hussain, Dargah Nazim (CEO). A cyber crime consultant at Jaipur police, Mukesh Choudhary is assisting Ajmer police to remove the video from WhatsApp. “Efforts are on to identify the content through a unique identification value and reporting it to WhatsApp to block the viral content,” said Choudhary. Police have also warned the common public not to share such videos or else they too will be made accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ajmer-dargah-files-fir-against-provocative-video-youth-booked/articleshow/80104275.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Delhi||Massive dip seen in dengue, malaria cases||New Delhi: Three malaria and 10 dengue cases were reported in Delhi in the last week of 2020. The year witnessed overall 228 malaria, 1,072 dengue and 111 chikungunya cases. On Monday, the city’s civic bodies released the final and cumulative mosquito-borne disease report for 2020. Delhi saw one death each due to malaria and dengue in the year. No malaria deaths were reported in the capital over the past few years. Compared with 228 malaria cases in 2020, Delhi had seen 713 malaria cases in 2019, 473 in 2018 and 577 in 2017. The city recorded 1,072 dengue cases in 2020 as against 2,032 cases in the preceding year, 2,798 in 2018 and 4,726 in 2017. Anti-mosquito activities, however, remained impacted due to Covid-19 pandemic all through the year. Just around 2.3 crore visits were made by Domestic Breeding Checkers (DBCs), which was the lowest in the last five years. The three municipal corporations claim that 3.6 crore visits were made in 2019 and 3.7 crore in 2018. Officials said the number of visits was less as many of the DBCs were also engaged in carrying out disinfection work in the pandemic year. A senior corporation official said that very marginal increase in cases might be witnessed in the next week due to rain and waterlogging. Extremely low temperature, however, will ensure that mosquito-breeding remains low, the official added. “While the overall number of mosquito-borne diseases remained comparatively lower in 2020 than previous years, the data captured by sentinel hospitals was affected this year due to many of these hospitals being turned into Covid hospitals,” said sources. The 36 sentinel hospitals include all major government hospitals and some private hospitals. The list includes hospitals like LNJP, Hindu Rao, AIIMS, RML, Safdarjung, Babu Jagjivan Ram among others. A recent analysis of mosquito-breeding data showed that peri-domestic containers accounted for largest chunk of ‘mosquito-breeding sites cases’ followed by domestic water storage containers. Desert coolers, which are commonly used in Delhi during summers, and overhead tanks come at the third and the fourth spot, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/massive-dip-seen-in-dengue-malaria-cases/articleshow/80104291.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Covaxin stockpile at 20 m, set to scale up: Ella||Hyderabad: Bharat Biotech, which has just received Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) form the Indian drug regulators for Covaxin, is all geared up to begin supplies with a stockpile of 20 million doses in place and plans to scale up. This was stated by Bharat Biotech chairman and managing director Dr Krishna Ella on Monday. Ella added the company is preparing to ramp up capacities for manufacturing Covaxin to about 700 million doses annually across four facilities, including three in Hyderabad itself. “We have 20 million doses stockpiled now but we are aiming to get to 700 million doses capacity in four facilities, three facilities in Hyderabad and one in Bangalore,” he said. He also pointed out that the company expects to have more than 150 million doses of Covaxin ready by July-August 2021. On preparedness to rollout the vaccine, Ella said that batches of the vaccine have been already sent to Central Research Institute (CRI) Kasauli. “We have 5 million doses getting approved by Kasauli (Central Research Institute) and we are ready to roll anytime…if the government of India allows us…,” Ella said. Here he pointed out that despite the challenges the company is facing in terms of logistics and vaccine inputs Bharat Biotech will certainly produce Covaxin in very high scale capacity. He said he has invested $250 million (Rs 1,500 crore) in Bharat Biotech since it was set up in 1996.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covaxin-stockpile-at-20-m-set-to-scale-up-ella/articleshow/80104278.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
January 5, 2021||Coimbatore||Training for teachers begins||Coimbatore: The school education department began a five-day long residential training programme for vocational teachers of 120 government schools at Akshaya College of Engineering and Technology in Kinathukadavu on Monday. An official from the department said, "On a pilot basis, the department has been selecting schools to provide vocational training to the students from 2018. Each school will teach any of two trades like apparel, agriculture, automotive and beauty and wellness. In 2018 –19, we have selected 67 schools in the state and in 2019-20, we have selected 53 schools." TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/training-for-teachers-begins/articleshow/80104253.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat in bottom three in wages||AHMEDABAD: Be it construction, agriculture or non-agriculture wages in rural areas, Gujarat remains among the bottom three states in the country. Daily wages in rural Gujarat range from Rs 208 to 268. The payment per day for labourers in the state has been on the lower side in comparison to the other states. According to the Reserve Bank of India data released recently, in the year 2019-20, states like Kerala paid Rs 700 to an agricultural labourer and Rs 839 to a construction worker, which was followed by Jammu & Kashmir where an agricultural labourer was paid Rs 453 and the construction labourer was paid Rs 468.  The wages in Gujarat were lower even than the national average which was Rs 286 for agriculture and Rs 341 for construction labourers. Vipul Mittra, the additional chief secretary labour & employment department, said, “The wages are in accordance with the cost of living which is published every year by central agencies. These are just the minimum wages, but the labourers are paid much more than the declared figures.” An officer said that when it comes to rural Gujarat, whatever be the activity, labourers are not paid adequately. Not just the farmers, but according to the agriculture statistics of 2016, at least 39.3 lakh agricultural households have income less than Rs 1 lakh per annum. A senior government officer said that in rural areas, instead of paying more to labourers, the farmers enter into contracts and pay a percentage to the labour contractor to arrange cheap labour. He said the culture in rural Gujarat was to pay less in hand, but to compensate with arrangement for food and boarding facilities. Y K Alagh, an economist, said, “The state has a low wage, but high employment economy and it was because the state has a trained tribal population apart from the untrained labourers coming from Rajasthan.” The movement to train the ‘adivasis; (tribals) was taken up by Mahatma Gandhi and he had formed Bhil Seva Mandal to train them, he said. “Later, it was Sanat Mehta who took up a movement and trained tribal people backed with state funds. There are several NGOs that are involved in training adivasis. We have unlimited number of trained labourers and hence the wages are very low in the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-in-bottom-3-in-wages/articleshow/80104300.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 5, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara man infected with UK strain||VADODARA: A man who had returned to the city and tested positive for Covid-19 has now been found infected with the new strain of the novel coronavirus that has spread panic in the UK. The patient is presently undergoing treatment at a government health facility in the city. Sources said that three persons from the city and district had tested positive for Covid-19 on return from the UK. Three of their contacts had also tested positive. The samples of those who tested positive were sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, to ascertain the strain of the virus that had infected them. It has come to light that one of the travellers and his three contacts were not infected by the mutant virus found in the UK. The result of one person is awaited even as a person residing in the Raopura area was found infected with the mutant strain. The patient is a 32-year-old male who had tested negative in the UK and arrived in India on December 21. His samples were collected again and he was found suffering from Covid-19. Sources said that the samples were also sent to NIV where it was found that he was suffering from the new strain believed to be far more virulent than the previous ones. An official said that none of the contacts of the man were found to be suffering from Covid-19. Tests had been performed on all of them. He added that despite the negative reports, the close contacts had been kept under observation and home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-man-infected-with-uk-strain/articleshow/80104241.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Pune||Non-Covid visits on the rise at YCM hospital||Pimpri Chinchwad: The out-patient department (OPD) of the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital has been recording a rise in the number of general patients after getting permission to operate the facility for 50% non-Covid cases in December. According to the medical officials of the hospital, the OPD was witnessing around 700 to 1,000 patients every day, mostly from the rural parts. Rajendra Wabale, the dean of Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) Hospital and postgraduate institute, told TOI, “As the number of Covid-19 cases have dropped in the past few months, we have increased the treatment capacity for regular patients, which is reflecting in the increase in the number of OPD patients. During the pre-Covid time, we treated around 1,200 to 1,800 patients in the OPD, while the in-patient department, which earlier used to have around 550 to 650 patients, now has 400-500.” A decision on turning the hospital into a 100% non-Covid facility is still pending. “We are the only facility in Pimpri Chinchwad that treats pregnant Covid-19-positive women. Patients coming here for treatment of other ailments are checked for symptoms of Covid-19. If they are found to be positive, they get early treatment at YCM hospital,” Wabale said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/non-covid-visits-on-the-rise-at-ycm-hospital/articleshow/80104311.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Chandigarh||Day later, farmers from Punjab, Rajasthan camp in Rewari||CHANDIGARH: Farmers who are protesting in two spots of Rewari hail from Sri Ganganagar and Hanumangarh districts of Rajasthan and villages of Punjab bordering Haryana and Rajasthan. Sources said the stand-off between farmers and policemen on Sahib bridge continued and senior farm leaders also visited the spot. In the absence of adequate support from locals, farmers have found it tough and activists from Kundli and Tikri borders are joining them to provide logistical support. Meanwhile, the working group of All India Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh (AIKMS) coordination committee on Monday visited sites where farmers are camping. Headed by convener Yogender Yadav, the team also reviewed arrangements. AIKMS committee criticised the police for action on farmers on Sunday evening. “They wanted to reach Gurugram via Dharuhera and are bent upon reaching there. Hence, they came out on NH-8 and police took an action. But, role of police was inhumane and targeted to harass farmers,” said Yadav. Yadav also confirmed the lack of adequate support from locals ,unlike Kundli, Tikri and Palwal. In the past five days, these farmers have breached the Haryana-Rajasthan border and the barricades in Salawas to reach Dharuhera. Now, the farmers are camping just five kilometres from Dharuhera as the main bridge had been blocked and occupied by police and paramilitary forces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/day-later-farmers-from-pb-raj-camp-in-rewari/articleshow/80105643.cms||Manvir Saini
January 5, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Man’s body with injury marks found in Ajmer||AJMER: The unidentified body of a man with injury marks was found at Makhupura, barely 50 metres from Nasirabad Road, on Monday. Adarsh Nagar police reached the spot after receiving information around 10am. Beside the bodt of the man, who is aged around 55 years, cops found tyre tracks of a vehicle. Police suspect the man was killed elsewhere and thrown here. The body has been sent for post-mortem and photo sent to every police station in the area to ascertain his identity. A similar incident had occurred two months ago when a woman’s body was found half-burnt on Nasirabad Road without any identification. Later, police solved the murder and arrested the accused husband from Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/mans-body-with-injury-marks-found-in-ajmer/articleshow/80104315.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Bareilly||27 points set up for Covid-19 vaccination in Pilibhit dist||PILIBHIT: District magistrate Pulkit Khare along with chief medical officer Dr Seema Agarwal on Monday inspected the cold chain arrangements for the storage of Covid-19 vaccine on the CMO office campus and reviewed the preparations at vaccination centres. “The district is fully prepared for the first phase of vaccination and suitable necessary arrangements have been made for the cold chain and auto-disable syringes,” said the CMO. According to officials, a total of 4,151 Covid-19 positive cases were detected in the district till January 3, of which 4,017 patients fully recovered. The district has reported 77 deaths due to the novel coronavirus infection, while 57 active cases are currently undergoing treatment at various medical facilities. The district recorded an overall recovery rate of 96.77%, said Dr CM Chaturvedi, additional chief medical officer. The ACMO said the district had maintained as many as 13 cold chain centres with all essential equipment. “The health department has been provided with two Ice Land refrigerators capable of maintaining the temperature between +2 and +8 degrees Celsius requirement for the storage of the two Covid-19 vaccines,” he added. The CMO said, “The district has received 4.5 lakh auto-disable syringes for the vaccination. We have set up as many as 27 vaccination centres, of which seven will be functional in government hospitals at the district headquarters, while the remaining 20 at tehsil and block level hospitals.” In the first phase, as many as 7,946 health workers will be vaccinated. Thereafter, the vaccination will be carried out in three phases taking place on Monday, Friday and Monday. The vaccination will be completed after administering two doses at an interval of 28 days.” The ACMO added that a mock drill for the vaccination would be conducted at the district government hospital on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/27-points-set-up-for-covid-19-vaccination-in-pilibhit-dist/articleshow/80101511.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 5, 2021||Jaipur||Reward for information on police assaulters||JAIPUR: Rajasthan Police on Monday announced an award of Rs 2,000 to anyone who can provide information on six persons from Madhya Pradesh who are accused of murder attempt on two Dholpur police constables. The accused include Banku alias Kaptan Singh, son of a former minister of MP and Congress leader Aidal Singh Kansana. The incident happened when two constables—Hari Om and Vijay Pal - were allegedly abducted by 10-15 persons and taken to Gwalior in February 2019. “Both the constables were patrolling near the Chambal river and found the movement of the accused suspicious. They tried to stop them but were taken by suprise when the accused pointed guns at them and pushed them in their SUVs. They also fired several round of fire to terrorise others. Reportedly both the constables were beaten with rods and were left in a critical condition in the forest near Chambal river,” said a police source. Dholpur Police filed a case against 13 persons related to the incident including 6 main accused. The police raided the locations but were not able to track them, said a police officer. The five other accused are Vrindavan, Umeed Singh, Ramraj, Pappu and Krishna Gujjar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/reward-for-informationon-police-assaulters/articleshow/80104304.cms||---
January 5, 2021||India||Covaxin stock at 20m doses, company eyes 700m||HYDERABAD: Bharat Biotech, which has just received Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) from the Indian drug regulators for Covaxin, is all geared up to begin supplies with a stockpile of 20 million doses in place and plans to scale up. This was stated by Bharat Biotech chairman and managing director Dr Krishna Ella on Monday. “We have 20 million doses stockpiled now but we are aiming to get to 700 million doses capacity in four facilities, three facilities in Hyderabad and one in Bangalore,” he said. He also pointed out that the company expects to have more than 150 million doses of Covaxin ready by July-August 2021. On preparedness to rollout the vaccine, Ella said that batches of the vaccine have been already sent to Central Research Institute (CRI) Kasauli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covaxin-stock-at-20m-doses-company-eyes-700m/articleshow/80106583.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
January 5, 2021||Pune||35% senior students in PCMC areas show up||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: All the 18 secondary schools run by the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation resumed with at least 30-35% students on Monday. Schools had arranged all safety protocols from thermal guns to sanitizers. Social distancing protocols were followed in classrooms, and students and teachers wore masks and carried their own water bottles. Public relations officer Kiran Gaikwad said they had expected around 2,500 students of which around 813 joined. Only two schools held their sessions in the morning, while the remaining operated in the afternoon. On private schools reopening, Gaikwad said no information was available as these schools have been granted the flexibility of resuming their academics by next week. Mayor Usha Dhore said students and parents must have the confidence that the schools are safe to attend. Academics must be burden-free which will increase attendance. Rajendra Singh, working president of the Independent English Schools’ Association, said many private schools in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad may resume academics between January 6 and January 11. 36% in AurangabadIn Aurangabad, many schools reopened without school bus services that kept attendance to a moderate 36%. Of the total 1,869 students, 685 were present. Nashik city recorded 16% attendance. According to the Nashik Municipal Corporation, 384 of 2,318 students from 13 municipal schools attended classes on the first day. In the rural parts of Nashik, nearly 1.2 lakh of the 1.7 lakh students attended schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/35-senior-pupils-in-pcmc-areas-show-up/articleshow/80104355.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 5, 2021||Vadodara||‘Bailed accused not absconder if her house is locked’||VADODARA: Just because an accused’s house is locked, she cannot be declared as absconding, the district court has ruledDeciding on an application to cancel the bail of Mehrunisa Baluchi, an accused in a cheating case, the court of principal district judge M R Mengdey turned down the complainant’ Jitendra Patel’s apprehension. Jitendra Patel, a resident of Waghodiya Road, had informed the court that Baluchi does not live at the address given by her to the court at the time of getting anticipatory bail, and, if her bail is not be cancelled, it is quite likely that she will not remain present for the trial. Patel also requested the court that an arrest warrant be issued against Baluchi so that he can get justice. While allowing her bail in September 2019, one of the conditions stated was that she should give her residential address to the court as well as the investigating officer. She was also asked not to change her residence until the trial is over. District government pleader Anil Desai also supported Patel’s application. He argued that Baluchi has flouted the bail condition so her bail should be cancelled. Incidentally, the notice sent by court to Baluchi to respond to the application was also returned unserved since she was not found at home that has been locked for the past couple of months. The court stated in the order that since Baluchi has given her address, she has not flouted bail condition. The court also said that Patel’s apprehension that Baluchi will not remain present during the trial because her house is locked is misplaced. “The trial of the case is not likely to proceed in near future and when the trial proceeds further and the accused does not make herself available for the trial, the trial court is well equipped with the powers to take appropriate steps for securing her presence,” the court order read. Baluchi is accused along with two others of luring Patel and one more person to invest Rs 49.5 lakh in a financial company handling forex trading and operating cattle sheds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bailed-accused-not-absconder-if-her-house-is-locked/articleshow/80104309.cms||Jay Pachchigar
January 5, 2021||Chennai||State’s unemployment rate fell to 5-year low of 0.5% in December||Chennai: An increase in industrial and agricultural activity coupled with a rise in the services sector’s contribution pushed the unemployment rate in Tamil Nadu to a five-year low of 0.5% in December, from 1.1% in November, according to data released by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE). Nationally, the rate rose to 9.1% in December from 6.5% a month ago. Among the large manufacturing states, Gujarat’s unemployment rate dropped to 3% from 3.9%, while Maharashtra’s rate rose to 3.9% from 3.1% between November and December. Anyone who has earned a salary or wage in a particular month is considered employed. And if the respondent is not employed, but willing to work, then he or she is counted as unemployed, CMIE’s MD Mahesh Vyas said.The unemployment rate in Tamil Nadu showed a direct correlation to the unlock guidelines. When the state was under complete lockdown in April, the rate was 49.8%, which gradually fell to 8.1% in July. It was 5% in September and dropped further to 2.2% in October, CMIE said.A senior state government official said there was a surge in economic activity, which has a bearing on employment. Data from the provident fund office showed that despite the pandemic, net payroll additions between April and October 2020 stood at 2,75,937.After the Centre increased the allocation for Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) in May 2020, there was an increase (year on year) in rural employment generation. Tamil Nadu had 41 million person days of employment under the scheme in October 2020, the highest among states and an increase of 151% year on year.“The sentiments in Tamil Nadu have been boosted as a result of a series of impressive investments in the state and, secondly, the agri season also looks good”, said Aditya Narayan Mishra, director and CEO of HR firm CIEL HR Services. “The confidence of the manufacturing industry has gone up several notches with the prospect of new markets opening up, and they have started preparing for the future by filling up the vacant roles. Manufacturing sector hiring in Oct-Dec has gone up by around 25% compared to what we saw in April-June,” he said.Amit Vadera, head of staffing at HR firm TeamLease Services, said that his company was witnessing increased hiring in Chennai and Coimbatore driven largely by manufacturing sectors and services sectors. “FMCG, pharma, chemicals, telecom and IT are seeing over 15-20% uptick in hiring in Chennai while FMCG, power & utilities, education and construction sectors have seen 10-15% increase in hiring in Coimbatore,” he added.(With Inputs from Sindhu Hariharan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/states-unemployment-rate-fell-to-5-year-low-of-0-5-in-december/articleshow/80104339.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
January 5, 2021||Aurangabad||Will rename Aurangabad if we win civic polls, says BJP||PUNE/MUMBAI: BJP state unit chief Chandrakant Patil on Monday said his party would approve the proposal for changing the name of Aurangabad to Sambhajinagar if it was elected to office in the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation. “It is a matter of principle and pride for us. We shall approve the proposal for changing the name if we get elected,” Patil said. Patil said Shiv Sena should clarify its stand on changing the name of Aurangabad as it had been pressing for the change. The Sena had kept the issue on the backburner after it formed the government in the state with the Congress, which is against the renaming. The Sena refers to the city as Sambhajinagar in its mouthpiece Saamna, but it is difficult for Congress and NCP to support the renaming in view of their “secular” image, a political expert said. Sena MP Sanjay Raut said BJP, Congress, Samajwadi Party and AIMIM know the Sena’s stand on the issue, and the late Balasaheb Thackeray had already renamed the city as Sambhajinagar, so it will get renamed at government level soon. But Congress minister Aslam Shaikh told TOI that renaming the city is not part of the common minimum programme of the MVA government. “The politics of renaming should stop . If a party wants to give a city a name, it should create a new one with complete infrastructure which will improve people’s livelihood and then name it as they wish,” Shaikh said. MLA Abu Azmi, who is state president of SP, said, “I would say to CM Uddhav Thackeray that in case he wants to rename places, he should first rename the state after Shivaji Maharaj. If you want to name a place after Sambhaji Maharaj, the ideal district would be Raigad. Aurangabad and Ahmednagar have their own history.” BJP’s Pravin Darekar, opposition leader in the legislative council, dared the Sena to rename Aurangabad. “The Aurangabad corporation is controlled by Sena, so they should send the proposal to the state. The state cabinet led by Uddhav Thackeray should clear the proposal and forward it to the Centre.,” Darekar said. BJP’s ally and RPI president Ramdas Athavle opposed the renaming. He said, “Aurangabad should retain its name. The RPI will organise a protest if the state tries to rename it.” Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi chief Prakash Ambedkar, who supports the Thackeray government, also opposed the renaming. “The ideal city to name after Sambhaji Maharaj is Pune as the last rites of Sambhaji Maharaj were carried out near Pune.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/patil-nod-to-aurangabad-renaming-proposal-if-bjp-wins-civic-elections/articleshow/80106702.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 5, 2021||Pune||Will rename Aurangabad if we win civic polls, says BJP||PUNE/MUMBAI: BJP state unit chief Chandrakant Patil on Monday said his party would approve the proposal for changing the name of Aurangabad to Sambhajinagar if it was elected to office in the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation. “It is a matter of principle and pride for us. We shall approve the proposal for changing the name if we get elected,” Patil said. Patil said Shiv Sena should clarify its stand on changing the name of Aurangabad as it had been pressing for the change. The Sena had kept the issue on the backburner after it formed the government in the state with the Congress, which is against the renaming. The Sena refers to the city as Sambhajinagar in its mouthpiece Saamna, but it is difficult for Congress and NCP to support the renaming in view of their “secular” image, a political expert said. Sena MP Sanjay Raut said BJP, Congress, Samajwadi Party and AIMIM know the Sena’s stand on the issue, and the late Balasaheb Thackeray had already renamed the city as Sambhajinagar, so it will get renamed at government level soon. But Congress minister Aslam Shaikh told TOI that renaming the city is not part of the common minimum programme of the MVA government. “The politics of renaming should stop . If a party wants to give a city a name, it should create a new one with complete infrastructure which will improve people’s livelihood and then name it as they wish,” Shaikh said. MLA Abu Azmi, who is state president of SP, said, “I would say to CM Uddhav Thackeray that in case he wants to rename places, he should first rename the state after Shivaji Maharaj. If you want to name a place after Sambhaji Maharaj, the ideal district would be Raigad. Aurangabad and Ahmednagar have their own history.” BJP’s Pravin Darekar, opposition leader in the legislative council, dared the Sena to rename Aurangabad. “The Aurangabad corporation is controlled by Sena, so they should send the proposal to the state. The state cabinet led by Uddhav Thackeray should clear the proposal and forward it to the Centre.,” Darekar said. BJP’s ally and RPI president Ramdas Athavle opposed the renaming. He said, “Aurangabad should retain its name. The RPI will organise a protest if the state tries to rename it.” Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi chief Prakash Ambedkar, who supports the Thackeray government, also opposed the renaming. “The ideal city to name after Sambhaji Maharaj is Pune as the last rites of Sambhaji Maharaj were carried out near Pune.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/patil-nod-to-aurangabad-renaming-proposal-if-bjp-wins-civic-elections/articleshow/80104362.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 5, 2021||Aurangabad||SCR’s maiden Kisan Rail starts its journey from Nanded division||AURANGABAD: The first Kisan Rail from Maharashtra, under the purview of South Central Railway (SCR), commenced its journey from Nagarsol in Nanded division on Tuesday evening, carrying onions towards Guwahati in Assam . The train, with 23 parcel vans, is also the first Kisan special rail service from Nanded division. Ch Rakesh, chief public relations officer of the SCR, on Tuesday said the Kisan special train carried out 522 tonne of onions during its maiden journey. “The SCR has taken another significant step in its continuous endeavour to assist the farm sector in marketing its agricultural produce for better price realisation. To further encourage the farmers, the ministry of food processing industries announced extension of 50% tariff concession on the transportation of notified fruits and vegetables through Kisan Rail trains,” he said. Onion loading used to happen occasionally from Nagarsol station in the past through goods trains. However, to transport this commodity by the goods trains, the farmers or traders had to procure the agricultural produce in huge quantities so as to be able to meet full train load capacity. “The freight team of the Nanded division conducted regular meetings with the farmer and trading community, making them aware of the ease benefits of loading their produce by Kisan Rails and the continuous marketing efforts have led to the starting of first Kisan Rail from Maharashtra,” Rakesh said. The maiden Kisan special train will reach New Guwahati Goods Complex at 9 pm on January 7 after covering a distance of 2,500 kilometer in a span of 50 hours. “Kisan Rail from Nagarsol is scheduled to make a total of 11 trips in near future to different locations with immediate next trip slated to take place on January 7 towards Chitpur in West Bengal,” Rakesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/scrs-maiden-kisan-rail-starts-its-journey-from-nanded-division/articleshow/80149272.cms||Prasad Joshi
January 5, 2021||Bareilly||20-year-old BSc student hangs self after failing to qualify in NEET||PILIBHIT: A student of BSc (second year) of village Bhooda Sarainda under Gajraula police station committed suicide by hanging himself on Monday from a tree near the village pond about 1.5 km from his house. Sarvesh Kumar’s (20) dead body was found by villagers at 4.30 pm. A suicide note, which police recovered from Kumar’s pocket, said he is took the step after failing to clear the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and finding his path to becoming a doctor blocked. Police have sent his body for autopsy. At the end of the suicide note, he begged pardon of his parents for the extreme step and urged his father, Makhan Lal, a marginal farmer, to take proper care of his younger brother’s education, so that at least the latter could become a successful doctor. SHO Jai Prakash Singh said the body was sent for autopsy, while the suicide note would be sent to forensic experts for examination. The deceased was pursuing BSc from Upadhi Postgraduate Degree College at Pilibhit district headquarters, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/20-year-old-bsc-student-hangs-self-after-failing-to-qualify-in-neet/articleshow/80101517.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 5, 2021||Pune||Pune: Traffic detour over metro work sparks snarls at key junctions||PUNE: Ongoing Metro work on one side of the road from Jehangir Hospital to RTO Chowk has squeezed traffic onto alternate routes — especially the road between Maldhakka Chowk and Shahir Amar Shaikh Chowk — causing congestion on a daily basis. “My daily commute has become longer by at least 10-15 minutes because of the detour I must now take. Maldhakka Chowk and the Juna Bazaar junction have become clogged during peak hours due to the additional traffic,” Sachin Rao, a regular commuter, said. This was echoed by other motorists affected by the road closure as well. This stretch was closed to traffic late last August to accommodate Metro viaduct and station work. The authorities had originally planned to close this for one month. Now, the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) said the work — on Metro stations at the RTO and Pune railway station on Raja Bahadur Mill Road — would take at least two more months. “We have completed the viaduct work. Now the construction of the two stations has been expedited. The installation of girders is underway. We expect to complete the basic work in two months,” Hemant Sonawane, general manager (public relations), MahaMetro, said. There are no restrictions on traffic going from RTO Chowk towards Jehangir Hospital. However, given that the only alternative route is via Maldhakka Chowk, the burden on that stretch has increased immensely, regular commuters said. Kunal Kachi, who recently visited the RTO and experienced the congestion first-hand, suggested that this stretch be left open to traffic during the rush hours. “This will reduce burden on alternative routes and help commuters save time,” Kachi said. MahaMetro, however, said opening this side of the road during the rush hours was not possible. Sonawane said the work, especially near the station, was very delicate, and that heavy machinery was already in place on the road. Traffic police said they have deployed extra manpower in the area to manage traffic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/traffic-detour-over-metro-work-sparks-snarls-at-key-junctions/articleshow/80104354.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Goa||FY, SY first semester online exams take off without hitch across Goa||PANAJI: First semester examination for the academic year 2020-21 for 17,000 to 18,000 first year and second year general stream degree students began in the online mode from Monday. From colleges across Goa, smooth conduct of the exam for FY and SY students of BA, BSc, BCom and BBA programmes was reported. Institutes said that teachers as well as students were better prepared for the online exam this time around. While the first internal assessment for the year was held through the online mode, students in the second year had answered their final year exam for the previous academic year online due to the pandemic outbreak last year. For the 40 mark paper, students were given two hours to write the exam and one hour to upload the answersheets, considering the delay that may be caused for some due to internet connectivity. Colleges chose to use email or Google Classrooms to conduct the examinations. “The question papers were emailed to the students by 10am and they had to upload their answersheets by 1pm. This time around, college teachers had experience in conducting the exam online. Sufficient awareness was created among students about the process. Students were asked to contact teachers immediately if they did not receive their question paper or had any other issues,” said D B Arolkar, principal of DM’s College and Research Centre, Assagao. Colleges had also given students with poor connectivity the option to come to the college premises in case they were uncertain of smooth participation in the exam. “We had told those suffering from connectivity problems to come to college if they feel the need for it. Anyway we have the sufficient space. As we gave the option, we heard no excuses from the students. All students answered within the allotted time. This time the exam went on much better as now students as well teachers were used to it,” said Manoj Kamat, principal of Shree Mallikarjun College, Canacona. Students had to click a photograph of their answersheets and send it to teachers immediately by 12pm over a messaging app, till the time they were able to email or upload the sheet via Google Classroom. This was to ensure that students complete the exam within the stipulated time only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fy-sy-first-semester-online-exams-take-off-without-hitch-across-goa/articleshow/80104491.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Bareilly||Two booked for posting ‘objectionable pictures’||PILIBHIT: Two individuals were booked on Sunday evening for using their Facebook accounts to post "objectionable pictures" of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. The incident came to light following a written complaint filed by a local resident of Pilibhit city. The complainant alleged that two doctored pictures had been deliberately posted with the intent to spark hatred among people. One of the individuals belongs to the neighbouring state of Uttarakhand, the complainant claimed. On Monday, Pilibhit Kotwali SHO Shrikant Dwivedi said that the two persons have been booked under section 67 of IT Act. They are yet to be arrested, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-booked-for-posting-objectionable-pictures/articleshow/80101542.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 5, 2021||Pune||Gang admits to murdering cab driver in Maharashtra||PUNE: A five-member gang arrested from Ranjangaon on the suspicion of committing a dacoity at a petrol pump in Loni Kalbhor has admitted to their involvement in the murder of a cab driver. The suspects, all from Ranjangaon, had hired a cab on January 2 for Vani in Nashik district. “After driving some distance, they asked driver Yogesh Garje (25) to stop the cab on the pretext of answering nature’s call. They then tried to force Garje out of the cab. When Garje resisted, the suspects bludgeoned him to death,” Padmakar Ghanwat, senior inspector, local crime branch, told TOI. He said, “The suspects then dumped the body into Mula Mutha river near Urali Kanchan.” On December 28, five armed men attacked a petrol pump in Loni Kalbhor and robbed Rs2,500 and two cell phones collectively worth Rs40,000. He said that two police constables received a tip-off that two of the suspects were in Ranjangaon. “We laid a trap and took them into custody,” Ghanwat said, addingthat the suspects have admitted their involvement in the murder and in the petrol pump robbery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gang-admits-to-murdering-cab-driver/articleshow/80104391.cms||Mihir Tanksale
January 5, 2021||Pune||PMPML, local corporators differ over Hadapsar BRTS||PUNE: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML)’s protest against dismantling of the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) stretch along Hadapsar around a year ago has left local corporators fuming, who have warned of an agitation if the corridor was restored. The BRTS corridor was launched as a pilot project in 2007 and dismantled by removing barricades in December 2019. The PMPML complained against the move with the region transport authority (RTA) last month. “We have told the RTA to look into the matter. The corridor was dismantled by some outsiders and local elements. The Pune mayor has also been intimated about it. We want action to be taken against those involved. We also seek the restoration of the corridor,” PMPML chairman-cum-managing director Rajendra Jagtap told TOI. Mohol did not respond to a call and a WhatsApp message on the issue. Yogesh Sasane, the NCP corporator from Hadapsar, however, said there was no use of the corridor as it just added to the traffic mess in the area. “If the PMPML is talking about restoring the corridor again, we will hold protests,” he said. Hadapsar MLA Chetan Tupe said the corridor could be restored but not in its original form. “The Solapur highway stretch will also have the Metro so the taxpayers’ money cannot be spent on the corridor only to dismantle it again for the Metro,” Tupe said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-local-corporators-differ-over-hadapsar-brts/articleshow/80104390.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 5, 2021||Vadodara||5,000 to take part in virtual Vadodara Marathon||VADODARA: Since over a decade, MG Vadodara International Marathon (VM) has become an annual sporting festival for Barodians. However, for the first time, marathoners participated in the virtual race organized by the VM management. Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani virtually flagged off the race that took off on Monday. Over 5,300 runners from Vadodara, Ahmedabad, Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata and many other cities have participated in this virtual marathon that will continue till January 10. “Vadodara Marathon has become an integral part of the city’s character as thousands participate in this race every year. Due to Covid-19 guidelines, it wouldn’t have been possible to organize the annual opening flag off ceremony. But we didn’t want the race enthusiasts to miss the event,” said Tejal Amin, VM chairperson. “So, we organised the virtual run wherein the participants will run individually according to their own schedule and record the timings,” Amin added. Like every year, the participants are running in the category of 10 kilometres, 21 kilometres and 42 kilometres category apart from the five kilometre fun run as well as walkathon. The runners will have to update their timings on the link provided to them to confirm that they finished the race. They can use any mobile running app to record their participation. Results of the race will be declared on January 15 after proper verification and those finishing the race will be given medals, if they opt for it during the registration. “We have dedicated the MGVM Virtual Marathon 2021 to all the frontline health workers, emergency personnel, all the Covid patients and those who have recovered from the virus,” Amin said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/5k-to-take-part-in-virtual-vadodara-marathon/articleshow/80104359.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Chandigarh||Union gathers details of farmers who died in protest||Ambala: Bharatiya Kisan Union Haryana (Charuni) on Monday started collecting data of those Haryana farmers who died during the agitation against the three farm laws. BKU Haryana (Charuni) state president Gurnam Singh Charuni said, “The family members of all our brothers and sisters who got martyred in the farmers’ agitation from Haryana have been requested to contact our union member Jagdeep Singh Aulakh at his mobile number 9896409460 through WhatsApp. We have requested to provide the details including Aadhaar card, copy of FIR, name, village, district and mobile number of the family members so that we can keep full information in our record.” Charuni said, “About 10-15 Haryana farmers have been martyred and the exact data is being compiled. The motive to collect this data is to ensure justice to these farmers of Haryana who have contributed with their lives in this agitation against the black laws of the Centre. We want to keep a record, so that the data can be obtained whenever required. The family members of these farmers will be helped by our union and we will ensure justice for them through the government as well.” He said, “As of now, there has been no help or financial aid from the state government in Haryana to these farmers who died in this agitation. So far, we have not kept any demand before the Central or state government about any relief to the family members of those who got martyred.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/union-gathers-details-of-farmers-who-died-in-protest/articleshow/80105645.cms||JK Singh
January 5, 2021||Pune||Cultural events mark commemoration day of Akshara International School||Pune: Akshara International School, Pune recently celebrated its commemoration day, marking 10 successful years. It was celebrated to reflect on the school’s past and to acknowledge those that have contributed to its growth.A virtual staff meeting was organized to celebrate the birthday of former President Pratibha Patil and 10 years of the school. Patil gave a special message for the entire Akshara family, where she appreciated the school’s achievements and congratulated it for providing character building education. A plethora of cultural programmes from across pre-primary to senior secondary students was presented in the form of a collage. Standard IX students organize e-MUNThe e-MUN Virtuous Reflections was recently hosted by Pawar Public School, Amanora. The delegates in the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) discussed the topic “Black Lives Matter”. The virtual MUN was planned and executed by Std IX students. The guests of honour were Anjali Gurjar, principal of Pawar Public School, Nanded City and Devendra Kumar, principal of Pawar Public School, Amanora and Hinjewadi. Seventeen students from from all the three branches of Pawar Public School participated.Happiness Week at St Joseph’s ConventSt Joseph’s Convent School, Wagholi recently celebrated “Happiness Week.”Activities were conducted every day that aimed at teaching students the importance of happiness. Students from Std I to X participated in making various crafts such as smiley faces, the Happiness Calendar, among others. It ended with a special “Happiness Day” organized for the school staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cultural-events-mark-commemoration-day-of-akshara-international-school/articleshow/80104420.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Woman accuses four of raping her in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: A woman who had come with four youths from Ramdeora to Jaisalmer to celebrate New Year’s on December 31, lodged a case on Sunday night against the four youths for gang-raping her in a hotel. Pokhran dy SP Motaram is investigating the case and police have lodged a case under Sections 376B, 323 and 336. According to information from the police, on December 31, four youths from Jodhpur and a woman came to Ramdeora and checked-into a room at a hotel and celebrated New Year’s here. Later, the four youths took the woman to Jaisalmer for sightseeing. According to police, the survivor lodged a case at Ramdeora police station saying that during the celebrations, the youths laced her drink with drugs due to which she fell unconscious. Later, the youths gang-raped her. In the report, it is also said that later, the youths along with their colleagues gang-raped and assaulted her at Ramdeora and Lohawat border. Additional SP Rakesh Bairwa said that the police are investigating the case. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-accuses-four-of-raping-her/articleshow/80104425.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Pune||Army inducts new bridge||Pune: The Indian Army inducted 10-metre short-span bridge for its operational preparedness in deserts and plain terrains on Wednesday. The mobile bridging group of the Research and Development Establishment (Engineers) laboratory of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has designed and developed the bridge. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/army-inducts-new-bridge/articleshow/80104439.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 5, 2021||Jaipur||Kota: Accused who tested Covid +ve flees from hospital, nabbed hrs later||KOTA: A motorbike theft accused, quarantined in Kota’s MBS hospital, escaped from custody early on Monday morning, however, he was arrested hours later near his home in Baran district and was handed over to the guards. Hariom Saini, 24, a resident of Mangrole town, was arrested on Saturday night and was produced before the residential court on Sunday afternoon, SHO Bajranjlal said. The accused was remanded in judicial custody, but before sending him to jail, he was tested for Covid and was admitted to the quarantine ward at MBS hospital, he added. The accused hoodwinked the guard at the ward in the hospital around 4am on Monday and escaped, he further said, adding that at least five police teams were formed to nab him and eventually he was detained at 3pm near his home in Mangrole town. The accused was handed over to the guards later in the day, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/accused-who-tested-ve-flees-from-hospital-nabbed-hrs-later/articleshow/80104434.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Rajkot||Banas Dairy procures record 82 LLPD milk||PALANPUR: The Banaskantha District Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union Ltd (BDCMPUL) popularly known as Banas Dairy procured record 82 lakh litres per day (LLPD) milk on Monday. Monday’s milk collection was the highest that Asia’s largest dairy registered after last year’s single day peak that stood at 73.71 LLPD. “This became possible because of the hard work of our women dairy farmers,” said dairy’s chairman Shankar Chaudhary, adding that Radhanpur and Khemana have emerged as prominent milk shed areas this year. “We have been supplying 13 LLPD milk to Mother Dairy. Also, we are also supplying milk to Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana,” he said. Chaudhary said that the milk union is proud that it has lion’s share amongst all member unions of the Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation which collectively procures 225 LLPD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/banas-dairy-procures-record-82-llpd-milk/articleshow/80104409.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Jaipur||ACS warns of action for slackness in preparation of sanitation map, DPR||Jaipur: Additional chief secretary (rural development and panchayati raj department) Rohit Kumar Singh on Monday expressed displeasure over the shortcomings and slackness in preparation of sanitation map and DPR for implementation of solid and liquid waste management during a video conference with chief executive officers (CEOs) of 11 districts. He also warned them of strict action. Singh asked the CEOs and officials of each district about the methods adopted to prepare the sanitation map, activities conducted to connect with the villagers to ensure their participation in the programme. He also enquired if they went and saw for themselves the places where solid and liquid garbage and water got collected and how it could be disposed of.He also enquired about the methods adopted by the CEOs in preparing DPR for the first phase of solid and liquid waste management. He warned officials of strict action who didn’t visit the villages personally and directed that they would have to visit the identified villages themselves. He said the official’s stamp photo mentioning date and time of their tour must be sent to headquarters.Singh instructed Swachh Bharat Mission (Rural) director Vishwa Mohan Sharma to monitor the visit of the CEOs. He sought detailed information about the challenges, problems faced by the CEOs in preparing sanitation map, DPR and IEC activities for solid and liquid waste management and also asked for suggestions for their redressal. He instructed the Chief Executive Officer of Dholpur district to prepare a Village Sanitation Map and DPR of 5 projects for each block and submit it to the department by January 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acs-warns-of-action-for-slackness-in-preparation-of-sanitation-map-dpr/articleshow/80104459.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 5, 2021||Pune||Medicines against the pandemic||Five treatment methods have emerged as the frontrunners for doctors treating Covid-19. They are a careful mix of oxygen therapy; supplements of zinc, Vitamins C and D; steroids; blood-thinners and reliable anti-virals. After the drug flip-flops last year, doctors said they now know what medicines are working against the coronavirus. And a key indicator of that confidence is the country’s recovery rate — at 96%, it’s among the world’s highest. “Quite a few drugs such as HCQ (anti-malarial), the antiparasitic ivermectin and others failed to improve patient outcomes in 2020. But oxygen therapy, high doses of vitamin supplements (C and D) and minerals (zinc) that boost immunity are still encouraged, along with rational use of steroids and some anti-virals,” said Ahmedabad-based critical care expert Rajesh Mishra. Besides drugs and supplements, doctors said focus will also be on patients’ oxygen intake, sugar-control and general nutrition. Trouble began towards the middle of 2020 when some repurposed drugs against Covid, despite positive lab data and anecdotal evidence, failed to impress in large trials. A prominent example is the anti-viral drug remdesivir, which the World Health Organization said had not boosted recovery in those with Covid-19. “But remdesivir is certainly effective during the early stages of Covid, to control virus replication. Similarly, ‘under-theskin’ administration of the anti-rheumatic tocilizumab in carefully selected critical patients can limit the abnormal immune response called ‘cytokine storm’. These drugs have benefited many patients,” said Ruby Hall Clinic’s chief intensivist Kapil Zirpe. He said Covid recoveries rely heavily on swift and effective ICU care. “The illness boosts blood-sugar levels in some patients as the virus causes pancreatic beta cell changes. Steroids can also cause spikes in blood-glucose levels. So administering insulin, along with adequate hydration (saline), are key to managing a patient’s sugarrelated complications.” Covid autopsies also provided insight into increased blood clotting in vessels in those affected with severe disease. They called for the use of anticoagulants or bloodthinners. Such analysis allowed doctors to redefine the illness as an excessive host-immune response (person’s own immunity attacking itself), often leading to escalation of symptoms. “The research paved the way for immunomodulatory agents (drugs that stabilize abnormal immune response) in suppressing a huge inflammatory reaction that causes lung damage,” said critical care expert Kapil Borawake. Specialist Subhal Dixit, said, “The key point of any Covid-19 therapy, be it remdesivir or tocilizumab, is the selection of patients. Prudent use of blood-thinners such as heparin or low molecular weight heparin is also important for those with high D dimer values that indicate high blood-inflammation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-medicines-the-five-pillars-doctors-are-relying-on-to-fight-the-pandemic/articleshow/80104460.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 5, 2021||Bareilly||Couple found hanging, 19th case of suicide pact in 2 years in Bareilly||BAREILLY: The bodies of a youth, 17, and girl, 16, were on Monday morning found hanging from a mango tree, about 15 hours after they left homes and allegedly decided to end their lives on the outskirts of Budaun’s Jirolia village. In a relationship for the last three years, they had been trying hard to persuade their families for their marriage. But they couldn’t. This is the 19th case in Bareilly in the last two years where a couple allegedly committed suicide after facing resistance from their families due to their different castes. In some cases, the opposition was because the couple were from the same ‘gotra’ (extended families). On December 9, a couple had committed suicide in Mujahidpur village in Civil Lines area, Bareilly. In the recent case, the couple went missing on Sunday evening. “We received information about the suicide on Monday morning. We immediately rushed to the spot and also called forensic experts,” said Vishal Pratap Singh, station house officer (SHO) of Ujhani police station. The youth once spoke to his elder brother in the night and he was upset. According to local sources, the youth was a distant relative of the girl. As they were from the same family, there was opposition to their marriage, they said. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Budaun, Sankalp Sharma, said, “The bodies were sent for post-mortem examination to rule out the murder angle. It appears to be a case of suicide, as the couple was in a relationship and their families were against their marriage. Both the families have refused to file a case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/couple-found-hanging-19th-case-of-suicide-pact-in-2-years-in-bareilly/articleshow/80101550.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 5, 2021||Jaipur||SC takes up BSP MLAs’ merger with Congress; next hearing on January 7||JAIPUR: The Supreme Court on Monday postponed the hearing on the Special Leave Petition filed by BJP MLA Madan Dilawar to January 7. Dilawar challenged the high court order dated August 24 asking the assembly speaker to decide on the merger of the six former BSP MLAs with the Congress on merit. The apex court asked lawyer representing Dilawar why the SLP was filed in the apex court when they could have appealed in the high court itself against the decision. A single-judge bench of Justice Mahendra Kumar Goyal, while disposing of the writ petition filed by Dilawar, asked him to approach the assembly speaker. Dilawar had challenged the merger of six MLAs — Sandeep Yadav, Wajib Ali, Deepchand Kheria, Lakhan Meena, Jogendra Awana and Rajendra Gudha — with the Congress illegal. The high court order on August 24 held that the merger allowed by Speaker C P Joshi does not fall under the category of a “decision” setting aside the plea of BJP MLA Madan Dilawar to declare the merger illegal. It reasoned the order dated September 18, 2019, cannot be held to be the decision on the claim of merger by the six BSP MLAs. The six MLAs had contested and won the 2018 assembly elections on BSP tickets and defected to the Congress in September 2019. The MLAs applied for merger on September 16, 2019 and the Speaker issued an order on September 18, 2019, without a hearing of the party, it was alleged. On August 4, the BSP and Dilawar filed a petition in the high court seeking immediate stay on the merger of six BSP MLAs with the Congress. The BSP had also prayed to suspend the effect of the order of assembly speaker dated September 18, 2019, whereby he declared that six elected representatives of the BSP have merged with the Indian National Congress. The BSP had maintained that the merger was unconstitutional because the party did not merge with the Congress neither at the national level nor state level. As per law, parties merge, not legislators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sc-takes-up-bsp-mlas-merger-with-congress-next-hearing-on-jan-7/articleshow/80104469.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Vadodara||Leopard rescued from well in Pavi Jetpur||VADODARA: An eight-month-old leopard was rescued from a well in Pavi Jetpur taluka of Chhota Udepur district on Monday morning. The leopard was spotted by Jasvant Chandubhai in his farm well at Zab village. Jasvant informed the villagers and the sarpanch of the village. The sarpanch called forest department officials to bring the leopard out. “The animal had not fallen in the water, but had perched on the step of the well so we lowered a cot in the well,” said a forest official. He added that the leopard was also scared so it jumped on the cot immediately. The leopard was then taken to the animal rescue centre in Dungarvant where it was treated and later released in the forest area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/leopard-rescued-from-well-in-pavi-jetpur/articleshow/80104479.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Udaipur||Queen Hada Rani’s palace lies in neglect as govt looks the other way||UDAIPUR: It was one of the grandest palaces of the 16th century, but lies today in tatters in the heart of Salumber town, some 75km from Udaipur. A brave queen lived once lived there who sacrificed her life so that her beauty did not distract her husband from fighting a war with Aurangazeb. The palace, which was under possession of the state education department for years, is in a shambles and there are fears that it could cave in anytime. Collapsed roofs, damaged domes, faded wall paintings and broken glasswork mark the structure today. A panorama and gallery developed in the rear of the palace by Rajasthan Heritage Promotion Authority (RHPA) during the erstwhile BJP government, too lies neglected lacking promotion as a ‘remote tourist destination.’ “From structural grandeur to historical significance, the palace holds immense importance but its crumbling present state has transformed it into a specimen of collective apathy. The palace is an exemplary of Mewar architecture with the indigenous ovara, ovari, gumbads, medhi, panktiyan and other structures that are so typical to the historical buildings in the region. However, a large portion of the building has collapsed and the main palace might crumble due to years of negligence,” Shri Krishna Jugnu, author of many Mewar history books, said. “Until a few years ago, the state education department had the possession of the building and a school was functional here. But later after safety concerns, the school was shifted elsewhere and only a block level office remained. The education department did not spend a penny on the upkeep or repairs,”said Chandra Shekhar Joshi, a heritage activist. In September last, Udaipur MP Arjunlal Meena sanctioned Rs 5 lakh for the upkeep and maintenance of the building. But work has not taken off yet and the amount seems meager for any major restoration work. Prahlad Patel, a local activist, has been working with a group of volunteers for the rejuvenation of the palace with small amounts collected from donors. “The majestic palace is now a hiding place for men who come here for boozing and betting. People are turning it into urinals. We have witnessed its downfall since the last 15 years and if the government does not step ahead, the palace would be completely destroyed,” Patel said. Meanwhile, Teekam Bohra, former CEO of RHPA, said the palace had immense potential to be transformed into a major tourist destination. “The beautiful panorama and gallery showcasing the intriguing history of the palace needs planned promotion which may attract tourists from far and wide,” Bohra said. Meanwhile, deputy director of tourism Shikha Saxena expressed willingness in undertaking the restoration and conservation of the palace. “Since it was earlier developed by RHPA, our department did not interfere with the work. But looking at the present, I would like to take a proposal for the conservation of the palace and get listed for government approval in the next financial year,” Saxena said. The LegendAlthough historians disagree, legend says the palace, also known as Jodh Niwas, was home of Hada Rani, daughter of Hada Rajput, married to Ratan Singh, the chieftain of Salumbar. Maharana Raj Singh I (1653–1680) of Mewar called upon Salumbar Rawat, her husband, to join the battle against Aurangzeb. The chieftain, having married only a few days earlier, hesitated about going into the battle. He asked his wife Hada Rani for some memento to take with him to the battlefield.  Thinking that she was an obstacle to her husband performing his duty for Mewar, Hada Rani cut off her head and put it on a plate in her dying moments. A faithful servant covered it with a cloth and presented it to her husband. The chieftain devastated but nevertheless proud, tied the memento around his neck by its hair fought bravely, making Aurangzeb forces flee. After his victory, he cut his neck having lost the desire to live.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/queen-hada-ranis-palace-lies-in-neglect-as-govt-looks-the-other-way/articleshow/80104490.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Covid-19 vaccine dry run in Secunderabad Cantt soon||Secunderabad: As it was done in Hyderabad city, Secunderabad Cantonment too will hold a dry run for the administration of Covid-19 vaccine. On Monday, a high-level meeting was convened at SCB main office in which officials of Secunderabad Cantonment Board’s (SCB) health wing, SCB elected ward members were attended and officials from the state medical & health wing and revenue department discussed about arrangements to be done in the Cantonment. “The dry run will be conducted in phases. In the first phase, the medical and health staff and frontline warriors will be vaccinated. They include ANMs, PHC doctors, nurses and field staff. In the second phase, the police department will be vaccinated. The public will be administered the vaccine during the third phase,” Vijaykumar Balan Nair, the SCB deputy chief executive officer, told TOI. There are five PHC circles in the Cantonment area, which include Bowenpally, Bollarum, Picket, Rasoolpura and Tirumalagiri. A detailed programme to identify venues—such as schools, colleges and PHC centres/Basthi Dawakhanas—to conduct the dry run is being planned and it will be started in three to four days, the SCB deputy CEO said. “We have asked the SCB elected ward members to publicise the dry run and educate the general public about it, and tell them not to be scared about getting the vaccine,” Balan Nair said. SCB vice president J Maheshwar Reddy said that government schools would be identified in respective wards’ jurisdictions to hold the dry run. As many as 800 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the Secunderabad Cantonment since March 2020. Twelve people have died due to the virus. The SCB (SWM) superintendent M Devender said that though there are 700 sanitary workers who are working in the Cantonment area, of which three contracted the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-in-secunderabad-cantt-soon/articleshow/80104553.cms||Sunil Mungara
January 5, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara: Real-time crocodile numbers possible now||VADODARA: The wetlands of lush green Charotar belt are a home to a healthy population of crocodiles, just like the wandering Vishwamitri river of Vadodara is an abode of mugger crocodiles. Affectionately known as ‘salties’, the saltwater crocodiles thrive in saline and brackish water conditions on India’s eastern coast while Bihar’s Gandak river is providing a breeding ground to congregation of the critically endangered gharials. But what if you want to know India’s crocodile population? Volunteers, wildlife enthusiasts, nature lovers, students and people in general will be able to report crocodiles that they spot in any corner of the country through a first of its kind attempt to survey the population of these reptiles using ‘citizen science’ approach. Voluntary Nature Conservancy (VNC) which has been conducting the the annual ‘Charotar Crocodile Count’ will be launching ‘Croc Watch’ – an interactive web interface that allows a person to report on crocodiles spotted anywhere in the country. “Croc Watch is a citizen science initiative to collect information on the three crocodilian species found in the country and to create a centralised database that can aid in research and conservation of these species,” said Dhaval Patel, managing trustee of VNC. “Before Charotar Crocodile Count, nobody had an idea on how healthy population of crocodiles is in the twin districts of Anand and Kheda. Croc Watch will help us know many more such hidden treasures,” he said. “Croc Watch (https://cw.vncindia.org/) is touted to be the world’s first such attempt to collect information on the extent of the distribution of three species. It will help identify key areas for crocodile conservation across the country, which in turn may lead to help take decisions for their long-term conservation and management,” said Anirudh Vasava, research coordinator of VNC. Nearly 310 volunteers, representing almost every state, have already registered as participants in this initiative for which experts have been roped in. Participants will submit the data throughout the year which will help in recording seasonal variations as well. The initiative will be launched with three days events in which Dr Marisa Tellez, co-founder and executive director of Central America’s Belize-based Crocodile Research Coalition, Australia-based zoologist Dr Adam Britton and Vadodara-based Dr Raju Vyas, the joint vice chair of the IUCN crocodile special group (South Asia and Iran) are speakers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/real-time-croc-numbers-possible-now/articleshow/80104509.cms||Prashant Rupera
January 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin to be tested on 2-year-olds||Hyderabad: After becoming the first Covid-19 vaccine in the world to be tested on children as young as 12 years, Covaxin will now also be tested on babies as young as two years, Bharat Biotech chairman and managing director Dr Krishna Ella said on Monday. “…we are now planning a clinical trial on children between two and 15 years. We are going to submit (a proposal) to SEC (subject expert committee) soon for that,” Ella said during a virtual interaction with reporters. Pointing out that Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is an inactivated virus vaccine based on a tried and tested vero cell platform that has been used for multiple vaccines, he said: “The injectable polio vaccine we have given to a newborn baby…it’s a proven platform and the safest to give to children.” Covaxin, which is being developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (NIV), was the first Covid-19 vaccine to begin testing on children in September. Covaxin Phase II trials, a double-blinded study, was conducted on 380 volunteers in September 2020 and included participants in the 12 to 65 years age bracket. On the other hand, the Pfizer vaccine commenced testing on 12-year-olds in October and Moderna began enrolling participants of 12 years and above in December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bharat-biotechs-covaxin-to-be-tested-on-2-year-olds/articleshow/80104571.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
January 5, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Driven by digital, companies go on hiring spree; job offers touch pre-Covid levels||CHENNAI: As companies shift operations to digital post the pandemic, there has been a spike in job offers at college campuses across the state in the past four months. Recruitment returned to pre-Covid levels post September as companies begun digitisation of operations that increased the projects for IT and IT product companies, said HR professionals. Some top colleges said they have crossed job offers for the corresponding period last year and companies are willing to pay more for students with coding and programming skills. Despite the pandemic and economic slowdown, companies have not reduced their usual pay packages, placement officers said. Firms now need digital-native freshers to work in new-age projects that involve digital engineering, cloud computing, internet of things (IoT), data analytics and cyber security. The season, however, had a slow start as companies realigned to brace the pandemic and students took time to adapt to the new mode of online interviews and selection process. “Online interviews were a new experience. It took one interview for us to adapt to the new environment,” said G Pothikkannan, a final year student from College of Engineering, Guindy, who has received an offer from Wells Fargo. “When I heard that offers are being cancelled due to pandemic, I was worried. Thankfully, many companies turned up this year and our institute ensured a smooth digital hiring process,” said Rajagopalan Gangadharan, a final year student from Vellore Institute of Technology, who has an offer from AppDynamics. “When we started placements in April, companies were very conservative in hiring. It all changed in the last few months,” said V Samuel Rajkumar, director (placement and training), VIT. The institute had 20% more job offers compared to last year despite the pandemic, he said. Anna University registered an increase around 20% in the number of offers compared to last year. “The offers made by the companies have increased post September. IT and IT product companies have rolled out more offers compared to last year,” said T Kalaiselvan, additional director, Centre for University Industry Collaboration, Anna University. S Vaidhyasubramaniam, vice-chancellor of SASTRA, said the institute witnessed around 10% increase in offers compared to last year. “In view of pandemic, companies started to give remote internships and companies like Cognizant rolled out an online induction programme to prepare engineering students for smooth transition from college to corporate,” he said. HR firms and companies said demand for fresher talent did not dip despite the pandemic and in case of digital skills, more jobs were offered with increased pay packages. “Candidates from colleges where the curriculum includes cloud computing, cybersecurity, data analytics, and others have got more preference this year,” said Shantanu Rooj, founder & CEO of HR firm Schoolguru Eduserve. The demand for generalists made way for candidates with special skill sets in emerging technologies this year, Kapil Sharma, chief sales officer of talent solutions firm Collabera Technologies, said. From a 30-70 ratio of digital skills to vanilla skills in earlier years, this year the ratio completely flipped, he said. “The emphasis of recruitment this year was on selecting talent for cloud, data, digital engineering and IoT, as well as other strategic areas such as cybersecurity and business modernisation technologies,” Shantanu Jha, senior vice president, human resources, Cognizant, said. Cognizant increased entry-level salaries by 18% for 2020 and has doubled it for 2021 for those freshers qualifying for their GenC Next program. A few companies looked for candidates who went the extra mile to prepare themselves for the future. “We are observing a positive trend wherein many students are investing extra time to learn new skills. We surely want to see more candidates who are engaging in innovation challenges and are developing new ideas,” Vijay Linus, senior manager, at NetApp, said. Software product company Ramco Systems said this year they stressed on hiring students who have done courses specific to data science, AI and ML from recognized certification platforms like IBM, University of California, HarvardX among others. The shift to digital means core engineering roles -- typically high-paying, less in volume and offered to the cream students of a batch – took a hit this year. “Given that the pandemic had an impact on industrial activity, core companies were conservative in their hiring plans,” said a person involved in engineering campus placements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/driven-by-digital-companies-go-on-hiring-spree-job-offers-touch-pre-covid-levels/articleshow/80103088.cms||A Ragu Raman
January 5, 2021||Goa||Agri research council helps villages dispose of garbage||Edited_200 words Panaji: As part of its ‘Swachhta Pakhwada’ programme, the The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR)-Central Coastal Agricultural Research Institute (CCARI) carried out a series of activities to dispose of garbage from Goa’s rural belt. The programme included tree planting, removal of old files, removal of obsolete furniture and junk material, cleanliness and sanitation drive within campuses, residential colonies, and common market places. The institute observed Swachhta Pakhwada from December 16 to 31 in different parts of the state. Under its ‘Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav’ programme, ICAR-CCARI carried out a cleanliness drive in Ibrampur, Veling and Parra villages and guided the panchayats on biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste disposal. They are also being assisted in producing compost from waste. “Due to Covid-19, now everyone understands the importance of cleanliness and hygiene. Decomposition of waste is not only environment-friendly but also can be a wealth generator,” said ICAR-CCARI director, EB Chakurkar. Senior technical officer Vinod Ubarhande demonstrated the segregation of waste and preparation of vermi-compost. Vermi-compost bags from the villages of Ibrampur, Veling and Parra were handed over to 25 farmers. Administrative officer at ICAR-CCARI Somnath said that the institute is now a 90% paperless office and is looking for complete digitalisation of its records.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/agri-research-council-helps-villages-dispose-of-garbage/articleshow/80104530.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Surat||Man forges court docs, denied bail||Surat: The Surat district and sessions court refused bail to a Vadodara-based man accused of forging surety papers to obtain bail for another person accused in a criminal case. A complaint was lodged against Ketan Panchal in 2019 in Umara police station of Surat under various sections of Indian Penal Code including 193 (punishment for false evidence), 196 (using evidence known to be false), 197 (issuing or signing false certificate), 198 (using as true a certificate known to be false), 200 (using as true such declaration knowing it to be false) and criminal conspiracy among others.Panchal was arrested on November 23 and has been in judicial custody since then.According to case details, one Dilip Rathod accused in a criminal case registered in Pandesara the police station was ordered to be released on bail by the court on a surety of Rs 25,000 in March 2018. Panchal submitted surety papers issued by mamlatdar of Waghodia in court for Rathod, based on which he got released on bail.However, during the trial, Rathod did not remain present so the court issued notice to mamlatdar (Waghodia). It was then revealed that Panchal had submitted bogus solvency papers in the name of the mamlatdar and mislead the court.Based on this revelation, Panchal was booked in November 2019 and arrested in November this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/man-forges-court-docs-denied-bail/articleshow/80104538.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
January 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Sanitation employees in Hyderabad threaten strike||HYDERABAD: Garbage collection will take a hit in coming days, as dozens of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) contract and outsourcing workers protested against the civic body for outsourcing the work pertaining to transportation to a private agency. BJP Mazdoor Morcha chairman U Gopal also wrote a letter with blood addressing chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, in which he alleged that a private company is being paid 10 times more than what is the actual cost of the work. “We are planning a series of protest if our demands are not met. Sanitation activities will be halted completely,” U Gopal said. The demands include the cancellation of contracts with private agencies, regularisation of employees, and health care facilities like other permanent state government employees have.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sanitation-employees-threaten-strike/articleshow/80104596.cms||Nabinder Bommala
January 5, 2021||Delhi||When stubble saves lives: Farmers build cold shelter||NEW DELHI: An unusual structure caught the eye on Monday, standing as it did among the tractor trollies and makeshift tents that are now home to the protesting farmers at Singhu border. It looked like sheaves of paddy had been stood up on a bamboo structure, but a sheet boldly proclaimed it to be ‘Kisan Bhawan’. It was actually a shelter made using crop stubble, or parali. Five farmers had put it up, given it its grand name and opened it on Monday. At least 100 people can use it at a time. “The cold is killing many of our farmer brothers, and with the chilly weather likely for some more time, we thought of constructing a winter shelter,” said Halvinder Singh. “We used bamboo and parali because these keep the interiors very warm.” Halvinder said that the group collected the stubble from their fields in Punjab and transported it to Singhu. “It was a challenge to construct since we had never made anything like this. But after getting the hang of it, it didn’t take us long to complete, just five days,” he said. “Everything is fixed and tied well and it is completely safe for people to live in this shelter.” Lakhbir Singh took the opportunity of being among the first to book his sleeping slot in the parali shelter. “I used to sleep in another shelter till Sunday, but after seeing this one, I asked if there was a spot available and easily got one,” smiled Lakhbir. “This place is very warm despite it having rained here all day.” The occupants of this rustic but toasty shelter will not just get a place to sleep in comfort, but also mattresses, quilts and mosquito repellents. Lakhbir and his friends were all quite happy with their luck. They are the only ones from their families protesting at Singhu, they said, with the other members taking care of the farms back in Patiala. Another grateful inmate, Amarjeet Singh, said, “We have everything here that we need in a home. My knees ache because of sleeping curled up in a vehicle, but having shifted to this shelter I will get some comfort. I will stay here till the time I see someone who needs this space more than I do.” And it’s not only in terms of warmth that the inmates will feel cheerful in Kisan Bhawan. Its creators have also arranged a small television set for the farmers so that they can relax and catch some TV programmes. Halvinder said that even though the space is for the use of men only, women need not fret because they are planning another one specifically for the female protesters. He added that the successful erection of this special shelter means they can now put up more if the protest continues. Watch Delhi: Farmers make winter shelter using crop stubble at Singhu Border||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/when-stubble-saves-lives-farmers-build-cold-shelter/articleshow/80104557.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
January 5, 2021||Jaipur||REET score to constitute 90% weightage||JAIPUR: The state government on Monday announced major changes in Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers (REET) exam for teachers’ recruitment scheduled on April 25. The new rules will allow only Basic School Teaching Certificate (BSTC) holders to appear in REET Level-1 exam. “In a bid to give preference to state students, questions related to Rajasthan will be more in the exam. It was also decided that REET score will constitute 90% of the weightage against 70% in the old scheme. The rest 10% would be evaluated on the basis of scores at graduate and board scores,” state education minister Govind Singh Dotasra said. The exam is being held after 2018. It will pave the way for recruitment of 31,000 teachers in the education department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/reet-score-to-constitute-90-weightage/articleshow/80103135.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Jaipur||Heavy rainfall, hail damage crops in Kota-Bundi region||KOTA: Crops were damaged in many villages of Pilalda tehsil of Kota district when heavy rainfall accompanied by hail lashed the region in the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. According to sources, around 70% mustard crop and 30-50% wheat and coriander crops were damaged. Crop damage was reported from Nainwa and Indergarh areas of Bundi district too. The winter rains ‘mawath’ that had been showering for two days in the region, turned into a disaster for the farmers. According to locals lemon-sized hail stones, accompanied by heavy showers, reportedly lashed the villages around 2.30am causing heavy damage to mustard, wheat, chana and coriander crops. Acting on the reports of crop damage, Itawa SDM Ramavatar Barnala on Monday visited the affected villages and took stock of the damage while interacting with the affected farmers. Around 70% mustard crop suffered damage in at least six villages — Bagali, Thikarda, Gothrakhurd, Barod, Udaibhanpura and Asida, of Pipalda tehsil, Barnala said. The insurance supervisor, patwari and girdawar were directed in this regard and the affected farmers, holding insurance policy, just need to send request to the insurance company through the bank branch for insurance on crop damage, he further said. The mustard crop suffered heavy damage in Itawa area, however wheat and chana crops are not likely to have suffered major damage, deputy director, agriculture, Kota, Ramnivas Paliwal said, adding that crops in 2-4 other villages of Kherabad panchyat samiti of Ramganjmandi tehsil reportedly sustained damage. “The winter showers, called ‘mawath’ is good for all types of crops and no major damage to the crop has been reported,” he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/winter-rain-hail-damage-crops-in-kota-bundi-region/articleshow/80103213.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Goa||No-trust bid at Sakhali body dismissed||Bicholim: There was high-voltage action on Monday at the Sakhali municipality premises after the returning officer was forced to dismiss a no-confidence motion against the Sakhali Municipal Council (SMC). The motion failed as all six councillors of the ruling party failed to attend the special meeting called for by the returning officer. Consequently, the group of opposition councillors, led by former chairman Dharmesh Saglani, stated that they would approach the high court demanding that elections be taken up immediately for the post of the 13th councillor, which is vacant at the moment. The recent death of a SMC councilor, Damodar Ghadi, from the ruling panel, has resulted in six councillors each on the ruling and the opposition side, in the 13-member municipality. Following Ghadi’s death, the opposition group had filed a no-confidence motion against the chairperson, Yeshwant Madkar. On Monday, a special meeting was called for in the SMC hall to discuss the same. During the meeting, six opposition councillors including Saglani, Jyoti Blagen, Raya Parsekar, Ansira Khan, Rajesh Sawal and Kunda Madkar were present. However, no members of the the ruling group, including Madkar, Brahma Desai, Shubhadha Sawaikar, Anand Kanekar, Dayanand Boryekar and Rashmi Desai, turned up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-trust-bid-at-sakhali-body-dismissed/articleshow/80104565.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Jaipur||Met predicts light to moderate rain at isolated places in Rajasthan||JAIPUR/AJMER: Light to moderate rainfall triggered by the confluence of eastern and western disturbance was reported at some places in the state on Monday. In Jaipur also, some places reported good rain while in other areas it was limited to drizzle. The Met office said thunderstorm with light to moderate rain likely to occur at isolated places in Sikar, Nagaur, Jodhpur, Pali, Jaipur, Jhunjhnu, Alwar, Churu and Ajmer districts and adjoining areas. It also warned of thunderstorm /hailstorm accompanied by rain and lightning. Gusty winds (wind speed 30km/h - 40km/h) is also likely to occur at isolated places in Sikar, Nagaur and Jaipur districts. According to Met office, Sikar reported 10.6 mm of rain followed by Ajmer at 9 mm. Pilani reported 6 mm till 6pm on Monday. Hail storm and thunderstorm were witnessed in the Fathepur area of Shekhawati region. Rain is good for the Rabi crops but hail storm could damage the crops. Sawai Madhopur recorded 43 mm rain, followed by Kota (15.7 mm), Bundi (14 mm), Jaipur (7 mm) and Chittorgarh (4 mm) in the 24 hours ending 8.30am on Monday, officials said. However, cloudy conditions pushed night temperatures up by a few notches. Pilani was recorded as the coldest place in the state with a minimum of 4.3 degrees Celsius, according to the met department. Jaisalmer, Bikaner and Barmer recorded their minimum night temperatures at 7.4, 9.4 and 9.8 degrees Celsius, respectively, while it was above 10 degrees Celsius at other places. After two days of fog and cold wave Ajmer and nearby areas witnessed showers on Monday afternoon. The showers continued till late evening increasing the cold wave in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rain-reported-at-many-places-across-state/articleshow/80103214.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Goa||Collaboration on cards for GIM, Bangladesh centre on UN projects||Panaji: Goa Institute of Management’s (GIM) centre for social sensitivity and action (CSSA) has signed a MoU with the centre for peace studies, Dhaka based at the south Asian institute of policy and governance (SIPG), North South University, Bangladesh. As part of the MoU, students from GIM and SIPG will be taking up joint projects based on the United Nation’s sustainable development goals which will help students learn more UN’s development goals and help them to promote it. CSSA was established in 2013 at GIM and its chairperson Prof Divya Singhal said that GIM’s CSSA and centre for peace studies will identify themes for these collaborative projects and also identify and connect students from the two institutes. “Research collaboration will be focused on select sustainable development goals. We also look forward to the exchange of faculty and students from both centres that are particularly focused on research, teaching and implementation of the sustainable development goals,” she said. Both GIM and North South University are part of the UN sustainable development solutions network which was set up in 2012 under the UN secretary general’s office. “This is our first agreement in the South Asia region and we look forward to forging several productive relationships in these geographies with the best institutions in the region to advance the sustainable development goals,” said Prof Ajit Parulekar, GIM director and advisor of CSSA. CSSA aims to become a recognised platform in south Asia where academics, scholars, researchers come together for sustainable and inclusive approaches to peace-building efforts. “The main areas of the new collaboration will include joint student projects in the area of sustainable development goals that ensure that all learners acquire the knowledge and skills needed to promote sustainable development through education. The aim is to promote sustainable development and sustainable lifestyles, human rights, gender equality, promotion of a culture of peace and non-violence, global citizenship and appreciation of cultural diversity,” said Katherine Li, adviser, center for peace studies at SIPG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/collaboration-on-cards-for-gim-bangladesh-centre-on-un-projects/articleshow/80104661.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Goa||One dead, three injured at Patnem||POINGUINIM: Varca-resident Milagrina Fernandes, 49, succumbed to her injuries after the car in which she was travelling dashed against a road divider at Bollear near Patnem road junction, Canacona Monday night. The three other occupants of the car sustained grievous injuries and are being treated at Goa Medical College and Hospital Bambolim, Canacona police stated. The police said there were five occupants in the car altogether, all members of one family. Police said that the car was proceeding to Varca from Mangaluru. When it reached Patnem junction along the NH 66, the driver of the car Alison Rebello lost control and rammed against the road divider. The vehicle turned turtle and the occupants of the car were seriously hurt. Milagrina after being referred to Canacona community health centre, soon succumbed to her injuries. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/one-dead-three-injured-at-patnem/articleshow/80104555.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Shop, hop on to a metro train soon||CHENNAI: In less than two years, city residents can shop in a new mall and saunter across the corridor to hop onto a metro train, as CMRL has awarded a contract for constructing a 12-storey complex adjacent to Ekkattuthangal metro station. The mini-shopping mall, likely to be ready in 18 months, is one of the first properties to be developed outside metro stations through which CMRL is expected to generate non-ticketing revenue, by renting out retail and office spaces. CMRL is developing nearly 12lakh sqft multimodal hubs with commercial space in three prime locations in the city including the Central Square and Kathipara. Officials said the commercial complex will be built on a 41,861sqft land at a cost of Rs Rs 73 crore, construction contract for which was awarded recently to a city-based firm. According to tender, which was floated last year, the building will have 11 floors with a ground floor and two basement levels. Visitors to the building could have easy access to the metro station either through a pathway. “The lowers levels will be for retail and the upper levels will be for office space,” an official said earlier. An official said the basement levels will be for parking for both passengers and those visiting the building. CMRL also plans to build similar structures near stations such as Nehru Park. Construction for the urban square under Kathipara flyover, multi-level parking and pedestrian subways as part of Central Square project and underground amenities centre below Thiru Vi Ka Park at Shenoy Nagar is underway. The properties developed in these locations are expected to provide people with shopping experience, office space and a seamless switch from one mode of transport to another. These developments, however, come at a time when large retail spaces in metro stations remain unoccupied likely due to low footfalls in the stations. Except for a few stalls in the street level of stations like Nehru Park and Koyambedu, many of them built inside bigger stations more than three years back are lying vacant. Due to no takers, CMRL made an attempt to study market interest in 2019 and it had planned to build in Ekattuthangal and Nehru Park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/shop-hop-on-to-a-metro-train-soon/articleshow/80102312.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Delhi||Deaths stalk farmers at Singhu Border||NEW DELHI: On the 42nd day of the farmers’ protest at Singhu border on Monday, the doctors at the medical camps disclosed that more than 60 people have died so far. “We request people to come here immediately if they feel the slightest discomfort,” said a medical volunteer. “Of those who died, some were absolutely fit till hours before their deaths. This is the reason why we encourage everyone to visit us for regular check-ups.” The volunteer revealed that people report for uneasiness, breathlessness, and tiredness. “With the kind of activities that people engage in throughout the day, many suffer stress,” she said. “Since there is no breakthrough in the talks with the central government, everyone is agitated and these can render even healthy people sick.” Gaurav Deep Singh of Initiators of Change Organisation reported that 5,000 people come to their camp every day. “Most of them complain of acidity and body ache. But there have been cases of severe health issues and at least 60 protesters have unfortunately lost their lives,” said Gaurav Deep. The weather, accidents, cardiac arrest and suicide have been some causes of deaths. A farmer died on the morning of December 17 due to cold. The 37-year-old from Bathinda, Punjab, left behind three children aged 10, 12, and 14 years. The report of his death emerged hours after a Sikh priest died by suicide at a village located 2 km from the Singhu border. There were also several deaths in the early days of the protests. One was of 57-year-old Janak Raj, who had come to the Delhi-Haryana border to repair six tractors of the protestors around the end of November. His efforts to support the cause of the farmers ended in tragedy when he was burnt alive after the car he was sleeping in caught fire. The situation has worsened for the agitators with Delhi in the grip of a cold wave. The icy winds have been accompanied by rainfall across the city. Despite the extreme weather, families of the deceased farmers continue to send other members and relatives to the protest site. Baldev Singh, a 76-year-old farmer from Punjab, died of cold on December 8. Now, his son Raghuvir Singh has become an active participant at the protest. Another protestor, Pal Singh, a 72-year-old farmer from Patiala, died on November 15 following a cardiac arrest. “The sudden rains have worsened things for the protestors,” confided Navjot Singh, a medical volunteer. “We have been advising people with pre-existing heart ailments to always sleep inside shelter homes or tractors so that they are warm and protected from the chill.” Navjot added more volunteers and medical staff were always welcome at the border to provide better healthcare to the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/deaths-stalk-farmers-at-singhu/articleshow/80104662.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
January 5, 2021||Jaipur||‘Best time to promote artificial jewellery by RIICO, Sirohi can emerge as a hub’||Jaipur: Sumerpur and Shivganj in Pali and Sirohi districts respectively are home to about 200 artificial jewellery units. The size of the cottage industry in the region is minuscule compared to what people from this region have built in cities like Surat, Mumbai, Bangalore and Chennai. But Sirohi could emerge as a hub for artificial jewellery if RIICO’s dedicated industrial area at Badgaon wins over the Rajasthani diaspora who wants to reconnect with their roots.In the early months of the pandemic, many artisans and entrepreneurs came back to Sirohi from these cities. Today, all of them have not gone back. Some have set up their own units and others, who have bigger operations, wanted the government to set up a dedicated cluster with all facilities so that they can also come back. RIICO responded by announcing the industrial area in September. While it has started development work at the 40-acre industrial cluster having 182 plots in it, industry veteran Rajiv Arora, possibly the largest manufacturer of artificial, fashion and costume jewellery in the country, said the timing could not have been better. “The artificial, fashion and costume jewellery segment is currently growing at 20% and has immense potential going forward. For the new generation, jewellery is a fashion and they want different pieces for different occasions. Expensive gold jewellery, whose cost is increasing steadily, does not fit into their lifestyle. That’s why there is a shift to fashion jewellery and it is happening fast,” said Arora, who is also the president of Federation of Rajasthan Exports (FORE).Arora said big brands like Armani and Gucci are leaning on costume jewellery as accessories to improve their offerings. “Artificial jewellery is increasingly used by big brands as accessories for branding and marketing purposes. But what we need is quality control and standardization to reach those levels,” he added.He said to make the dedicated cluster a modern facility that can cater to both domestic and overseas markets, there needs to be a case study as to what kinds of tools, technology, and facilities the entrepreneurs require. “The entrepreneurs have to have skills training to meet the high quality and design standards. They should be incentivized to participate in trade fairs and buyer-seller meets where they can get exposed to fashion forecasts and capture new trends in the craft,” added Arora.China commands much of the artificial jewellery market in the world, while India’s share is less than 5%, at about Rs 4,000 crore. But Arora said that India has advantages in terms of low wages and skilled people. “We need to bring artificial jewellery under Make-In-India programme and rope in designing institutions in the country to build capacity, and refine our artistic sense,” added Arora.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/best-time-to-promote-artificial-jewellery-by-riico-sirohi-can-emerge-as-a-hub/articleshow/80103215.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
January 5, 2021||Goa||Congress dissolves minority department, rejig soon||PANAJI: Setting the ball rolling for a likely organisational rejig, the Congress on Monday disbanded the entire minority department in the state. Congress will reorganise the minority department in the coming days as the state coordinator is expected to arrive on January 10 for a two-day visit. The state Congress committee’s minority cell chairman Urfan Mulla had resigned from his post in November, alleging that there was lack of unity among Congress MLAs and functionaries in the state. Mulla subsequently joined the BJP and actively worked for the zilla panchayat elections. “AICC minority department has dissolved all state, district and block committees of Goa Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) minority department with immediate effect,” said national minority department chairman Nadeem Javed. “The process of formation of new committees will begin soon.” As per Congress functionaries in Goa, the state coordinator for minority department, Akash Chajad, will arrive on a two-day visit on January 10 and 11 to finalise the new committee members. The party functionaries believe that a decision on the state party president is expected in the coming days while an organisational rejig is also expected in the coming days. “The Pradesh Congress Committee will be reconstituted and some members who are not active may be dropped. There maybe a few changes at the block level and district level too,” said a state Congress functionary. Meanwhile, state Congress president Girish Chodankar continued to manage the responsibilities and chaired a meeting with the Mapusa Congress block and North Goa district Congress committee. The meeting was called to discuss the coming municipal elections and the strategy for Mapusa municipality elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/congress-dissolves-minority-dept-rejig-soon/articleshow/80104611.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Rajkot||Rajkot stock trader cooks up kidnapping to evade huge debt||RAJKOT: A young stock trader living in Mahudi, who had allegedly been kidnapped on December 30, was found from Mumbai by Rajkot crime branch. It turned out that the 24-year-old stock trader Karan Gogra had cooked up the kidnapping story to evade making payments to lenders. Police said that they had received information that Gogra was in Mumbai, so a team of crime branch had been camping there. On Sunday, when Gogra arrived in the mega city, he was found and brought back to Rajkot. During interrogation, he told cops that his debt had increased and he did not have enough money to pay back to lenders. On December 30, he went to Greenland Chowkdi in an auto-rickshaw from where he went to Ahmedabad. Gogra took a bus to Mumbai, but he had to return to Ahmedabad as he did not have an identity card for living at a hotel. On reaching Ahmedabad again, Gogra downloaded a copy of his Aadhar card as he remembers his Aadhar number. He then purchased a new mobile phone and a sim card and again left for Mumbai. “We have registered an offence against him for misguiding us. We are interrogating him about where he stayed in Ahmedabad and if he had taken any other person’s help,” said a police official. On December 30, Gogra’s cousin Aebhala had received a call informing that Gogra had been stabbed and taken away in a car. His bike and mobile phone were later found near Avadhna Dhadiya on Kalavad Road. Gogra told cops that he had called his cousin and talked in a changed voice so that he could not be identified. Police said that since the family did not receive any ransom call, they became suspicious about the kidnapping theory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/stock-trader-cooks-up-kidnapping-to-evade-huge-debt/articleshow/80104622.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Jaipur||Amid decreasing cases, post-Covid complications have become a cause of concern||JAIPUR: With cases dipping, the focus of the health department is now more on dealing with post-Covid complications. Health minister Raghu Sharma said symptoms such as physical weakness, weakness in lungs, pain in hands and legs are appearing as post-Covid effects. “Looking at them, post-Covid centres have been set up at the government medical institutions in the state. People who have recovered from infection, can consult and take treatment from expert doctors at these centres. He said psychiatrists and experts are also giving consultation at these centres,” he added. People affected by the post-Covid complications should consult and take treatment at ‘Post-Covid Care Clinics’ and ‘Day Care Centres’ run by the health department. People who have recovered from Covid infection can get relief by being in constant touch with doctors, he said.The state government has directed the expert group of doctors to conduct research on post-Covid effects, so that an effective plan could be made for treatment. In the last 24 hours, four persons died while 457 tested positive taking the overall casualty count to 2,714 and cumulative infection numbers to 3,10,278.Districts which reported new cases Jaipur (71), Jodhpur (69), Pali (36), Nagaur (32), Bhilwara (30), Kota (21), Bundi (18), Chittorgarh (17), Alwar (17), Sriganganagar (16), Rajsamand (14), Sirohi (13), Udaipur (13), Ajmer (12), Jhalawar (11), Dungarpur (9), Jhunjhunu (7), Barmer (7), Jaisalmer (7), Tonk (6), Sikar (6), Jalore (5), Sawai Madhopur (4), Banswara (4), Baran (3), Bikaner (3), Hanumangarh (3), Bharatpur (1), Churu (1) and Pratapgarh (1). Jodhpur reported its 292nd Covid-19 death, Ajmer 220th, Kota 167th, Jhunjhunu reported its 53rd Covid-19 fatality. Saraf targets Gehlot on vaccineFormer health minister and BJP leader Kalicharan Saraf on Monday said the Congress leaders have no coordination among them as chief minister Ashok Gehlot is terming approval to Covid-19 vaccine as a ‘good news’, while in the Centre, party leaders Shashi Tharoor and Jairam Ramesh are giving different statements. It seems that the Congress leaders are not having same opinion on matters of national interest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/amid-decreasing-cases-post-covid-complications-have-become-a-cause-of-concern/articleshow/80103218.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Goa||Sanctuary shouldn’t come in way of development: Wildlife warden||PANAJI: The project head of Sterlite Power, Pankaj Verma, has said that an environment impact assessment (EIA) isn’t required for transmission projects, such as the Tamnar one, since they don’t dispose any hazardous waste or chemicals. He cited a 2006 circular issued by the Union ministry of environment to support his view, which is part of a propaganda video released by the Goa government defending the contentious project at Mollem. In the video, chief wildlife warden, Goa, Santosh Kumar, stated that the declaration of the Bhagwan Mahavir wildlife sanctuary shouldn’t hamper development. “Any interaction with Karnataka through road or rail or transmission line has to be through the sanctuary only,” he said. “Since we have declared it a sanctuary, it should not become detrimental for further development. We have declared it a sanctuary for the preservation of wildlife and forests. If you want any development project for public interest, you have to obtain approval from the government of India.” Verma denied that vegetation between the towers would be damaged, and explained that only the vegetation in the area of the footing for the towers (18x18m) would be damaged. The land on which the substation is being constructed in Sangod is private non-forest land that was sold to the project proponent, the government stated. Verma added that the trees were cut with the permission of forests officers, and that the trees are still stacked and kept in the property. Kumar said that in certain circumstances you can divert forest land, but there are also provisions that ensure minimum impact, as well as compensation. Responding to a question on whether the government took advantage of the lockdown, executive engineer Stephen Fernandes said that the pandemic was not known to the government in 2015 or even 2017, when the order for Rs 1,500 crore was placed. The process began in 2015, was implemented in 2016 and approved in 2017. Execution began in 2018 for the project that will deliver 400kW of power to Goa. To another question on whether the transmission line is being brought for the Railways, Fernandes said there is an application from Railways for the requirement of 6MW of power, and the line can bring in a minimum of 1,200MW of power. “It is not even 0.5%. I can confidently say this power is not being brought for the Railways. It is being brought seeing the growth rate and future reliability.” He added that once this line comes to Goa from Dharbandora-Sangod, the state will have “two sources for Goa at 400 kW level — meaning Goa will be self-sufficient in terms of power for the next 20-25 years”. Fernandes also said Goa’s power consumption increases by an average of 5% every year, and added that the state consumes an average of 12 million units a day. “To get this power, 9,000 metric tonnes of coal are burnt elsewhere to get power to Goa,” he said. Power minister Nilesh Cabral said that people in the towns of Panaji, Mapusa, Vasco and Margao should not object to development of the hinterlands. “They are the people who ultimately suffer when there’s no power supply. The beauty of this project is that it is coming up kilometres away from Goa, and people of those states are not opposing it,” he said. The government, in the video, has stated that this project will introduce a ring feeding system to Goa, creating an internal ring to provide consistent power from multiple sources. “This means that in the event of a fault in any section of the feeder, the continuity of the supply will be ensured from an alternative path,” the video states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sanctuary-shouldnt-come-in-way-of-devpt-wildlife-warden/articleshow/80104597.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Chennai||India should have better doc-patient ratio, more beds||Chennai: The Centre is taking up the Covid-19 vaccination programme in a big way, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Monday. Addressing the gathering at the 32nd convocation of Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research in Chennai over video conference, the minister said Covid-19 had turned the clock back by many years, if not decades, derailing efforts of decades. But the novel coronavirus has showcased the contribution of the government sector towards adequate healthcare, he added. He praised frontline health workers who aided in patient care during the pandemic. India should increase doctor-patient ratio from 1:1,700 to 1:1,000 as per World Health Organisation (WHO) norms, and the number of hospital beds from 9 per 10,000 people to 40 per 10,000, the minister said. The country spends about 4.2% of its GDP on healthcare and services as compared to about 18% by many developed nations, he said. “This year, we have already made a substantial increase in our healthcare spend and the finance commission has projected a massive increase in the health outlay in the next five years,” he said. There is also a move to increase the number of medical colleges, almost one per district, and also the number of medical graduates, he said. He told those graduating to do the things righteously with the best intentions and efforts. “A lifelong commitment to going forward is essential and you must always look to give back to your alma mater,” he said. Chancellor V R Venkataachalam conferred the degrees and vice-chancellor Dr P V Vijayaraghavan presented 94 gold medals to meritorious students and distributed certificates to 1,266 students including in Ph.D, super specialties, post-graduate and undergraduate disciplines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/india-should-have-better-doc-patient-ratio-more-beds/articleshow/80102326.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Kolkata||UK strain prompts Kolkata hospitals to keep Covid bed options open||KOLKATA: Even as private hospitals are shrinking their Covid units to accommodate more non-Covid patients, arrangements are being kept ready to re-convert in case there is a spike in cases in the wake of the new UK strain. Hospitals said they were ready to bolster Covid units within 24 hours and revert to the pre-bed reduction stage. Some are keeping equipment necessary for Covid treatment ready to put them in use even though the beds — for which they had been earmarked — are now being occupied by non-Covid patients. “We have learnt how to set up Covid facilities fast. So, even though we have dismantled the facility at a section of our wards, we can put them back and swing into action at a very short notice,” said AMRI Hospitals CEO Rupak Barua. The hospital has reduced its Covid beds to 180 from 275 across its three units. “But we can switch in case there’s a case surge. In fact, we have seen a minor surge in numbers over the last 3-4 days and have already augmented facilities. This could be necessary in case there is a spike,” added Barua. Peerless is ready to reduce its Covid unit from a 150-bed one to100 beds. Life-support devices like ventilators, ECMO and oxygen that were so far used for Covid patients, however, have been kept ready in case there is a surge in cases. “We have purchased five new ventilators to cater to Covid patients. We could have hired them but chose not to so that we have access to these for good. Now that the numbers have dipped, we are shifting a section of beds to non-Covid units. In case there’s a rise in the number of Covid patients, we are ready to revert to the earlier arrangement. We are keeping Covid-specific equipment reserved for an emergency,” said Peerless Hospital CEO Sudipta Mitra. Covid-designated beds are already being used for non-Covid treatment at RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS). The hospital now has 35% occupancy of Covid beds and the flow of non-Covid patients is back to pre-Covid times, according RTIICS zonal director R Venkatesh. “We have not reverted any infrastructural arrangements and have kept all medical devices and clinical facilities ready for Covid use,” he said. Doctors have cautioned that since the new UK strain is on the prowl, we can’t afford to let our guard down. They have raised concern about crowding at some city hot spors during last week’s festivities. “The way people flocked to entertainment parks, Maidan and Park Street was scary. It was disheartening to see everyone breaking the norms after all the restraint that we saw during the pujas. This could be disastrous and we need to stop this,” said Fortis Hospital internal medicine consultant Joydeep Ghosh. He pointed out that the new strain has a higher transmission rate. “Also, the weather is just perfect for the virus to survive and spread. So, we can’t afford to take off our masks or be a part of a crowd till at least mid-2021,” warned Ghosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/uk-strain-prompts-hosps-to-keep-cov-bed-options-open/articleshow/80103223.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
January 5, 2021||Kolkata||British actor, four more UK flyers test positive||KOLKATA: A 23-year-old British actor of Indian origin kept the officials of Infectious Diseases and Beliaghata Hospital (ID&BG) on their toes for more than three hours on Monday evening. The actor, who was in institutional quarantine, was sent to ID&BG upon testing positive so that she could be under strict observation at the dedicated isolation facility the government has created for those suspected of carrying the UK strain. But she reportedly refused to get admitted to the facility, according to hospital officials. She was finally sent to a private hospital with the approval of senior health officials at Swathya Bhawan. The patient was made to sign a declaration that she was going away on her own and that she would be admitted to another hospital straightaway. Apart from the actor, four more flyers from the UK have tested positive to Covid-19 after their arrival in the state, taking the count to nine. “Currently, we have six patients at the dedicated isolation ward who are suspected of carrying the UK strain. Even as all are in stable condition, they will continue to be under close monitoring before their genome sequencing reports come in,” said Asis Manna, medical superintendent and vice-principal at ID&BG Hospital. Among the rest of the four, three are from the same family — a mother and her sons from Kasba — while the fourth is from Hooghly, who will also be brought to ID Hospital. “The actor was counselled and explained why she needed to be put up at the dedicated isolation facility. But all our efforts failed,” said Anima Haldar, principal of ID&BG Hospital. The 23-year-old actor had arrived in the city for the shooting of ‘Kavita & Teresa’, which is being directed by a Swiss-Indian director. She was taken to the CNCI quarantine centre at Rajarhat upon arrival. According to the recent protocol on surveillance on the UK strain, her swab samples were sent to the School of Tropical Medicine. After she tested positive, she was brought to ID&BG. Sources said the actor refused to go to the ward and stayed put at the emergency wing. She kept calling up people. A few people from the film’s unit arrived at the hospital. They wanted to check the dedicated isolation ward but the hospital denied. “She kept insisting that the report of the test done at a private lab done before her arrival was negative,” said a source. The patient’s aides told the hospital authority that they would admit her to a private hospital. The ID&BG administration got in touch with senior health officials. The patient was sent to Medica Superspecialty after health officials took a commitment from the hospital that the actor would be kept at an isolated ward. A police team was sent along with the ambulance carrying the actor to ensure that she reached the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/british-actor-four-more-uk-flyers-test-positive/articleshow/80103227.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 5, 2021||Jaipur||Attendants thrash SMS hosp staff alleging negligence, 3 arrested||Jaipur: At least five healthcare personnel were injured at the Institute of Traumatology and Orthopedics (ITO) when 10 to 15 attendants of a patient who died while undergoing treatment allegedly attacked the staff at 1.30am on Monday. Three persons have been arrested in this regard.The hospital administration lodged an FIR at Ashok Nagar police station describing the entire incident at the hospital. Some staff tried to hide themselves inside the toilets, but they were pulled out and assaulted. The attendants alleged that the patient had died due to negligence of the staff. They came prepared and allegedly damaged the hospital property.“The patient was critical as he had suffered head injury in an accident. He was brought to the hospital on January 1 and he was undergoing treatment on ventilator support in the ICU. Despite all the care and treatment, he died at 10.30pm. After his death, the attendants came back to the hospital and they attacked the staff at 1.30am,” said Dr Rajesh Sharma, medical superintendent, SMS Hospital.Following the incident, the association of nursing staff protested against the incident and demanded security for the staff.Health minister Raghu Sharma said the incidents of misbehaviour and assault with medical personnel, nursing personnel or with any medical staff will not be tolerated. He has directed to take strict action as per rule against the persons responsible for such incidents.Sharma said that patients or their family members visiting government health institutions on having any kind of complaint can register the same to the superintendent or to the senior officers of the medical institution. He said most of the health warriors serve patients with complete dedication and in such a situation incidents of assault against them are unbearable.He spoke to hospital superintendent Dr Rajesh Sharma and directed to ensure all the necessary action to prevent recurrence of such incidents. Besides this, he also instructed to lodge a case against the persons responsible for the incidents of assault.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/attendants-thrash-sms-hosp-staff-alleging-negligence-3-arrested/articleshow/80103225.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Jaipur||UK’s mutated strain found in 3 persons in Sriganganagar||JAIPUR: Three persons who had reached Sriganganagar from the UK have been found infected with the new strain. So far, 38 people across the country have tested positive for UK’s mutated Covid strain, including the trio from Sriganganagar who arrived on December 18. On December 31, the health department had collected their samples and sent it to CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB, Delhi) for checking the strain of Covid-19, which had infected them.“We have received the report from IGIB and all the three have been tested positive for UK’s mutated Covid-19 strain. Directions have been issued to Sriganganagar’s health officials to keep them under isolation,” said a senior health department official. All the three persons had receached India on December 18 and travelled to Sriganganagar on December 19. Acting on the guidelines issued by the ministry of health on UK’s mutated strain, the samples of the three persons were collected and they were found infected with Covid-19. To find out the strain, their samples were sent to IGIB, Delhi. The health department official said they have also taken the samples of people who were in contact with them. All of them tested negative for Covid-19. “We will take their samples again after five days to ascertain that they are not infected,” said the official. The state had sent 15 samples from different parts of the state. Out of those, 11 have tested negative for UK’s mutated Covid strain, three have tested positive and report of one sample sent from Jaipur is awaited. The state had sent five samples from Udaipur, three from Bhilwara and two from Jaipur, Ajmer and Jalore and three from Sriganganagar. The health department has established a sentinel surveillance for early detection of genomic variants with public health implication and to determine the genomic variant in the unusual events or trends such as super-spreader events, high mortality or morbidity trend areas.For the purpose, the health department will continue sending samples from different districts to Delhi for ensuring that the Covid strain has not been mutated and to identify any variant in the virus, which is dominant in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/uks-mutated-strain-found-in-3-persons-in-sriganganagar/articleshow/80103220.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Surat||ASHINE to assist startups in S Gujarat||Surat: Association for Harnessing Innovation and Entrepreneurship (ASHINE) at Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology (SVNIT) - Surat has been recognised as the nodal institute for south Gujarat region under the Gujarat government’s scheme for assistance to startups and innovation. As a nodal institute, ASHINE-SVNIT will now be able to provide seed funding of up to Rs 30 lakh to startups and additional Rs 10 lakh for startups creating a social impact. It can also fund a sustenance allowance of Rs 20,000 per month to the startups and Rs 25,000 per month to women led startups for a period of one year. Assistance up to Rs one lakh per startup for obtaining training in soft skills will also be offered by ASHINE on reimbursement basis. To enroll and participate in national or international recognized acceleration programs the centre will offer Rs 3 lakh sponsorship. It will also facilitate startups at seed funding stage for separate funds under Gujarat Venture Finance Limited (GVFL). At this level, the startups will be given funding of Rs 50 lakh to Rs three crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ashine-to-assist-startups-in-s-gujarat/articleshow/80104656.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Goa||Covid hits plans for Mahanadi, Antarctic link||VASCO: The plan to establish a link between India’s Mahanadi basin and Antarctica has been temporarily shelved because of Covid-19 and the National Centre for Polar and Ocean Research (NCPOR) has reduced the 40th Antarctica expedition to a limited scientific role. The NCPOR has reduced the expedition strength by half and now plans to take up the linkage study in the next winter session. It cancelled the Arctic mission for 2020 because of Covid-19, but a 150-member team is likely to depart for the Arctic region in June this year, NCPOR director M Ravichandran said. A 43-member team composed of scientists, doctors and engineers will depart for Antarctica on Tuesday aboard the Russian ice-class vessel the MV Vasiliy Golovnin and will reach Antarctica in 30 days. After the team disembarks, the vessel will return to India in April bringing back the scientists and researchers from the previous expedition. Antarctica is key to the concept of Gondwanaland, the supercontinent made up of India along with Australia, Africa, South America, Madagascar and Sri Lanka, and geological evidence states that the Mahanadi region of eastern India and the Prydz Bay region of eastern Antarctica were part of a common region in Gondwanaland about 100 million years ago. “We want to establish the connection between India’s Mahanadi basin and the place where the Bharati station is together,” Ravichandran said. In order to establish a link between the two regions, scientists plan to study the similarity between living organisms such as bacteria. If established, it will has strategic benefits for India. The pandemic affected NCPOR’s plans to train the team in time. Since it takes a year to train the team, Ravichandran said that training for the next year’s expedition will commence in the coming months. India has two stations at Antarctica — Maitri and Bharati — and the 43-member team will be divided between the two stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-hits-plans-for-mahanadi-antarctic-link/articleshow/80104643.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Goa||India’s 40th Antarctica trip fuelled by Indian Oil||VASCO: In a step towards self-reliance, Indian Oil Corporation Ltd has supplied specialised fuel, lubricants and Marine Gas Oil (MGO) for India’s 40th Antarctic scientific mission. The move to locally produce and procure fuel and lubricants that can sustain the harsh temperatures of the Antarctic region comes after 22 years. The National Centre for Polar and Ocean Research (NCPOR), used to procure the specialised fuel and lubricants from international suppliers, but turned to Indian Oil for aviation Jet A1 fuel. The bulk fuel and some packed in barrels were loaded on to a Russian ice-class ocean-going vessel on Monday. On Tuesday, the vessel will depart with a 43-member team for Cape Town where a specialised helicopter crew will embark the vessel. “The fuel will be used for aviation support and power generation units as well as in snowmobiles and for the voyage itself,” said Indian Oil director marketing Gurmeet Singh. He was speaking at a formal send off at the Mormugao Port Trust (MPT). Singh said that Indian Oil is also the first oil company in the country to produce BS-VI compliant winter-grade High Speed Diesel (HSD) capable of withstanding extremely low temperatures of up to -33 degree centigrade in winter in the Himalayan region and supply of NATO-grade HFHSD (High Flash HSD) for the Indian Navy from Paradip and Haldia refineries. “If same type of HSD is required for the Antarctic missions, we can work on these special products and provide it,” said Singh. The scientific team has already completed 14 days of institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/indias-40th-antarctica-trip-fuelled-by-indian-oil/articleshow/80104629.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Goa||Names for info commission posts likely on January 11||Panaji: The state is likely to get a chief information commissioner (CIC) and information commissioner (SIC) next week. The three-member committee headed by chief minister Pramod Sawant is scheduled to meet on January 11 to finalise names for the posts. Director of information and publicity Sudhir Kerkar told TOI that the panel on Monday scrutinised all the 54 applications received and found that all qualified for the posts. “A meeting will be held on January 11 to finalise the name for the CIC and SIC,” Kerkar said. Thirty-two applications were received for the post of CIC and 22 for the post of SIC. Monday’s meeting to vet the applications was attended by Sawant, leader of opposition Digambar Kamat and deputy chief minister Chandrakant Ajgaonkar. TOI on Monday reported that after the state government rendered the police complaints authority defunct and the Lokayukta remains non-functional, the Goa State Information Commission has become the next quasi-judicial body to bite the dust. Its last commissioner, Pratima Vernekar, demitted office on Thursday. Thus, the three-member commission, which decides appeals pertaining to non-answered RTI applications and complaints against non-release of information, now has no commissioner to hear cases. More than six months after the CIC retired and two months after Juino De Souza retired in July last year, the government advertised for two posts — of state chief information commissioner and state information commissioner at a fixed monthly salary of Rs 2.25 lakh each. Fifty-four applied, including a retired speaker of the state assembly, journalists, former IAS officers and advocates. Currently, there are 200 cases pending before the commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/names-for-info-commission-posts-likely-on-january-11/articleshow/80104677.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Rajkot||Chemical agent robbed of Rs 1 lakh at knifepoint in Junagadh||Rajkot: A chemical agent from Jetpur was robbed of cash and valuables worth Rs 1.2 lakh at GIDC in Junagadh on Sunday evening. Jayesh Lavani, a resident of Jetalsar of Rajkot district, had gone to Junagadh GIDC for work when an auto-rickshaw driver stopped him. Lavani was told that the auto-rickshaw had broken down and the driver wanted a lift. Lavani agreed to offer the lift to the driver. On reaching a distance, the auto-rickshaw driver asked Lavani to stop and ordered him to hand over all cash and valuables he had. Meanwhile, five other unidentified persons arrived there in an auto-rickshaw. They threatened Lavani by brandishing a knife. Fearing an attack on him, Lavani gave away Rs 10,000 cash, his ATM card, mobile phone and a gold necklace. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/chemical-agent-robbed-of-rs-1-lakh-at-knifepoint-in-junagadh/articleshow/80104680.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Hyderabad||MAUD plans to spend Rs 2,900cr to improve nalas in flood-prone pockets||Hyderabad: To prevent the flooding of the city and inundation of colonies, the municipal administration & urban development department (MAUD) has proposed to spend Rs 2,961 crore to upgrade the nalas and remove encroachments. A proposal has been sent to the government for its approval. “The government will finalise the amount,” said a GHMC official. As per records, there are 846 structures along the 16.5 kilometre nalas in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits that are preventing the free flow of storm water. In the 26 urban local bodies (ULBs) within the Outer Ring Road (ORR) there are 573 nala encroachments and 4,606 on Full Tank Level (FTL) of water bodies. Protection, conservation and beautification of lakes, including the development of connecting nalas are part of the proposed plan. Removal of encroachments, identification of vulnerable locations and reasons for inundations through field-level assessment are also included in the project. At the meeting held in the GHMC head office on Monday, MAUD principal secretary Arvind Kumar directed GHMC commissioner and director of municipal administration (CDMA) officials to prepare a zone-wise action plan. “The GHMC officials will recce all the water bodies including lakes and the localities which were inundated during the October rains and take measures to avoid a flood-like situation in the future,” read a statement issued by GHMC. There are 185 lakes in GHMC limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maud-plans-to-spend-rs-2900cr-to-improve-nalas-in-flood-prone-pockets/articleshow/80104712.cms||Nabinder Bommala
January 5, 2021||Kolkata||Cops’ #MaskUpKolkata campaign to focus on office areas, markets||KOLKATA: The city police might have succeeded in making their presence felt at popular tourist hotspots as the city ushered in the New Year through an extended weekend, but they insisted that there was still no scope of letting their guard down. The cops are preparing for a new phase of its popular #MaskUpKolkata campaign by focusing on the the office localities and bigger markets of the city. The central division launched the new phase on Monday as it held special sensitization drives and distributed masks telling the people that the dangers were far from over. TimesViewIt is commendable that cops are re-launching the campaign. But wearing a mask is a social responsibility; a mask also protects ourselves. It shows us in poor light when something like this has to be enforced.“Ever since the arrival of vaccines were announced, a section has almost forgotten that we are amidst a pandemic. There is a social responsibility, too, that many people, especially the younger generation, are forgetting,” said a joint commissioner. DCP (central) Meeraj Khalid said: “With everything opening up this Monday after the Christmas break, the markets and offices saw hundreds converging together. We are not relaxing now. We are telling the people that they need to stick to Covid-safety protocols. We have prosecuted 213 people since Sunday evening for not wearing masks. The total number of prosecutions since the New Year celebrations stands at 1,185. Doctors agree with the cops. “The vaccination has not even begun. The Covid numbers now resemble those in last July. We all know about the spike that followed. The vaccination has not yet started and if we are not careful, a resurgence is very much possible. Moreover, lots of people are thinking that once they get vaccinated, they’re not going to have to wear masks anymore. They are forgetting that a huge section of the population — the children — are yet to be covered under the vaccination plans,” said Amitabha Sengupta, a child specialist in Santoshpur area. The police stricture comes after at least 30% of those fined, were found to be wearing the mask merely as an accessory without realizing the importance of wearing it properly. As many as of 70% were not wearing mask at all, a complete reversal from the ground situation during Durga puja, claimed cops. “Initially, we found people, who were not wearing mask properly. But now, a section is not even pretending to wear one,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-maskupkolkata-campaign-to-focus-on-office-areas-markets/articleshow/80103229.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 5, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Will take vaccine at the earliest, says Randeep Guleria||NEW DELHI: I will take the Covid-19 vaccination as soon as it is available for healthcare workers, said Dr Randeep Guleria, director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and member of the national task force for Covid management. “I am very confident about the safety of the vaccines approved for emergency use in India. Once they are made available to healthcare workers at AIIMS, I will certainly go ahead and take the jab,” Dr Guleria told TOI on Monday, in effect allaying concerns about the safety and efficacy of the Covishield and Covaxin vaccines approved in India. Covishield has been developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca and is being manufactured by Serum Institute of India. It has completed phase III trials and is being used in the UK also. Covaxin is an indigenous jab developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with Indian Council of Medical Research. It is still undergoing phase III trials across India, including at AIIMS, Delhi. Guleria said that in an ideal situation it would have been prudent to wait for the results of the third phase trials before granting approval, the decision to allow emergency use pending the trial data was taken in view of the situation. “So far, the trials have not shown any significant adverse event. Even if the vaccine is 60% effective in preventing the disease or its severe symptoms, we must roll it out to be able to save lives,” the AIIMS director said. He added that Covaxin has received permission for emergency use in clinical trial mode which means all recipients will be monitored as in a trial. Covaxin is based on an inactivated whole virus. Dr Balram Bhargava, ICMR chief, said it had the potential to target mutated coronavirus strains, including the UK variant. The Covid vaccine is going to be administered only at the government-approved centres at present, so isn’t available for private purchase. While healthcare and frontline workers will be the recipients in the first and second phases of vaccination, people aged 50 years and above and those with co-morbidities will then be inoculated. Guleria said that young and otherwise healthy individuals are less susceptible to complications associated with Covid and, therefore, the decisions on whether and how to vaccinate them will be taken at a later stage depending on the situation. Over the past few weeks, daily infection has reduced to approximately 20,000 cases per day from around 90,000 in September. But there is no room for complacency. “We saw how Europe and the United Kingdom opened up businesses once the cases came down. But the infection has again peaked significantly, forcing them to go in for travel restrictions,” the doctor added. Guleria added that till date there was no cure for Covid-19 and mass vaccination was the only option to prevent its spread and deaths caused by it. While India has reported 38 cases of the mutated strain first identified in the UK, the AIIMS director said there was no evidence so far to suggest that the mutation was increasing the severity of the disease. “Usually, it is believed that viruses tend to get weaker as they mutate,” he said. Guleria stressed on the need to continue with the anti-Covid preventive measures such as wearing masks and washing hands regularly in the foreseeable future or until the risk of infection subsides completely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/will-take-vaccine-at-the-earliest-guleria/articleshow/80104726.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
January 5, 2021||Goa||Goa likely to receive light rain for 5 days||PANAJI: A few parts of Goa received light rainfall due to the south easterly winds prevalent near the coast since Sunday. The India meteorological department (IMD), Panaji, has forecast light rain or thundershowers in isolated places for the next five days. The sudden change in wind direction created extremely cloudy conditions on Monday which pushed the mercury four degrees above normal to 24.8C in Panaji and 24.6C in Mormugao. “The winds turning south easterly near Goa and also up to Mumbai and south Konkan changed the weather conditions, triggering cloudiness,” Shambu Ravindren, scientist, IMD, Panaji, said. The maximum temperature was within the normal range but cloudy conditions may increase moisture in lower levels and keep the mercury on the higher side during the next few days. But meteorologists are keeping a close watch, expecting changes either way. “The conditions may change after a couple of days and updates will be provided,” Ravindren said. Though the northern region in the country is under a cold wave, Goa has not been impacted by it. It is expected that the mild winter season may be on the warmer side, as the mercury dropped to 18C a few days back but only once.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-likely-to-receive-light-rain-for-5-days/articleshow/80104659.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Ranchi||Ranchi administration directs departments to identify potential Covid vaccine centres||RANCHI: Two days after six districts in Jharkhand conducted the dry vaccine run, Ranchi district officials on Monday held a review meeting with the departments concerned and directed them to identify properties which can be used as vaccination centres when the actual vaccination drive run kicks off. They have also been asked to start putting in place the necessary requirements for the drive across all such centres. Ranchi DC Chhavi Ranjan said, “We have decided to keep centres across all blocks ready in advance and have directed the medical officer in-charge in each block to co-ordinate with the respective block development officers for this purpose.” He added, “In addition to this, the block-level officials, as per the SOP issued by the Centre, have been asked to ensure that there is electricity, water supply and internet connectivity in all the centres.” Some healthcare workers are, however, concerned about administering the vaccine shot to a set number of patients within the allotted time period since not all patients will behave in the same way after getting the shot. “Generally, it takes around five to seven minutes for us to administer the shot to a single patient and if we are to vaccinate 100 patients daily, then it will become challenging for us,” a senior health official involved with vaccination programme said. Meanwhile in Palamu – which, barring a few technical glitches here and there, conducted the dry run successfully – is now ready to conduct the actual drive, as per DC Shashi Ranjan. “The biggest takeaway from the dry run was the management of those patients who fell sick after getting vaccinated. We have that point in mind and are working towards strengthening our infrastructure for that purpose,” Ranjan said. Pakur, which is the first district in the state to become Covid-free, also conducted the exercise successfully and agreed that patient management is key for a successful vaccination drive. “During the dry run, we learnt that it is important to follow-up with the patients regarding their health not only at the centre but also go after they back home after getting the vaccine shot,” Pakur civil surgeon Dr Ramdev Paswan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-admin-directs-depts-to-identify-potential-vax-centres/articleshow/80105463.cms||Gaurav Pandey
January 5, 2021||Ranchi||1 death, 160 fresh Covid cases in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Jharkhand on Monday reported one death from Covid-19, 160 fresh cases and 232 recoveries. While the death toll has reached 1,036, the state has now a cumulative caseload of 1,15,689 of which 1,13,125 have recovered and are 1,528 active. As many as 13 districts reported fresh infections in single-digit on Monday while seven others — Chatra, Godda, Jamtara, Khunti, Lohardaga, Pakur and West Singhbhum — reported zero cases. Barring Ranchi, which continued to report the maximum number (81) of cases, Dhanbad, East Singhbhum and Bokaro reported 16, 14 and 12 cases respectively. The death was also reported from Ranchi. As per the health department data, the recovery rate in the state stands at 97.71%. The seven-day growth rate was 0.13% against the national average of 0.16% while the doubling rate was recorded at 537.82 days against the national figure of 428.28 days. The casualty rate through the pandemic in the state is 0.89%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/1-death-160-fresh-covid-cases-in-state/articleshow/80105452.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Jamshedpur||Jamshedpur records spike in suicide cases in 2020, most victims below 45||JAMSHEDPUR: Steel City reported a sharp spike in suicide cases in 2020 with 252 people killing themselves during the year, according to the figures provided by a city-based NGO. Mahavir Ram, the founder of Jeevan, the NGO working for the prevention of suicides, said the average monthly suicide cases in the city was 20. Among the total cases, which included 168 men and 84 women, 207 people below 45 years of age and 45 people above 45 ended their lives abruptly Ram said, "Between June and November, more suicides were recorded when compared with the period between January and May.” Notably, 171 people, which constituted a major chunk of the total suicides, ended their life abruptly between June and November, averaging about 30 deaths every month of the period. Between January and May, 71 people had committed suicide and in December, 10 people ended their lives Incidentally, the 252 deaths included 27 youngsters, four undergraduates and 23 school-going students. "The Covid-19 induced closure of the educational institutes and the subsequent ban on outdoor activities perhaps impacted negatively on the young minds to take the extreme step, as the data suggests,” Ram said. The director of the NGO, Jeoraj Jain, said 15 to 20 distress calls were received by their volunteers during the lockdown period. “Majority of the calls were related to job losses and financial distress,” Jain said, adding that several people made distress calls after contracting Covid.  “We have limited resources but our volunteers arranged grocery and also helped with cash to the needy people during in the lockdown,” he said. Jeevan currently has 30 and the NGO operates in collaboration with the Tata Steel Foundation and the East Singhbhum administration. City-based psychiatrist Mahesh Hembram fear, anxiety and distress among people will gradually decrease with the end of the pandemic. He said, "Since the past few months, an average of four out of 10 patients who come to the clinic every day arrived with OCD (obsessive compulsive disorder) symptoms borne out of the fear of contracting Covid while the six others come with complaints of distress relating to Covid-induced job losses and financial problems." Earlier in 2019 and 2018, the city had reported 159 and 154 suicides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/steel-city-records-spike-in-suicide-cases-in-2020-most-victims-below-45/articleshow/80104038.cms||B Sridhar
January 5, 2021||Ranchi||Pupils get benefits of scheme meant for farmers in Garhwa||GARHWA: An incident of schoolchildren getting the benefit of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi has come to light in Mangardah village under Banshidhar block of Garhwa district. The scheme is meant for farmers. About seven children studying in a local school were paid Rs 2,000 each as part of the first instalment under the scheme on August 24 last year. Under the scheme, the beneficiary has to apply at a nearest Pragya Kendra. The application is then verified by the circle officer and recommended for sanction. But sources said the names of the beneficiaries were sanctioned without verification and recommendation of the CO. Garhwa DC Rajesh Kumar Pathak said, “Children getting the benefit of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi is a serious issue. We will probe the incident and initiate action against the guilty. Further, the money will be recovered and an FIR will be lodged regarding the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pupils-get-benefits-of-scheme-meant-for-farmers-in-garhwa/articleshow/80105464.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Ranchi||Ajsu-P Bengal poll campaign to begin from Purulia today||RANCHI: Despite the poor show in the 2019 state assembly polls, Ajsu Party, the lone NDA constituent in Jharkhand, has now set its sight in the West Bengal assembly election for the first time. The Sudesh Mahto-led party said it will formally kick off its pre-poll campaign trail from Purulia on Tuesday. Talking to TOI on Monday, Ajsu-P’s central spokesperson Deosharan Bhagat said the party is planning an expansion and elections offer a window for an entry. He, however, said before Jharkhand’s formation, Ajsu-P had been active in all districts of Bengal bordering Jharkhand. He said, “Even though a handful of candidates took our party symbol to contest election there in the last election, this is for the first time that Ajsu-P has formally decided to enter Bengal now. Considering the emerging political situation in Bengal and how its indigenous population and Other Backward Castes (OBCs) continue to suffer, we hope to fill in the gap for an alternative force in Bengal.” Tuesday’s mahaadhiveshan (grand conclave), a first in the series of scheduled activities in the coming weeks, will be kicked off from Purulia district, which shares borders with Jharkhand. Bhagat said when Ajsu-P was formed in 1986, the party’s first conclave was held in Jhargram and the party had many active cadres who jointly fought in the separate statehood movement and for the aspirations of its people. “However, after the formation of Jharkhand, many of our men, who are natives of bordering areas in Bengal were disconnected. Today, they feel alienated and cheated by the successive regimes. Hence, Ajsu-P has decided to fight for the 'asmita' of Mahtos and other indigenous people residing there so that they get a voice, political autonomy, social and economic justice,” Bhagat said. He added that the party will hold a series of pre-poll campaigns and meetings in different locations to identify the aspirations of people and pertinent issues plaguing them to devise further modalities. On joining a pre-poll alliance, Bhagat said, “Let us first evaluate our strengths, zero-in on the issues to be able to finalise on other poll mechanics like the number of seats that we aspire to contest, whether to fight alone or in an alliance. More than winning or losing, Ajsu-P’s objective is to make its presence felt on a grand scale.” Notably, Ajsu-P had severed ties with its long-standing ally, BJP, over the seat-sharing issue in the 2019 Jharkhand assembly polls and fought alone on over 70 seats. It, however, managed to win only two, less than its earlier tally of five. It also dented BJP’s prospects in the last election paving way for the JMM-Congress-RJD mahagathbandhan to form the government. In the run-up to the Rajya Sabha polls on two seats in Jharkhand last year, Ajsu-P re-aligned with BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ajsu-p-bengal-poll-campaign-to-begin-from-purulia-today/articleshow/80105450.cms||ASRP Mukesh
January 5, 2021||Ranchi||Hemant Soren’s cavalcade ‘attacked’ in Ranchi over ‘rising cases of rape’||RANCHI: Chief minister Hemant Soren had to reroute his travel back home on Monday when a mob attacked the pilot police vehicle of his cavalcade at Kishoreganj Chowk. The mob was staging a protest against the “rising cases of rape” in the state and a traffic police officer identified as Nawal Kishore Prasad was injured in the attack. The protest was apparently sparked by the finding of a beheaded body of a woman in the forest under the Ormanjhi police station area on Sunday. One of the protesters shouted that they want to know from Soren about the measures taken by the administration to protect the mothers and sisters of the state. Soren was returning to his official residence here after work from the Project Bhawan. After a brief clash with the local police, the mobsters fled towards the neighbouring Bada Talab. Normal traffic was restored on the Birsa Munda Rajpath after an hour of the fracas. Later, top police officials, including inspector general Akhilesh Jha, Ranchi SSP Surindra Jha, Ranchi DC Chhavi Ranjan and traffic SP Ajit Dungdung and officers of several police stations, visited the spot. After visiting the spot, Jha said, “As the pilot vehicle moving ahead of the CM’s cavalcade to clear the way approached the Ksihoreganj crossing, protesters, including women, suddenly approached from different directions and stopped the vehicle. The police officer got injured in the scuffle that followed.” He said police immediately diverted the CM’s carcade and none of the vehicles were damaged. DC Chhavi Ranjan said, “Senior police officials will examine the sequence of events from the video footages at the control room to ascertain what happened and who were involved.” The SSP stated that the entire incident prima facie seemed to be pre-planned. The police acted swiftly to prevent a big incident. He said, “We are trying to identify the anti-social elements and strict action will be taken against them.” Meanwhile, rural SP Naushad Alam said, “We have not identified the body of the decapitated body so far. A massive search was held in the forest area in Ormanjhi on Monday to trace the head but with no success. We have not yet received the report from the medical board formed to ascertain whether the woman was raped or not.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hemants-cavalcade-attacked-in-ranchi-over-rising-cases-of-rape/articleshow/80104063.cms||Sanjay Sahay
January 5, 2021||Ranchi||Uprooted last year, NHAI transplants peepal tree||Koderma: A matured peepal tree which was uprooted by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) in November last year for the widening of the Barahi-Koderma stretch of NH-31 near Jhumari village under Telaiya police station was finally transplanted on Monday. The issue of the uprooted tree came to the fore after a local environmentalist, Indrajeet Samanta, raised the issue before the state forest department and cited previous rulings of the Jharkhand high court on felling of trees. TOI, too, had reported the matter of uprooted tree in the same month Soon after, Koderma DFO Suraj Kumar Singh directed NHAI to transplant the tree. Two months down the line, the tree is now transplanted 10 meters away from the site where it was uprooted. After the transplantation, Singh said, “For us, even a single tree is of utmost importance. The transplanting agency has been asked to water the tree regularly to ensure its survival. I appeal to the common people for their active participation to make a difference in keeping our environment healthy.” An elated Samanta said, "I thanked the forest department for taking up the initiative to ensure transplantation of the tree which has both ecological and religious significance in Indian culture.” Notably, the Jharkhand high court had formed a high-level committee last year after Samanta filed a PIL against "mindless" felling of trees during the road widening project. In August 2019, the committee had directed NHAI to transplant 1,727 trees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/uprooted-last-year-nhai-transplants-peepal-tree/articleshow/80104032.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Ranchi||Ranchi: Schools reopen after winter break, Covid fears keep students away from campus||RANCHI: Several schools in the city re-opened after the winter vacation on Monday, but most students gave the on-campus classes a miss. School authorities said scores of parents have not yet permitted their children to attend the physical classes even though the government order for reopening schools was issued on December 18. The Army Public School said the attendance of students on the first day was around 50%, as many parents were still scared of sending their children to school. The school management added that all Covid protocols were being followed by the institute. The principal of Guru Nanak Public School, Manohar Lal, said, “Around 20% of students attended the school on the first day after the winter vacation. We hope that more students will start attending classes gradually. We are informing the parents about the safety norms adopted by our school and requesting them to send their children at least for important sessions like practical classes.” DAV Dhurwa said some 25 students came to the school on the first day after the reopening. The school management added that several parents have not yet provided written consent allowing their children to attend physical classes. The attendance in government-run schools in the district was 22% on Monday. Notably, the government schools did not close down for winter vacation this year. Meanwhile, several other schools were scheduled to reopen in the coming days. Jawahar Vidya Mandir Shyamli principal Samarjit Jana said, “Our school is reopening on Wednesday. We are initially calling only the Class XII batch to school. The Class X batch would come to the school from January 16. So far only 50% of parents have agreed to send their children.” The Don Bosco Public School said it would hold a meeting on Tuesday to decide on the date for resumption of classes after the winter vacation. The principal of Bishop Westcott Boy’s School, R I Thornton, said his school will reopen on January 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/schools-reopen-after-winter-break-covid-fears-keep-students-away-from-campus/articleshow/80105457.cms||Sanjay Sahay
January 5, 2021||Jamshedpur||1 death, 160 fresh Covid cases in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Jharkhand on Monday reported one death from Covid-19, 160 fresh cases and 232 recoveries. While the death toll has reached 1,036, the state has now a cumulative caseload of 1,15,689 of which 1,13,125 have recovered and are 1,528 active. As many as 13 districts reported fresh infections in single-digit on Monday while seven others — Chatra, Godda, Jamtara, Khunti, Lohardaga, Pakur and West Singhbhum — reported zero cases. Barring Ranchi, which continued to report the maximum number (81) of cases, Dhanbad, East Singhbhum and Bokaro reported 16, 14 and 12 cases respectively. The death was also reported from Ranchi. As per the health department data, the recovery rate in the state stands at 97.71%. The seven-day growth rate was 0.13% against the national average of 0.16% while the doubling rate was recorded at 537.82 days against the national figure of 428.28 days. The casualty rate through the pandemic in the state is 0.89%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/1-death-160-fresh-covid-cases-in-state/articleshow/80109516.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 5, 2021||Ranchi||Alert sounded across all 24 districts in Jharkhand after bird flu scare grips MP & Rajasthan||RANCHI: In the wake mass deaths of birds reported from Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan in the past few days possibly due to avian influenza — better known as bird flu — the state animal husbandry department on Monday sounded an alert across all 24 districts, asking the officials concerned to keep a close watch and make necessary arrangements to tackle any circumstances. A letter in this regard was issued by the director of the Institute of Animal Health and Production (IAHP) here, asking the animal husbandry officers across all districts to remain alert. A similar directive has also been issued by the assistant director (poultry) of government poultry farms at Hotwar and Bokaro. The IAHP letter directed the district authorities to constitute rapid response teams and make adequate arrangements of PPE gear, requisite chemicals and earth-mover machines as part of their preparedness. The letter has ordered the districts to submit their monthly surveillance records to the institute at the earliest. “Our surveillance programmes run regularly and each district has a specific target of collecting samples every month which are then sent to us for testing. After collecting the samples from all the districts, we send them to the regional disease diagnostic labs in Kolkata and in Bengaluru for testing. None of the samples sent so far has reported an infection of any kind. We are, however, in the process of sending those samples which we couldn’t send in the previous lot. We have already started packaging those samples and they will be sent to the labs soon,” IAHP director Dr Bipin Kumar Mahatha said. He added, “Generally, we send around 10,000 samples every year for testing but due to the ongoing pandemic, we could only send around 5,000 samples last year.” On bird flu in Jharkhand, Mahatha said, “We have not detected any such case here but we are taking all precautionary measures given the crow deaths in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan.” As of Monday morning, more than 250 crows died in Rajasthan while 50 died in Madhya Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/alert-sounded-across-all-24-dists-in-jharkhand-after-bird-flu-scare-grips-mp-rajasthan/articleshow/80104102.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Jamshedpur||Alert sounded across all 24 districts in Jharkhand after bird flu scare grips MP & Rajasthan||RANCHI: In the wake mass deaths of birds reported from Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan in the past few days possibly due to avian influenza — better known as bird flu — the state animal husbandry department on Monday sounded an alert across all 24 districts, asking the officials concerned to keep a close watch and make necessary arrangements to tackle any circumstances. A letter in this regard was issued by the director of the Institute of Animal Health and Production (IAHP) here, asking the animal husbandry officers across all districts to remain alert. A similar directive has also been issued by the assistant director (poultry) of government poultry farms at Hotwar and Bokaro. The IAHP letter directed the district authorities to constitute rapid response teams and make adequate arrangements of PPE gear, requisite chemicals and earth-mover machines as part of their preparedness. The letter has ordered the districts to submit their monthly surveillance records to the institute at the earliest. “Our surveillance programmes run regularly and each district has a specific target of collecting samples every month which are then sent to us for testing. After collecting the samples from all the districts, we send them to the regional disease diagnostic labs in Kolkata and in Bengaluru for testing. None of the samples sent so far has reported an infection of any kind. We are, however, in the process of sending those samples which we couldn’t send in the previous lot. We have already started packaging those samples and they will be sent to the labs soon,” IAHP director Dr Bipin Kumar Mahatha said. He added, “Generally, we send around 10,000 samples every year for testing but due to the ongoing pandemic, we could only send around 5,000 samples last year.” On bird flu in Jharkhand, Mahatha said, “We have not detected any such case here but we are taking all precautionary measures given the crow deaths in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan.” As of Monday morning, more than 250 crows died in Rajasthan while 50 died in Madhya Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/alert-sounded-across-all-24-dists-in-jharkhand-after-bird-flu-scare-grips-mp-rajasthan/articleshow/80109572.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Three officials & contractor held for roof cave-in that killed 24||GHAZIABAD: A senior executive officer of the Muradnagar municipality, which had awarded the contract of building the crematorium shelter that collapsed on Sunday and killed 24 people, was among three civic officials arrested on Monday. The contractor who had built the shelter was also nabbed late on Monday night. Niharika Chauhan, the executive officer, junior engineer Chandra Pal and supervisor Ashish were picked up from their homes around 7am. Ajay Tyagi, the contractor, was arrested near Meerut around 11.30pm. On Sunday night, the four had been booked under IPC sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 409 (criminal breach of trust by a public servant), among other charges. In the afternoon, a police team had visited the house of Tyagi, but he was not at home. “A search for the contractor was initiated and a police team deployed outside his house,” SP (rural) Iraz Raja said. On Monday evening, police had announced a reward of Rs 25,000 for information on him. Tyagi, who was given the contract of renovating the crematorium and building the shelter in February last year, had almost completed the project by October. There are allegations that the material he used was of inferior quality. Chauhan had on Sunday admitted the civic body could not carry out an inspection of the project in the absence of a junior engineer. On Monday morning, the family members of six persons killed in the roof collapse blocked the Ghaziabad-Meerut highway with the bodies and demanded a higher monetary compensation and a government job for the next of kin. The protest, which lasted from 11am to 4.30pm, led to an 8km-long snarl on the highway. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had on Sunday announced a Rs 2 lakh compensation each for the families of the deceased. Those who laid siege to the highway had come from the MMG District Hospital after the bodies of victims were handed over to them following an autopsy. The protesters, who were angry with the compensation, refused to talk to any police officer and insisted they would not budge an inch until the district magistrate arrived and spoke to them. Sunita, whose husband Nitin was among the 24 people who died, said she would continue with her protest until the government increased the aid. “I have a son and daughter to raise. My husband was the sole earning member of our family. Tell me, is Rs 2 lakh enough for all our expenses?” she asked. “The government should increase the amount to at least Rs 15 lakh. It should also offer a job to each family,” said Suraj, another protester. Later in the afternoon, Suresh Kumar Khanna, the minister of finance, parliamentary affairs and medical education in the UP cabinet, met a few families of the deceased in Muradnagar and announced the government’s decision to increase the compensation amount from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 10 lakh. He also said that the government would provide a job to a member from each family, depending on his or her educational qualification. On the highway, the protest was lifted a few hours later after Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey visited the site and informed the families about the government’s decision. Though the families had vacated the highway around 4.30pm, it took a couple of hours more for traffic to move smoothly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/3-officials-contractor-held-for-roof-cave-in-that-killed-24/articleshow/80104928.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
January 5, 2021||India||From abroad, Rahul directing Cong rumour-mongering: BJP||NEW DELHI: Intensifying attack on Congress for questioning the DCGI’s approval to Covid vaccines, BJP on Monday said Rahul Gandhi, while on a vacation abroad, choreographed rumour-mongering by enlisting his colleagues Jairam Ramesh and Shashi Tharoor to create confusion among the people. At a press conference, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said Congress is questioning the vaccine though it has been certified by the Indian Council of Medical research (ICMR) and Central Drug Standard Control Organisation. International organisations have lauded India’s efforts and other countries have shown interest in the Indian vaccines, he said. “While Rahul Gandhi has been vacationing abroad, he has been prompting his party leaders to engage in rumour-mongering about the vaccines,” Patra said referring to statements of Shashi Tharoor and Jairam Ramesh, both of whom had questioned the verification process for Bharat Biotech’s vaccine Covaxin. He said that Congress members are creating confusion at a time when international organisations have lauded India’s efforts and other countries have even shown interest in Indian vaccines. “Scientific bodies like ICMR, CDSO have approved the vaccine, but we have Nobel laureates Rahul Gandhi, Akhilesh Yadav, Tharoor and Ramesh questioning the achievement,” he said. The BJP spokesperson alleged that the opposition’s attack on the vaccine could help “foreign forces, alleging that they do not want India to be self-reliant.” “The rumours being spread will benefit foreign forces. This will benefit outsiders. Who will it harm? It will harm our country, the strength of our scientists and their self-confidence. Why do Congress and these opposition parties want to break our scientists’ strength and self-confidence?” Patra questioned. He said that nothing could be more painful than politics being done on the issue. “Apart from the virus, it is only Congress which is feeling troubled. The attack on the vaccine is only the latest mutation of the syndrome which leads them to question the success of the Indian Army and the Air Force against Pakistan, and bodies like the Supreme Court and the Election Commission,” the BJP spokesperson said. He also hit out at Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, who had dubbed the vaccines as “BJP’s vaccines”. “The vaccines were developed for public welfare. People from abroad are ordering vaccines from India and some of the Indian people are raising doubts. What kind of irresponsible behaviour is this? Both Rahul and Akhilesh are same,” Patra said. PM should take first shot: Congress netaBihar Congress legislature party leader Ajit Sharma on Monday advised PM Modi and senior BJP members to take the shot first to gain people’s confidence, reports Sheezan Nezami. He said there was confusion among people over the two vaccines that have been approved in India. “In order to remove this doubt.... I believe PM Modi should win the trust of the people by taking the first vaccine shot,” he said. He also claimed that the heads of state of Russia and the US had taken the vaccine. Others first, I’ll take it later, says ShivrajMadhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said that priority groups should get the Covid vaccine first. “I have decided that I will not get vaccinated for now. First, it should be administered to others. My turn should come later. We have to work to ensure that priority groups are administered the vaccine,” the CM said on Monday. “Vaccination arrangements for #Covid-19 have been made by all districts. We have to mobilise for the priority groups to get vaccinated,” he posted on Twitter. BJP hailed Chouhan’s gesture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/from-abroad-rahul-directing-cong-rumour-mongering-bjp/articleshow/80106605.cms||---
January 5, 2021||India||PM: India on verge of world’s ‘largest’ vaccination drive||NEW DELHI: PM Narendra Modi on Monday lauded the Indian scientists for successfully developing two indigenous Covid-19 vaccines and said the country is on the verge of starting the “largest” vaccination programme in the world. “World’s biggest Covid-19 vaccination programme set to begin in India. For this, the country is proud of the contributions of its scientists and technicians,” Modi said speaking at the National Metrology Conclave 2021, organised by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-National Physical Laboratory, New Delhi, on its 75th year of inception. Addressing scientists at the conclave, he said it must be ensured that ‘Made in India’ products not only have a global demand but also global acceptance. The PM dedicated the ‘National Atomic Timescale’, and ‘Bhartiya Nirdeshak Dravya’ to the nation, and laid the foundation stone of the ‘National Environmental Standards Laboratory’. The National Atomic Timescale records IST with an accuracy of 2.8 nanosecond whereas ‘Bhartiya Nirdeshak Dravya’ is supporting testing and calibration of labs for quality assurance, at par with international standards. The National Environmental Standards Laboratory, on the other hand, will aid self-reliance in certification of ambient air and industrial emission monitoring equipment. Referring to ‘Bhartiya Nirdeshak Dravya’, he said it would help the industry to make quality products in sectors like heavy metals, pesticides, pharma and textiles by drafting a ‘Certified Reference Material System’. Modi said that with these new standards, there is a campaign to bring “global identity to local products” in districts across India, which will benefit our MSMEs sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-india-on-verge-of-worlds-largest-vaccination-drive/articleshow/80106619.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Thane||Maharashtra: ‘Patients with UK strain traced, isolated on time’||MUMBAI: The eight UK returnees to Maharashtra who tested positive for the new mutant strain of Covid-19 are among the 43 travellers into the country who have tested positive and whose swabs were sent for genome sequencing to the National Institute of Virology, Pune. Public health minister Rajesh Tope on Monday said that between November 25 and December 21, over 4,000 who landed at airports in Maharashtra from the UK were tested, and of these 2,623 were from Mumbai. Of them, 72 tested positive and their swabs were sent for further testing for the mutant UK variant. Tope said “the protocol to treat them is different and they have been isolated from the other Covid-19 patients. ICMR protocols will be followed...” The asymptomatic among those testing positive for the mutant strain are under a strict 14-day quarantine while those with compromised immunity such as with diabetes are in 21-day quarantine. BMC commissioner I S Chahal said, “There is nothing to worry as we traced and isolated these positive patients on time before they could spread the virus to others. Our teams put good efforts.” From Mumbai, 26 were, in all, found positive for the Covid-19 virus, and of them five had the mutant strain. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “Among the five, two have recovered and tested negative for the virus. Three are under treatment and are stable.” Officials said all five were tracked to their residences after a search was mounted for those coming from the UK. Officials said they “aggressively” also traced 40 high risk contacts of the five with the UK strain and tested them for the virus. All tested negative. CM Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting on Monday evening to discuss the preparations for the vaccine rollout. He sought updates on cases of the new variant. At the meeting, the CM also said that the state would request the Centre to quarantine passengers arriving from UK at the international airports where they landed and not allow them to take connecting flights to other cities. He said travellers from the UK or Middle East were taking flights to airports outside Maharashtra where the quarantine rule was not applicable and then coming into Maharashtra to avoid quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/maharashtra-patients-with-uk-strain-traced-isolated-on-time/articleshow/80106786.cms||Bhavika Jain
January 5, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: ‘Patients with UK strain traced, isolated on time’||MUMBAI: The eight UK returnees to Maharashtra who tested positive for the new mutant strain of Covid-19 are among the 43 travellers into the country who have tested positive and whose swabs were sent for genome sequencing to the National Institute of Virology, Pune. Public health minister Rajesh Tope on Monday said that between November 25 and December 21, over 4,000 who landed at airports in Maharashtra from the UK were tested, and of these 2,623 were from Mumbai. Of them, 72 tested positive and their swabs were sent for further testing for the mutant UK variant. Tope said “the protocol to treat them is different and they have been isolated from the other Covid-19 patients. ICMR protocols will be followed...” The asymptomatic among those testing positive for the mutant strain are under a strict 14-day quarantine while those with compromised immunity such as with diabetes are in 21-day quarantine. BMC commissioner I S Chahal said, “There is nothing to worry as we traced and isolated these positive patients on time before they could spread the virus to others. Our teams put good efforts.” From Mumbai, 26 were, in all, found positive for the Covid-19 virus, and of them five had the mutant strain. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “Among the five, two have recovered and tested negative for the virus. Three are under treatment and are stable.” Officials said all five were tracked to their residences after a search was mounted for those coming from the UK. Officials said they “aggressively” also traced 40 high risk contacts of the five with the UK strain and tested them for the virus. All tested negative. CM Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting on Monday evening to discuss the preparations for the vaccine rollout. He sought updates on cases of the new variant. At the meeting, the CM also said that the state would request the Centre to quarantine passengers arriving from UK at the international airports where they landed and not allow them to take connecting flights to other cities. He said travellers from the UK or Middle East were taking flights to airports outside Maharashtra where the quarantine rule was not applicable and then coming into Maharashtra to avoid quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-patients-with-uk-strain-traced-isolated-on-time/articleshow/80106622.cms||Bhavika Jain
January 5, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: ‘Patients with UK strain traced, isolated on time’||MUMBAI: The eight UK returnees to Maharashtra who tested positive for the new mutant strain of Covid-19 are among the 43 travellers into the country who have tested positive and whose swabs were sent for genome sequencing to the National Institute of Virology, Pune. Public health minister Rajesh Tope on Monday said that between November 25 and December 21, over 4,000 who landed at airports in Maharashtra from the UK were tested, and of these 2,623 were from Mumbai. Of them, 72 tested positive and their swabs were sent for further testing for the mutant UK variant. Tope said “the protocol to treat them is different and they have been isolated from the other Covid-19 patients. ICMR protocols will be followed...” The asymptomatic among those testing positive for the mutant strain are under a strict 14-day quarantine while those with compromised immunity such as with diabetes are in 21-day quarantine. BMC commissioner I S Chahal said, “There is nothing to worry as we traced and isolated these positive patients on time before they could spread the virus to others. Our teams put good efforts.” From Mumbai, 26 were, in all, found positive for the Covid-19 virus, and of them five had the mutant strain. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “Among the five, two have recovered and tested negative for the virus. Three are under treatment and are stable.” Officials said all five were tracked to their residences after a search was mounted for those coming from the UK. Officials said they “aggressively” also traced 40 high risk contacts of the five with the UK strain and tested them for the virus. All tested negative. CM Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting on Monday evening to discuss the preparations for the vaccine rollout. He sought updates on cases of the new variant. At the meeting, the CM also said that the state would request the Centre to quarantine passengers arriving from UK at the international airports where they landed and not allow them to take connecting flights to other cities. He said travellers from the UK or Middle East were taking flights to airports outside Maharashtra where the quarantine rule was not applicable and then coming into Maharashtra to avoid quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maharashtra-patients-with-uk-strain-traced-isolated-on-time/articleshow/80106958.cms||Bhavika Jain
January 5, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra: ‘Patients with UK strain traced, isolated on time’||MUMBAI: The eight UK returnees to Maharashtra who tested positive for the new mutant strain of Covid-19 are among the 43 travellers into the country who have tested positive and whose swabs were sent for genome sequencing to the National Institute of Virology, Pune. Public health minister Rajesh Tope on Monday said that between November 25 and December 21, over 4,000 who landed at airports in Maharashtra from the UK were tested, and of these 2,623 were from Mumbai. Of them, 72 tested positive and their swabs were sent for further testing for the mutant UK variant. Tope said “the protocol to treat them is different and they have been isolated from the other Covid-19 patients. ICMR protocols will be followed...” The asymptomatic among those testing positive for the mutant strain are under a strict 14-day quarantine while those with compromised immunity such as with diabetes are in 21-day quarantine. BMC commissioner I S Chahal said, “There is nothing to worry as we traced and isolated these positive patients on time before they could spread the virus to others. Our teams put good efforts.” From Mumbai, 26 were, in all, found positive for the Covid-19 virus, and of them five had the mutant strain. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “Among the five, two have recovered and tested negative for the virus. Three are under treatment and are stable.” Officials said all five were tracked to their residences after a search was mounted for those coming from the UK. Officials said they “aggressively” also traced 40 high risk contacts of the five with the UK strain and tested them for the virus. All tested negative. CM Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting on Monday evening to discuss the preparations for the vaccine rollout. He sought updates on cases of the new variant. At the meeting, the CM also said that the state would request the Centre to quarantine passengers arriving from UK at the international airports where they landed and not allow them to take connecting flights to other cities. He said travellers from the UK or Middle East were taking flights to airports outside Maharashtra where the quarantine rule was not applicable and then coming into Maharashtra to avoid quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/maharashtra-patients-with-uk-strain-traced-isolated-on-time/articleshow/80106787.cms||Bhavika Jain
January 5, 2021||Delhi||Light to moderate rain, hail likely in Delhi today||NEW DELHI: The capital woke up to dense fog on Monday with visibility remaining below 150 metres for over four hours, which impacted some flights. The capital received light rain during the day, with heavier showers in the evening, making it the second consecutive wet day in the city. Light to moderate rain/thundershowers with lightning likely to occur today during next three hours at isolated pl… https://t.co/Drz3NtykpG— TOI Noida (@TOINoida) 1609814251000The IMD has forecast light to moderate showers for Tuesday as well, with chances of hailstorm activity at isolated locations. The wet weather has meanwhile improved Delhi's air to the "moderate" category, with the AQI at just 151, according to CPCB's daily bulletin on Monday. Gannaur, Karnal, Asandh, Manesar, Gurugram, Faridabad (Haryana), Shamli, Baraut, Bagpat, Khatauli, Daurala, Meer… https://t.co/JXeo7a3uPe— India Meteorological Department (@Indiametdept) 1609810299000Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD's regional met office said visibility remained below 200 metres for nearly four hours, improving after 8.30am. "Visibility was around 150 metres at Palam from around 4am, until 8.30am. At Safdarjung, it briefly also fell to around 50 metres," said Srivastava, adding most locations in Delhi also recorded light rain. A cloud patch is entering Delhi from Haryana.It most likely to cause light to moderate rain over many parts of De… https://t.co/xEFZWcPsJa— India Meteorological Department (@Indiametdept) 1609816226000Mercury likely to drop again from Thursday, fog likely tooSrivastava said the intensity of rain could increase at isolated locations on Tuesday, with chances of hail as well. “We did not see hail on Monday, but it is a possibility on Tuesday. Wind speed will again be strong,” he said. The IMD classifies fog as “dense” when visibility is below 200 metres and “very dense” when it is below 50 metres. An airport official said there were small flight delays in the early hours, however there was no significant impact on flight operations. At the IGI airport, flights can land with a minimum visibility of 50 metres. Flights can take-off with a visibility of 125 metres or more. Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station, recorded 1.7mm of rainfall between 8.30am and 5.30pm, while Ayanagar, Lodhi road, Ridge and Palam received 4.4, 1.6, 1.0 and 1.4mm of rainfall, respectively, during this period. Till 8.30am on Monday, Safdarjung had received 14.6mm of rainfall, while Lodhi road had received 18.6mm of rainfall. Temperatures in the capital have also been rising over the last few days, with Monday’s minimum recorded at 11.4 degrees Celsius – four notches above normal. It was just 1.1 degrees on January 1, 2021 – the coldest day of the season. The maximum on Monday was also three degrees above normal, at 22.6 degrees Celsius. Forecast for Tuesday shows light to moderate rain with gusty winds of 20-30 km/hr. “The maximum and minimum are likely to be around 20 and 11 degrees Celsius, respectively,” said a met official, adding that mercury is expected to drop again from January 7, with dense fog likely on that day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dense-fog-hits-some-flights-in-delhi-hail-likely-today/articleshow/80106627.cms||---
January 5, 2021||India||Back from UAE, Arbaaz, Sohail violate quarantine, booked||MUMBAI: The BMC has filed an FIR with the city police against actors Arbaaz Khan and Sohail Khan and the latter’s son Nirvaan Khan for violating mandatory hotel quarantine rules for international air travellers. They had returned to Mumbai from the United Arab Emirates on December 25, 2020, and informed government officials that they would quarantine themselves at Hotel Taj Lands End. Instead they directly gone home and cancelled their hotel booking Police booked the three on Monday under IPC Sections 188 for disobedience to an order duly promulgated by a public servant and 269 for a negligent act which is likely to spread infection of a disease dangerous to life. BMC officials said on Monday they learnt that the Khans had violated hotel quarantine rules and misled government officials. They checked the details with Sohail Khan as well as the hotel before filing a police complaint against them. The hotel management told the officials that the three had not checked in for quarantine. The BMC officials visited Sohail Khan’s residence on Monday and he told them about his arrival along with his brother and son. Sohail reportedly told officials at the airport they all tested negative for the virus so they decided to go home directly. BMC officials said they have taken up the issue seriously. The assistant municipal commissioner of H-West Ward therefore wrote to the police seeking action against the three. Thereafter, police recorded a BMC health officer’s statement to register the FIR. The health officer is a complainant in the case. After the outbreak of the UK strain, the government had made it compulsory for people arriving from or via Europe, the Gulf or South African countries to undergo seven days of mandatory quarantine. They can be discharged from these facilities after seven days once they test negative for the virus and need to home quarantine themselves for seven more days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/back-from-uae-arbaaz-sohail-violate-quarantine-booked/articleshow/80106642.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 5, 2021||Mumbai||Tested negative at airport, so went home, Sohail Khan tells BMC||MUMBAI: BMC has filed an FIR against actors Arbaaz Khan and Sohail Khan and his son Nirvaan for flouting the mandatory hotel quarantine rule for international flyers. BMC officials said on Monday they learned that the Khans had violated hotel quarantine rules and misled government officials. They checked the details with Sohail Khan as well as the hotel before filing a police complaint against them. The hotel management told the officials that the three had not checked in for quarantine. Civic officials visited Sohail’s residence on Nargis Dutt Road in Khar (West) on Monday and he told them about his arrival along with his brother and son. Sohail reportedly told officials that they had all tested negative for the virus, so decided to go home directly. BMC officials said they have taken up the issue seriously as such instances can increase the spread of the virus. The assistant municipal commissioner of H-West Ward wrote to the police seeking action against the three. Thereafter, police recorded a BMC health officer’s statement to register the FIR. The health officer is a complainant in the case. Officials said they will inquire with family members and friends of the three to find out if any of them have Covid-19 symptoms. Incidentally, Sohail’s brother, actor Salman Khan, celebrated his birthday on December 27. After the outbreak of the UK strain, from December 22, the government had made it compulsory for people arriving from or via Europe, the Gulf or South African countries to undergo seven days of mandatory quarantine at a hotel or a BMC centre. They can be discharged from these facilities after seven days once they test negative for the virus and need to home-quarantine themselves for seven more days thereafter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/tested-negative-at-airport-so-went-home-sohail-khan-tells-bmc/articleshow/80106649.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 5, 2021||India||Ex-Sena MP now under ED scanner||It is the turn of a former Shiv Sena MP and the relative of a local political heavyweight in the vicinity of Mumbai with alleged underworld connections to now appear before the ED in the HDIL and PMC Bank scam Insiders said the political family had received several hundreds of crores of tainted money from HDIL from the amount defrauded from the PMC Bank. The former MP will be questioned for his links with an association that received around Rs 1 crore from the PMC Bank. The ED on Monday recorded the statement of Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut’s wife, Varsha, on a “friendly loan” of Rs 55 lakh she received from businessman Pravin Raut, who officials claimed was used as a conduit by the scamsters to siphon off crores of rupees. She will be summoned again in the next few days, said the officials. Varsha had been called to give her statement on Tuesday, but she appeared before the ED a day earlier. Before now, she had failed to turn up despite having been summoned four times. HDIL promoters Rakesh Wadhawan and his son Sarang are accused of defrauding PMC Bank of Rs 4,355 crore with fictitious loan transactions in connivance with bank officials. Last week, the ED had attached Pravin Raut’s assets worth Rs 72 crore. The ED said Pravin paid Rs 1.6 crore to his wife, Madhuri, from the proceeds of the crime. It said Madhuri transferred Rs 55 lakh (Rs Rs 50 lakh on December 23, 2010, and Rs 5 lakh on March 15, 2011) as interest-free loan to Varsha Raut. Varsha reportedly used the money to buy a flat. Varsha and Madhuri are partners in Avani Construction. Varsha received Rs 12 lakh from this entity as overdrawn capital converted to loan on a contribution of Rs 5,625. The Rs 12 lakh loan is still outstanding. The ED called Varsha for further questioning regarding the flat and her partnership in two firms with Madhuri. It is alleged that HDIL had siphoned off Rs 95 crore of PMC Bank loan money through Pravin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ex-sena-mp-now-under-ed-scanner/articleshow/80106657.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Chennai||Three more test positive for UK strain in Chennai||CHENNAI: Three more people, who tested Covid-positive after returning to Chennai from the UK, were found to have the mutant strain of the viral infection, the National Institute of Virology in Pune told the state health department on Monday. This takes the total number of people in TN with the new strain to four. The three patients were admitted to the National Institute of Aging at the King Institute of Preventive Medicine campus. "They have mild or no symptoms. They are being monitored closely by our doctors," health secretary J Radhakrishnan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/three-more-test-positive-for-uk-strain-in-chennai/articleshow/80106664.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Gurgaon||2,200kg marijuana found in truck near Delhi||GURUGRAM: Police have recovered 2,233kg of marijuana worth Rs 11 crore from a truck loaded with animal fodder in Pachgaon near Manesar in Haryana and arrested two people. The consignment was on its way from Odisha to Hisar, from where it was supposed to be supplied in Haryana and Delhi-NCR, according to the police. The quantity of marijuana seized on Sunday was almost double of what had been recovered in the past two years - 678kg in 2020 and nearly 338kg the year before that. #HaryanaPolice has seized over 22.33 quintals of #ganja in #Gurugram district which was being illegally transported… https://t.co/qLtbqX0csu— Haryana Police (@police_haryana) 1609759099000Sub-inspector Dalpat Singh of Sector 10 crime unit said he had got a tip-off on the transportation of huge quantities of marijuana in a truck through Pachgaon. TA truck carrying animal fodder was intercepted near KMP Expressway and a huge quantity of marijuana was found. Drug haul: Driver, helper arrestedThe truck driver, Bhupender Singh (34), and his helper Omji Singh (34) — both from Kannauj district of UP — were arrested. “Marijuana was filled in 70 plastic bags and kept in the middle of around 380 bags of animal fodder in the truck. It wouldn’t have been detected in a normal check. We managed to find it because our team had specific information,” said ACP (crime) Preet Pal Sangwan. During interrogation, the accused revealed that they had loaded marijuana in the truck four days ago in Odisha and were supposed to transport it to Uklana Mandi in Hisar. For this, they were paid Rs 4 lakh. “They were just transporters. We are trying to find out the supplier and who was supposed to receive it and supply it further in the state and adjoining areas,” the ACP said, adding that the accused were produced before a local court on Monday and sent to three-day police remand. Most of the marijuana smuggled into Haryana comes from Odisha. A truck loaded with marijuana was seized in Nuh on July 6 last year. A total of 822kg of marijuana filled in 90 gunny bags was recovered from the truck, which was coming from Rajasthan, and a man identified as Sahil was arrested. In April, Gurugram police recovered about 107kg of marijuana from a shop in Udyog Vihar and arrested three people, including a Bangladeshi national. The banned substance was smuggled from Odisha before the lockdown and was supposed to be supplied in Delhi-NCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/2200kg-marijuana-found-in-truck-near-manesar-in-haryana/articleshow/80106662.cms||Bagish Jha
January 5, 2021||Business||Firework eyes low-cost, ‘clean’ digital content||Kolkata: The Covid-19 pandemic has seen an unprecedented rise in the consumption of digital content, especially on mobile platforms. Now, creating a niche for itself and enabling publishers to increase their audience engagement is Silicon Valley-based open-web video story publishing platform Firework that promises to provide “clean and refined content for the mature audience”. According to a Comscore report, total digital visits (mobile and desktop) across ten key categories peaked at 64.3 billion during April 20-26, 2020. Since then, total digital visits have slowly declined, but remained over 30% higher than pre-pandemic levels. Speaking to TOI, Firework India and EMEA CEO Sunil Nair said, “During the pandemic, many traditional publishers realised that they needed to spend a lot to engage more audiences. However, with just a few tweaks, Firework enabled them to make that transition without the huge investment. The same is true for even startup brands.” “The audience now prefers short content that is less time-consuming. With its vertical 30-second video story format, Firework increased the engagement on its partners’ websites/apps by nearly 72% between April and June. July-August saw a jump of another 37%,” he said. Firework’s content does not need a specific app or website to be viewed as its videos are available on ‘open web’ and can be viewed on the scores of partner websites/apps. This helps creators generate revenue even if s/he does not have a huge fan base on a particular platform. “Only clean and refined content is published via Firework. Our team works round the clock to ensure that no cringe content finds its way onto our partners’ platforms,” Nair added. Vodafone Idea (Vi) has recently tied up with Firework to leverage the latter’s content repository from global content studios and get access to unique occupation-generated content creators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/firework-eyes-low-cost-clean-digital-content/articleshow/80115854.cms||Abhishek Chakraborty
January 5, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: People queue up for Pongal gift hampers||CHENNAI: Pongal festivities got a head start on Monday with the state government distributing the Pongal gift hampers at ration shops. Along with the 2,500 cash, the gift hamper contained 1kg of sugar and 1kg rice, sugarcane, 20g cashew nuts and raisins, 5g cardamom and sari/dhoti. Long queues outside ration shops were reported across the state as people waited for the festive goodies distributed in pale green cloth bags with pictures of former CM J Jayalalithaa and chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. M Somasundaram of Puliyakulam in Coimbatore said he had reached the shop at 9am but could get the hamper only at 1pm. "I am a mason and had taken a half-day leave to get the hamper. Now, I will have to apply for a full-day leave. The inconvenience would have been avoided if officials had planned it properly," he said. The government allocated 5,604.8 crore towards distribution of the Pongal gift to 2.10 crore ration cardholders and 484.3 crore to distribute free dhoti/sari for them. "People are yet to recover from the Covid-19 pandemic and the initiative will help them celebrate the festival," said municipal administration minister S P Velumani, who launched the distribution of the special Pongal gift in Coimbatore. But not all were happy, S Ramu, a 28-year-old auto driver in Moolakadai in Chennai, said the Pongal gift was a politically motivated scheme keeping elections in mind. "When people like me were struggling during lockdown, what stopped the government from giving this money," he asked. Watch Chennai: People queue up at PDS shop to get Pongal gift hampers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-people-queue-up-for-pongal-gift-hampers/articleshow/80106669.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: People queue up for Pongal gift hampers||CHENNAI: Pongal festivities got a head start on Monday with the state government distributing the Pongal gift hampers at ration shops. Along with the 2,500 cash, the gift hamper contained 1kg of sugar and 1kg rice, sugarcane, 20g cashew nuts and raisins, 5g cardamom and sari/dhoti. Long queues outside ration shops were reported across the state as people waited for the festive goodies distributed in pale green cloth bags with pictures of former CM J Jayalalithaa and chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. M Somasundaram of Puliyakulam in Coimbatore said he had reached the shop at 9am but could get the hamper only at 1pm. "I am a mason and had taken a half-day leave to get the hamper. Now, I will have to apply for a full-day leave. The inconvenience would have been avoided if officials had planned it properly," he said. The government allocated 5,604.8 crore towards distribution of the Pongal gift to 2.10 crore ration cardholders and 484.3 crore to distribute free dhoti/sari for them. "People are yet to recover from the Covid-19 pandemic and the initiative will help them celebrate the festival," said municipal administration minister S P Velumani, who launched the distribution of the special Pongal gift in Coimbatore. But not all were happy, S Ramu, a 28-year-old auto driver in Moolakadai in Chennai, said the Pongal gift was a politically motivated scheme keeping elections in mind. "When people like me were struggling during lockdown, what stopped the government from giving this money," he asked. Watch Chennai: People queue up at PDS shop to get Pongal gift hampers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tamil-nadu-people-queue-up-for-pongal-gift-hampers/articleshow/80106683.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: People queue up for Pongal gift hampers||CHENNAI: Pongal festivities got a head start on Monday with the state government distributing the Pongal gift hampers at ration shops. Along with the 2,500 cash, the gift hamper contained 1kg of sugar and 1kg rice, sugarcane, 20g cashew nuts and raisins, 5g cardamom and sari/dhoti. Long queues outside ration shops were reported across the state as people waited for the festive goodies distributed in pale green cloth bags with pictures of former CM J Jayalalithaa and chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. M Somasundaram of Puliyakulam in Coimbatore said he had reached the shop at 9am but could get the hamper only at 1pm. "I am a mason and had taken a half-day leave to get the hamper. Now, I will have to apply for a full-day leave. The inconvenience would have been avoided if officials had planned it properly," he said. The government allocated 5,604.8 crore towards distribution of the Pongal gift to 2.10 crore ration cardholders and 484.3 crore to distribute free dhoti/sari for them. "People are yet to recover from the Covid-19 pandemic and the initiative will help them celebrate the festival," said municipal administration minister S P Velumani, who launched the distribution of the special Pongal gift in Coimbatore. But not all were happy, S Ramu, a 28-year-old auto driver in Moolakadai in Chennai, said the Pongal gift was a politically motivated scheme keeping elections in mind. "When people like me were struggling during lockdown, what stopped the government from giving this money," he asked. Watch Chennai: People queue up at PDS shop to get Pongal gift hampers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tamil-nadu-people-queue-up-for-pongal-gift-hampers/articleshow/80106685.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: People queue up for Pongal gift hampers||CHENNAI: Pongal festivities got a head start on Monday with the state government distributing the Pongal gift hampers at ration shops. Along with the 2,500 cash, the gift hamper contained 1kg of sugar and 1kg rice, sugarcane, 20g cashew nuts and raisins, 5g cardamom and sari/dhoti. Long queues outside ration shops were reported across the state as people waited for the festive goodies distributed in pale green cloth bags with pictures of former CM J Jayalalithaa and chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. M Somasundaram of Puliyakulam in Coimbatore said he had reached the shop at 9am but could get the hamper only at 1pm. "I am a mason and had taken a half-day leave to get the hamper. Now, I will have to apply for a full-day leave. The inconvenience would have been avoided if officials had planned it properly," he said. The government allocated 5,604.8 crore towards distribution of the Pongal gift to 2.10 crore ration cardholders and 484.3 crore to distribute free dhoti/sari for them. "People are yet to recover from the Covid-19 pandemic and the initiative will help them celebrate the festival," said municipal administration minister S P Velumani, who launched the distribution of the special Pongal gift in Coimbatore. But not all were happy, S Ramu, a 28-year-old auto driver in Moolakadai in Chennai, said the Pongal gift was a politically motivated scheme keeping elections in mind. "When people like me were struggling during lockdown, what stopped the government from giving this money," he asked. Watch Chennai: People queue up at PDS shop to get Pongal gift hampers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tamil-nadu-people-queue-up-for-pongal-gift-hampers/articleshow/80106686.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Salem||Tamil Nadu: People queue up for Pongal gift hampers||CHENNAI: Pongal festivities got a head start on Monday with the state government distributing the Pongal gift hampers at ration shops. Along with the 2,500 cash, the gift hamper contained 1kg of sugar and 1kg rice, sugarcane, 20g cashew nuts and raisins, 5g cardamom and sari/dhoti. Long queues outside ration shops were reported across the state as people waited for the festive goodies distributed in pale green cloth bags with pictures of former CM J Jayalalithaa and chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. M Somasundaram of Puliyakulam in Coimbatore said he had reached the shop at 9am but could get the hamper only at 1pm. "I am a mason and had taken a half-day leave to get the hamper. Now, I will have to apply for a full-day leave. The inconvenience would have been avoided if officials had planned it properly," he said. The government allocated 5,604.8 crore towards distribution of the Pongal gift to 2.10 crore ration cardholders and 484.3 crore to distribute free dhoti/sari for them. "People are yet to recover from the Covid-19 pandemic and the initiative will help them celebrate the festival," said municipal administration minister S P Velumani, who launched the distribution of the special Pongal gift in Coimbatore. But not all were happy, S Ramu, a 28-year-old auto driver in Moolakadai in Chennai, said the Pongal gift was a politically motivated scheme keeping elections in mind. "When people like me were struggling during lockdown, what stopped the government from giving this money," he asked. Watch Chennai: People queue up at PDS shop to get Pongal gift hampers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tamil-nadu-people-queue-up-for-pongal-gift-hampers/articleshow/80106687.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Erode||Tamil Nadu: People queue up for Pongal gift hampers||CHENNAI: Pongal festivities got a head start on Monday with the state government distributing the Pongal gift hampers at ration shops. Along with the 2,500 cash, the gift hamper contained 1kg of sugar and 1kg rice, sugarcane, 20g cashew nuts and raisins, 5g cardamom and sari/dhoti. Long queues outside ration shops were reported across the state as people waited for the festive goodies distributed in pale green cloth bags with pictures of former CM J Jayalalithaa and chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. M Somasundaram of Puliyakulam in Coimbatore said he had reached the shop at 9am but could get the hamper only at 1pm. "I am a mason and had taken a half-day leave to get the hamper. Now, I will have to apply for a full-day leave. The inconvenience would have been avoided if officials had planned it properly," he said. The government allocated 5,604.8 crore towards distribution of the Pongal gift to 2.10 crore ration cardholders and 484.3 crore to distribute free dhoti/sari for them. "People are yet to recover from the Covid-19 pandemic and the initiative will help them celebrate the festival," said municipal administration minister S P Velumani, who launched the distribution of the special Pongal gift in Coimbatore. But not all were happy, S Ramu, a 28-year-old auto driver in Moolakadai in Chennai, said the Pongal gift was a politically motivated scheme keeping elections in mind. "When people like me were struggling during lockdown, what stopped the government from giving this money," he asked. Watch Chennai: People queue up at PDS shop to get Pongal gift hampers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tamil-nadu-people-queue-up-for-pongal-gift-hampers/articleshow/80106684.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Soon, locals may be open to all before 7am & after 10pm||MUMBAI: Despite the steady drop in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, commuters will have to wait some more before the state allows the general public to travel by local trains in the city. However, officials are considering a proposal to allow the public to travel during non-peak hours, before 7am and post 10pm. Currently, only essential workers and those approved by government are allowed to travel on locals. Women too have permission, but only during non-peak hours. As a result, the number of services has increased to 1,367 on WR and 1,774 on CR. “We will take a review this week about reopening trains for all, but it will take time before it is done. The biggest problem is the lack of a crowd management system at stations, which makes social distancing very difficult,” a senior official said. Night curfew to end today, may not be extendedA senior officer said while cases have reduced, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is not comfortable about opening up trains for all. Railways too is unable to come up with a plan to enforce social distancing on large crowds. Another official said even with current restrictions, trains are running packed, and with the dip in temperatures there is a fear that spread of infections may be hastened. “With the new proposal of allowing people before 7am and post 10pm we are trying to stagger travel and encourage offices to devise a shift system. These two slots will cover more working class people like those working in restaurants and second shifts,” said the official, adding that factors like positivity rate, death rate and growth rate of cases will be factored in when a decision is made. “The permission of the Railway Board too will have to be sought,” he said. Meanwhile, the state is not likely to extend night curfew imposed from December 25 to January 5 in view of the new virus strain from UK. “The night curfew ends tomorrow and it was imposed to ensure there is no crowding in public places during the festive season and the New Year’s eve, it is likely that curfew may not be extended,” said another senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-soon-locals-may-be-open-to-all-before-7am-after-10pm/articleshow/80106666.cms||Bhavika Jain
January 5, 2021||India||No seizure of animals unless owner is convicted under PCA Act, says SC||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday said that authorities have no power under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (PCA) Act to confiscate animals from traders during pendency of cases under this law and gave a week’s ultimatum to the Centre to either amend the Act or suffer a stay on the 2017 Rules which allowed confiscation. “The Section (in PCA Act) is clear. Only a person convicted under the Act (for causing cruelty to animals) can legally lose his animals. The (2017) Rules cannot run counter to the Act,” said a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian while dealing with a petition filed by Delhibased Buffalo Traders’ Welfare Association. The Association, through senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, brought out the conflict between the Act and the Rules. He said the Act mandated confiscation of animals from a transporter or owner only after he is convicted for causing cruelty to animals by a court of law, or had been previously convicted of such an offence. However, Additional Solicitor General Jayant Sud said the Rules categorically provided for sending the animals to infirmaries or animal shelters if police found that these have been treated cruelly. The bench said, “Animals are a source of livelihood for many. You (the government/ police) cannot confiscate the animals without the accused being convicted after a trial.” Then the bench gave the ultimatum — “Either you amend the law or we stay the operation of the Rules.” Sud sought a week’s time to get back with the Centre’s response. Lakhs of animals transported by traders in various states were waylaid by vigilante groups since the framing of the Rules in March 2017 and the authorities confiscated the animals. Times ViewThe Supreme Court has made a pertinent observation. It seems that the PCA Act is being misused for other ends. The Centre must come up with an honest reply.Section 29 of PCA Act provided that “if the owner of any animal is found guilty of any offence under this Act, the court upon his conviction thereof, may, in addition to any other punishment make an order that the animal with respect to which the offence was committed shall be forfeited to Government and may, further, make such order as to the disposal of the animal as it thinks fit under the circumstances”. However, Rule 3 empowered the magistrate to direct the seized animals to be housed at an infirmary, pinjrapole/ Gaushala or such shelter home during the pendency of the litigation. Rule 5 empowered a magistrate to direct the accused or the owner to execute a bond at the time of handing over the animal to the infirmary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-seizure-of-animals-unless-owner-is-convicted-under-pca-act-says-sc/articleshow/80106668.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 5, 2021||Delhi||For the third day, fresh Covid cases stay below 500; death toll at 12 in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The national capital on Monday recorded 384 fresh cases of the novel coronavirus, down from 424 cases recorded on Sunday. A total of 12 fatalities were recorded in the past 24 hours, while the positivity rate stood at 0.76%. The infection tally rose to over 6.27 lakh in the city, while the death toll mounted to 10,597. Monday's cases - the lowest in over seven months - came from the 50,288 tests conducted the previous day, including 30,296 RT-PCR tests and 19,992 via RAT, according to the latest bulletin issued by Delhi health department. The active Covid-19 cases tally on Monday dropped to 4,689 from 5,044 the previous day. The health bulletin stated that the total number of Covid cases climbed to 6,27,256. The capital had recorded 424 cases on Sunday, while the positivity rate was 0.62 per cent. Health minister Satyendar Jain had on Saturday tweeted that the positivity rate had been below the one per cent mark for the past 11 days, and fresh cases were the lowest since May 17. From December 21-23, the daily Covid cases count had been below the 1,000-mark. On December 21, 803 cases were reported; 939 on December 22 and 871 on December 23. However, on December 24, 1,063 cases were recorded, dropping again to 758 on December 25 and 655 on December 26. On December 27, 757 Covid cases were recorded while on December 28, the daily cases count went down 564, the lowest in the past five months. On December 29 and 30, the capital recorded 703 and 677 Covid cases, respectively. While on the last day of the year, 574 cases were recorded. The New Year began with 585 and 494 cases on January 1 and January 2, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/for-the-third-day-fresh-covid-cases-stay-below-500-death-toll-at-12-in-delhi/articleshow/80106695.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Delhi||Three more test positive in Delhi for mutated Covid-19 virus strain||NEW DELHI: The number of Covid-19 cases caused by the mutated strain of SARS-CoV2 virus, which was first identified in the United Kingdom, in Delhi has touched seven. Three more people were confirmed positive for the mutated strain on Monday. All of them are admitted at Lok Nayak Hospital, sources said. The hospital, sources said, has a total of 50 Covid-19 patients with a history of travel to the UK or direct contact with a UK returnee. Of them, seven have tested positive for the mutated virus strain. Dr Suresh Kumar, the medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital, said, except one, all Covid-19 patients caused by the mutated strain are stable. "There is one patient who has severe symptoms. He is being administered anti-viral drugs. The 47-year-old patient also requires oxygen therapy on an intermittent basis," Dr Kumar said. Across India, the number of persons affected by the new virus strain has reached 38. "The situation is under careful watch and regular advice is being provided to the states for enhanced surveillance, containment, testing and dispatch of samples to INSACOG labs," the Union health ministry stated on Monday. Dr Samiran Panda, head, epidemiology and communicable diseases division and director and scientist of ICMR-National AIDS Research Institute (NARI), said that high transmissibility of the mutated strain does not necessarily go hand in hand with high virulence. "A virus can be called a smart or a fit virus, while through the process of evolution and mutation, it takes a form when it is capable of getting transmitted easily from one of its hosts to another. However, the same mutant virus also requires its host to remain alive so that it can survive on the host and more specifically the living cells of its host that the virus attaches to and enters," Dr Nanda said, while speaking about the evolution of the coronavirus that causes Covid-19 in a talk organised by HEAL foundation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/three-more-test-positive-in-delhi-for-mutated-covid-19-virus-strain/articleshow/80106696.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
January 5, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu govt allows 100% occupancy in theatres||CHENNAI: The TN government on Monday permitted cinema theatres and multiplexes to operate with 100% occupancy. The move would help new Tamil films, including actor Vijay's 'Master' and T Silambarasan's 'Easwaran', to garner better collections at the box office as they would be released ahead of the Pongal festival. While 'Master' would be released in 700 movie halls, 'Easwaran' would be screened in 300 theatres. The development comes in the wake of Vijay calling on CM Edappadi K Palaniswami late on December 27 and urging him to permit 100% occupancy in theatres. Govt move on cinemas dangerous, says CongSubsequently, members of the Tamil Nadu Theatres Association too represented the state government seeking to remove the restrictions on audience allowed into theatres. Based on the directions of the ministry of home affairs, cinemas/theatres/ multiplexes were permitted to open from November 10, 2020, with 50% of their seating capacity by following the standard operating procedure. “Based on the decrease in Covid-19 cases day by day, the Theatre Owners Association have represented to the government to increase the seating capacity of cinemas/ theatres/ multiplexes,” a state GO issued on Monday said, permitting the theatres to operate with full occupancy. “In order to create awareness among spectators, precautionary measures for Covid-19 shall also be screened during the show time,” the GO said. While the Tamil film industry including actors welcomed the move, several people took to social media expressing fear that the relaxation could trigger a second wave, especially with a new strain of Covid making its presence felt in the state. They also cited the instances of a few hotels in Chennai emerging as new clusters. “This is a dangerous move that could backfire. It is a selfish move taken with the hope that actor Vijay and his fans would extend their support at the time of assembly elections. Do not sacrifice the lives of Tamils for political gains,” senior Congress leader and former MP Peter Alphonse tweeted. Actor and BJP leader Khushbu Sundar thanked CM Palaniswami and information and publicity minister Kadambur C Raju. “Film industry will flourish by leaps and bounds and come back to give best entertainment, being one of the largest economy generating field,” she tweeted. Khushbu also had a message to those who are worried over the decision. “Those who have different opinions on 100% capacity functioning of cinemas, only one message for you. Pls don’t go if you are worried. Your fear is understandable and nobody forces you to come. Take care,” she tweeted. Tirupur K Subramanian, a leading distributor and exhibitor cited instances of politicians having already undertaken their election campaigns, while people are crowding retail shops and public places. “The CM is campaigning. Opposition leader M K Stalin is conducting grama sabhas. People are crowding textiles and jewellery showrooms where they engage in face-to-face interactions. In theatres, at the most, the audience are going clap and laugh. The SOP will be strictly followed though other public places seldom follow these,” Subramanian said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-govt-allows-100-occupancy-in-theatres/articleshow/80106700.cms||D Govardan
January 5, 2021||Kolkata||Farmers’ interests above politics, says West Bengal CM||KOLKATA: Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday used the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi and the ONGC’s request for land in Ashokenagar-Barrackpore to drive home the point that she was ready to go beyond politics and cooperate with the Centre for people’s welfare and Bengal’s economic development. The CM said she had written — and spoken — to Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar, saying Bengal was ready to verify the 21.7 lakh farmer-applicants who had registered in the central portal, as directed by the Centre on November 6. “I want farmers to get the money. If they get anything extra, let them,” she said. Banerjee said it was being alleged that Bengal didn’t send data (on farmers). “But we couldn’t have done that since farmers have applied directly in the PM-Kisan portal. If it is a question of verifying these, we will do it. I have asked (the Union agriculture minister) for the data. We never had it in the first place. It’s all politics. But, to me, a farmer’s interest precedes everything,” she said. The chief minister said she had written to Union petroleum and natural gas minister Dharmendra Pradhan, saying the state would give ONGC 48 acres of land in Ashokenagar and another plot in Barrackpore for three years for further oil exploration. “They (ONGC) wanted to pay. But we will give the land for free,” she said. Banerjee said there were 300 families settled on the plots, which are mostly owned by the state, adding the state government has approached the Centre for a special rehabilitation package for them. “We do not want money (for the land),” Banerjee said, adding she was “happy that the state and the Centre could do this together”. “This effort,” she said, would “put Bengal firmly on the world energy map. The Bengal Basin, as well as the Deucha Panchami coal block, will ensure that Bengal faces no energy crisis for the next century.” ONGC, she said, had already invested Rs 3,361 crore for exploration for the last four years and planned to invest another Rs 425 crore in the next two years for “installation of a quick production system with green belt area and allied infrastructure.” Addressing the press on the politically contentious PM-Kisan scheme, the CM said: “I had spoken to the Union agriculture minister. Bengal’s agriculture minister could have spoken to him, but I did. You can gauge the seriousness we gave it. The PM referred to this. Hotath election year-e ekta Bangla-Bangla bhaab esheche (Bengal is suddenly the flavour this election season) This is nothing unnatural. This will stay for the next two-three months. “In my earlier letters (to Tomar), we had asked for the funds which could be sent to farmers by Direct Beneficiary Transfer (DBT) mode. In this, the Centre credits funds to the state treasury, which is sent to the beneficiaries. This is audited by CAG. Reports must be given to the state assembly, too. Tomarji told me, ‘humlog direct karenge (we will do it directly)’. I sensed the politics behind it. To me, what could be more important? Two-lakh letters by the Prime Minister to the farmers, or them getting some extra money? So, I wrote back that the state would help them getting the verification done, as asked for in their November 6 letter. We have asked for the data,” the CM said. Banerjee reminded everyone that Bengal already had a scheme — Krisak Bandhu — in place for farmers. “Along with the one-time benefits, this is available to small and marginal farmers who have land holdings of an acre or less. This scheme reaches out to 70 lakh farmers in Bengal. The central scheme can be availed of by those who have two acres or more. They have said that 21.7 lakh people have applied; it will leave out the others. But let them get whatever help they get. Now, if they say they cannot trust Bengal to verify the data, we can do nothing.” She chief minister said the ONGC project would be of immense help to industries, giving the example of the nearby IOCL refinery, which “has a capacity for eight million tonnes per annum, but which now has to import crude oil,” adding, “This holds enormous potential for Bengal.” In the Deucha Panchami coal block, she said work would begin on land which is vested with the state and has no homes. “The survey for others will begin. We will first work on rehabilitation packages, alternative land and jobs and then work with people’s confidence. This would be much later.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/farmers-interests-above-politics-says-mamata/articleshow/80105791.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Kolkata||Air pollution much bigger killer than Covid in India, finds study||KOLKATA: Air pollution caused nearly 13 times the number of deaths in 2019 than the raging Covid-19 pandemic the following year in Bengal, according to a recent report published by The Lancet. And it’s not just Bengal. The overall pollution-related deaths outnumber the countrywide Covid death figure by a huge margin. Track the pollution level in your cityAccording to the ‘December 2020 Lancet Planetary Health Report’, 9,712 people died of Covid in Bengal last year, whereas pollution claimed 1.2 lakh lives (1,22,833 people) in 2019 and caused an economic loss of around Rs 15,516 crore. Looking at the data, it’s clear which is the bigger killer across the country, even in a pandemic-ravaged year. Across India, there were as many as 16.7 lakh deaths attributable to pollution in 2019, while Covid caused 1.5 lakh deaths in 2020, according to data sourced from all state governments and the Centre. Among the institutions that The Lancet collaborated with for the survey was Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which is at the forefront of strategizing the medical fraternity’s response to Covid-19 in the country. Of the total deaths attributable to air pollution in India in 2019, the largest proportions were due to COPD (32.5%) and ischaemic heart disease (29.2%), followed by stroke (16.2%) and lower respiratory infections (11.2%). Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Bihar, Bengal and Rajasthan accounted for over 50% of the air pollution-attributable deaths in India, according to data from The Lancet’s report that was was conducted under the India State-Level Disease Burden Initiative by ICMR, Public Health Foundation of India and Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation. The estimation of the economic impact of air pollution, as the cost of lost output due to premature deaths and morbidity attributable to air pollution for every state of India, was done using the cost-of-illness method. “Air pollution has clearly emerged as one of the biggest killers in India. Its impact on our economy is far-reaching. There is a long-drawn collective battle against it. A couple of doses of vaccine cannot prevent it. When Covid-19 has occupied the lion’s share of our mind space, The Lancet study is a grim reminder of what we are missing out on,” said Dr Arun Sharma, public health expert and professor of community medicine, University College of Medical Science, New Delhi. “Air pollution is a major problem across India, and a much bigger issue across the Indo-Gangetic plain,” said Centre for Science and Environment executive director and air pollution expert Anumita Roychowdhury. “Bengal being at the tail end of the plain needs proactive steps to speed up action on transport, clean fuels in industry, clean power plants, waste management and biomass burning across the state.” Doctors, too, have reported an alarming rise in non-smoking COPD patients, primarily due to indoor and outdoor pollution. “This is a bigger epidemic but currently going unnoticed because of our current obsession with Covid-19. The fast declining air quality in our urban areas has made even breathing injurious to health,” said Dr Arup Haldar, a senior pulmonologist with Woodlands Hospital. Bengal Clean Air Network (Bengal CAN), which is spearheading a movement for better environment, is concerned about the current state of air quality in Bengal and the economic risk it poses to the population. “We need an all-out collective effort to clean up the air,” said Vinay Jaju of Bengal CAN.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/air-pollution-much-bigger-killer-than-covid-in-india-finds-study/articleshow/80105815.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
January 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Semester exams not more important than our safety: St Francis College students||On Monday morning, tension ran high at St Francis College for Women in Begumpet. Scores of students, parents and student union leaders queued up at the entrance of the college, even as the gates were thrown open for the first time in a long time for the semester exams, which the students claim were called for at a short notice. As some undergraduate and post-graduate students reluctantly made their way to write the exam — masks, gloves and the whole paraphernalia in town — others seemed to be up in arms over the college management’s “ruthless decision” to conduct the examinations on campus, despite the Covid-19 pandemic situation. Things got to a boil when angry parents, supported by sloganeering student activists, joined the fray. Soon, police personnel were pressed into action, to try and negotiate with the parents and calm the agitating students down. THE COLLEGE MANAGEMENT IS CALLOUS AND INSENSITIVE, ALLEGE STUDENTSIt’s not the examination itself, but the haphazard manner in which it’s being conducted that’s the problem, say students. Speaking to Hyderabad Times, a student representative who’s in the final year, on condition of anonymity, said, “The management has been totally insensitive to our concerns. We only want the exams to be conducted online. Is that too much to ask for? What will students who have symptoms like cold and cough do? Apparently, they either come in now and put everyone at risk or settle for the supplementary exams later. How unfair is that?” In fact, the college management released a detailed official statement reassuring that those who cannot appear for the exams now can choose to write the same later, but it offers little solace to the students. Explaining their predicament, Venkat Balmoor, Telangana President, National Student Union of India (NSUI), says, “The University Grants Commission has a set of guidelines and they won’t grant permission to colleges to conduct exams whenever they want. So, students who will take these exams at a later date will actually be taking the supplementary exams. The college has conveniently omitted this from their statement.” That’s not the only grouse. “While the exams commenced on Monday, the official notice about the schedule was released only on December 28, making it extremely difficult for outstation students who had left the city during lockdown,” says a final year BSc student who had to travel from Maharashtra. “The management is not even concerned about making basic arrangements for students like me who are literally stranded. Their attitude has been callous and insensitive,” she adds. OUR COMPLAINTS, CONCERNS FELL ON DEAF EARS; LECTURERS WERE RUDE TO US: PARENTSParents are just as reluctant to send their wards to campus. “Many in our family have co-morbidities and we do not want to risk our daughter being exposed to the virus. Plus, how can they perform well in exams if they are stressed about their safety? Around 60 of us (parents) went to the college to express our concerns about this, but the management simply refused to listen,” said a parent of a final year student. Can’t flout rules set by Academic Council: St Francis managementEarlier in 2020, the semester exams were held online and students demand that the same be continued this time as well. But that’s not a call they can take independently, explain the college management. “In November, the Academic Council had permitted us to conduct exams in online mode keeping in mind the pandemic and on the condition that this will be ‘one-time permission only’. Hence the demand for online exams by our students cannot be accommodated. (sic),” the official statement read. Students who can’t take the exam will be permitted to do so later: St Francis Management“The college has decided to conduct Odd semester exams for the academic year 2020-21 from January 4, 2021. This decision was taken in lieu of the progression of students, particularly the final year students. The Management and staff are conscious of the concerns of some parents and students with regard to the pandemic. To accommodate the needs of such students who are unwell, out of the city or have high-risk individuals in their families, the college is permitting students to take the same exam at a later date,” read a statement issued by St.Francis college management on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/semester-exams-not-more-important-than-our-safety-st-francis-college-students/articleshow/80102737.cms||Thadhagath Pathi
January 5, 2021||Kolkata||Covid care infra, e-snan for Sagar pilgrims||Kolkata: The annual fair at Sagar Island is less than a fortnight away and the Bengal government is pulling out all the stops to ensure safety and security of visitors. While chief minister Mamata Banerjee has appealed to pilgrims to stay away from the event, stating that her government has made “e-snan and e-darshan arrangements” this year, the authorities have nonetheless begun rolling out an elaborate healthcare and Covid testing facility for those who still choose to visit Gangasagar Mela between January 8 and 16. “The state government has made an arrangement for e-snan. People can order holy water and prasad for Rs 150 online. For e-darshan, the fair will also be streamed online,” Banerjee said on Monday, calling it ‘Duare Gangasagar (Gangasagar on doorstep)’ on the lines of her government’s popular outreach programme ‘Duare Sarkar’. Gangasagar Mela, which is attended by lakhs of pilgrims from across the country and also from neighbouring Nepal, will be held from January 12 to 16 this year. “We have not cancelled the fair despite the Covid situation, but there should be a smaller gathering to prevent spread of the virus,” the CM said, discouraging pilgrims from trooping to the island in large numbers amid the pandemic. On the healthcare facilities being launched in the wake of the fair, she said: “A 600-bed Covid hospital, six wellness centres, eight safe homes, 11 quarantine centres and five isolation centres are being set up at Gangasagar Mela site.” She suggested that flood shelters in the area be kept ready for setting up safe homes, if need be. A 300-bed hospital is being set up for other patients of Sagar, Namkhana, Chemaguri and Lot 8 en route to the fair venue. Requesting pilgrims to wear masks and maintain physical distance, Banerjee said: “There will be enough specialist doctors and nurses, besides adequate infrastructure for both Covid and non-Covid care.” Two air ambulances, three water ambulances and 100 regular ones will be on standby, she said. The state is also forming an 800-member dedicated team called ‘Sagar Bandhu’ to help visitors maintain Covid protocol. Surveillance will be done by 1,050 CCTV cameras, 20 drones and 6,000 volunteers from 140 NGOs. The venue will boast 10,000 toilets too. “Everyone working at the fair will be provided an insurance cover of Rs 5 lakh from January 8 to 16,” the CM added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-care-infra-e-snan-for-sagar-pilgrims/articleshow/80105052.cms||Saibal Gupta
January 5, 2021||Kolkata||Meeting held at VB to resolve Alapini row||Santiniketan: A meeting between Visva-Bharati Karmi Parishad and some members of Santiniketan-based women’s organization Alapini Samity was held on Monday evening to end the impasse following a notice issued by university authorities asking the latter to vacate its meeting room, Natun Bari, on the varsity campus. According to a statement issued by the authorities, it was resolved that following Santiniketan tradition, the Samity will work unitedly while maintaining honesty, transparency and discipline. The 30 members present resolved that discussions should be held with Visva-Bharati authorities. Samity president Aparna Das Mahapatra said she was not invited to any meeting. “We are in the dark about it. No official of the Samity took part in any meeting with Karmi Parishad. We are ready to talk if they (VB) invite us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/meeting-held-at-vb-to-resolve-alapini-row/articleshow/80105424.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Kolkata||TMC-BJP clashes rock Kol, districts; 6 injured||Kolkata: BJP and Trinamool Congress supporters fought a pitched battle near Dum Dum station on Monday as BJP state president Dilip Ghosh attended a party programme, where several Trinamool councillors of South Dum Dum municipality were supposed to join BJP. There were also reports of political violence in Bengal districts. Trinamool supporters opposed to their councillors moving to BJP showed black flags to Ghosh on Dum Dum Road and a fight ensued. Four people were injured and treated at a local hospital. One was said to be critical with a head injury. At East Midnapore’s Bajkul College on Monday noon, ABVP supporters fought with Trinamool Chhatra Parishad as the former displayed their banners on campus. ABVP supporters alleged that TMCP attacked them, beating up several and leaving one with a head injury. Two motorcycles belonging to ABVP supporters were burnt and bombs were allegedly hurled. ABVP leader Sudip Mondal claimed police remained silent observers and no arrests were made. TMCP supporters blocked roads in Bajkul in protest. TMCP leader Prasenjit De blamed ABVP for the violence. In two separate incidents, two BJP leaders were shot at on Sunday night and BJP blamed Trinamool for the attacks. Sadik Ali, Mandal Sabhapati of BJP at Malatipur in Malda, was hit by a bullet when at least three rounds were fired on his car around 11pm on Sunday. The sound of firing alerted locals, who rescued Sadik and admitted him to Malda Medical College hospital. BJP north Bengal leader Rathin Bose, BJP MP Khagen Murmu and BJP state secretary Sayantan Bose visited him in the hospital. Sadik’s father, Abdul Kuddus, blamed Trinamool for the attack. District Trinamool Congress president Mousam Noor rubbished the allegations. “It was the result of BJP’s factional feud,” SP of Malda, Aloke Rajoria, said.“We have started a probe.” Around 11.45pm on Sunday at Hirapur, West Burdwan, BJP state committee leader Krishnendu Mukherjee was attacked near his home. Police said two bullet marks were found on his car. BJP took to the streets in protest and demonstrated outside Hirapur police station. District BJP president Lakshman Ghorui threatened to launch an agitation if the attackers were not arrested immediately. (With inputs from Sanjib Chakraborty in Kolkata, Suman Mondal in Tamluk, Subhro Maitra in Malda and Md Asif in Burdwan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-bjp-clashes-rock-kol-districts-6-injured/articleshow/80105461.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal scheme for free eye treatment kicks off today||KOLKATA: After ‘Duare Sarkar’ and ‘Paray Paray Samadhan’, chief minister Mamata Banerjee has launched ‘Chokher Alo’, a scheme that will ensure cataract operations for senior citizens and eye treatment for all for free. It will kick off from Tuesday. The project follows recent initiatives to take benefits of Bengal government’s schemes to people’s doorsteps. Banerjee said: “It is a scheme aimed at eyes-for-all by 2025. The government has set a target to operate for cataract of 20 lakh senior citizens. The government will also provide free spectacles to 8.25 lakh aged people who will go undergo operation.” The state will also conduct eye tests for 10 lakh students, of whom 4 lakh will be given free spectacles. “Not only students but anganwadi workers too will get the opportunity to have their testing done free. More than 300 doctors and 400 optometry technicians will be engaged for this purpose,” she said. The first phase from Tuesday will cover 1,200 gram panchayats and 120 urban primary health centres. The next two phases will cover the remainder. Banerjee also inaugurated an advanced trauma-care facility equipped with modern infrastructure and facilities at North Bengal Medical College and Hospital. The Rs 10-crore unit will have 20 beds, two operation theatres and a 10-bed recovery room. An orthopaedic surgeon and a neurosurgeon will take care of emergency patients. “The first trauma care centre was built at SSKM Hospital but as people of North Bengal were deprived of the benefits, so this second centre was developed,” the CM said. Meanwhile, Banerjee will collect her Swasthya Sathi health card from a ‘Duare Sarkar’ camp on Harish Mukherjee Street on Tuesday. “I have a Rs 3 lakh mediclaim policy that was bought by my brother a long time ago. Though I have not been using it, I thought I should have the government health card, just like other people of my state. I’ll keep it safe,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-scheme-for-free-eye-treatment-kicks-off-today/articleshow/80105158.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Kolkata||TMC writes to speaker, seeks to disqualify MP||Kolkata: Trinamool Congress’ Lok Sabha leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay has written to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to take steps under anti-defection law against Burdwan East MP Sunil Mondal, who recently joined BJP. The letter reached the speaker’s secretariat on Monday with the plea to disqualify Mondal under anti-defection law, under Tenth Schedule of the Constitution. Bandyopadhyay included some video footage as proof of Mondal joining BJP. Mondal was unfazed. “I have heard about the move. Why are they in a hurry? I could have tendered my resignation to the speaker and joined BJP, but it was only on public demand I had to join BJP,” he said. He added: “I would like to remind the Trinamool leadership that I was a Forward Bloc MLA when I joined Trinamool in November 2013. They did not insist on my resignation at that time. So they should have some patience now. I only resigned from the assembly in February 2014 when it was finalized I would contest as a Trinamool MP candidate. I am confident of winning the MP seat as a BJP candidate.” A Trinamool leader said when Mondal joined Trinamool, the anti-defection law was in vogue but Forward Bloc did not approach the speaker for action. “So how can you blame Trinamool for it? But now Trinamool’s Lok Sabha leader has demanded Mondal’s disqualification.” The leader added that Mondal should have had the courage to resign his seat and opt for re-election after joining BJP. Bombay High Court’s former chief justice, Justice Chittatosh Mookerjee, said though the law was made in 1985 to stop the trend of ‘Aaya Ram Gaya Ram’, lack of public morality among politicians had made this law not very effective.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-writes-to-speaker-seeks-to-disqualify-mp/articleshow/80105453.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee for ‘Bengal Planning Commission’ to honour Netaji||KOLKATA: Criticizing the BJP government for abolishing the Planning Commission conceptualized by Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Monday that as part of the celebration of his 125th birth anniversary, the state will set up a ‘Bengal Planning Commission’ to take Bose’s ideas ahead. Banerjee announced this at her meeting with a committee of eminent personalities to make arrangements for observing Bose’s birth anniversary. “Bose’s Planning Commission has been closed by the central government. They have named it Niti Aayog or Niti Niyog. Earlier, I used to go for meetings of the Planning Commission and suggestions were sought from each state. We have no say now. So, we will start a Bengal Planning Commission to go ahead with Netaji’s vision. It will have a national reach,” she said. The CM urged Nobel laureates Amartya Sen and Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee and Bose's grandnephew Sugata Bose to advise the state government on this. Banerjee reiterated her demand for a national holiday on Bose’s birthday and said it will be observed as ‘Desh Nayak Divas’ in the state. She also demanded that the Centre should declassify the files related to Netaji which might lead to the unravelling of his “disappearance”. “We are demanding declassification of all files related to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose.” The CM detailed out a year-long programme to celebrate the 125th birth anniversary of Bose which will start with a rally on January 23, exactly at 12.25 pm — the time he was born — from Shaymbazar to Red Road. “It will be a huge rally with tableaux and cut-outs of the great leader. All police bands will play patriotic songs. Blow conch shells to celebrate this auspicious moment,” she said. Proposing the setting up of NCC-cadet-like forces in state-run schools and colleges and naming them ‘Jai Hind Bahini’, she said, “The state will come up with a central university named after Bose. We will set up a national university without taking help from anybody. This university will have links to world class universities like Havard, Cambridge and Oxford.” Banerjee also proposed to construct an ‘Azad Hind Fauj’ monument at Rajarhat. Nobel Laureate Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, present at the meeting virtually, said: “We should try to connect to youths and make them aware of the ideals and philosophies of Bose.” He was seconded by Sugata Bose, who said that he had a talk with Amartya Sen. “During my conversation with Amartya Sen, he said as Netaji was against any kind of dogmatism and religious fundamentalism, we should make publications highlighting his ideologies that will encourage the younger generation.” Painter Jogen Chowdhury suggested making short films and documentaries of one or two minutes on Netaji’s life and philosophy. Other eminent personalities present at the meeting were historian family member of Subhash Chandra Bose, Sumantra Bose, state finance minister Amit Mitra, poet Joy Goswami, writer Sirshendu Mukhopadhyaya, singer Sandhya Mukhopadhyay and VCs of different universities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mamata-for-bengal-planning-commission-to-honour-netaji/articleshow/80104925.cms||Saibal Gupta
January 5, 2021||Kolkata||Sovan, Baisakhi skip their first rally for BJP in Kolkata||Kolkata: Former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee and his friend Baisakhi Banerjee’s absence from Monday’s public rally, touted to be their first for BJP, overshadowed the event, making the saffron party uncomfortable. After Sovan, made Bengal BJP observer of Kolkata region last month, was found absent, national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya led the rally from Diamond Harbour Road. When the rally reached Wattgunge area, a shoe was flung at participants from a street corner meeting organized by Trinamool Congress. Police immediately controlled the situation. “It seems TMC has become frustrated now. These are signs of their desperation,” Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said. Trouble started on Monday morning when Baisakhi said she would be unable to attend the rally due to fluctuating blood pressure. State BJP leaders tried to persuade her to attend but failed. Hours later, Sovan too opted out. When Sovan was appointed party observer and Baisakhi the co-convenor, both were in Bhubaneswar. Sources indicated that Baisakhi was not happy with Shankudeb Panda being made co-convenor as well. The twists-and-turns culminated in Sovan and Baisakhi’s nameplates being removed from the room allotted to them at BJP’s Murlidhar Sen Lane office. “I am not aware if any room was allotted to them,” Ghosh said. According to sources, party’s general secretary (organization) Amitabha Chakraborty might meet the duo on Tuesday. BJP was already under pressure after police initially refused permission for Monday’s rally. Party leaders met at Sovan’s home on Sunday night to make an assessment. It was decided the rally route would be changed if police stopped it midway. Police later gave conditional permission but denied nod to a bike rally. The rally route had to be changed after police requested BJP leaders to consider traffic management-related factors on first working day of the week. Ghosh later said: “We give enough opportunity to each leader to work for the party. Those who have come here to work for BJP will have to take a decision and start working. However, it is up to them to decide when they want to become active. Our doors are always open.” Asked if the party was going to take any action against the duo, Ghosh said the disciplinary committee looked into such issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sovan-baisakhi-skip-their-first-rally-for-bjp-in-kolkata/articleshow/80105287.cms||Rohit Khanna
January 5, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Two killed, five injured in stampede at Kalimpong concert venue||KALIMPONG: Two people were killed and five injured in a stampede before a rap concert at Mela Ground in Kalimpong on Sunday night. The organizers, Mad Dog, had invited various artists from Kalimpong and Darjeeling along with a rapper popularly known as Lahure from Nepal. Civic police volunteers said the incident took place between 6.30pm and 7pm. However, organizers did not cancel the event even after the stampede, and the show continued till 9.30pm. The deceased have been identified as Anita Chettri (46) and Binita Gurung (34). The injured are Miksam Tamang (21), Amita Subba (31), Pratiksha Chettri (15), Parima Rai (23) and Alisha Rai (15). The main gate of the ground was closed and the crowd was getting restless. When it was opened, they rushed in, and those standing on stairs in the front were reportedly crushed. “The massive crowd demanded to be let in, after which cops resorted to lathicharge to control them. We purchased tickets to watch the programme and went to the front. As soon as someone opened a small gate, the crowd streamed into the ground from outside and we fell as they pushed heavily. I shouted for help but not a single volunteer came forward to help us. Later, I became unconscious,” said Parima from hospital. “The crowd management was very poor. Cops were trying to manage the crowd but no one was listening to them,” she added. Some locals have raised allegations of negligence against the organizers while some have criticised the administration for allowing the event to take place there. Suman Gurung, district coordinator of Trinamool, who was chief guest at the event, said: “The organizers should take responsibility and bear the victims’ medical expenses.” Superintendent of police Harikrishna Pai visited the ground on Monday and said a case had been filed against them. Darjeeling MP Raju Bista wrote to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, requesting she order an investigation into the deaths and compensate the injured. Bista also alleged that despite the deaths of two people, the organizers and the police did not cancel the show. “The officials who granted permission for the event without taking into consideration the safety protocols and social distancing norms must be held responsible. Also, investigations should be conducted into who ordered the lathicharge,” Bista said. The organizers could not be contacted for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-killed-5-injured-in-stampede-at-kalimpong-concert-venue/articleshow/80105358.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Pune||Balasaheb Thorat offers to quit as Maharashtra Congress chief||MUMBAI: Alarmed by hectic lobbying against him, state Congress president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat has offered to quit the organizational post as per the ‘one man one post’ principle of the party. “I have offered to quit as MPCC president. I have made my decision known to the high command long back, and it is for the party to take a decision. In my opinion, let a new face take over the reins of the organization,” Thorat told TOI. In view of the debacle of Congress in the 2019 elections, MPCC president Ashok Chavan had quit, following which Thorat was asked to lead the state Congress in July 2019. Under his leadership, the Congress improved its performance and also formed the state government under the banner of the Maha Vikas Aghadi led by Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray. A few months after the government was formed, pressure was mounting on the Congress high command to replace Thorat and follow the ‘one man one post’ principle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/balasaheb-thorat-offers-to-quit-as-maharashtra-congress-chief/articleshow/80106961.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
January 5, 2021||Mumbai||Balasaheb Thorat offers to quit as Maharashtra Congress chief||MUMBAI: Alarmed by hectic lobbying against him, state Congress president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat has offered to quit the organizational post as per the ‘one man one post’ principle of the party. “I have offered to quit as MPCC president. I have made my decision known to the high command long back, and it is for the party to take a decision. In my opinion, let a new face take over the reins of the organization,” Thorat told TOI. In view of the debacle of Congress in the 2019 elections, MPCC president Ashok Chavan had quit, following which Thorat was asked to lead the state Congress in July 2019. Under his leadership, the Congress improved its performance and also formed the state government under the banner of the Maha Vikas Aghadi led by Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray. A few months after the government was formed, pressure was mounting on the Congress high command to replace Thorat and follow the ‘one man one post’ principle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/balasaheb-thorat-offers-to-quit-as-maharashtra-congress-chief/articleshow/80106711.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
January 5, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: MRTS services touch pre-Covid level||More than 10,000 commuters used the MRTS services when the number of trains almost touched the pre-Covid-19 level on Monday. Railways now runs 80 trains against the pre-lockdown figure of 81 and close to a lakh commuters. In October, only a handful of trains were operated for railway workers. The number of services was increased to 40 a day around two week ago. This was further increased on Monday bringing it almost to the pre-Covid-19 level. However, the number of commuters is low because there are still restrictions for the general public from using MRTS and suburban trains during the peak hours. In addition to the Velachery-Beach services, railways has also started trains from Velachery to Avadi and Arakonam. “The patronage is likely to increase in the coming days when more people come to know about the services. However, a good number of people who used to travel by the trains were those who worked in private firms and IT companies in Mylapore and Thiruvanmiyur. Many of them continue to work from home,” said a railway official. The patronage was low on Monday as railways decided not to publicise increasing services on the MRTS section. Meanwhile, suburban trains - 580 services a day - have been running become crowded during peak hours though all are not allowed to avail of the service during the period. “Railways are allowing different categories of commuters to use the trains in a gradual manner,” he added. The public can travel only during non-peak hours while women and children throughout the day. T Sadagopan, a consumer activist, said railways should take a decision on what to do with the unused season tickets. People who had taken season tickets for six months or so could not use them because trains were suspended or people were not allowed to board during the shutdown. The money should be refunded or the old tickets allowed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-mrts-services-touch-pre-covid-level/articleshow/80106714.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu plans to reopen schools after Pongal, seeks views of parents||The school education department wants to reopen schools for Class X and XII students post-Pongal holidays to prepare them for board exams. The department has asked all schools to conduct meetings with parents on or before January 8 to know their views on the move. “It is necessary to reopen schools for students who are due to write board exams to conduct physical classes and prepare them for the exams. So, all schools should conduct parents meetings on or before January 8,” school education director S Kannappan said in a circular to CEOs on Monday. The department also evolved standard operating procedures (SOP) for the reopening of schools. He said the decision on reopening of schools would be taken based on the parents’ views. V Shanthi, headmistress of Vidyodaya Girls Higher Secondary School in T Nagar said, “Though we take classes online, we can give writing practice only in classrooms. Some are hesitant to clear doubts in online classes.” We need to hold physical classes for at least students due to write board exams,” said G J Manohar, principal of MCC Higher Secondary School in Chetpet. For CBSE students, the practical exams for Classes X and XII are scheduled to start from March 1. Schools said they needed 30 days to give training to the science students. CBSE board exams for Classes X and XII are scheduled to start from May 4. “State board students also need to be prepared for board exams. If they practice by writing model exams or revision tests, they may not score well in board exams which may affect their higher education prospects,” said career consultant Jayaprakash Gandhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-plans-to-reopen-schools-after-pongal-seeks-views-of-parents/articleshow/80111969.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Madurai||Tamil Nadu plans to reopen schools after Pongal, seeks views of parents||The school education department wants to reopen schools for Class X and XII students post-Pongal holidays to prepare them for board exams. The department has asked all schools to conduct meetings with parents on or before January 8 to know their views on the move. “It is necessary to reopen schools for students who are due to write board exams to conduct physical classes and prepare them for the exams. So, all schools should conduct parents meetings on or before January 8,” school education director S Kannappan said in a circular to CEOs on Monday. The department also evolved standard operating procedures (SOP) for the reopening of schools. He said the decision on reopening of schools would be taken based on the parents’ views. V Shanthi, headmistress of Vidyodaya Girls Higher Secondary School in T Nagar said, “Though we take classes online, we can give writing practice only in classrooms. Some are hesitant to clear doubts in online classes.” We need to hold physical classes for at least students due to write board exams,” said G J Manohar, principal of MCC Higher Secondary School in Chetpet. For CBSE students, the practical exams for Classes X and XII are scheduled to start from March 1. Schools said they needed 30 days to give training to the science students. CBSE board exams for Classes X and XII are scheduled to start from May 4. “State board students also need to be prepared for board exams. If they practice by writing model exams or revision tests, they may not score well in board exams which may affect their higher education prospects,” said career consultant Jayaprakash Gandhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tamil-nadu-plans-to-reopen-schools-after-pongal-seeks-views-of-parents/articleshow/80106740.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Erode||Tamil Nadu plans to reopen schools after Pongal, seeks views of parents||The school education department wants to reopen schools for Class X and XII students post-Pongal holidays to prepare them for board exams. The department has asked all schools to conduct meetings with parents on or before January 8 to know their views on the move. “It is necessary to reopen schools for students who are due to write board exams to conduct physical classes and prepare them for the exams. So, all schools should conduct parents meetings on or before January 8,” school education director S Kannappan said in a circular to CEOs on Monday. The department also evolved standard operating procedures (SOP) for the reopening of schools. He said the decision on reopening of schools would be taken based on the parents’ views. V Shanthi, headmistress of Vidyodaya Girls Higher Secondary School in T Nagar said, “Though we take classes online, we can give writing practice only in classrooms. Some are hesitant to clear doubts in online classes.” We need to hold physical classes for at least students due to write board exams,” said G J Manohar, principal of MCC Higher Secondary School in Chetpet. For CBSE students, the practical exams for Classes X and XII are scheduled to start from March 1. Schools said they needed 30 days to give training to the science students. CBSE board exams for Classes X and XII are scheduled to start from May 4. “State board students also need to be prepared for board exams. If they practice by writing model exams or revision tests, they may not score well in board exams which may affect their higher education prospects,” said career consultant Jayaprakash Gandhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tamil-nadu-plans-to-reopen-schools-after-pongal-seeks-views-of-parents/articleshow/80106741.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Salem||Tamil Nadu plans to reopen schools after Pongal, seeks views of parents||The school education department wants to reopen schools for Class X and XII students post-Pongal holidays to prepare them for board exams. The department has asked all schools to conduct meetings with parents on or before January 8 to know their views on the move. “It is necessary to reopen schools for students who are due to write board exams to conduct physical classes and prepare them for the exams. So, all schools should conduct parents meetings on or before January 8,” school education director S Kannappan said in a circular to CEOs on Monday. The department also evolved standard operating procedures (SOP) for the reopening of schools. He said the decision on reopening of schools would be taken based on the parents’ views. V Shanthi, headmistress of Vidyodaya Girls Higher Secondary School in T Nagar said, “Though we take classes online, we can give writing practice only in classrooms. Some are hesitant to clear doubts in online classes.” We need to hold physical classes for at least students due to write board exams,” said G J Manohar, principal of MCC Higher Secondary School in Chetpet. For CBSE students, the practical exams for Classes X and XII are scheduled to start from March 1. Schools said they needed 30 days to give training to the science students. CBSE board exams for Classes X and XII are scheduled to start from May 4. “State board students also need to be prepared for board exams. If they practice by writing model exams or revision tests, they may not score well in board exams which may affect their higher education prospects,” said career consultant Jayaprakash Gandhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tamil-nadu-plans-to-reopen-schools-after-pongal-seeks-views-of-parents/articleshow/80106743.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu plans to reopen schools after Pongal, seeks views of parents||The school education department wants to reopen schools for Class X and XII students post-Pongal holidays to prepare them for board exams. The department has asked all schools to conduct meetings with parents on or before January 8 to know their views on the move. “It is necessary to reopen schools for students who are due to write board exams to conduct physical classes and prepare them for the exams. So, all schools should conduct parents meetings on or before January 8,” school education director S Kannappan said in a circular to CEOs on Monday. The department also evolved standard operating procedures (SOP) for the reopening of schools. He said the decision on reopening of schools would be taken based on the parents’ views. V Shanthi, headmistress of Vidyodaya Girls Higher Secondary School in T Nagar said, “Though we take classes online, we can give writing practice only in classrooms. Some are hesitant to clear doubts in online classes.” We need to hold physical classes for at least students due to write board exams,” said G J Manohar, principal of MCC Higher Secondary School in Chetpet. For CBSE students, the practical exams for Classes X and XII are scheduled to start from March 1. Schools said they needed 30 days to give training to the science students. CBSE board exams for Classes X and XII are scheduled to start from May 4. “State board students also need to be prepared for board exams. If they practice by writing model exams or revision tests, they may not score well in board exams which may affect their higher education prospects,” said career consultant Jayaprakash Gandhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tamil-nadu-plans-to-reopen-schools-after-pongal-seeks-views-of-parents/articleshow/80106739.cms||---
January 5, 2021||Trichy||Tamil Nadu plans to reopen schools after Pongal, seeks views of parents||The school education department wants to reopen schools for Class X and XII students post-Pongal holidays to prepare them for board exams. The department has asked all schools to conduct meetings with parents on or before January 8 to know their views on the move. “It is necessary to reopen schools for students who are due to write board exams to conduct physical classes and prepare them for the exams. So, all schools should conduct parents meetings on or before January 8,” school education director S Kannappan said in a circular to CEOs on Monday. The department also evolved standard operating procedures (SOP) for the reopening of schools. He said the decision on reopening of schools would be taken based on the parents’ views. V Shanthi, headmistress of Vidyodaya Girls Higher Secondary School in T Nagar said, “Though we take classes online, we can give writing practice only in classrooms. Some are hesitant to clear doubts in online classes.” We need to hold physical classes for at least students due to write board exams,” said G J Manohar, principal of MCC Higher Secondary School in Chetpet. For CBSE students, the practical exams for Classes X and XII are scheduled to start from March 1. Schools said they needed 30 days to give training to the science students. CBSE board exams for Classes X and XII are scheduled to start from May 4. “State board students also need to be prepared for board exams. If they practice by writing model exams or revision tests, they may not score well in board exams which may affect their higher education prospects,” said career consultant Jayaprakash Gandhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tamil-nadu-plans-to-reopen-schools-after-pongal-seeks-views-of-parents/articleshow/80106742.cms||---
January 5, 2021||India||4 arrested for waving saffron flags at Taj||Four activists of Hindu Jagran Manch, including the outfit’s youth wing district president, were arrested for waving saffron flags on the Taj Mahal premises on Monday. A couple of videos of the incident went viral on social media platforms, reports Anuja Jaiswal. In the purported videos of 15 seconds and 23 seconds, the activists — identified as HJM youth wing district president Gaurav Talwar, Rishi Lavania, Sonu Baghel and Vishesh Kumar — can be seen waving saffron flags on the Taj premises. SSP Babloo Kumar told TOI that all the four activists were booked under section 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion) of the IPC and appropriate section of the Criminal Law Amendment Act at Tajganj police station, following a complaint lodged by the Central Industrial Security Force. When contacted, CISF commandant (Taj Mahal) Rahul Yadav said the activists bought tickets from the counter and “intentionally waved flags on the Taj premises in an apparent bid to gain popularity and increase their followers on YouTube.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/4-arrested-for-waving-saffron-flags-at-taj/articleshow/80106761.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 5, 2021||Bengaluru||India will need 66.6 crore doses to vaccinate 30 crore people||BENGALURU: As part of preparations to administer the Covid-19 vaccine to the masses, the Union health ministry has drawn up a formula to estimate the number of vaccines the government would need. Going by the formula, India will need to procure 111 doses to inoculate every 50 beneficiaries. This means that to administer two doses of a vaccine to 30 crore people, the government would need to buy 66.6 crore and not just 60 crore doses as originally planned. Guidelines issued to all state governments show the formula used to estimate vaccine needs at various levels — block, district and state — is borrowed broadly from the Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP). However, while the waste percentage differs for different vaccines under UIP, ‘allowable wastage’ for Covid-19 vaccines has been fixed at 10%. This figure is used to determine wastage multiplication factor (WMF), which in turn is used to calculate the estimated number of doses that needs to be purchased for beneficiaries. The ministry and experts have arrived at a WMF of 1.1 for Covid-19 vaccines. Since each beneficiary needs two doses of the vaccine, here’s how the estimation for procurement is made: If the government, for instance, is procuring doses for 100 people, it first multiplies the number of people by two (given that two doses are needed). This number (200) is then multiplied by ‘1.1’ — to account for wastage and arrive at the final number of doses required. In this case it would be 222. Given an example for onedose estimation, the ministry guidelines read: “...27,800 doses of Covid-19 vaccine are adequate for immunizing 25,045 beneficiaries (waste multiplication factor = 1.11).” While just 200 doses may eventually be enough for 100 people — if logistics, storage, management and administration (of vaccines) have an 100% efficiency rate — the said formula is employed to prevent shortage of doses in case there is wastage due to any one of these reasons. Preventing wastageThat said, the MoH&FW and respective state governments are leaving no stone unturned to minimize waste given the nature of the emergency and the anticipated challenges in manufacturing and procuring vaccines. Covid-19 vaccine management will be fully integrated into eVIN (Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network) platform and will work in synchronisation with the Co-WIN (beneficiary module). “At the cold chain points, the issue of vaccine doses should match with the registered list of beneficiaries (rounded off to the nearest higher whole number of vials) without any adjustment made for vaccine wastage in terms of the WMF and vaccine vials with earlier manufacturing dates should be prioritized for issue first,” the ministry has said. Similarly, at vaccine stores, the ministry said vaccine batches with earlier manufacturing dates should be prioritized for issue first. It said the issue of quantity will depend on supply frequency — for example, weekly estimate of registered beneficiaries at cold chain points in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/india-will-need-66-6-crore-doses-to-vaccinate-30-crore-people/articleshow/80106759.cms||Chethan Kumar
January 5, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Adarsh housing society plea for post facto CRZ nod, building regularisation rejected||MUMBAI: An application by the members of the controversial Adarsh housing society in Colaba seeking post facto Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) clearance and regularisation of the construction has been rejected. The Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA), in its decision on December 21, observed that “the CRZ notification of March 6, 2018, for post facto clearance cannot be applied to the proposal of Adarsh CHS Ltd as it is not otherwise permissible”. The authority noted that the Bombay high court had dealt with the matter in detail, and in its April 2016 order, and that the court had observed that the petitioners (Adarsh CHS) had consumed 2.932 floor space index (FSI) against the permissible 1.33. It further observed that the entire 31-storey construction carried out by the petitioners was illegal and in defiance of the Environment Protection Act and the Maharashtra Regional Town Planning Act. The MCZMA, while noting the sequence of events in its order, pointed out that in the special leave petition filed in 2016, the Supreme Court had not expressly stayed the HC order. In conclusion, the authority said, “The HC order is still in force and the MCZMA is duty-bound to abide by the findings and observations dated April 29, 2016, passed by the high court in the Adarsh CHS matter.” In November 2019, the members had approached the MCZMA for post-facto CRZ clearance. The MCZMA at the time had noted that the matter involved two plots and the property card did not bear the name of Adarsh CHS Ltd as a single owner. Amalgamation of the two plots was not done and hence the FSI of the BEST plot could not have been utilised on the Adarsh plot. MCZMA forwarded the matter to the Union ministry of environment and forests (Mo-EF), which then directed the authority to make a specific recommendation in consonance with the March 2018 CRZ notification. The notification states, “All activities which are otherwise permissible under the provisions of this notification but have commenced construction without prior clearance would be considered for regularisation only in such cases wherein the project applied for regularisation in the specified time and the project which are in violation of CRZ norms would not be regularised.” The authority has decided that the proposal can’t be recommended to the MoEF for regularisation as per the 2018 notification and this would be communicated to the ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-adarsh-housing-society-plea-for-post-facto-crz-nod-building-regularisation-rejected/articleshow/80106767.cms||Clara Lewis
January 5, 2021||India||MP tribal dolls, Himachali caps vie for GI tags||NEW DELHI: The "adivasi gudiya" of Jhabua may soon find space in the esteemed list of GI-tagged products from India like the world famous Darjeeling tea, Goa's Feni and Maharashtra's Alphonso mangoes. Madhya Pradesh's unique doll art that is the heritage of the Bhil and Bhilala tribals is on the list with 53 other “potential” products of tribal origin that will be considered for being accorded the Geographical Indication - tag by the central government. A GI-(Geographical Indication) tag is a sign which is used to denote the geographical territory of origin or manufacturing of a product and also conveys assurance of quality and attributes that are unique to that specific region. As of now only 50 of the 370 GI tagged products recognised by the department of promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) under the ministry of commerce have a tribal origin. Aiming to build a market for authentic traditional tribal products, Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of India under the ministry of tribal affairs has identified 54 products to begin with that have the potential for getting a GI-tag. TRIFED will now assist the identified makers and suppliers of these potential products identified for GI-tag to apply for the same to DPIIT. This exercise according to TRIFED is part of the central government’s larger plan of building a market for GI-tagged products from across the country. Like the “adivasi gudiya”, other products on the potential list include the high quality varieties of pashmina, Yak wool and the medicinal seabuckthorn plant nurtured by tribes in Ladakh and Himachal Pradesh (Kasmir’s Pashmina is already on the GI tag list) to the wooden bows and arrows made by the Bhil tribe from Banswara in Rajashtan. Also on this list one finds the black Longpi pottery and black rice from Manipur, the traditional Himachali caps, Lahauli socks and the bamboo wind flute from Chhattisgarh. These products hold stories rooted in tribal traditions. The Jhabua dolls are a case in point. Native to one of the most backward tribal groups called the Bhil and Bhilala tribes and bordering parts of Gujarat and Rajasthan, Jhabua region in Madhya Pradesh specialises in the ‘Adivasi Gudiya Hastashilp’ - the art of doll making that contributes to rural livelihoods. What makes these dolls unique is the amalgamation of Gujarati ethnic styles of jewelry/beads and the Rajasthani ‘Kathputli’ (puppet) patterns in the depiction. Now TRIFED through its ‘Tribes India’ outlets plans to market and promote all these 370 GI products and identify more tribal products and forest produce that can qualify for a GI-tag. In consultation with the ministry of culture, TRIFED has also identified eight heritage locations where GI specific ‘Tribes India’ stores will be set up. The locations where work is expected to start soon include Sarnath in Uttar Pradesh, Hampi in Karnataka and Golconda Fort in Telangana. Plans are also underway wherein TRIFED in collaboration with ministry of culutre will be developing a designer’s lab at Lal Qila (Red Fort) in Delhi, where select tribal artisans will give live demonstrations of their rich craft traditions. The lab is likely to be launched in the coming months. The “Geographical Indication” tag has been recognised by the World Trade Organisation. India became a signatory to this convention, when, as a member of the WTO, it enacted the Geographical Indications (Registration and Protection Act), 1999, which came into effect from September 15, 2003.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mp-tribal-dolls-himachali-caps-vie-for-gi-tags/articleshow/80106775.cms||Ambika Pandit
January 5, 2021||Mumbai||ED to question Shiv Sena ex-MP and kin of don-neta in PMC Bank scam||MUMBAI: It is the turn of a former Shiv Sena MP and the relative of a local political heavyweight in the vicinity of the city with alleged underworld connections to now appear before the Enforcement Directorate in the HDIL and PMC Bank scam. Insiders said the political family had received several hundreds of crores of tainted money from HDIL from the amount defrauded from the PMC Bank. The former MP will be questioned for his links with an association that received around Rs 1crore from the PMC Bank. In this case, the ED on Monday recorded the statement of Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut’s wife, Varsha, on a “friendly loan” of Rs 55 lakh she received from businessman Pravin Raut, who officials said was used as a conduit by the scamsters to siphon off crores of rupees. She will be summoned again in the next few days, said the officials. Varsha had been called to give her statement on Tuesday, but she appeared before the ED a day earlier. Before now, she had failed to turn up despite having been summoned four times. HDIL promoters Rakesh Wadhawan and his son Sarang are accused of defrauding PMC Bank of Rs 4,355 crore with fictitious loan transactions in connivance with bank officials. Last week, the ED had attached Pravin Raut’s assets worth Rs 72 crore. The ED said Pravin paid Rs 1.6 crore to his wife, Madhuri, from the proceeds of the crime. It said Madhuri transferred Rs 55 lakh (Rs Rs 50 lakh on December 23, 2010, and Rs 5 lakh on March 15, 2011) as interestfree loan to Varsha Raut. Varsha reportedly used the money to buy a flat in Dadar (east). Varsha and Madhuri are partners in Avani Construction. Varsha received Rs 12 lakh from this entity as overdrawn capital converted to loan on a contribution of a mere Rs 5,625. The Rs 12 lakh loan is still outstanding. The ED called Varsha for further recording of statement along with the flat purchase details and other documents related to her partnership in two companies with Madhuri. It is alleged that HDIL had siphoned off Rs 95 crore of PMC Bank loan money through Pravin. There was no agreement about paying Pravin and in HDIL’s account it was shown that funds were given to him for acquiring land in Palghar. Pravin was a contact between the Wadhawans and politicians.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ed-to-question-shiv-sena-ex-mp-and-kin-of-don-neta-in-pmc-bank-scam/articleshow/80106782.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 5, 2021||Mumbai||FB Ireland alerts Maharashtra cops, helps save youth's life||MUMBAI: The police, on receiving an alert from Facebook, saved the life of a 23-year-old from Dhule within an hour after he posted a live suicide attempt on social media on Sunday. The youth, Dnyaneshwar Patil, was in an inebriated state and alone at home. In the past too, Patil has tried to end his life, said his mother, a home guard. Patil is a college dropout. An official at FB’s Ireland office came across the live suicide post by a youth somewhere close to Mumbai and alerted cyber police DCP Rashmi Karandikar around 8.10pm on Sunday. Within 15 minutes, technical officer assistant inspector Ravikiran Nale managed to track Patil’s exact location and informed Nashik superintendent of police (SP) Chinmay Pandit. Times ViewThis incident underlines how social media, for all its real and perceived ills, can be used in a positive way. The Mumbai cyber cops reacted quickly to avoid a potential tragedy. Both need to be commended for a job well done.“We had to act immediately because the live post showed the youth slitting his throat with a blade. Nale tracked the locality and shared it with the SP,” Karandikar told TOI. Pandit said: “By 9pm, a Deopur police team reached the youth’s house and rushed him to hospital. He was given timely medical assistance for the cut which was not deep.” “The SP has counselled Patil and advised him to get him a job,” said a police officer. Suicide prevention helplines and counselling help in preventing suicides, say experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fb-ireland-alerts-maharashtra-cops-helps-save-youths-life/articleshow/80106784.cms||V Narayan
January 5, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Vaccine roll-out dry run in 1,000 centres||HYDERABAD: With the countdown to the roll-out of the Covid vaccine to healthcare workers beginning, a dry run of the vaccination programme will be held at 1,000 vaccine session sites in the state on Thursday and Friday. While a total of 1,500 sites have been selected for roll-out of the first phase of vaccination, the 1,000 sites selected are the ones in which the vaccination programme will be rolled out initially. A few days ago, a dry run was held at seven vaccine session sites in Hyderabad and Mahabubnagar districts. The dry run had exposed some gaps in the planning and infrastructure at the seven centres and the idea to have a dry run covering a majority of the centres is to ensure that all gaps are closed before the actual roll-out of the vaccination programme. “If we do a dry in some places we will not be able to figure out the deficiencies in all centres. Therefore, this dry run is being held so that all possible problems can be identified and eliminated in time,” a senior health official said. Additionally, a meeting of all district and medical health officers (DMHO)s in the state was held on Monday to prepare for the mock drill (dry run) of the vaccination process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-vaccine-roll-out-dry-run-in-1000-centres/articleshow/80106817.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 5, 2021||India||Extreme weather events claimed 1,400 lives in 2020||NEW DELHI: The year 2020 was the eighth warmest year in India since nation-wide records commenced in 1901, said India Meteorological Department (IMD) in its ‘Climate of India during 2020’ report, highlighting how extreme weather events claimed over 1,400 lives with thunderstorms and lightning together accounting for more than half of them. Month-wise, September was the warmest, August was the second warmest and October was the third warmest in 2020 since 1901 as far as monthly mean temperatures, compared to their normal, over the country are concerned. The report, released on Monday, said the annual mean land surface and air temperature for the country last year was 0.29 degree Celsius above the 1981-2010 period average, but this was substantially lower than the highest warming observed over India during 2016 (above 0.71 degree Celsius).  “The mean temperatures exceeded the normal during September (by 0.72 degree Celsius, warmest since 1901), August (by 0.58 degree Celsius, second warmest), October (by 0.94 degree Celsius, third warmest), July (by 0.56 degree Celsius, fifth warmest), and December (by 0.39 degree Celsius, seventh warmest),” said the report. The IMD noted that 12 out of 15 warmest years were during the recent fifteen years (2006-2020) with the year 2019 being the seventh warmest. The five warmest years on record were: 2016 (+0.71 degree Celsius), 2009 (+0.55 degree Celsius), 2017 (+0.54 degree Celsius), 2010 (+0.54 degree Celsius), and 2015 (+0.42 degree Celsius). Globally, the mean surface temperature anomaly during 2020 (January to October as per WMO state of the global climate) was +1.2 degree Celsius. The World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) will come out with the global January-December figure by March. Annual rainfall over India as a whole was 109% of its Long Period Average (LPA), based on the data of 1961-2010, last year. The report also enlisted high impact weather events like, extremely heavy rainfall, floods, landslides, thunderstorms, lightning, cold waves, highlighting that Bihar and Uttar Pradesh were the most adversely affected states during the year which reportedly claimed more than 350 deaths each. “Thunderstorms and lightning reportedly claimed 815 lives from different parts of the country. Among these, 280 from Bihar, 220 from Uttar Pradesh, 122 from Jharkhand, 72 from Madhya Pradesh, 23 from Maharashtra and 20 from Andhra Pradesh were significant,” the IMD report said, noting that it arrived at these figures based on the media and government reports. These numbers may change after states update their figures with the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA). During 2020, five cyclones formed over the North Indian Ocean. “Of these, Nisarga and Gati formed over Arabian Sea, while the remaining three cyclones — Amphan, Nivar, Burevi — formed over the Bay of Bengal. Out of these five most devastating cyclones, the Super Cyclonic Storm Amphan formed in the pre-monsoon season and crossed West Bengal coast over Sundarbans on May 20,” said the report, noting that it claimed 90 lives, mainly in West Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/extreme-weather-events-claimed-1400-lives-in-2020/articleshow/80106814.cms||Vishwa Mohan
January 5, 2021||Lucknow||Brick kiln owner shoots self in car in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: A 40-year-old brick kiln owner died of gunshot injuries while sitting inside his car which he had parked outside his house in Chinhat on Monday. Police said the man shot himself with his licensed revolver. The body has been sent for postmortem examination and an investigation is underway. The deceased, Shivraj Yadav of Khandak village, was the son of former gram pradhan Harinam Singh, also a leader of Bhartiya Kisan Union. Singh’s nephew Deep Raj Yadav is a leader of Samajwadi Party. ADCP east SM Qasim Abidi said that Shivraj was sitting in his car outside his house. Around 9.05am, the family heard a gunshot and rushed to the scene only to find him in a pool of blood inside the car. Shivraj was rushed to hospital but died on the way. Shocked villagers said there was no reason why Shivraj would take such a step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/brick-kiln-owner-shoots-self-in-car-in-lucknow/articleshow/80106812.cms||---
January 5, 2021||India||Ex-Kolkata mayor, aide skip Bengal rally, leave BJP red-faced||KOLKATA: Former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee and his friend Baisakhi Banerjee’s absence from BJP’s public rally on Monday, touted to be their first for BJP, overshadowed the event making the saffron party uncomfortable. After Sovan, who was made Bengal BJP observer of Kolkata region last month, absented himself, BJP general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya led the rally from Diamond Harbour Road. When the rally reached Wattgunge area, a shoe was flung at participants from a street corner meeting organised by Trinamool. Police controlled the situation. “It seems TMC has become frustrated now. These are signs of their desperation,” Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said. Trouble started on Monday morning when Baisakhi said she would be unable to attend the rally due to fluctuating blood pressure. State BJP members tried to pursuade her to attend but failed. Hours later, Sovan too opted out. When Sovan was appointed party observer and Baisakhi the co-convener, both were in Bhubaneswar. Sources indicated that Baisakhi was not happy with Shankudeb Panda being made coconvener as well. The twists-and-turns culminated in Sovan and Baisakhi’s nameplates being removed from the room allotted to them at BJP’s office. “I am not aware if any room was allotted to them,” Ghosh said. Asked if the party was going to take any action against the duo, Ghosh said the disciplinary panel looked into such issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ex-kolkata-mayor-aide-skip-bengal-rally-leave-bjp-red-faced/articleshow/80106865.cms||Rohit Khanna
