January 6, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: 50 teachers test Covid-positive; many schools shut||BENGALURU: More teachers and students have contracted Covid-19 after schools reopened in the state on January 1. On Tuesday, 50 teachers tested positive in different parts of the state, leading to closure of several schools. In Belagavi, 22 teachers who tested positive are in home quarantine and are not in contact with colleagues or students. A school at Kadoli village in Belagavi taluk was shut for a day after a teacher showed Covid-19 symptoms AB Pundalik, deputy director of public instruction, Belagavi educational district, said teachers had undergone Covid-19 tests last week. “Those with symptoms were asked not to come to school and those who tested negative conducted classes for the tenth standard students,” he added. Seven schools in Chitradurga district were shut down for two days from Tuesday after six teachers, including four women and a second division assistant, tested positive. “All have been sent to home quarantine and schools have been sanitised, said Chitradurga DDPI Ravishankar Reddy. A government school in Bolegaon village, Indi taluk of Vijayapura district was shut after a teacher tested positive. The authorities instructed all students who attended classes to be under home quarantine for the next few days. According to Vijayapura deputy commissioner P Sunil Kumar, a teacher had tested positive without any symptoms. “The school is being sanitised. Students who attended classes of the teacher are from 6th and 7th standards (Vidyagama). I have directed the District Surveillance Officer to test all students and other teachers in that school,” he said. In Chikkamagaluru, four students and five teachers in different schools tested positive. Deputy Commissioner of Chikkamagaluru Bagadi Goutham said teachers and students who tested positive belong to schools in Mudigere, Kadur and Chikkamagaluru. Health minister K Sudhakar said there was no need to panic and stressed the government was keeping a vigil. “We have made adequate arrangements to ensure students get good treatment. People have to cooperate for the academic progress of students,” he added. Following complaints by parents, Kodagu district administration said Covid test for students is optional. “Only if there are any symptoms will the test be compulsory,’’ it said. Attendance good Attendance in PU colleges rose marginally to 57%, with 2.4 lakh of total 4.2 lakh attending classes in 5,492 PU colleges. On Monday, it was 55%. In Class 10, 51% students attended classes — 4.8 lakh of 9.3 lakh students. Attendance for Vidyagama was only 20% across the state. Bengaluru North had only 10% and South 8%. The highest was in Dakshin Kannada (47%), Sirsi (42%), Kodagu (42%). In Bengaluru, attendance for II PU is 49% in Bangalore South and 42% in Bangalore North. The latter is the lowest in Karnataka. However, only half the colleges have entered data in the SATS website. The trend remains the same for Class 10 as well. While Uttara Kannada has 83% attendance and Udupi 81%, Bidar has only 34% and Bengaluru North 36%. Classes for classes 10 and 12 had started on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/50-teachers-test-ve-many-schools-shut/articleshow/80122486.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Bengaluru||6.3L healthcare workers to get jabs first in Karnataka||BENGALURU: The state has identified 6.3 lakh healthcare workers, who will be vaccinated against SARS-CoV2 in the first phase of the inoculation drive. This includes 2.7 lakh government healthcare workers and 3.5 lakh from the private health sector, health minister K Sudhakar said on Tuesday. Karnataka has received 24 lakh syringes ahead of the vaccination drive. The state needs 31 lakh more syringes and they will be procured soon, the minister added. In all, 28,427 vaccination sites have been identified and as many as 9,807 vaccinators have been trained, the minister said in a tweet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/6-3l-healthcare-workers-to-get-jabs-first/articleshow/80122489.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Six new mist cannons to reduce air pollution, dust on streets||BENGALURU: The civic administration will buy six mist cannons to reduce air pollution and dust in the city. The new machines will be operational by mid-February. In July 2020, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike planned to procure 27 mist cannons, each costing Rs 53 lakh, but only two were purchased. These machines were used to spray disinfectants in public places and containment zones in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. When Covid cases began to decrease, spraying of disinfectants also reduced. The machines are now gathering dust. The Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change launched the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) on January 10, 2019, with a time-bound strategy to tackle air pollution in the country. NCAP identified 102 non-attainment cities, of which four are from Karnataka: Bengaluru, Hubballi-Dharwad, Davanagere and Kalaburagi. As per the target set, these cities have to bring down their air pollution levels by at least 20% in another three years. Central Pollution Control Board allotted Rs 10 crore for Bengaluru under NCAP and the first grant of Rs 1.8 crore has been released to purchase mist cannons. BBMP will buy the machines at an estimated Rs 30 lakh each (including maintenance charges). The civic administration’s road and infrastructure department will call for tenders this week. “In Bengaluru, the size of a dust particle is nearly 10 micro metres, and quantifying this is impossible. But every time a vehicle passes by, dust clouds billow up causing air pollution,” said a senior BBMP official. “To ensure that is controlled, mist cannons will be used to spray water in such a way that dust mixes with water and settles down,” he explained. Recycled water from sewage treatment plants will be reused for spraying across the city. “We want to ensure nothing is wasted and want to procure water from STPs within the city,” added the official. Asked about the fate of the pricey mist cannons the civic body had earlier purchased, BBMP officials said: “There are certain mechanical issues. They will be resolved soon and the machines will be used.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/six-new-mist-cannons-to-reduce-air-pollution-dust-on-streets/articleshow/80122599.cms||Nithya Mandyam
January 6, 2021||Bengaluru||Narcotics cases in Bengaluru shot up 250% last year, 3,600 suspects held||BENGALURU: With police declaring a war on the drug mafia, the number of cases booked under Nacrcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 went up by more than 250% in 2020 compared to the previous year. The number of arrests under the Act increased by nearly 200%. While 2,766 cases were booked under the NDPS Act last year, 3,600 suspects were arrested, including Sandalwood actresses Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanaa Galrani and well-known event manager Viren Khanna and his associates, who were nabbed in early September. In 2018, police had booked 285 cases under NDPS Act and arrested 496 suspects. The corresponding numbers were 768 and 1,260 in 2019. Those arrested in 2020 include 72 foreign nationals, up from 44 in 2018 and 38 in 2019. The crackdown against drug mafia got a fillip in the second half of 2020: While 530 cases were booked under NDPS Act in the first six months of the year, the second half saw 2,236. Police in the know attributed the low number in the first half to Covid-19 and the lockdown. Will create awareness: Top copPolice commissioner Kamal Pant told TOI that his force will root out the drug mafia from the city. “The entire city police is motivated to eradicate the drug mafia. We are concentrating on prime drug peddlers, who are holed up in different parts of the country. People are coming forward in large numbers to share information about the trade. In the near future, we will interact with schools and colleges to create awareness against drugs,” he said. A police inspector said they have been given standing instructions on ‘not to wait for permission from seniors’ while chasing drug peddlers. “Commissioner Pant has made it very clear that whenever we get information on drug peddlers, we don’t have to wait for permission. His diktat is simple: ‘Just rush to the spot and if needed, travel to any part of the country. We need results’,” the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/narcotics-cases-in-bluru-shot-up-250-last-yr-3600-suspects-held/articleshow/80122622.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
January 6, 2021||Bengaluru||KEA finally declares a new counselling round||BENGALURU: Ending days of trauma for students aspiring for engineering seats through the Common Entrance Test 2020, the Karnataka government announced another round of counselling. It allows students to surrender seats after the second extended round by paying only Rs 5,000. In a late Tuesday evening update, the Karnataka Examinations Authority said candidates allotted a seat in the second extended round can cancel seats by paying Rs 5,000 in the form of demand draft between January 6 and 8 before 5.30pm. However, students who surrender the seat after final vacancy round will have to pay the new fine of five times the college fee. Even though the government had made an announcement on December 31 about the new round, there was no official order. KEA continued to ask students who approached it for seat surrendering five times the fee, creating panic and confusion among students. “The tension over the past few days was inexplicable. The pandemic derailed all admission processes. Last year’s cutoffs given for reference could not be relied upon this time as admission dates of various universities varied. The five-time fine made our life terrible,” said a parent. “The Ayush counselling had not even started. How did the government expect us to decide on our engineering seat before that? It’s unfortunate that a government cannot be understanding especially in an unprecedented situation like this. Finally, there seems to be some respite,” said an Ayush aspirant. KEA will update the schedule for vacancy round in due course along with eligibility conditions. The government made an amendment in the Karnataka Selection of Candidates for Admission to Government Seats in Professional Educational Institutions Rules, 2006. With this, students who surrender seats late will have to pay five time the fine. The fees for engineering courses are Rs 58,808-65,360, making the fine around Rs 3 lakh. With the second extended round ending, students who sought to surrender seats were asked to cough up the fine. Hundreds of students protested last week, stating ComedK third round of counselling results were just out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kea-finally-declares-a-new-counselling-round/articleshow/80122628.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Magistrate exam candidate provides false info, booked||BENGALURU: Vidhana Soudha police have registered a cheating case against a man, who had cleared the district magistrate recruitment examination and was awaiting an appointment order, for allegedly furnishing false information while applying for the post online. Palaksha SS of Kodagu district was booked based on a complaint filed by KS Varalakshmi, joint registrar, GOB-I branch, Karnataka high court, on January 2. According to police, the registrar general’s office issued a notification on October 10, 2019 to recruit district magistrates. While submitting his online application, Palaksha replied ‘No’ to a question in column no.19. The question was: “Whether the applicant is/was involved in any civil/criminal/quasi-judicial proceedings in any capacity? If yes, give details.” His application was accepted as he said ‘No’. Later, he cleared all the exams he faced. The selected candidates’ list was published on the website on August 14, 2020 but appointment orders were yet to be issued. Anonymous letter throws light on fraudThe registrar’s office recently received an anonymous letter informing them that Palaksha had civil/criminal cases against him. The office issued a showcause notice to Palaksha and he accepted that he had some cases and had inadvertently mentioned ‘No’ in the column. The recruitment committee decided to take legal action against the candidate. So, officials filed a cheating case against him. Further probe is under way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/magistrate-exam-candidate-provides-false-info-booked/articleshow/80122634.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Bengaluru||Two youths performing wheelies hit JCB in Bengaluru, die||BENGALURU: Performing wheelies on the busy Doddaballapura-Yelahanka Road cost two youths their life. They died instantly after their bike hit a JCB machine from behind on Tuesday evening. The deceased are Syed Idayath, 20, a car mechanic and Arbaz, 22, a welding shop owner, both from Triveni Road, Yeshwantpur. According to Doddaballapura Rural police, the incident took place around 4.30pm, near Country Club, Marasandra. Arbaz was riding his altered Yamaha RX-100 bike and Idayath was on the pillion. Arbaz was doing a wheelie and lost control of the bike, which hit a JCB moving towards Yelahanka, from behind. “The impact was huge. The fuel tanker got separated from the bike and the front wheel and handle were completely damaged. The riders fell on the road along with the bike and sustained severe head injuries. It led to their instant death,” a police officer said. The public alerted Doddaballapura Rural police about the accident. Police rushed to the spot and shifted the bodies to the government hospital, Doddaballapura for postmortem, which will be held on Wednesday morning. Police seized the bike and the JCB for further investigation. “I was riding towards Doddaballapura and saw two men on a bike doing stunts. The front wheel was in the air and within no time, they crashed into the JCB,” Venkatesh, an eyewitness, told TOI. Returning after visiting girlfriendFriends and relatives of the youths rushed to Doddaballapura soon after they heard about the accident. According to Siddique, younger brother of Idayath, the duo had gone to Doddaballapura in the afternoon to meet Arbaz’s girlfriend. “Arbaz asked my brother to accompany him to Doddaballapura. I think they might have been returning after meeting Arbaz’s girlfriend. Idayath was one of my three elder brothers,” said Siddique.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/two-youths-performing-wheelies-hit-jcb-die/articleshow/80122635.cms||Santosh kumar.B
January 6, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru-based techie watches home being burgled by guard on phone||BENGALURU: A city-based techie who was on pilgrimage to Tirupati remotely watched his security guard and others break into his house in KG Halli, east Bengaluru. Though he alerted his father, the burglars had fled by the time the latter reached the spot. The software engineer, S Deepak, had visited Tirumala temple in Tirupati to celebrate the New Year. He had installed CCTV cameras inside his penthouse on the third floor of a four-storey private apartment in Vyalikaval Society Layout and had connected them to his mobile phone. In the wee hours of January 3, Deepak, who was still in Tirupati, got an alert on his cellphone. On connecting to the CCTV feed from his home, he was shocked to see his security guard Sanjay and a few others stealing valuables from his house. Before leaving for Tirupati, Deepak had told Sanjay that he is going on a pilgrimage. He had deployed the guard separately for his penthouse.  Deepak immediately called his father SM Srinivas, a resident of Vijayanagar. A retired executive engineer, Srinivas rushed to Deepak’s flat around 4.30am, but the burglars had left with the booty by then. They had broken open the main door to gain entry into the flat. Later in the day, Srinivas filed a complaint with KG Halli police. “They have not clearly mentioned details of the stolen valuables. They tentatively said some cash, foreign currency, costly wristwatches, gold necklace and laptop are missing. We have launched an investigation,” KG Halli police said. Sanjay joined as a security guard just four months ago, Deepak’s family told cops. ‘Family clueless about guard’An investigating officer said neither Deepak nor his family members know anything about Sanjay. “They don’t have his residential address or any other information. We are not even sure whether his name is Sanjay or not. However, we have shared the CCTV clippings with other cops in the city as well as those working at railway stations and the airport,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/techie-watches-home-being-burgled-by-guard-on-phone/articleshow/80122645.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Interviews may be scrapped for Group C & D posts, entry-level medical officers||BENGALURU: In order to put an end to allegations of irregularities in interviews for Group A & B jobs, the state government has decided to reduce the number of interview marks to a maximum of 5 per cent of total marks prescribed for the competitive exam. Besides, the maximum number of candidates to be called for an interview has been reduced to three times the number of vacancies from the existing five. For example, if there are 100 posts to be filled, the authorities can call a maximum of 300 candidates. The government on Tuesday published the draft of the Karnataka State Civil Service Rules 2020 which seeks to amend existing rules to bring in transparency in government recruitment. People can file their objections within 15 days from Tuesday. The draft rules also seek to do away with interviews for Group C and D posts and in respect of entry-level medical officers, veterinary doctors and engineers. Currently, different posts have different marks for interviews which many think is the root cause for corruption in recruitment. For example, interview marks are 200 for gazetted probationers posts and there are instances where a candidate who scored low marks in the written exam has managed to get the job by getting the highest marks in the interview. “The new rule will put an end to this as there will be no scope for manipulation," said a senior officer of the department of personnel and administrative reforms. Moreover, if a candidate is given more than 80 per cent or less than 40 per cent of prescribed marks for an interview, the interview panel has to record the reasons. For recruitment of Group A & B posts, there will be a competitive exam with two papers of 200 marks each. For Group C posts requiring degree qualification, there will be two papers with 100 marks each. Candidates have to secure a minimum of 35% marks in each paper. There will also be a Kannada language test carrying 150 marks and candidates must secure 50 marks to be considered for recruitment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/interviews-may-be-scrapped-for-group-c-d-posts-entry-level-medical-officers/articleshow/80122649.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Bengaluru||HC restrains felling of trees inside war memorial park in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: The high court on Tuesday passed an interim injunction order restraining National War Memorial Trust from cutting any trees inside National War Memorial park at Vasanthnagar in the heart of the city. A division bench headed by chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka passed this order after noticing that pending final decision by BBMP on the trust’s application for felling of 120 trees, 30-odd eucalyptus trees were cut. BBMP had informed the court that it had not permitted felling of any trees and considering the request submitted by the trust, which is planning to set up an MIG- 21 aircraft there, a public notice for hearing objections, if any, had been issued. In a related development, the court said it will hear both the government and BMRCL on January 15 with regards to cutting/translocation of trees along Nagawara-Gottigere alignment of Namma Metro.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hc-restrains-felling-of-trees-inside-war-memorial-park/articleshow/80122663.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Goa||With improved squad and new coach, Churchill eye third I-League title||Churchill Brothers SC don’t appreciate anything beyond the top prize in Indian football. Finish runners-up and there’s disappointment everywhere. The teams are always built to become champions. Nigerian striker Odafa Okolie – the best so far at the club -- was the one who handed Churchill the I-League title for the first time in 2009. Then the likes of Brazilian midfielder Beto and star striker Sunil Chhetri combined effectively to win the title again for the club in 2013. Since then, Churchill have tried for the hat-trick, without much success. Along the way, they’ve come close. Started well but got stuck along the way, failing to finish among the top three for the last seven years. Now, Fernando Varela has been briefed well by the management and the Spanish coach is leaving nothing to chance in the quest to become champions. Like other teams, Churchill have reshuffled their squad and have a pool of 30 players to choose from. Moreover, they have assembled a separate squad that will take part only in the Goa Professional League. “The team has a balance between experienced and young players. Our first intention is to create a good atmosphere between them, also between foreign and Indian players,” Varela told TOI. All the 11 teams are now in Kolkata where the I-League will be held at a single venue behind closed doors due to the coronavirus pandemic. The league kicks off on January 9. Churchill underwent their mandatory quarantine and managed to play a friendly against Varela’s former side Gokulam Kerala FC on Sunday with Honduran forward Clayvin Zuniga scoring the winner. However, lack of friendly matches and getting the right combination can hinder Ferrando’s plans. “We had a good pre-season and the only thing we lacked was to play friendly matches to detect mistakes and to be able to correct them. But I am satisfied with the work the players have done through effort and commitment,” said Varela. Churchill have recruited Slovenian forward Luka Majcen, midfielder Bazie Armand from Real Kashmir FC and Lebanese centre-back Hamza Kheir. Churchill are known to bring in quality foreign players to India like Odafa. It will be interesting to see who stands out this season, and whether they have the pedigree to win the title. “All players, regardless of their status as foreigners or not, must prove in every training session that they have enough capacity to be in the starting eleven or on the bench. We have 30 players and it will be difficult to be among those players as the fight for the position is interesting. They are all showing that they want to be, but they must prove it every week,” said Varela. Churchill play their opening game against All India Football Federation’s developmental team, Indian Arrows, on January 10. Earlier, youthful Arrows have caused problems for Churchill, but it will be too early to judge teams now on their past performances. “Until the league starts you can't compare yourself to any team. We don't have the same view as in other tournaments due to Covid and the lack of friendly matches. We will see how we perform, and we can play our game as the matches go by, trying to better our own style,” said Varela. Churchill have recently roped in experienced Goan defender Joseph Clemente. Then there is energetic midfielder Bryce Miranda who joined from Income Tax after playing in the Mumbai Elite Division. “The biggest challenge is to adapt to the new circumstances that we are presented with every day. We must be mentally prepared to know how to adapt to each adverse situation, whether it is the change of training schedules, meals, gym, training place, etc.,” said Varela. Varela has little time. At Churchill Bros, there is no place for excuses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-improved-squad-and-new-coach-churchill-eye-third-i-league-title/articleshow/80122732.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
January 6, 2021||Goa||After two late shows, FC Goa eye hat-trick of wins||FC Goa find themselves in the top four, thanks to back-to-back victories in the last two matches. The goals came at the fag end of those two games and coach head coach Juan Ferrando will hope his side can make their stay comfortable. Having won two in a row, Goa will now want to scalp another one. This time they are up against SC East Bengal at the Tilak Maidan in Vasco on Wednesday. Winning two in a row is nothing new for Ferrando’s boys. They did it previously too, but those twin victories were followed by two defeats, something the Spanish coach will want to forget in a hurry. It is consistency that the team wants, hard as it is given the circumstances. “It is difficult because every game is totally different. When there is not much time between two games, it becomes difficult to control some details. Of course, we want to improve in every game, every training, but sometimes it is difficult because the schedule is so close and it is necessary to think in detail,” Ferrando told TOI in an online interaction on Tuesday. A win will be important for Goa before they head into a 10-day break. They are eight points adrift of leaders Mumbai City FC, while ATK Mohun Bagan enjoy a six-point advantage. Goa left it late in the last two games against Jamshedpur FC and Hyderabad FC with forward Igor Angulo scoring stoppage-time goals on both occasions to clinch three points. “For me the important thing is we won the last two games in the last minutes and we are happy to get the three points. But it is really important to control some details in the games. For us the most important thing is to score in 90 minutes, not only last minutes,” said the Spanish coach. Goa have taken time to settle down with a relatively new squad. They have six foreigners and Ferrando is not in favour of filling the seventh foreign player quota or bringing in domestic players in an attempt to give youngsters a chance. Promising midfielder Princeton Rebello has featured eight times already. Saviour Gama has excelled at left-back, while Sanson Pereira, Devendra Murgaokar and Makan Chothe have all made their ISL debuts. “The target for Goa is to be in the playoffs and the second target is to help the reserve team, young players like Princeton, Gama for us it is very important. Our mentality step by step is to promote young players,” said Ferrando After dismal results, Robbie Fowler’s East Bengal have been boosted with new signings and their first win in the last game against Odisha. "The lads are in a better space now than what we were a few weeks ago. But like I said to them, we got to go out and play the way we can. If you can play the way you can, you will win games," said Fowler.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-two-late-shows-fc-goa-eye-hat-trick-of-wins/articleshow/80122669.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
January 6, 2021||Goa||Princeton ready to play the waiting game at FC Goa||Even at just age 21, Princeton Rebello knows he is among the best in business. Several within FC Goa make no secret about his ability in midfield, while coach Juan Ferrando is a fan too. Yet, somehow, the midfielder hasn’t been able to cement his place in the starting 11. You could blame that on the experience of the extremely hardworking Lenny Rodrigues, who plays in the same position. You could also blame it on the inexperience within the team. Whatever it is, Princeton hasn’t lost belief and knows his time will come. “I believe in myself and the whole management. For me it’s very important to have as much playing time as possible and gain as much experience. I should learn, and I am doing it. For me, every training is important. I get to learn a lot,” Princeton told TOI on Tuesday. In eight games which he played this season, he’s clocked 240 minutes. That’s not much for someone of his ability. But last season, he had a difficult time on the bench, playing just 38 minutes across eight matches, largely as a very late substitute. Now, things are beginning to look good. “For me it’s good to gain experience (from training) and try to implement that in matches. I believe my regular spot will come soon,” said Princeton, who graduated to the senior team from the development squad. It is precisely for development of players like Princeton that coach Juan Ferrando does not want any additions to his squad in the January transfer window. Significantly, Goa are the only side to have just six foreign players, while everyone else have completed their quota of seven foreign signings. That’s part of a plan. “The first target for Goa is to be in the playoffs. The second target is to help the reserve team, young players like Princeton, (Saviour) Gama. For us, it’s very important. Our mentality step by step is to promote young players,” said Ferrando. Besides Princeton, there are others who have caught the eye. Saviour Gama has made the left-back position his own, while Sanson Pereira, Devendra Murgaokar, Ishan Pandita and Makan Chothe have all made ISL debuts. “There is no point signing foreign players just to strengthen the team. Next year, we will have more opportunities (for domestic players). It’s important when one foreign player decides to come to Goa, he not just helps the team but in the overall development (of the club). It’s necessary to be a teacher. It’s very important that they help the youngsters,” said Ferrando. New foreign signings for this season -- Igor Angulo, Ivan Gonzalez, Alberto Noguera, James Donachie and Jorge Ortiz -- have all played their part. Princeton attests to that. “The foreign players are helping me a lot. They make me understand my position and role. They’ve been great, on and off the field,” said Princeton.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/princeton-ready-to-play-the-waiting-game-at-fc-goa/articleshow/80122546.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
January 6, 2021||India||India to ink 2 landmark military aircraft deals in next few months||NEW DELHI: India is gearing up for two major long-pending military aircraft deals, together worth over Rs 50,000 crore, in the new year. The contracts for 83 indigenous Tejas fighters and 56 medium-transport aircraft through a Tata-Airbus joint venture are set to be inked within the next few months. The over Rs 37,000 crore order for 83 Tejas Mark-1A jets from defence PSU Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd will be the biggest-ever deal in the indigenous military aviation sector. These 83 fighters, the deliveries of which will begin three years after the contract is inked, will have 43 “improvements” over the 40 Tejas Mark-1 already ordered by the IAF. The Tata-Airbus project to build 56 twin-turboprop C-295 aircraft, which will replace the old Avro-748 aircraft of IAF, in turn, will be the first time an Indian private sector company will enter the defence aerospace arena. While Airbus will supply the first 16 aircraft in two years after the contract is inked, the rest 40 will thereafter be built in India within eight years, in the project which was initially valued at Rs 11,929 crore. Both the projects have been sent to the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) for the final approval. “The Tejas contract will be the first to be approved by the CCS. It is likely to be inked in early-February. The C-295 project, with the participation of Tata as the Indian production agency will follow subsequently,” said an official on Tuesday. The overall cost of acquiring the 83 single-engine Tejas fighters and their support package has been cut down from the earlier around Rs 56,500 crore being demanded by HAL after protracted negotiations, as was reported by TOI last year. The IAF’s two Tejas squadrons, the “Flying Daggers” and “Flying Bullets” at Sulur, have till now inducted only around 20of the original 40 Tejas Mark-1 fighters, which were all slated for delivery by December 2016 under two contracts worth Rs 8,802 crore inked earlier. The 83 Tejas Mark-1A fighters will have 43 “improvements” to improve maintainability, AESA (active electronically scanned array) radar to replace existing mechanically-steered radar, air-to-air refuelling, long-range BVR (beyond visual range) missiles and advanced electronic warfare to jam enemy radars and missiles. After these 123 fighters, IAF is also looking to induct 170 Tejas Mark-2 or the MWF (medium weight fighter) jets with more powerful engines and advanced avionics. But IAF is banking upon the first 123 Tejas to add to its fighter squadrons, which is down to just 30 (each has 18 jets) when at least 42 are required for the requisite deterrence against Pakistan and China. The C-295 project, which has been pending for almost a decade, is meant to replace old Avro aircraft, first inducted in the early-1960s, as well as take on some “tasks” of the ageing AN-32 fleet, which has witnessed two major accidents in which 42 military personnel were killed in the Bay of Bengal in July 2016 and Arunachal Pradesh in June 2019, as was reported by TOI earlier. The C-295 aircraft can even find some buyers in the civil aviation market, say officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-to-ink-2-landmark-military-aircraft-deals-in-next-few-months/articleshow/80122778.cms||Rajat Pandit
January 6, 2021||India||Covid toll crosses 1.5 lakh, last 25k rise in 2nd-longest period||DELHI: India became the world’s third country to record more than 1.5 lakh deaths from the Covid-19 pandemic, with the toll crossing the grim milestone on Tuesday amid a general decline in fatalities. It took 60 days for the death toll to go from 1.25 lakh to 1.5 lakh, which was the slowest rise of 25,000 fatalities in the country since the initial 25,000 deaths that took 126 days. At the peak of the pandemic in September, India had recorded 25,000 deaths in 22 days. While India’s total fatalities from the pandemic are the third highest in the world after the US (3.6 lakh deaths) and Brazil (nearly 2 lakh), India has so far reported far fewer deaths per million population than the worst-hit countries. At 108, India’s deaths per million are the lowest after Indonesia (84) among 20 countries with the highest Covid-19 caseloads. The corresponding figures in the US and UK are 1,093 and 1,121, respectively. Within the country, nearly one-third of all deaths have been reported from Maharashtra, where the toll is close to 50,000 at 49,695. Fatalities have also been high in Tamil Nadu (12,177), Karnataka (12,118), Delhi (10,609), Bengal (9,841) and Uttar Pradesh (8,434). Together, these six states account for nearly 70% (68.6%) of all recorded deaths due to the pandemic. Although Punjab has reported relatively fewer deaths so far at 5,404, it has the highest case fatality rate (CFR) in the country. CFR is the percentage of Covid patients who have succumbed to the infection. In Punjab, the CFR is 3.22%, more than double the national average of 1.45%. Maharashtra has the next highest CFR of 2.55%, followed by the tiny Himalayan state of Sikkim, where 2.18% of Covid patients have died so far. On Tuesday, India reported 263 deaths from the virus, the highest single-day toll in the six days. With this, the cumulative deaths from the pandemic in the country rose to 1,50,097. Maharashtra continued to record the highest toll, with 64 deaths on Tuesday, followed by Chhattisgarh (25), Kerala and Bengal (24 each), and Uttar Pradesh (20). Overall, however, the death toll has been decreasing with every passing week in the country. Last week (December 28-January 3), India registered 1,748 fatalities, the lowest since the last week of May. Tuesday's case count also rose slightly to 17,875, the highest in the past three days. Kerala continued to log the most number of cases at 5,615, followed by Maharashtra at 3,160. Meanwhile, daily cases surged in Chhattisgarh, which reported 1,021 fresh infections on Tuesday, the third highest in the country. The total Covid caseload in the country stands at 1,03,75,469, as per TOI's data collated from state governments, with||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-toll-crosses-1-5-lakh-last-25k-rise-in-2nd-longest-period/articleshow/80124652.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
January 6, 2021||Business||Parliament session in 2 parts from January 29; Budget on February 1||NEW DELHI: The Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs (CCPA) has recommended that the Budget session of Parliament be held in two parts from January 29 to April 8, and all Covid-related protocols, including the shift system are likely to be followed as was done during the monsoon session. According to the committee's recommendation, Part 1 of the Budget session would be held from January 29 to February 15, and Part 2 from March 8 to April 8. President Ram Nath Kovind would address the joint sitting of the two Houses of Parliament on January 29, a Friday, and the Union Budget would be presented on February 1, sources said citing the CCPA recommendations. The Economic Survey would be tabled in the Lok Sabha on January 29 after the President's address, the sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/parliament-session-in-2-parts-from-jan-29-budget-on-feb-1/articleshow/80124734.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Business||Covid survivors who buy new insurance cover face exclusions||CHENNAI: Covid-19 survivors who seek to buy new health insurance could face hurdles in future claims if their ailments can be linked to the viral infection. With the coronavirus affecting different organs over time, future complications could be categorised as a ‘pre-existing’ condition by insurance companies. Insurers cover pre-existing diseases only after a ‘waiting period’, which varies from 2-5 years which is a standard clause in health policies. For example, a person with bronchial asthma and is admitted in the ICU for Covid-19, any lung condition will be endorsed as a 'pre-existing'. No waiting for renewals after CovidHowever, once the waiting period is over, insurers cannot reject claims for such ailments. “Insurance is a game of large numbers, and companies must come forward to provide cover for Covid-19 survivors without discrimination. However, Covid-19, along with other comorbid, will be noted as pre-existing conditions,” said Dr S Prakash, managing director at Star Health. The long-term effects of Covid-19 like damaged lungs, clots in blood vessels are largely experienced by those hospitalised for 4-6 weeks and those with comorbidities. Some long-term patients experience permanent damage to lungs, heart, kidneys or brain. “A Covid-19 survivor upon discharge will go back with a compromised lung. Most of Covid infected have recovered while a few will continue to live with diseases like lung fibrosis (damaged and scarred lung tissues),” Prakash said. Gurdeep Singh Batra, head of retail underwriting of Bajaj Allianz General Insurance, says only extreme Covid cases where nervous, respiratory and cardiac systems were affected, it will be categorised under the pre-existing disease. “In cases where patients were under home quarantine and recovered, the waiting period could be between 30 and 60 days. If the survivor is only renewing a policy and not buying a new one, there will be no waiting period,” Batra said. Insurers say not only physical, even mental health of Covid survivors have to be considered before underwriting a health cover. “There are patients who come with mental illness now, where their nervous system being affected has led to post-Covid syndrome,” he said. The average ticket size of Covid claims stands at Rs 1.20 lakh and non-Covid claims at Rs 75,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/covid-survivors-who-buy-new-insurance-cover-face-exclusions/articleshow/80124772.cms||Mamtha Asokan
January 6, 2021||India||Tractor rally set to hit NCR traffic tomorrow||NEW DELHI: Farmers’ unions opposed to the new agri laws will intensify their agitation with tractor rallies at four border points of Delhi, including both eastern and western peripheral expressways, on Thursday. This was announced on Tuesday, with no sign of any forward movement since Monday’s inconclusive talks with the Centre. #FarmersProtest continue at Ghazipur border. "We are ready for tomorrow's tractor rally towards Palwal", they say https://t.co/wXrJmXj2FT— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1609913346000“These (rallies) will be a trailer for what lies ahead on January 26,” said Yogendra Yadav of Jaik Kisan Andolan at Singhu Border. As a result, traffic is set to be badly hit around the capital. The tractor rallies, planned earlier for Wednesday, was deferred by a day due to forecast of bad weather. The tractor march on Thursday on KMP-KGP expressway is set to hit traffic severely. With the Delhi-Jaipur highway already blocked for traffic, heavy congestion is being witnessed on alternative routes such as Pataudi Road and other internal roads. The travel distance between Delhi and Jaipur has shot up around 85-100 km as traffic is being diverted from Kotkasim and Kasola Chowk via Nangal Chaudhry. The KMP-KGP expressway has been largely unaffected so far. Farmers protesting at UP Gate too plan to take out a tractor rally to Palwal on Thursday. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said although they are awaiting the outcome of the next round of talks scheduled on January 8, the protests will intensify in the next few days. “On January 7, farmers will take out a rally from UP Gate to Palwal. More than 500 tractors will be there,” said Dharmendra Malik, a BKU office bearer. Flanked by representatives from other states, who joined the farmer union leaders to project it as a pan-India movement, Yadav said the protests will spread across the country as their demands for repeal of the three farm laws and legal status for MSP remain unmet. “For two weeks from Wednesday, 'Desh Jagran Abhiyan' will be started and protests will be deepened throughout the country,” he said. The tractor march on the KMP bypass road will begin at 11 am on Thursday, with farmers from Punjab, Haryana, UP, Rajasthan and other states will join the march in large numbers with thousands of tractors. At least 10 tractors from each village of Haryana will be joining the march as per the plan. Meanwhile, despite the cold and rain, the hunger strike by farmers continued on all border points of Delhi. “The resolve is evidence that they will not go back home until their two key demands around repeal of the farm acts and legal entitlement around MSP for farmers are not secured,” said the unions’ umbrella body in a statement. It said, “On January 9, on the death anniversary of Chaudhary Chhoturam, programmes will be organized in his memory at Delhi borders and across the country. Farmers from across the country are joining the Delhi morcha in large numbers.” The ongoing protests at Masani in Dharuhera, Sangwari and Jaisinghpur Khera, on the Delhi-Jaipur highway have forced authorities to divert traffic at multiple locations along this stretch. Vehicles moving from Delhi and Gurgaon towards Dharuhera faced inconvenience as police stopped traffic at Kapriwas border by placing barricades on Monday late night as traffic kept piling up. This created confusion among commuters. Meanwhile, heavy vehicles moving from Bawal towards Gurgaon have been diverted from Jhajjar-Rohtak bypass road (NH-352), due to which the travel distance has increased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tractor-rally-set-to-hit-ncr-traffic-tomorrow/articleshow/80124776.cms||---
January 6, 2021||India||CBI seeks nod to quiz Bengal IPS officers||KOLKATA: The CBI on Tuesday sought the West Bengal government’s permission to question three IPS officers in connection with the probe into coal and cattle smuggling in Bengal. The three IPS officers and three inspector-rank officers — who were posted in different districts where the smuggling rackets were active — are likely to be questioned about the steps taken by the police to curb the illegal trade. An official who was posted as Hooghly SP has been asked to appear before Special Crime Branch officials on January 8. The official is likely to be questioned on the coal smuggling cases. Two more IPS officers, who were earlier posted in Murshidabad, are likely to be questioned on January 12 in connection with the cattle smuggling probe. The investigators are likely to question two more IPS officers who are not in service any more. Two inspector-rank officers earlier posted are also likely to be questioned on January 6 and Jan 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cbi-seeks-nod-to-quiz-bengal-ips-officers/articleshow/80124810.cms||Rohit Khanna
January 6, 2021||India||28,000cr J&K industry policy coming up for Cabinet nod||NEW DELHI: A Rs 28,000 crore industrial development initiative for Jammu & Kashmir is likely to be taken up for consideration and approval by the Union cabinet today. The proposal, which has received necessary approvals from the ministry of finance and the department of promotion of industry and internal trade, seeks to put in place the first industrial policy for the Union Territory that will focus on facilitating investments in J&K across various sectors by earmarking government land for corporate houses to set up units and offering them a host of incentives. TOI has learnt that the J&K industrial policy seeks to set up ‘clusters’ to ensure that all resources are available in one place for industries looking to set up manufacturing and processing plants as well as services sector units like IT parks. Among the industries that have evinced interest in J&K are IT companies like Wipro, food processing companies and automobile majors like Tata and Ashok Leyland that are already present in the UT. “Until now, industry had shied away from investment in J&K as it was not allowed to buy land to set up units. The new industrial policy will seek to channelise investment into J&K across different sectors. This will bring economic development and help generate jobs in the private sector,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/28000cr-jk-industry-policy-coming-up-for-cabinet-nod/articleshow/80124834.cms||Bharti Jain
January 6, 2021||Bengaluru||In blow to BS Yediyurappa, Karnataka high court refuses to drop land case||BENGALURU: The Karnataka high court dismissed on Tuesday CM BS Yediyurappa’s petition that the FIR in a land denotification case against him should be quashed. Justice John Michael Cunha noted that prima facie there appeared to be a case against Yediyurappa, who is accused of illegally denotifying a land parcel in Matadahalli, Bengaluru. The court also asked him to pay Rs 25,000. This is Yediyurappa’s second legal setback in the past three weeks; on December 22, the court had refused to drop criminal proceedings against him in another land denotification case. Jayakumar Hiremath, an RTI activist in Bengaluru, had filed the complaint in the Matadahalli matter in 2015. The Lokayukta police then registered an FIR naming Yediyurappa and HD Kumaraswamy of JD(S). The complaint alleges that Yediyurappa illegally denotified 1.1 acres in Matadahalli, near RT Nagar, a posh locality. The state government had acquired the land for the Bangalore Development Authority in 1976-77, taking possession in 1988. Later, one Rajashekaraiah claimed that the property belonged to him and that he had won a court order. He had urged the government to denotify the land. The file came up before the government twice in 2007, allegedly on the instructions of Kumaraswamy, the then CM. But it didn’t move forward. The parcel was denotified after Yediyurappa became CM in 2010. Within 20 days thereafter, the land was transferred to Kumaraswamy’s mother-in-law, Vimala, through a general power of attorney. She transferred the title to her son, TS Channappa, who is Kumaraswamy’s brother-in-law. The other case against Yediyurappa pertains to alleged illegal denotification of large tracts of land in the Whitefield IT corridor. The land was acquired for an infotech project in 2006-07, when he was deputy CM in the BJP-JD(S) government led by Kumaraswamy. Meanwhile, on January 21, the SC will hear the Anti-Corruption Bureau’s plea to lift the stay on the probe into denotification of 257 acres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/in-blow-to-bsy-hc-refuses-to-drop-land-case/articleshow/80124845.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Vadodara||‘No govt aid pending against 70-yr-old man who killed self’||Vadodara: The report on the suicide by an elderly man in the Khanpur taluka panchayat office of Mahisagar district has ruled out the deceased man’s claims of pending government aid. The 70-year-old man was found hanging in the taluka panchayat office on Saturday.The report holds that there was no application for aid from Charan that was pending. It even suspects that soured family relations may be the reason for the extreme step.The suicide had sparked a row as the son of the deceased Balwantsinh Charan had claimed in his declaration that he was informed that his father had killed himself after calling up the emergency number 112 and telling the operators that he was ending his life as he was not getting government aid. A note that is said to have been left behind by Charan also said that he had been contacting various persons, but was not getting any help.The administration swung into action to find out various schemes for which Charan may have applied. It has come to light that there was no application pending for him. A detailed report has been prepared by the taluka development officer (TDO) regarding the matter.The report points out that Charan had been getting aid under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana and seven instalments amounting to Rs 14,000 had been paid. He had also got compensation of Rs 4,000 for loss of crop in 2019-20. He had made no applications on the i-Khedut Portal of the state government too. The report adds that a borewell had been sanctioned for the Vanderved village from where Charan belonged.According to the TDO, Charan was not eligible for housing under the Indira Aavas Yojana and the Sardar Aavas Yojana. He had become eligible under the Pradhan Mandri Aavas Yojana for which a survey had been conducted and the geo-tagging of a house had been done in his son’s name. At the same time, it adds that Charan had a pucca house and a toilet too. The report mentions that Charan had agriculture land and had also sold a part of it. It also ascertained that between September 11 and December 31, his son had sold milk to a dairy cooperative and received Rs 69,351 towards it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/no-govt-aid-pending-against-70-yr-old-man-who-killed-self/articleshow/80120527.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Agra||Forest dept starts awareness drive after leopard sighting in Agra’s Bah area||Agra: Several villages in Bah area of Agra have been put on alert by the forest department after a leopard was spotted in Palokhara village on Monday.Loudspeaker announcements were made by the forest department officials asking people not to go in the forest area during night. Villagers were also warned against leaving their animals or children alone in the open.Bah Ranger RK Singh Rathore said that information has been received from various sources about leopard sightings in the village. But no pug marks have been found yet.Talking to TOI wildlife warden of Agra’s National Chambal Sanctuary, Diwakar Srivastava said that loudspeaker announcements have been made to create awareness among the residents.He said that the 165-km area of Chambal has around 50 leopards.“Around 130 villages fall under Agra’s Bah and Etawah range and it is our duty to alert the people whenever a leopard is spotted,” he said, adding that teams of forest officials are on alert and are conducting meetings with the monitoring committees in the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/forest-dept-starts-awareness-drive-after-leopard-sighting-in-agras-bah-area/articleshow/80121024.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Business||Paytm to sell personal loans for banks, NBFCs||TNN Mumbai: Paytm has launched a new vertical — Paytm Lending — to distribute personal loans to customers through its app. Paytm said that the new service is built on its tech platform, which enables partner banks and non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) to process loans end to end in less than 2 minutes. The company has said that it aims to have a million users by the end of March 2021. The creation of the lending vertical has happened even as the group’s banking arm — Paytm Payments Bank — has applied to convert itself into a small finance bank. Payments banks are not allowed to extend loans, but can seek conversion into a small finance bank, which can provide retail credit after meeting timelines prescribed by the regulator. Although the loans will be on the books of the bank or finance company, Paytm will manage the process end to end. “We aim to make instant personal loans accessible to the self-employed, new-to-credit individuals and young professionals who need short to medium -term personal loans to manage urgent expenses so that lack of resources does not come in their way to fulfil dreams and ambitions. Our aim is to become a growth enabler for India’s aspiring youth and young professionals to help them become self-reliant. We will continue to innovate and digitise as many services that help in bringing ‘new-to-credit’ users into the formal economy,” said Paytm Lending CEO Bhavesh Gupta. The move comes at a time when the government and regulators are cracking down on unregistered and unregulated app-based lenders. The company had recently extended its Paytm Postpaid service (a ‘buy now, pay later’ feature) to a large set of use cases, such as payments at neighbourhood kirana stores and popular retail destinations. Additionally, it has also been extended to various bill payments facilities available on Paytm, shopping on Paytm Mall, and online payments at internet apps such as Domino’s, Tata Sky, Pepperfry, HungerBox, Patanjali and Spencer’s.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/paytm-to-sell-personal-loans-for-banks-nbfcs/articleshow/80123767.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Business||RBI fines Bajaj Finance Rs 2.5cr for harassing borrowers||Mumbai: The RBI has fined Bajaj Finance Rs 2.5 crore for harassment and intimidation of customers by recovery agents during debt collection. The penalty comes at a time when law enforcement authorities are cracking down on app-based lenders for harassing borrowers, which had led to suicide in a couple of cases. Bajaj Finance is the largest NBFC in the consumer finance segment and has been categorised as systemically important. The RBI had also issued a direction to the company to ensure compliance with its fair practices code — which bars strong-arm tactics by recovery agents — in letter and spirit. “This penalty has been imposed in exercise of powers vested in the RBI... taking into account the failure of the company to ensure that its recovery agents did not resort to harassment or intimidation of customers as part of its debt collection efforts and thereby failing to adhere to the aforesaid directions issued by the RBI,” the regulator said. The banking regulator said that there were also repeat complaints about recovery and collection methods adopted by Bajaj Finance. The RBI had first issued a show cause as to why penalty should not be imposed for such non-compliance. “After considering the company’s reply to the notice, oral submissions made during the personal hearing and examination of additional submissions made by it, the RBI concluded that the charge of non-compliance with the aforesaid RBI directions was substantiated and warranted imposition of monetary penalty,” the central bank said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-fines-bajaj-finance-rs-2-5cr-for-harassing-borrowers/articleshow/80123941.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Jaipur||Govt transfers 56 IPS officers, replaces SPs in 14 districts; Jaipur gets six new DCPs||Jaipur: In a massive reshuffle in the police department, the state government late on Monday night transferred 56 IPS officers, the move coming a day before the election code of conduct for the upcoming elections to local bodies kicked in. With the reshuffle, five range inspector generals and 14 SPs have been changed by the state government. Jaipur has got sic new deputy commissioner of police. Neena Singh, a 1989-batch officer, will now take charge as ADG (civil rights and anti-human trafficking) while Govind Gupta, a 1993-batch officer has been posted as ADG (Planning, modernization and welfare). The state government with the reshuffle has attempted to accommodate officers with new promotions. Other transfers included Binita Thakur, who will assume charge as ADG (recruitment and promotion board), Sachin Mittal will take over as ADG (training) while Sanjib Kumar Narzari has been given the charge of ADG (re-organisation & rules).The transfers also became important for Jaipur police commissionerate which got three new DCPs. Hawa Singh Ghumaria has been made IG (Jaipur Range) while S Sengathir from Jaipur Range will now take charge as IG (Ajmer range). Likewise, Satyaveer Singh will take charge as IG (Udaipur Range) and Ravi Dutt Gaur will move to Kota to take charge as IG (Kota Range). Bharatpur district, which was in news following a corruption racket, has got Prashan Kumar Khamesra as IG (Bharatpur Range).In Jaipur, Harendra Kumar Mahawar will take charge as DCP (South), Parish Deshmukh as DCP(North) while Abhjeet Singh will take charge as DCP (East). Dr Amrita Duhan has been appointed as DCP (Headquarters, Police Commissionerate, Jaipur). Other changes in the Jaipur commissionerate included Richa Tomar, who will take charge as DCP (Jaipur Metro Rail Corporation) while Digant Anand will assume charge as DCP (Crime). In other parts of the state, Preeti Chandra has been sent to Bikaner as SP while Jagdish Chandra Sharma will take charge as SP (Ajmer), Kalu Ram Rawat as SP (Pali), Priti Jain as SP (Hanumangarh), Kunwar Rashtradeep as SP (Sikar), Anil Kumar II as SP (Jodhpur Rural), Vikas Sharma as SP (Bhilwara), Rajeev Pachar as SP (Udaipur), Prahlad Singh Kishniya as SP (Jhunjhunu), Anil Kumar as SP (Dausa), Sudhir Joshi as SP (Dungarpur), Devendra Kumar Bishnoi as SP (Bharatpur), Vineet Kumar Bansal as SP (Baran) and Narayan Togas will take charge as SP (Churu).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-transfers-56-ips-officers-replaces-sps-in-14-districts-jaipur-gets-six-new-dcps/articleshow/80123356.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Business||Sensex hits new closing high for 8th straight day||TNN Mumbai: Despite a sharp decline in US stock markets on Monday night, the sensex on Tuesday opened higher, fell in the red zone in mid-session and then staged a strong recovery to close at 48,438 points, its all-time closing high. It rose 261 points on the day, logging the eighth successive session that closed at a new high — its longest such run. The day’s gains came on the back of a Rs 986-crore net buying by foreign funds, BSE data showed. However, domestic funds continued to be net sellers with a Rs 490-crore net outflow on Tuesday. HDFC Bank, Axis Bank and TCS were the top sensex contributors, while selling in Reliance Industries, Bajaj Finance and ITC limited the gains to some extent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-hits-new-closing-high-for-8th-straight-day/articleshow/80123194.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Rs 15 lakh stolen from property dealer’s car||ARA: Motorcycle-borne criminals smashed the windshield of the parked car of a property dealer, Laddu Yadav, and took away a bag containing Rs 15 lakh in cash near Sakaddi under the Koilwar police station area in Bhojpur district on Tuesday. SHO of Koilwar police station Sanjay Kumar Sinha said it was a case of theft. “Yadav had gone somewhere after parking his car near a hotel. He later found the windshield of his car broken and a bag containing Rs 15 lakh in cash missing. The matter is being probed,” the SHO added. Yadav, a resident of Dharhara in Ara, said he had withdrawn Rs 15 lakh from the Koilwar branch of Punjab National Bank to make payments for land purchase. “I had gone to have tea after parking the car near Sakaddi. Locals told me that they saw motorcycle-borne criminals smashing the windshield of the car and fleeing towards Ara,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rs-15-lakh-stolen-from-property-dealers-car/articleshow/80120552.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Patna||Land survey work kicks off in three blocks of Katihar||By: Sanjeev Mishra KORHA (Katihar): The much-awaited special land survey has begun in three blocks of Katihar district – Falka, Korha and Kurshela. The state government’s ambitious land survey project, work on which is currently in progress in at least 20 districts, is expected to reduce land-related disputes drastically. Katihar DM Kanwal Tanuj said the land survey work was in progress in 185 revenue villages of three anchals in Katihar district – Kurshela, Falka and Korha. “An ‘aam sabha’ was conducted in the targeted revenue villages and the survey ‘khatian (register)’ was extracted mauza-wise. The records are now being uploaded to the dedicated management information system (MIS). Declarations regarding land ownership and family lineage were being taken from land owners. The ‘khanapuri’ exercise of plot-wise physical inspection will be started as soon as the identified agency from Hyderabad arrives in Katihar,” the DM added. Meanwhile, some farmers under Phulwaria panchayat in the district have expressed satisfaction over the land survey work. The farmers also said total arable land in the district would become digital and accessible just at the click of a mouse. Sale and purchase of land as well as upkeep of “khata” and “khatiyan (ancestral land record)” would also become easier, they said. Mahesh Soren (52), a marginal farmer with 4-5 kattha of land at Phulwaria Pokhari Tola, said, “I want mutation of land holdings in my name. At present, it carries the name of my father in Register 1 (the document which the government maintains pertaining to land records).” Mohan Hansda (52), who lost his land document and is attempting to procure the same from the government record office, was enthusiastic about the survey work. “It’s the good beginning,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/land-survey-work-kicks-off-in-three-blocks-of-katihar/articleshow/80120573.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Coimbatore||TNAU launches high-yielding sunflower variety||COIMBATORE: For many farmers who are looking to make a quick buck in the short term in between their cotton, sugarcane or vegetable cultivation, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University has come up with its latest hybrid variety of sunflower. The hybrid variety of seeds were released in 2019. They can be grown in rainfed areas and are moderately disease resistant. TNAU scientists said demand for sunflower oil is high due to its nutritional benefits. Currently, India imports most of its sunflower oil from Ukraine, Russia and Argentina. The latest variety of sunflower COH3 has 42% oil content, and can provide a yield of 716 kg per hectare. “The 90-day duration of this variety requires some irrigation, but it can grow in rainfed areas like Namakkal, Erode, Karur, Virudhunagar and Coimbatore,” said Vishwanathan, a scientist at TNAU. “The yield is almost 200 kg to 250 kg higher than traditional varieties,” he said. It can be grown during the Kharif and Rabi season after the monsoon begins, even if the rainfall is below par. Farmers can expect returns of Rs 30 to Rs 50 per kg of oilseed depending on the market. “This is in the seed stage. This variety is also moderately resistant to crop diseases such as necrosis, powdery mildew and alternia and tolerant to insects like sucking pests and leaf feeders. While oilseeds are cultivated in Coimbatore it is dominated by groundnut, which is cultivated across 3,332 hectares of farmland. It is followed by gingelly, which is cultivated across hardly 170 hectares and castor which is cultivated across hardly 15 hectares. Sunflower, however, is not cultivated on an abundant scale in the region. “For farmers who are considering cultivating a cash crop, which does not require much water, because the North East monsoon rainfall is lower than normal this year, can consider sunflower,” said S Geetha, director for centre for plant breeding and genetics. Sunflower is supposed to be good for the heart, because it contains phytochemicals like choline and phenolic acid and lowers cholesterol, making many cardiologists recommend that their patients shift to olive oil or sunflower oil for cooking. In fact, this is what prompted the university to come up with this hybrid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tnau-launches-high-yielding-sunflower-variety/articleshow/80123363.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Business||HDFC shares rise 3% after home loans jump 26%||MUMBAI: Shares of HDFC rose nearly 3% after it reported a 26% growth in the disbursement of individual loans during the quarter ended December 2020, compared to the previous year. The country’s largest housing finance company said that following the increase, individual loan disbursements for the year were at 86% of the total in the first three-quarters of the previous fiscal. According to HDFC chairman Deepak Parekh, there was strong growth in home sales in December because of various incentives. “I do believe that the recent spurt in demand is not just pent-up demand. The country still faces an immense shortage of housing and — with supportive policies, adequate availability of resources and supply of affordable homes — the demand for housing will continue unabated,” said Parekh. He was speaking at the launch of a report on the Real Estate Regulation Act by Moneylife Foundation. “In my 42 years of working in the housing sector, I have never seen interest rates at such low levels. With fiscal incentives, it makes housing so much more affordable,” said Parekh. He added that the reduction of the stamp duty in Maharashtra for sales in the third quarter saw housing transactions triple. During the quarter, HDFC assigned loans to HDFC Bank amounting to Rs 7,076 crore compared to Rs 4,258 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous year. Individual loans sold in the preceding 12 months amounted to Rs 16,956 crore (previous year it was Rs 21,066 crore). During the quarter ended December 31, 2020, HDFC sold Rs 157 crore worth shares in HDFC Life Insurance to bring down its stake to 49.9% to meet RBI’s mandate. However, it would continue to consolidate the results of its life insurance arm, HDFC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hdfc-shares-rise-3-after-home-loans-jump-26/articleshow/80122983.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Business||Want to buy new car? Wait for 1-10 months||CHENNAI: Rising demand for an owned mode of transport, coupled with decadal low auto loan rates, has resulted in the return of a wait list for car buyers. This is no longer restricted to just best-selling compact SUVs alone. Small cars, including the Maruti Alto and WagonR, hatchbacks like Maruti Swift and Hyundai i20, and sedan Hyundai Verna require buyers to be on a wait list for anywhere in the 1-10 months range. For market leader Maruti, which has been functioning at 100% capacity utilisation since October, the wait list is in the range of 3-4 weeks for models like Swift, Alto and WagonR, but increases to 6-8 weeks for Ertiga. Maruti undertook a maintenance shutdown from December 27 to January 3. Even with the assembly lines working at peak capacity, the situation will take time to ease out, said a company dealer based in Delhi. Arch rival Hyundai is ramping up volumes of its critical models, starting with the Creta. “We have doubled Creta production from 340 units a day to 640 units in the last six months. So, the wait list came down from 6 months to 2-3 months,” said Hyundai Motor India director (production) Ganesh Mani. Hyundai is doing “volume augmentation” for Venue and Verna too. “The new i20 is on 2-3 months wait list and we are augmenting that too. Currently, we are doing 8,000-9,000 a month, but we can go up to 12,000,” Mani said. Hyundai can also tweak the export-domestic mix to get more volumes. “Around 40% of the Verna is exports, and Creta and i20 are also being shipped,” said Mani. “Our total capacity is 750,000 units a year. So, even if the market hits 3 million, we will be able to manage,” he added. Auto dealers say the wait list is the result of a combination of factors. In the case of Kia — whose Seltos and Sonet have a 2-3 month wait list — there is an “issue” with engine parts and bumpers. “Keeping the unprecedented demand in mind, we have fast-tracked the process of increasing the production capacity both at our Nasik facility and the supplier end. Initially, we had planned for a capacity of about 2,000 vehicles per month and have now ramped up substantially to 3,000 and then 3,500 units per month in two short phases. This would help us bring down the waiting period to a reasonable timeline,” said Vijay Nakra, CEO (automotive division) at M&M, whose just-launched Thar is running on a 20-40 weeks’ wait list. Earlier this week, Nissan announced that it is ramping up production of the Magnite from 2,700 units a month to 4,000 units to bring down the wait list from 6 months to 2-3 months. Dealers say the inventory pipeline has been wiped clean with December being a good month. Hence, the current situation will take several weeks more to ease out. Passenger vehicles original equipment manufacturers dispatched 18% more vehicles year-on-year in December. At 2,76,500 units, this was the highest December sales in the last decade. “There is a gap between demand and supply because December retails were good, and companies have taken production shutdowns. Many companies and vendors have not yet ramped up quick enough. Hence, the wait list even on entry level vehicles,” said Nikunj Sanghi of JS 4Wheel Motor (an M&M dealer).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/want-to-buy-new-car-wait-for-1-10-months/articleshow/80122954.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
January 6, 2021||Surat||Air pollution levels rise in Ankleshwar||SURAT: After a significant reduction in air pollution levels during the lockdown, the industrial town of Ankleshwar is again in the red zone following an increase in air pollution levels. According to the Air Quality Index (AQI) published on Tuesday, the PM2.5 levels were recorded at 304 and that the PM10 was recorded at 178. Official sources said that currently, the industrial activity in Ankleshwar is on in full capacity, leading to the increase in air pollution. “It is a matter of concern as the air pollution levels have increased. We will be organising meeting with industry stakeholders soon,” said a senior officer of GPCB According to the study on ambient air quality conducted by Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) during the lockdown, the PM10 and PM2.5 concentrations in Vapi and Ankleshwar reduced by 40% and 34% respectively, making the air breathable for the residents. Also, the AQI had improved from 160 (moderate) to 79 (satisfactory) in Ankleshwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/air-pollution-levels-rise-in-ankleshwar/articleshow/80120751.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Dehradun||SC sets aside Uttarakhand HC's order giving police protection to principal appointed by Agra diocese||Nainital: The Supreme Court (SC) on Monday set aside the Uttarakhand high court’s (HC) December 9 order that gave police protection to Peter Dhiraj Emmanuel, who was appointed principal of Sherwood College by the diocese of Agra. The Agra diocese, which claims it is responsible for the school’s administration, had suspended incumbent principal Amandeep Sandhu on charges of alleged financial irregularities. The apex court has revived the writ petition in HC, saying the case will now be heard afresh. Sandhu, along with representaives of the diocese of Lucknow (that had moved the Uttarakhand high court last month staking claim on the school)and the staff of Sherwood College, who had filed impleadment applications, will also be heard. The order came from the bench of Justice Ashok Bhushan, Justice R Subhash Reddy and Justice MR Shah as court heard a special leave petition by Sandhu, who argued that the HC’s order was effectively against him and he was excluded from the parties before the order (to provide police protection to Emmanuel) was passed. The HC, which had adjourned its hearing in the case last month as the case was pending in the SC, will now hear the matter on January 7. The SC held that Sandhu was a necessary party to the case and that “no order could be passed without hearing him”. “In above view of the matter, we set aside the order dated 09.12.202 passed by the High Court, including the order by which the appellant was deleted from the array of parties and revive the writ petition, which shall be heard afresh. We make it clear that we are not expressing any opinion on the merits of the case. The high court shall hear all the parties and take appropriate decisions in accordance with law,” read the court order. As reported by TOI earlier, the Sherwood Diocesan College Society, an extension of the Agra diocese, had filed a petition at the HC, requesting police’s help in wresting control of the school from Sandhu. Emmanuel had been left waiting outside the school’s closed gates once in October and twice last month. Sandhu refused to cede control, insisting it was the diocese of Lucknow, not Agra that managed the school. Sherwood is the alma mater of famous personalities like actor Amitabh Bachchan and Field Marshal Sam Mackenshaw||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sc-sets-aside-uttarakhand-hcs-order-giving-police-protection-to-principal-appointed-by-agra-diocese/articleshow/80121028.cms||Prashant Jha
January 6, 2021||Business||Managers must delegate, be ‘growth hackers’ to succeed||By Pankaj BansalDear manager, Are things not that great at work now? Are you in the middle of chaos, with ambiguity clouding your vision of future? Well, don’t worry — you are not alone. What you are experiencing is a certain ‘mid-level’ crisis, which is an after effect of Covid for most organisations. And while the current phase might seem never-ending, there is a way out. And who else can get through this phase with flying colours than you? Our days are full of countless notions and stories that we keep hearing about ‘transforming business models’, ‘new face of workforce’, ‘workplace dynamics’ or ‘standard is contagious’. These are just words or notions, but they come to life only when a manager (as we call it) decides to pick ‘the agenda’ as a mission. And even as the work world faces a tectonic shift, the new breed of managers will keep this theme up. “Idea of excellence is attractive to most people and inspiring to some,” the writer John Gardner had said in 1961. The future would belong to an amazing bunch of people who would outgrow the title of ‘manager’ and make it lose its relevance, rather than losing relevance themselves. The new managers would be the ‘growth hackers’ in the true sense, as they would be hacking the new ways of work and still standing strong. Sounds interesting? Let me tell you the ‘five to thrive’ mantra of such growth hackers: 1) Expected to ‘aggregate’ team members who are full-time/part-time/gig/flexi. A massive shift from managing permanent staff to ‘on-call’ or ‘outcome-oriented work contracts’ 2) Expected to ‘delegate’ and enable teams working from home so that micro-management can be put to rest 3) Expected to ‘liberate’ and drive the people agenda of inclusivity and engagement. Traditional engagement models would be put to test as the employee’s ‘right-now’ mood is tested here and now than an annual survey. Finding joy, energy & meaning is a real conversation and aspiration of the workforce 4) Expected to ‘innovate’ through digital solutions for better productivity and customer experience. Every company today has become a ‘tech’ company 5) Expected to ‘celebrate’ the ‘cross’ of targets. The highest common factor is the business unit or department or line of business, but the lowest common unit of target measurement and actions still culminates at the managerial layer hence organisations will peak through managers or growth hackers Yes, these are difficult times. You represent over 20% of the total workforce, but don’t get your dues vis-a-vis expectations. In most cases, you get overshadowed by the influential CXOs. As the writer Elif Shafak had said, “An ocean is walking behind a lake.” But please don’t forget you are the ‘core’ of this human body called organisation. Toughest to build, but most effective in delivering results. You, the growth hackers, are the ones defining the new craft of work that has to be focused on purpose and meaning. It sounds hazy as we cannot visualise the role of the new version of a traditional manager, but that is the case with any transformation. Even in battlefield, the prince asked his guide charioteer (Bhagvat Gita chapter 2, verse 54): Sthita-prajnasya ka bhasa samadhi shasya kesava (“What is the behaviour of one who is equanimous and steady in intellect? How does he speak, and what is his language?”) Well, I might not be as eloquent as Krishna, but here are what I could visualise as the five elements that demystify the new face of a growth hacker: 1) Entrepreneurial to the core: They would be the captains of their own ships. As organisations wake up to devolve power through formally stated documents and decision matrix, empowerment will become real. Growth hackers will build their team members — the owners of their work and not like a boss breathing down the neck, or OKRs (objective and key results), which are reviewed weekly and acted upon daily. 2) Inclusive in mind: A casualty of the three main unwritten rules of corporations. First, hierarchy in teams will get buried, and squads will emerge. Second, growth hackers will not live life in cohorts of gender, ageism (we call them millennials and Gen Z and Gen X), religion, race, LGBT & seniority, therefore equality will determine growth, and people will be as good as the last delivery they have done. Finally, what is being said will become more important than who said it. This is how growth hackers will define the new code of D&I (diversity and inclusion). 3) Building growth pivots within teams: Almost everything has to be reconstructed, recreated, and not for the sake of it but to find newer growth pockets even if they are at the cost of cannibalising your current offering. You do not want to be the last company making camera rolls. This is only possible in smaller and agile entities, therefore either subsidiaries or small business units with self-sufficient squads. This approach will create growth-oriented functions within organisations that apply innovation to find and discover the true potential of the products and the people. 4) Integrate rather than balance: When the scholar Warren Bennis eluded to the philosophy of a ‘deep generalist’ having a longer run than ‘narrow specialists’, he probably was referring to the year 2020. If there is one thing that the last nine months have told us, it is that we need more of ‘deep generalists’. Context is more important than ever, and while a specialist might bring in the knowledge, it’s the context and wisdom of applying that knowledge which creates the right impact. Come to think of it, is work not part of our life? If yes, then why will we not integrate the two rather than balancing them? It is this realisation that would help a growth hacker would cover this journey from K (knowledge) to W (wisdom). 5) Digital champions: Last, but not the least, as the growth hackers take on the new world of work, they will do so with their own special digital tools. They will not be scared or sceptics of what the right kind of digital tools can do for them. Be it intelligent collaborative tools, customer experience insight tools or connected systems — growth hackers will champion them all. And that’s good news for the companies that are working on building these products. We all know how Slack enabled the first breed of digital champions by introducing digital collaboration. Growth hackers will create many such interesting stories. In one of his commencement addresses, tech pioneer Steve Jobs had said, “The heaviness of being successful was replaced by the lightness of being a beginner again, less sure about everything. It freed me to enter into one of the most creative periods of my life.” Same is true for the managers of tomorrow — the growth hackers. They need to move from workplaces to workspaces, focusing on performance management to focusing on productivity, focusing on compensation to focusing on wealth, focusing on output & efficiency to focusing on outcomes & experience. And they have to do all of it with a bit of fun and flair. As the famous Urdu poet Faiz said, “Kuch ishq kiya, kuch kaam kiya” (some bit of love and some bit of work). So, you decide, who you want to be? Managers or growth hackers. But if you want to get out of this ‘mid-level’ crisis, there’s not much of a choice... Love, Pankaj Bansal (Co-founder & CEO, PeopleStrong)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/managers-must-delegate-be-growth-hackers-to-succeed/articleshow/80124074.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Business||Rob Walker is Cognizant’s MD for UK, Ireland||Chennai: Cognizant has appointed Rob Walker as managing director for UK and Ireland operations. As a member of Cognizant’s global growth markets leadership team, Walker will be based in London and lead Cognizant’s operations in the UK and Ireland including strategic planning, commercial development, and client delivery. He has 24 years of experience advising clients, including FTSE 100 and Fortune 500 firms, across a wide range of sectors and industries, such as technology, media and telecommunications, advanced manufacturing and engineering, and consumer products, Cognizant said. Prior to this, he served as UK&I Consulting Markets Lead for Ernst & Young’s consulting practice, where he had a 14-year partner career.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rob-walker-is-cognizants-md-for-uk-ireland/articleshow/80122894.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 6, 2021||Patna||Patna: Patliputra University vice-chancellor resigns||PATNA: Governor-cum-chancellor Phagu Chauhan on Tuesday appointed Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU) vice-chancellor (VC) Surendra Pratap Singh as the acting VC of Patliputra University (PPU) after the resignation of Gulab Chand Ram Jaiswal. According to a notification issued by the Raj Bhavan, Singh will act as the VC of PPU in addition to his own duties as the VC of LNMU. Jaiswal had joined as the founder VC of PPU soon after its creation in 2018 along with those of Purnea and Munger universities. The VC of Purnea University had resigned some time ago on personal grounds. Earlier, the newly appointed VC of Nalanda Open University (NOU), H N Prasad, had resigned from his post after about eight months of his joining. Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar Bihar University VC Hanuman Prasad Pandey was appointed the acting VC of NOU. The posts of VCs of NOU and PPU are likely to be advertised by the chancellor’s secretariat soon. The office of Aryabhatta Knowledge University (AKU) VC also fell vacant on September 20 following the retirement of A K Agrawal. The post has already been advertised. In the meantime, AKU pro-VC S M Karim is serving as the acting VC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ppu-vc-resigns/articleshow/80120807.cms||B K Mishra
January 6, 2021||Patna||Patna, Muzaffarpur among 4 most polluted cities||PATNA: Due to unfavourable climatic conditions in the region, Patna and Muzaffarpur figured among the four most polluted cities in the country on Tuesday. Track the pollution level in your cityAccording to the daily bulletin of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) mobile application ‘SAMEER’, the overall air quality index (AQI) level of the state capital was recorded at 345 while it was 372 in Muzaffarpur around 4pm on Tuesday. The other two cities among the four most polluted were Kanpur (397) and Lucknow (383). The air quality of both the cities falls under ‘very poor’ category, which can cause respiratory illness on prolonged exposure. Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) officials stated that the overall AQI of 355 for Patna was the average of the AQI level at DRM office Khagaul (367), Eco Park (351), Patna City (333) and BIT-Mesra, Patna (330), while the other two continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations at Planetarium and SK Memorial have encountered technical snag. In Muzaffarpur, air monitoring station at the collectorate recorded AQI at 415, which is in severe category. The prominent pollutant in Bihar is PM2.5 (particulate matter less than 2.5 micron) and PM10 (particulate matter 10 microns). Pradhan Parth Sarthi, professor of environmental science at Central University of South Bihar (CUSB), said Bihar has been witnessing calm weather from the last 3-4 days — no wind movement, minimum difference between day and night temperatures and cloudy conditions due to western disturbance. “Because of all these climatic reasons, the pollutants in the Gangetic plains starting from Uttar Pradesh up to Bihar, has been trapped,” he said. Sarthi told this newspaper that the pollutants would disperse only when the temperature decreases with height or windy conditions. “If both are absent, then temperature increases with height, which we call temperature inversion. This is a common phenomenon during the winter,” he said. Senior program officer of Centre for Environment and Energy Development (CEED), Ankita Jyoti, said the thermal inversion (soil is cooler than the air) has lowered the vertical wind movement causing very low dispersion of pollutants, especially particulate matters. “Vehicular pollution, domestic burning, dust and construction activities contribute to the bad air,” she said. A report in Lancet journal recently underlined that states across Indo-Gangetic Plain, including Bihar, endure maximum exposure to particulate matters, with an annual mean concentration of more than 100 units, while the international safe limit for PM2.5 exposure remains 10 units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-muzaffarpur-among-4-most-polluted-cities/articleshow/80120787.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 6, 2021||Patna||38,000 to be vaccinated in Patna in Phase I||PATNA: The state government is awaiting the Centre’s nod to start Covid-19 vaccination drive as the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) has approved emergency use of two vaccines – Oxford’s ‘Covishield’ manufactured by the Serum Institute and indigenously-developed ‘Covaxin’ of Bharat Biotech. The health department has planned to vaccinate 4,39,663 healthcare and frontline workers in the first phase. Altogether 38,267 frontline workers will be vaccinated in Patna district alone. Manoj Kumar, special secretary-cum-executive director of State Health Society, said the vaccination drive would start as soon as the Centre gives its green signal. “We are expecting that the drive would begin within a week. In the first phase, health workers from government and private hospitals as well as community and primary health centres will be covered in the state,” he said. Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari Singh said arrangements are being made to vaccinate 38,267 health workers, including those at government and private health facilities and staff deployed as Covid-19 frontline workers in the first phase. “Arrangements for storing equipment like ice-lined refrigerator (ILR), vaccine carriers and ice packs are being made at health centres in the district. We are making all preparations at government hospitals, superspecialty hospitals and primary health centres for vaccination. A three-day training programme for district immunization officers, data operators and evaluation and monitoring officers began on Tuesday,” the civil surgeon said. The officers and others are being trained on proper storage of vaccines, immunisation of targeted groups and data entry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/38k-to-be-vaccinated-in-patna-in-phase-i/articleshow/80121785.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 6, 2021||Patna||Bihar: JD(U), BJP take a dig at Congress, Shaktisinh Gohil||PATNA: The ruling JD(U) and BJP on Tuesday attacked the Congress after its Bihar incharge Shaktisinh Gohil’s request to the party high command to relieve him from the post and, instead, allocate him some lighter responsibility. The Rajya Sabha member himself revealed it through a tweet on Monday. The development came nearly three months after the announcement of Bihar assembly election results. Gohil had earlier sent his resignation letter to the party high command owning responsibility for the party's dismal performance in the assembly elections. However, his resignation was not accepted. JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said, “Gohil has offered to relinquish the post of Bihar incharge due to the party’s drubbings in the elections. Congress has lost its support base in the state and the internal conflict within the party is at its peak. Gohil wants to quit the post as he has been made a scapegoat.” BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand said Congress has virtually ceased to exist on the ground. “The party is running short of workers. Its presence is limited to social media platforms,” he said. Gohil was made incharge of Bihar affairs of the party in April 2018, a year before the Lok Sabha polls. However, Congress failed to perform on expected lines in both the Lok Sabha and state assembly polls. In 2020 assembly elections, Congress could win only 19 of the 70 seats it had contested. Some party leaders, however, attributed the reason for Gohil’s move to his ill health. “He was tested positive for Covid-19 in November last year. Though Gohil recovered from the virus, he is not keeping well since then,” Congress spokesperson Rajesh Rathod said. Rathod said not only the leaders, but workers of the party are equally responsible for poor show in the assembly elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-bjp-take-a-dig-at-congress-gohil/articleshow/80121682.cms||Ramashankar
January 6, 2021||Patna||Home guard jawan shot dead in Bihar's Gopalganj||PATNA: Two bike-borne unidentified criminals shot dead home guard jawan Bhola Singh (57) over land dispute at village Ekderwa under Town police station area in Gopalganj on Tuesday morning. Police said Bhola was shot five times near his residence around 10am when he was going for his duty on a bike. Soon after the incident, irate villagers blocked the national highway near Chainpatti, which resulted in long traffic jam for several hours. Sadar SDPO Naresh Paswan told TOI over the phone that the blockade was lifted after pacifying the agitating villagers. Paswan said criminals had attacked Bhola on November 26, 2019, also but he had managed to survive the gunshot injuries. “That incident was also related to the same land dispute. One person was arrested while another was still absconding in that case,” he said. Town police station SHO Prashant Kumar said the deceased had a land dispute with co-villager Sanjay Singh (40) for a long time. “Bhola was trying to sell the plot owned by him to someone. However, Sanjay was pressuring the jawan to sell it to him instead. This was the cause of enmity between the two,” he said. The SHO said the jawan was rushed to the hospital but doctors declared him dead. “He had moved hardly 400 metres away from his residence when the criminals on another bike incepted him and opened fire,” he said. Kumar said Bhola had received multiple gunshot injuries in chest, resulting in his death on the spot. He said that raids were on to arrest Sanjay, who was also involved in the previous attack on Bhola. Meanwhile, in another incident, a trader was shot dead while purchasing vegetables near Chainpur post office under Town police station area of Bhabhua in Kaimur on Monday evening. SHO Ramanand Mandal said the deceased was identified as Nitish Kumar (28). He owned a cellphone shop near the post office. “He was purchasing vegetables with one of his relatives at around 8.10pm when two youths on a bike reached there. One of them pulled out a pistol and shot Nitish in the head, resulting in his immediate death,” he said. Mandal said the investigation revealed that Nitish, who was married, had an illicit relation with another woman. “Police suspect the killing was a fallout of the illicit relation. Nitish’s nephew Ram Sundar Prasad has name two persons as accused in the FIR, but has not cited any reason,” he said.  He said both the accused were evading arrest and raids were on to nab them. Mandal said the body was handed over to family after postmortem on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/home-guard-jawan-shot-dead-in-gganj/articleshow/80120533.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 6, 2021||Patna||Motihari likely to get medical college and hospital||MOTIHARI: The East Champaran district administration has sent a feasibility report to the state government for establishment of the proposed government medical college and hospital at Motihari. The development comes in the wake of Union health and family welfare ministry asking the state government to send a detailed proposal regarding establishment of a medical college and hospital at Motihari. Motihari MLA Pramod Kumar said he had met Union health minister Harsh Vardhan in New Delhi and submitted a memorandum to him for establishment of a government medical college at Motihari after the name of Mahatma Gandhi. “The health minister said over 60 lakh people would be able to get better medical facilities after opening of the medical college and hospital at Motihari,” the MLA said. “There is sufficient land on the campus of Motihari sadar hospital for construction of a medical college and hospital,” said Dr Shambhu Sikariya, former chairman of Motihari Nagar Parishad. East Champaran civil surgeon Dr Akhileshwar Prasad Singh said after the earthquake in 1934, a new and modern building of Motihari sadar hospital was constructed on 35 acres of land. “New buildings of paramedical college and general auxiliary midwife nursing college have already been constructed with an expenditure of Rs 23 crore. Admissions and teaching would start at these colleges soon,” the civil surgeon added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/motihari-likely-to-get-med-college-and-hosp/articleshow/80120584.cms||Chandra Bhushan Pandey
January 6, 2021||Kolkata||In crisis, Kolkata's e-bus comes to the rescue of WBTC||KOLKATA: The city’s e-bus fleet has been salvaging the situation by meeting travel demands of commuters at a time when state transport undertakings (STUs), like West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC), cut down their fleets of fuel-guzzling AC and non-AC buses because of spiralling bills. Electric buses, which are powered by rechargeable lithium ion batteries, are running at optimum capacities to meet the heightened demand. A large number of private buses have also gone off the roads due to non-viability of operations. Highlighting the benefits of e-bus, a transport department officer said, “While the expenditure for non-AC buses is Rs 35 per kilometre, for AC buses it is Rs 50. But for an electric bus, the expenditure is as low as Rs 12/km. With the WBTC going through a rough patch, an electric bus gives major relief. Add to that the immense environmental benefits.” WBTC, which met the city’s commute demands during the lockdown, ran into huge debts because of low earnings from fares, ferrying migrant labourers to their homes and ferrying frontline health workers. Even during the unlock period, the earning from fares was much lower compared to pre-lockdown revenue. During the pre-lockdown days, WBTC used to earn Rs 53 lakh a day from fares. This dropped to Rs 27 lakh and the unpaid fuel bill rose to Rs 5 crore. Out of its fleet size of over 800 buses on the road, only 300-400 buses run daily. Under these circumstances, the full fleet of 75 e-buses have come in handy. WBTC has already started installing rooftop solar power plants for producing electricity for its charging facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-crisis-e-bus-comes-to-the-rescue-of-wbtc/articleshow/80122261.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
January 6, 2021||Trichy||Procurement for Pongal gift hamper helps sugarcane farmers avert loss||TRICHY: The government’s inclusion of one whole sugarcane instead of the customary one piece in the Pongal gift hamper has come as a boon for cane farmers this year. Since it is raining in most parts of the state, farmers said bulk procurement of their produce by the cooperative department for the gift hamper has helped them avert possible losses. Meanwhile, a section of them have appealed to the government to fix the price at Rs 20 per cane which will only be reasonable. Pongal cane is cultivated in parts of Trichy, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Pudukottai districts. In Pudukottai alone, farmers have cultivated sugarcane in about 3,000 acres this year. Altogether farmers take up cane cultivation in around 7,000 acres in the central region. Usually, they sell the sugarcane in the open market. Till last year, a piece of cane was distributed to ration cardholders along with gift bag, which means one whole cane was shared among three cardholders. In all, 32.45 lakh sugarcanes will be procured to distribute to cardholders in the central region. With cooperative department officials procuring canes from farmers at their field, the government’s initiative has helped many cane farmers, said the Tiruvarur district secretary of Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam affiliated to CPI, P S Masilamani. P Sugumaran, a farmer from Tiruvaiyaru in Thanjavur district said cane farmers incurred heavy loss since the crop was cultivated in huge areas last year and they could not get a reasonable price. “Unlike last year, the area of cane cultivation is less this year. Had it not rained, farmers would have made more profit. Intermittent rain shattered their hopes forcing them to grab the opportunity offered by the government,” he opined. V Jayabal, a cane farmer from Thiruvalarsolai in Trichy, said they usually sell sugarcane for Rs 18 to Rs 20 to private traders. But the government offered only Rs 15 per cane. By this time last year, he had sold the entire produce cultivated on two acres, which was not the case this year, he said.  “No trader approached me to procure canes and rain is the main reason for the situation. So, instead of throwing the canes in the garbage, I preferred to sell my produce to the cooperative department. No profit and no loss for me,” Jayabal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/procurement-for-pongal-gift-hamper-helps-sugarcane-farmers-avert-loss/articleshow/80123351.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
January 6, 2021||Patna||Track doubling work gains pace in Bihar & Jharkhand||PATNA: Railways has set a deadline for completion of various ongoing projects this year. Work on these projects is going on in full swing at different places falling under the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR) in Bihar and Jharkhand. A team of railway experts have been assigned the task to strictly monitor quality at these working sites. According to ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, the track-doubling work between Patliputra Junction and Pahleza Ghat will be completed this year to ease traffic movement on the route. “Railways has also set the target to complete the 160 km-long track doubling work between Ramna and Singhrauli this year utilising an estimated outlay of Rs 2,436crore, out of which 11 km stretch on this particular route will be completed this month,” the CPRO said adding there is also a target to complete the 11km stretch of the track- doubling work between Nagar Untari and Birhamganj in Jharkhand . “Giving a momentum to track-doubling work in the ECR region, railways will expedite works on Kataria– Kursela (seven km), Mahesi—Chakia (nine km), Sugauli–Majhaulia (12km), Chamua–Harinagar (eight km) and Narkatiaganj—Sathi (eight km ) this year,” Rajesh said. Apart from this, the railways is carrying out gauge conversion (GC) work worth over Rs 1,475 crore at different places in the state . “A deadline has been set to complete the GC work on the Tamuria–Ghoghardiha–Nirmali and Raghopur–Partapganj routes latest by March, 2021,” the CPRO said. Elaborating on the work to be done in track electrification works, the CPRO said: “Railways will complete track electrification work between Dildarnagar and Tarighat (19km) route this year under the Danapur division. The ECR has so far saved about Rs 471 crore on diesel cost by switching over to track- electrification work and hauling of passenger trains more by electric locomotives.” Under the ‘Make in India’ venture, railways has set the target to produce more electric and diesel locomotives at the Madhepura Electric Locomotive Factory and Marhaura Diesel Locomotive Factory in Bihar this year. “Despite constraints and lockdown, the Madhepura Electric Locomotive Factory had produced 62 locomotives, while the Marhaura Diesel Locomotive Factory located in Saran district has manufactured 261 diesel locomotives since 2019,” the CPRO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/track-doubling-work-gains-pace-in-state-jharkhand/articleshow/80121065.cms||Kumod Verma
January 6, 2021||Patna||Jai Prakash University convocation likely soon||CHHAPRA: Jai Prakash University (JPU) in Chhapra is likely to organize its sixth convocation through the virtual mode between January 15 and 20. The programme is expected to be held in the senate hall of the university after the chancellor’s nod. According to JPU’s public relations officer (PRO) Harishchandra, vice-chancellor Faruque Ali has already inspected the renovated senate hall and is satisfied with the progress so far. He has directed the officials concerned to get the work completed before the sixth convocation ceremony. “We will display a list of toppers, who will receive gold medals in different faculties,” the PRO said. Meanwhile, the university is gearing up for the examinations to be conducted on January 5 and 8. “The halls will be sanitized and social distancing norms and other Covid safety protocols strictly followed,” the PRO told this newspaper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jpu-convocation-likely-soon/articleshow/80120889.cms||H K Verma
January 6, 2021||Patna||Covid claims 7 more lives in Bihar||PATNA: The state’s Covid caseload jumped to 2,54,689 on Tuesday with 411 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. Seven fresh deaths in the last 24 hours, on the other hand, took the state’s toll to 1,415. Five more people have succumbed to the virus in Patna, taking the district’s toll to 387. Begusarai and Darbhanga districts have recorded one death each. At least 4,178 people are still battling the virus in the state. According to the health department, 2,49,096 people have so far recovered from the virus in Bihar, taking the state’s recovery to 97.8%. In fact, the state’s recovery rate is 1.48% higher than the national average of 96.32%. At least 95,019 new samples were tested at different health facilities and laboratories in the state in the last 24 hours. So far, 1,87,97,683 samples have been tested in the state since the outbreak of the virus in March last year. At All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P), six more patients have succumbed to the virus, including a 74-year-old man from Barh Bazaar in Patna. The other victims were a 62-year-old woman from Rupaspur, a 79-year-old woman from Kankarbagh in Patna, a 65-year-old woman from Ghousi in Jehanabad, a 65-year-old man from Chandouli in Samastipur and a 70-year-old woman from Radhakrishna Nagar in Jehanabad. AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 10 patients were admitted to the hospital and four discharged on Tuesday. Among the new patients, some are from different localities of Patna like Boring Canal Road, Anisabad, Kankarbagh and Mahendru. Altogether 132 patients are undergoing treatment for Covid at AIIMS- P and 15 at NMCH. Of the 411 cases recorded in the last 24 hours, Patna accounted for 131. With this, the district’s Covid tally has risen to 49,739. However, the number of active cases in the district stood at 1,687 on Tuesday. Among other districts, Aurangabad recorded 74 fresh cases, Nalanda 17, Muzaffarpur and Nalanda 16 each, Begusarai 15, Lakhisarai and Vaishali 12 each and Samastipur 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-claims-7-more-lives-in-bihar/articleshow/80121877.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Patna||Interstate gangs involved in fraudulent bank transaction cases: Patna SSP||PATNA: Senior officers are supervising the investigation in all the five cases in which fraudulent transactions were either made successfully through forged bank cheques or forms or attempts were made to do so within a week in the state capital, Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma on Tuesday said. Sharma said the investigation into the cases indicate that different gangs were involved in, including the one operating from outside Bihar. “A DSP-rank officer in especially supervising the case in which an attempt was made to fraudulently transfer Rs11.73 crore from the government bank account with Kotak Mahindra Bank in Exhibition Road to a private bank account by RTGS method,” he said. One Shubham Kumar Gupta was arrested when he tried to transfer Rs11.73 crore from the account of district land acquisition office with Kotak Mahindra Bank branch in Exhibition Road by using forged letterheads of NHAI, Aadhaar card carrying acquisition officer Pankaj Patel’s photographs and three RTGS forms on January 2. In another case, one Vivek Kumar of Aurangabad was arrested on Monday while trying to transfer Rs4.5 crore by a forged Bank of India’s cheque of a Mumbai-based private firm issued to transfer the amount from the Fraser Road branch to another account with the main branch of the same bank in Patna. The SSP said there are several security features on cheques and the banks follow the SOPs while clearing any high-value cheques. “However, slackness on their part sometimes results in fraudulent withdrawals.” the SSP said adding that it’s the responsibility of bank authorities to verify the specific serial number of a cheque issued against a particular account. He said that police were verifying the details of the account holders in which money was to be transferred. There have been several cases of fraudulent withdrawals in recent past. A computer shop owner, Pawan Kumar, lost Rs1 lakh which was transferred fraudulently from his account by using a forged cheque on December 31. He lodged an FIR with Gandhi Maidan police station on Monday. In another incident, Rs9.75 lakh was transferred through a forged cheque from the account of a private school principal Mousumi Mohapatra from her Jakkanpur branch account of Bank of Baroda on December 30. The matter came to light on January 2 when con men deposited another forged cheque for transferring Rs6.7 lakh from Mohapatra’a account. But this time the bank officials smelt rat and contacted her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-ssp-interstate-gangs-involved-in-fraudulent-bank-transaction-cases/articleshow/80122020.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Patna||Road safety awareness drive from January 18||PATNA: The transport department will organize different programmes and educate people about traffic rules as part of a monthlong road safety awareness drive from January 18 to February 17. According to transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) has issued a calendar with a list of activities that the states can conduct during the month. Walkathons, two-wheeler rallies, seminars, felicitation programmes, recognition of road safety champions and medical and vision health camps for drivers are some of them. “Officials of the transport and road construction departments as well as police personnel will visit the accident black spots in the state on Day 1 and make a strategy for their rectification. There are around 110 black spots in Bihar and most of them are on national and state highways,” Agarwal told this newspaper, adding that new black spots would be identified and awareness created among the masses. Activities for drivers, schoolchildren and collegians will be organized and awareness camps held by NCC cadets in all the districts. Seminars on road safety and workshops on motor vehicle insurance will also be conducted during the month. Agarwal said, “We will launch a vehicle-checking drive to make sure that people wear seat belts and helmets and carry important documents across the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/road-safety-awareness-drive-from-january-18/articleshow/80121099.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 6, 2021||Business||RBI’s Rs 350cr subsidy to add 10L card machines||Mumbai: In a big boost for digital payments, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has announced a fund that will subsidise deployment of card-acceptance devices and QR codes in tier-3 to tier-6 towns and in the northeast. The Payments Infrastructure Development Fund (PIDF), which currently stands at Rs 345 crore, will go up further with contributions from banks yet to come in. The RBI has contributed Rs 250 crore to the fund, payment networks will pump in Rs 100 crore and banks will give Rs 1 for every debit card and Rs 3 for every credit card they have issued. The PIDF has a validity of three years and will target to increase the number of card swipe (point of sales, or PoS) machines by 10 lakh and the number of shops accepting QR code-based payments by 20 lakh. Priority will be given to merchants providing essential services like transport, hospitality, government payments, fuel pumps, PDS shops, healthcare and kirana stores. The RBI will subsidise 30% to 50% of the cost of a card swipe machine and between 50% and 75% of the cost of acquiring a merchant for QR code acceptance. In addition to the one-time charges, the card networks (Visa, Mastercard and RuPay) will pay 1 paisa for every transaction, while card-issuing banks will pay 1 paisa for debit card and 2 paise for every credit card transaction. This will ensure that the burden of contributing to the fund will fall equally on banks that have issued a large number of cards and those that have maximum card usage. “All schemes in the past have been targeted toward banks. Fintech and non-banks are playing a very important role, so this is a very welcome move. There are close to nine million merchants who are not accepting digital payments and who can now join the bandwagon,” said Pine Labs president and COO Nitish Asthana. According to Asthana, there is a business opportunity in the small centres and Pine Labs is already deploying 60% of its machines in small towns. Also, the non-bank could meet the requirements of the merchants for providing digital services that help them reconcile their accounts. “PIDF will further accelerate the financial inclusion by deepening penetration of digital payments infrastructure at last mile in tier-3 and below cities,” said Paytm vice-president Narendra Yadav. The inclusion of QR code in the acceptance infrastructure will benefit Paytm, which is one of the biggest deployers of digital acceptance. According to Asthana, the PIDF will make banking services more accessible as merchants with PoS terminals can also act as agents of banks in small towns by allowing customers to withdraw cash using debit cards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbis-rs-350cr-subsidy-to-add-10l-card-machines/articleshow/80123906.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Trichy||Plea to set up agency to certify organic products||TRICHY: With agro-related products labelled as organic mushrooming in the market, progressive farmers engaged in organic farming and making value additions to their produce have demanded the government set up an agency to monitor and ensure the quality of such products. There is a growing awareness regarding the health benefits of a natural, balanced diet which is boosting the demand for organic products, said Prof Duraisingam, chairman of Consumer Research, Education, Action, Training and Empowerment (CREATE), an NGO. With people searching for healthy food, a number of products have been mushrooming but nobody is sure about their authenticity, he said. With no specific authority to monitor and certify organic products in the market, consumers were being taken for a ride. “Like neighbouring Kerala, the Tamil Nadu government should bring out a clear policy for organic farming framed in consultation with all stakeholders, including leading organic farmers,” he stressed. The Kerala government aims at becoming an organic state by focusing on potential crops and areas in a phased manner. The aim is to convert a minimum of 10% of cultivable land into organic entirely every year and achieve the target in five to 10 years, he said. He urged the state government to set up a special procurement centre for traditional paddy varieties and ensure their distribution to the general public through the PDS. “Considering the safe and nutritional security of school children, the state government should also take steps to include traditional rice varieties in noon-meal programme. State should procure traditional paddy seeds from farmers and redistribute them to a large number of farmers at subsidized rate,” he further stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/plea-to-set-up-agency-to-certify-organic-products/articleshow/80123358.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
January 6, 2021||Erode||TNAU launches high-yielding sunflower variety||COIMBATORE: For many farmers who are looking to make a quick buck in the short term in between their cotton, sugarcane or vegetable cultivation, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University has come up with its latest hybrid variety of sunflower. The hybrid variety of seeds were released in 2019. They can be grown in rainfed areas and are moderately disease resistant. TNAU scientists said demand for sunflower oil is high due to its nutritional benefits. Currently, India imports most of its sunflower oil from Ukraine, Russia and Argentina. The latest variety of sunflower COH3 has 42% oil content, and can provide a yield of 716 kg per hectare. “The 90-day duration of this variety requires some irrigation, but it can grow in rainfed areas like Namakkal, Erode, Karur, Virudhunagar and Coimbatore,” said Vishwanathan, a scientist at TNAU. “The yield is almost 200 kg to 250 kg higher than traditional varieties,” he said. It can be grown during the Kharif and Rabi season after the monsoon begins, even if the rainfall is below par. Farmers can expect returns of Rs 30 to Rs 50 per kg of oilseed depending on the market. “This is in the seed stage. This variety is also moderately resistant to crop diseases such as necrosis, powdery mildew and alternia and tolerant to insects like sucking pests and leaf feeders. While oilseeds are cultivated in Coimbatore it is dominated by groundnut, which is cultivated across 3,332 hectares of farmland. It is followed by gingelly, which is cultivated across hardly 170 hectares and castor which is cultivated across hardly 15 hectares. Sunflower, however, is not cultivated on an abundant scale in the region. “For farmers who are considering cultivating a cash crop, which does not require much water, because the North East monsoon rainfall is lower than normal this year, can consider sunflower,” said S Geetha, director for centre for plant breeding and genetics. Sunflower is supposed to be good for the heart, because it contains phytochemicals like choline and phenolic acid and lowers cholesterol, making many cardiologists recommend that their patients shift to olive oil or sunflower oil for cooking. In fact, this is what prompted the university to come up with this hybrid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tnau-launches-high-yielding-sunflower-variety/articleshow/80128222.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Business||Exim Bank’s $1 billion bonds sold in 3 hours||MUMBAI: Exim Bank has raised the first foreign borrowing for 2020 with a $1-billion fund-raise by issuing 10-year bonds. The institution, which is rated on a par with the government, managed to raise funds at 2.25% — a record low. Exim’s bond issue was launched early morning in eastern markets (Hong Kong and Singapore) and within three hours was over-subscribed twice. The bank then tightened the initial price guidance by 40 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point). At close, with US investors also coming in, the issue was oversubscribed by more than 3.5 times. Several high-quality issuers had to settle for less than their requested allocations. In terms of geographic distribution, the bonds were distributed 55% in Asia, 29% in the US and 16% from the EMEA (Europe, Middle East & Africa) region. In terms of distribution, the bonds were picked up by high-quality investors with around 68% going to fund managers, 17% to sovereign wealth funds, central banks & insurance companies, 14% to banks and 1% to private banks & others. Speaking to TOI, Exim Bank MD David Rasquinha said that the institution has a large pipeline of projects that it funds, the largest of which is a $1.6-billion loan for a power project in Bangladesh. “Unlike banks, we provide only medium to long -term financing because we do not have access to short-term funds. Our loans range from three years to 20 years,” said Rasquinha. He added that short-term export trends do not impact the business of Exim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/exim-banks-1bn-bonds-sold-in-3-hrs/articleshow/80123071.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Pune||School faces probe for failing 3 Std IX pupils||PUNE: Officers from the Pune Municipal Corporation’s education board visited the Hutchings High School and Junior College on Tuesday after three standard IX students were not promoted by the school in the academic year 2019-20, and their parents registered a complaint with the education department. The parents alleged that the school had been failing their wards for the last three to four years. One of them told TOI, “They have been failed deliberately and in every year since standard V. We have met the education officers and the school’s representatives to resolve the matter. This year, the school took a retest online, and the authorities alleged that our children were copying. We sought proof from them which they did not give us. So, we filed a police complaint which led nowhere. Hence, we approached the education department once again.” Another affected parent said,“The school has a grudge against us as we had filed a petition against it a few years ago . We forgot about it, but the school is getting back at us by failing our children.” When contacted, Hutchings principal Rita Katawati, said the three children had been performing poorly in their classes in the past four or five years. “The RTE guidelines forbid us from demoting them and they were sent to higher classes. But, we cannot do the same in standard IX if the children are not up to the mark. So, the parents approached the education department and it was jointly decided to conduct an online retest. In this retest, our proctored software caught them copying. The evidence and videos have been submitted to the police,” she added. Katawati also said the education officers visited the school on Tuesday, and they got some experts to analyse the results and the papers written by these students. “We have submitted all the documents to the education officers and they are free to make a decision. If they feel that the students should still be promoted we will do that too, but the education office must take responsibility and give the consent in writing to the school,” she added. Education officer K D Bhujbal, who visited the school, along with two others, said based on the complaints raised by the parents, they went with three expert teachers from another renowned school to check the papers. “The inquiry went on till Tuesday evening and based on the documents submitted by the school and a report by the three experts, we will decide soon,” Bhujbal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/school-faces-probe-for-failing-3-std-ix-pupils/articleshow/80122285.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 6, 2021||Dehradun||Licence must for keeping pet at home in Doon||Dehradun: Imposing mandatory licence for keeping pets at home, Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) will carry out a survey to ensure compliance, the civic body's officials have said. In case any owner fails to produce a licence, initially a Rs 500 fine will be charged which can go up to Rs 5,000 in case of repeat offence, the officials added. The DMC had started issuing licence to pet owners in 2014, but since then, only a few have registered their pets. Now, the department has formed four teams which will conduct surveys in all the 100 wards of the city to ensure that the licencing norms are followed. For getting a pet registered, the owners need to fill up a form available at DMC office and submit it along with the record of rabies vaccination. An annual fee of Rs 200 will be charged for issuing a licence for keeping a pet at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/licence-must-for-keeping-pet-at-home-in-doon/articleshow/80121052.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Pune||Parents work backstage as children hog the limelight||By: Anjali JhangianiPUNE: Parents are teaming up with their wards to participate in an online children’s theatre festival, where kids will be performing plays based on the 13th century satirist Mulla Naseeruddin. The festival gives parents and other household members a chance to take up roles in supporting capacities such as backstage artists, light persons and costume designers with the kids taking centre stage as actors. “Plays based on six stories will be staged. These are Poshakh Ki Izzat, Badshah Ke Teen Sawaal, Kissa Andhe Bhikari Ka, Marizon Ka Ilaaj, Khoja Ki Buddhimani and Mulla Ka Mukadama ,” said Dhanashree Heblikar, creative director at city-based Swatantra Theatre. The plays will be streamed on YouTube from January 7-10. Jyoti Nahata, mother of a child actor from Kondhwa, said, “We had to make a backdrop for my son’s performance.He had very good suggestions which we implemented while preparing the backdrop for his performance at home.” Aishwariya Raigaonkar, the father of a child actor from Baner, said, “As parents, we did everything from tech support to costume design for our eight-year-old daughter. She required a complete white background for her performance, but since the walls in our house are coloured, we purchased sheets of blank white paper and pasted it on the walls.Working together on this creative project has made her confident about her skills.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/parents-work-backstage-as-children-hog-the-limelight/articleshow/80122311.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Agra||Agra: Minor boy ‘creates’ fake FB account of teacher, ‘projects her as an escort’||AGRA: A Class XI student of an English medium school who allegedly created a fake social media profile of a teacher, "projecting her as an escort and posted her cell phone number along with her edited photograph" was detained along with his cousin in Agra on Tuesday. The minor was sent to a juvenile home while his 22-year-old cousin whose SIM card the boy had used to access the internet was remanded to judicial custody, said police. Agra cybercrime officer Vijay Tomar said the boy told them that he had “created the profile of his tuition teacher to harass her”. “It’s clear that the boy wanted to harass and defame the 35-year-old teacher. However, it’s still not clear as to what provoked him to do so,” Tomar told TOI. The student had reportedly taken maths tuition classes at the teacher’s house for almost a month, but later she "refused to teach him due to his odd behaviour”. “The teacher, however, started getting calls after her fake profile was created. Her WhatsApp display picture (DP) was edited and used for creating a fake Facebook id. Her FB profile had the information that ‘she charges Rs 1,500 per night as an escort’,” said Tomar. Senior superintendent of police Babloo Kumar told TOI that when the woman was flooded with inappropriate calls, she lodged a complaint with police. The duo was booked under sections 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and appropriate sections of the Information Technology Act at Jagdishpura police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/minor-boy-creates-fake-fb-account-of-teacher-projects-her-as-an-escort/articleshow/80121053.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 6, 2021||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Man, daughter murder youth who stabbed them with knife||COIMBATORE: A village panchayat vice-president’s wife and her father murdered a 25-year-old youth near Periyamathampalayam on Monday night when the youth stabbed them during a quarrel. The injured, Thulasimani, 38, and her father Nagaraj, 62, from Periyamathampalayam near Periyanaickenpalayam, were admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) and their health condition is critical, a police officer said. Police said the deceased, P Sureshkumar, of Netaji Nagar at Samanaickenpalayam near Periyanaickenpalayam, was working in a chicken shop owned by Thulasimani’s husband Ganeshan, 42, from Samanaickenpalayam. Ganeshan, a DMK member and vice-president of Vellamadai village panchayat, fired Sureshkumar after he discovered that the latter was passing on information about his whereabouts to his wife. Ganeshan used to consume liquor with his friends, which his wife disliked and often picked up fight with him over it. Aggrieved Sureshkumar consumed liquor on Monday night and went to see Thulasimani at her parents’ house. He asked her to help him to get his job back and when she refused, he started quarrelling with her, the officer said. Suddenly, he took out a knife from his pocket and stabbed Thulasimani on her abdomen and back. Her father Nagaraj, who tried to stop Sureshkumar, was also stabbed by the him. Nagaraj managed to overpower him and pushed him down. Nagaraj, with help of his daughter, then took a stone and smashed Sureshkumar’s head. Sureshkumar died on the spot, the officer added. Neighbours informed the Periyanaickenpalayam police, who reached the spot and sent the body to the CMCH for postmortem. The body was handed over to Sureshkumar’s kin on Tuesday evening. Based on a complaint from Pilichi VAO Kumar, police registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-daughter-murder-youth-who-stabbed-them-with-knife/articleshow/80123388.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Goa||19 UK returnees, contacts test -ve for new strain||Panaji: An additional 19 UK returnees and their contacts, who were isolated at the ESI hospital, Margao, tested negative for the new strain of Covid-19. They were discharged on Tuesday after their reports were received from the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. The last admission at ESI hospital was on Monday night of a Covid-19 positive UK returnee from North Goa. There are presently 29 UK returnees and their contacts under isolation at ESI hospital who are awaiting their reports from NIV Pune. A total of 34 travellers and their contacts have been discharged till date after they were not found to be carrying the new strain of coronavirus. Of the 979 UK returnees who arrived in the state since December 9, a total of 63 were isolated at ESI hospital. Health minister Vishwajit Rane had last week said that there has been a lot of pressure to discharge those at ESI hospital on home isolation. “These patients will be in ESI hospital till all results are received.There’s no question of any minister or MLA calling to get a patient discharged,” he had said.  The ESI hospital at present only has the UK returnees and their contacts who tested positive for Covid-19, who are being accommodated on two floors of the hospital. During the peak of the pandemic, five floors of the hospital were being used to accommodate the patients. Other Covid positive patients who require hospitalisation are admitted to South Goa district hospital and Goa Medical College, Bambolim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/19-uk-returnees-contacts-test-ve-for-new-strain/articleshow/80124477.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Pune||Folk artists to stage stir outside DM’s office||Pune: A collective of tamasha and jatra troupes across Maharashtra will stage a fast-unto-death agitation outside the Pune district magistrate’s office from Friday, demanding that they be allowed to perform in rural areas. The collective, named the Loknatya Tamasha Fad Va Kalavant Vikas Sangh, based in Narayangaon, held a press conference in the city on Monday. Veteran tamasha and folk theatre artists Raghuvir Khedkar and Mangala Bansode highlighted the “dire” conditions of their folk art forms and demanded that the state government allow performances to happen. “I don’t understand why only tamashas, jatras, and loknatyas have still remain banned from all performances when all other activities seem to have started in one form or the other. Theatres in the cities are staging performances, weddings are happening where almost no one is wearing masks or maintaining social distancing, and protests are also going on. We perform in small towns and villages and are prepared to hold performances maintaining all precautions,” Khedkar said. He added that the tamasha and folk theatre troupes in the state would request the government of Maharashtra to restore the grant to the industry to help them stay afloat after several months of inactivity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/folk-artists-to-stage-stir-outside-dms-office/articleshow/80122302.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Dehradun||Edu dept bans college classes through WhatsApp||Dehradun: The state higher education department has issued an order prohibiting the running of classes through Whatsapp. The order states that the lectures will be live-streamed for the students of degree colleges of Uttarakhand. However, the video recording of the lectures can be shared on on Whatsapp for the students who have missed out the live streaming. According to the department, the order will be implemented on all state degree colleges including those who haven’t been connected with 4G connectivity. The order was issued especially after several complaints from students regarding difficulties in understanding their academic lessons through Whatsapp. The students emphasised the need for online streaming of the lectures in order to help them in understanding their academic lessons with better clarity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/edu-dept-bans-college-classes-through-whatsapp/articleshow/80121064.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 9 days on, mystery shrouds death of multiplex worker||AHMEDABAD: Nine days have passed since Navrangpura police found the body of a former employee of the City Gold multiplex on Ashram Road from its basement, but cops are yet to get a clue as to whether this was murder, which is very likely, or an accidental death. Police sources said Inspector P B Desai of Navrangpura police had taken up the investigation and began collecting CCTV footage in the case. He had just learned that the deceased, Shailesh Thakor, 25, who was from Balasinor, had entered the complex on December 22 and never came out. However, the cops did not find any other clues, from CCTV footage or by questioning other workers, that would suggest whether Thakor had a fight with someone. “Thakor had come to the multiplex to get salary dues of Rs 9,000 on December 22 from his contractor and the multiplex owners. He was not entertained by any of them after which he decided to stay there till he got his salary. He then went to the basement area and was never seen again,” said a source in police. A cop said the way his body was found, at the base of an elevator shaft, suggests that he was killed and dumped there. Thakor’s postmortem report also suggests he was hit on the head with a blunt object. The report also said that from the state of rigor mortis, he had died three to four days ago before the body was found on December 26. Inspector P B Desai of Navrangpura police was not available for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/9-days-on-mystery-shrouds-death-of-multiplex-worker/articleshow/80122321.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Madurai||Bird flu: Tight vigil at Kerala border||COIMBATORE/MADURAI: The state animal husbandry department has increased vigil at checkposts at the Tamil Nadu–Kerala interstate borders and poultry farms in Namakkal following the outbreak of bird flu in Kerala. Vehicles entering Tamil Nadu from Kerala were closely monitored from Tuesday morning in border checkposts in Coimbatore, Tirupur, Nilgiris, Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli and Theni districts. While vehicles carrying poultry were prohibited entry, other vehicles from Kerala were allowed only after fumigation. "We are checking the vehicles entering into Coimbatore from Kerala at 12 locations including Walayar, Velanthavalam, Meenakshipuram and Gopalpuram. Personnel from police department, revenue department, animal husbandry department and forest department have been deployed in each checkpost," joint director (JD) of animal husbandry department in Coimbatore Dr Perumalsamy said. While chicken is sent in large quantities from TN to Kerala, the neighbouring state sends ducks here. "We have intensified screening at all districts bordering Kerala," health secretary J Radhakrishnan said here on Tuesday. "Multiple departments are working together to prevent human transmission of the virus," he told reporters in Chennai. Bird flu has been confirmed in Allepey and Kottayam districts of Kerala and the government authorities of the neighbouring state have declared it as a state-specific disaster and issued a high alert. Similar outbreaks have been reported from Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh, worrying the poultry farmers in Namakkal, the egg and chicken production hub. "We are spraying disinfectants on all vehicles coming from other states," P V Senthil, an egg exporter in Namakkal, said. Similarly, vehicles going out from the farms also were fumigated. Precautions have also been put in place for workers in poultry farms. "The workers should soak their foot in the disinfectant liquid while entering the farm and have to use hand gloves, face masks and aprons during their working hours," Senthil said. In Kanyakumari, another key entry point from Kerala, teams comprising a veterinarian, a livestock inspector, attender and two assistants to spray chlorine dioxide disinfectants were stationed at the checkposts. Animal Husbandry officials said that they would continue the exercise for 90 days and shall extend it further if needed. The officials are coordinating with the forest department to check if migratory birds visiting places such as Kariyamanikapuram near Suchindram in Kanyakumari are infected. At the Puliyarai checkpost in Tenkasi district, vehicles returning after unloading chicken in Kerala were disinfected. "We have been instructed not to take pending stock of unsold birds from Kerala or ducks brought from Kerala for sale in or through Tamil Nadu," veterinarian A Jayapalraj said. In Theni district, vehicles carrying vegetables are being properly disinfected when they return empty after unloading in Kerala. Camps have been set up at Cumbummettu and Bodimettu checkposts to monitor vehicles entering Tamil Nadu. Staff members at the AHD dispensaries and clinics have been asked to stay alert if farmers reported mass illness or deaths of birds in the bordering district. Explaining that the flu – H5N8 (Avian influenza) - is commonly found in migratory birds, an animal husbandry official said that they are monitoring water bodies where migratory birds flock. "We are also closely watching the backyard poultry farms in villages," he added. The officials have been collecting 200 samples – blood or droppings in case of domestic birds and droppings in case of migratory birds - every month and send it to a testing laboratory in Erode to ensure that birds are not affected by any virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bird-flu-high-alert-on-interstate-borders/articleshow/80128193.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Rajkot||Rajkot woman files harassment complaint against NRI husband||RAJKOT: A Rajkot-based woman with a Ph D in human rights has filed a complaint against her NRI husband based in Canada and his family members in the city, with the Mahila Police Station accusing them of harassment and demanding dowry. The complainant Gora Ghodasara stated in her FIR that she had married Nirav Ghodasara, who was 10 years younger to her, in in January 2017. It was an arranged marriage but they both knew each other for many years. It was also an intercaste marriage. Nirav belongs to Patel community while Gora is a Brahmin. According to Gora her husband went back to Canada within a week of their marriage and she started living with her in-laws in Rajkot where she was mentally harassed with dowry demand. In July 2017, Gora went to Canada to live with her husband. She alleged that her husband did not want a relationship with her and asked her to take up a job. Gora further claimed that Nirav was only interested in her wealth. She stated that her father had transferred nearly Rs 45 lakh in various instalments into their joint bank account. She also alleged that Nirav had sexually assaulted her under the influence of alcohol. Then she had approached police in Canada but thereafter Nirav disappeared and sent her a divorce notice through his lawyer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-woman-files-harassment-plaint-against-nri-husband/articleshow/80121074.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra ATS takes over drugs racket probe; 6 suspects identified||PUNE: The state anti-terrorism squad (ATS) has taken over the probe into the inter-state drugs racket from the Pune railway police, after the latter seized charas (hashish) valued at Rs1.03 crore in the international market from a Himachal Pradesh-based businessman and his driver on December 19. The racket is suspected to be active in 11 districts in Maharashtra and 22 states across the country. The state director-general of police, on the recommendation of the Pune railway superintendent of police, passed an order on December 26 last year transferring the investigations to the state ATS, Vikhroli unit. Inspector Sureshsingh Goud of the Pune railway police on Tuesday said, “Acting on the information revealed during the questioning of the arrested businessman, Lalitkumar Dayanand Sharma, and his driver, Kaulsingh Rupsingh Singh, a team from the railway police and the ATS jointly conducted probes in Pune, Mumbai, Goa, Bengaluru and Himachal Pradesh to unearth the racket. We established identity of six men involved in transporting charas to known persons on commission for selling it to customers in the local market.” Goud said, “Investigations revealed the suspects on the run would collect ganja plants grown on hills in places like Kulu, convert them into charas and transport them to known persons. The contraband was then smuggled to receivers, who would sell them to suppliers to distribute to peddlers.” Superintendent of police (railways) Sadanand Wayse-Patil said, “The ATS is empowered to take over investigations into drugs cases registered under the NDPS Act if its gravity affects two or more states. The railway police will assist the ATS in conducting the investigations.” An ATS officer said, “We shall find out if the sale proceeds of the drugs are linked to treason, terrorism or anti-national activities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-ats-takes-over-drugs-racket-probe-6-suspects-identified/articleshow/80122319.cms||Asseem Shaikh
January 6, 2021||Agra||Medicines of common diseases out of stock at SNMC, patients suffer||Agra: Patients at SN Medical College in Agra are not getting required medicines at the hospital pharmacy. Medicines of common diseases like viral fever, allergy, diabetes, blood pressure are out of stock. Antibiotics are also unavailable. Patients are being directed to purchase medicine prescribed by doctors at the out-patient department (OPD) from private shops. According to the SNMC records, only 70 types of medicines are valuable. Around two months back, 130 types of medicines were available. On Tuesday, around 220 patients suffering from fever and body pain visited the medicine department OPD. 200 patients reported at skin department OPD and 50 at Ear-Nose-Tongue (ENT) department. Diabetic patient Mahesh Gautam said, “Doctors have recommended a dose of three medicines. I have been told that these medicines are not available in stock. Now, I will have to purchase medicines at a high cost from the market.” SNMC principal, Dr Sanjay Kala said, “We have already placed orders for supply of the out of stock medicines. Availability of all essential medicines will be ensured within this week.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/medicines-of-common-diseases-out-of-stock-at-snmc-patients-suffer/articleshow/80121061.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Goa||Moderate rain, thunderstorms likely over next three days||Panaji: A few places across the state experienced light to moderate rainfall on Tuesday. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has attributed the sudden rain activity to a trough that has developed in the Arabian Sea. “A trough in low-level easterlies at 0.9 km above mean sea-level runs from east central Arabian Sea, off the Karnataka coast, to South Maharashtra, across the Konkan region and Goa. Under its influence, light to moderate rain and formation of thunderstorms are expected over Goa. This weather pattern will prevail over the region for a couple days,” IMD scientist Shambu Ravindren said. IMD’s observation revealed that the minimum temperatures are “appreciably above normal” over North Goa and above normal over South Goa. This pattern will continue over the next four days, starting from January 5, IMD officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/moderate-rain-thunderstorms-likely-over-next-three-days/articleshow/80124480.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Pune||Maiden Ramnadi festival from Friday||Pune: Organisers of the Kirloskar Vasundhara International Film Festival (KVIFF) have decided to hold the first ever Ramnadi festival from January 8 to 10 as part of a drive to generate awareness about the river which flows through the western parts of Pune. The Ramnadi Restoration Mission (RRM), run by KVIFF, works with a number of agencies, governmental or otherwise, to restore the 19-kilometre-long Ramnadi. The festival will be held entirely online and livestreamed on KVIFF’s Facebook and YouTube pages. Five episodes of short films, made by filmmakers and environment experts, will be screened on three days of the festival, interspersed with lectures by experts on rivers. “We had planned to hold the festival in March last year. However, due to the Covid-19 pandemic we could not hold the festival then,”said Virendra Chitrav, organiser of KVIFF and Ramnadi Festival. “A number of crucial subjects about the river will be covered,” Chitrav added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maiden-ramnadi-festival-from-friday/articleshow/80122322.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Coimbatore||Bird flu: Tight vigil at Kerala border||COIMBATORE/MADURAI: The state animal husbandry department has increased vigil at checkposts at the Tamil Nadu–Kerala interstate borders and poultry farms in Namakkal following the outbreak of bird flu in Kerala. Vehicles entering Tamil Nadu from Kerala were closely monitored from Tuesday morning in border checkposts in Coimbatore, Tirupur, Nilgiris, Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli and Theni districts. While vehicles carrying poultry were prohibited entry, other vehicles from Kerala were allowed only after fumigation. "We are checking the vehicles entering into Coimbatore from Kerala at 12 locations including Walayar, Velanthavalam, Meenakshipuram and Gopalpuram. Personnel from police department, revenue department, animal husbandry department and forest department have been deployed in each checkpost," joint director (JD) of animal husbandry department in Coimbatore Dr Perumalsamy said. While chicken is sent in large quantities from TN to Kerala, the neighbouring state sends ducks here. "We have intensified screening at all districts bordering Kerala," health secretary J Radhakrishnan said here on Tuesday. "Multiple departments are working together to prevent human transmission of the virus," he told reporters in Chennai. Bird flu has been confirmed in Allepey and Kottayam districts of Kerala and the government authorities of the neighbouring state have declared it as a state-specific disaster and issued a high alert. Similar outbreaks have been reported from Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh, worrying the poultry farmers in Namakkal, the egg and chicken production hub. "We are spraying disinfectants on all vehicles coming from other states," P V Senthil, an egg exporter in Namakkal, said. Similarly, vehicles going out from the farms also were fumigated. Precautions have also been put in place for workers in poultry farms. "The workers should soak their foot in the disinfectant liquid while entering the farm and have to use hand gloves, face masks and aprons during their working hours," Senthil said. In Kanyakumari, another key entry point from Kerala, teams comprising a veterinarian, a livestock inspector, attender and two assistants to spray chlorine dioxide disinfectants were stationed at the checkposts. Animal Husbandry officials said that they would continue the exercise for 90 days and shall extend it further if needed. The officials are coordinating with the forest department to check if migratory birds visiting places such as Kariyamanikapuram near Suchindram in Kanyakumari are infected. At the Puliyarai checkpost in Tenkasi district, vehicles returning after unloading chicken in Kerala were disinfected. "We have been instructed not to take pending stock of unsold birds from Kerala or ducks brought from Kerala for sale in or through Tamil Nadu," veterinarian A Jayapalraj said. In Theni district, vehicles carrying vegetables are being properly disinfected when they return empty after unloading in Kerala. Camps have been set up at Cumbummettu and Bodimettu checkposts to monitor vehicles entering Tamil Nadu. Staff members at the AHD dispensaries and clinics have been asked to stay alert if farmers reported mass illness or deaths of birds in the bordering district. Explaining that the flu – H5N8 (Avian influenza) - is commonly found in migratory birds, an animal husbandry official said that they are monitoring water bodies where migratory birds flock. "We are also closely watching the backyard poultry farms in villages," he added. The officials have been collecting 200 samples – blood or droppings in case of domestic birds and droppings in case of migratory birds - every month and send it to a testing laboratory in Erode to ensure that birds are not affected by any virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bird-flu-high-alert-on-interstate-borders/articleshow/80123417.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gasp! Ahmedabad has most polluted air in the country||AHMEDABAD: This is one record that Amdavadis could have done without. The city registered an overall Air Quality Index (AQI) of 276 on Tuesday -- the highest in the entire country, according to the System of Air Quality Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). Officials, who blamed increased traffic for the situation, warned that the city is less likely to see a drastic improvement on Wednesday as they expect AQI levels to be around 256. Safar categorises levels of PM2.5 (particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) in the 201-300 range as poor. People with heart or lung diseases and the elderly are advised to avoid heavy exertion and outdoor activity. PM2.5 is measured in micrograms per cubic metre. Among the locations in the city monitored by SAFAR, airport area registered the highest concentration of PM 2.5 with AQI of 342. Raikhad followed with 316. Lekhwada, too, recorded PM 2.5 of more than 300. Bopal area registered the lowest PM 2.5 at 180, revealed SAFAR data. Compared to this, not a single area in Delhi and Pune had AQI levels above 250. In Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Mazagaon recovered over 300 AQI but it was still lower than that recorded at Airport and Lekhwada areas here. Higher concentration of PM 2.5 causes the air to appear hazy and reduces visibility. Outdoor PM 2.5 levels are most likely to be elevated on days when there is little or no wind.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gasp-ahmedabad-has-most-polluted-air-in-the-country/articleshow/80122335.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 6, 2021||Goa||Implementation of tourism policy hit by stand-off over board’s composition||Panaji: After the state government approved the Goa Tourism Policy 2020 a few months ago, the impasse over its implementation continues, with stakeholders yet to agree with the composition of Goa Tourism Board which is an important feature of the policy. The last meeting held some weeks ago to discuss this issue was unsuccessful, as the government representatives made it clear that some of the demands of the tourism stakeholders were unreasonable, one of the stakeholders who was present for the meeting told TOI. “The government did not agree to our requests,” the stakeholder said. One of the latest demands raised by stakeholders is that the opposition leader must be part of the board. The demand wasn’t accepted, but another meeting is likely to be called in a week or two to resolve the issue, he said. The most contentious issue is the large representation given to government appointees on the board which will be headed by the tourism minister, stakeholders said. This will not only lead to a disparity but also give an edge to the government to push its agenda, they said. “We have repeatedly placed our say with regards to the board’s composition before the government, but it is adamant to have the final say,” he said. The government is of the view that since the board will be fully funded by it, it should naturally have control over its management, unlike in other places where similarly constituted tourism boards get funding from the industry, due to which it has a bigger say. In November, the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG), Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) – Goa chapter, and Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) wrote to the government expressing its displeasure about the new policy and the structure of the board. It asked the government not to implement the policy till inputs from them are received, and also urged that the board should not to be formed until a joint discussion is held with them. The latest stand of the industry has surprised the government since the entire policy was formulated after taking views of the industry, though the former has not acceded to give greater control of the board to tourism stakeholders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/implementation-of-tourism-policy-hit-by-stand-off-over-boards-composition/articleshow/80124486.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 6, 2021||Dehradun||CM Rawat resumes work after recovering from Covid; 254 new cases surface in state||Dehradun: After spending almost a week in AIIMS Delhi and four days in home isolation in New Delhi, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat resumed work on Tuesday. He cleared a few files from his residence in New Delhi, where he is currently staying with his wife and daughter, a communique from the CM’s office said. Meanwhile, 254 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Uttarakhand on Tuesday. With this, the coronavirus tally shot up to 92,336. Also, nine more fatalities took the death toll of the virus to 1,544 in the state. According to the health department, around 12,600 samples were tested on Tuesday. The maximum cases, once again, were reported from Dehradun where 90 people tested positive for Covid-19. “As many as 76 new infections were recorded in Nainital, followed by 17 in Haridwar, 13 in Tehri Garhwal, 12 each in Udham Singh Nagar and Pithoragarh, 10 each in Uttarkashi and Almora, seven in Champawat, four in Chamoli, two in Rudraprayag, and one in Bageshwar,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Among the nine deaths registered on Tuesday, two each were recorded in AIIMS Rishikesh, Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani, and Sri Mahant Indiresh Hospital in Dehradun. Also, Dehradun-based Synergy Hospital and Himalayan Hospital, and the district hospital in Pithoragarh recorded one coronavirus-related death each. On Tuesday, 483 patients recovered from Covid-19 infection, taking the recovery tally to 85,883 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-rawat-resumes-work-after-recovering-from-covid-254-new-cases-surface-in-state/articleshow/80121077.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 6, 2021||Bhopal||MP’s development my sole aim, says CM||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Tuesday he has no ill feelings towards anyone and his sole intention is the development of Madhya Pradesh. He assigns work, reviews it and takes action accordingly. The CM’s statement is being read as a ‘not so subtle message’ given to the bureaucrats that he wants results and performance is the only criterion to work with him. CM had said the same thing, a day earlier as well during the video conference with collectors and commissioners when Gwalior municipal commissioner and Katni superintendent of police were removed on Monday, for poor performance. On Tuesday, Chouhan said, a prosperous, developed MP is his passion and his sole motive. “We decide our agenda for the purpose. Road map for a month is prepared; we take the action taken report from the officials. The ones who do good job are appreciated. But will have to be strict against the ones who do not perform. I get strict for the sake of people and for the overall development of MP,” he added. Last month too, after the video conference of CM with collectors and commissioners, Katni collector and Neemuch superintendent of police were removed as Chouhan had expressed displeasure over their performance.Two collectors and SPs removed in the video conferences in 30 days has definitely sent a tough message across to the bureaucracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mps-development-my-sole-aim-says-cm/articleshow/80122343.cms||Ankur Sirothia
January 6, 2021||Goa||IIT protest turns violent,locals force cops to retreat||Valpoi: Protest against the IIT Goa project by Melauli villagers of Sattari turned violent on Tuesday after many entered into a scuffle with a huge posse of policemen posted at the site, forcing the latter to retreat. Cops were deployed to allow surveyors to begin the land demarcation work for the project. Locals set afire the dry grass at the site forcing the police personnel to retreat. Locals have threatened to attack government officials with sickles if they carry out surveying work at the proposed IIT site at Shel-Melauli. As the villagers were camping at the main entry to the site, multiple teams of police personnel were formed at different locations in the village. The police plan was to make the villagers squat on the main road anticipating some action so that the surveyors could undertake demarcation elsewhere. However, this strategy did not work as planned as the locals came to know about the demarcation work going on at another location. The villagers ran through the forest path to stop the surveyors. Before the villagers could land near the surveyors, police ensured safe exit of the surveyors from the site. Policemen seeing the villagers rushing to the site, attempted to stop them. In the melee, a scuffle broke out between the policemen and locals. Despite the large force of 600 to 700 police personnel, they found it very difficult to control the mob that had turned aggressive. Angry villagers lit the dry grass near the temple at Melauli on fire. Alert policemen managed to save two police buses from being torched, by moving the vehicles in the nick of time. As the resistance continued, police had to retreat from Shel-Melauli. “Kill us all and then construct the IIT in our village. Till the time we are alive, we will not allow the government to construct IIT at the site,” said an elderly woman from Melauli. Villagers raised slogans against chief minister Pramod Sawant and health minister and local MLA Vishwajit Rane. Melauli villager Nikita Naik alleged that male policemen manhandled female protesters. “Male policemen pushed us to the ground. They must apologize to us, or we the women, from the village will march to Valpoi police station in protest against these policemen,” she said. Naik said that the surveyors began the demarcation work by cheating the villagers. “They entered the site by ‘hiding like thieves’. If the government had guts, they should have come from the main road where we remain stay put every day,” Naik said. Convener of the Melauli Panchkroshi Gram Bachav Andolan, Shashikant Savordekar dared the the police personnel to visit their village again. “Henceforth, we will attack the government officials who visit our village with sickles or with sharp weapons. It is the government that has forced us to take the law in our own hands,” Savordekar said. Another villager Sadayo Melekar claimed that police personnel ran away from the village and called it a victory of Melauli villagers. “Roughly 20 police vehicles consisting of hundreds of personnel were brought to threaten and arrest us. The villagers saw to it that they failed in their mission,” Melekar said. Locals said they will not recognize the demarcation carried out by land survey officers by entering secretly. Since the last four months, the villagers have been protesting the proposed IIT project at Melauli by squatting on the road and prohibiting entry of the surveyors to demarcate the land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/iit-protest-turns-violentlocals-force-cops-to-retreat/articleshow/80123494.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Madurai||Mini clinics: Tamil Nadu govt assures status quo on nurses’ hiring||MADURAI: The state government on Tuesday informed the Madras high court that status quo would be maintained in the process of recruiting staff nurses though outsourcing for mini clinics across the state. Advocate general Vijay Narayan sought time to file a counter in this case and informed that the government would maintain status quo till then. Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi adjourned the case to January 11 for further hearing. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by G V Vairam Santhosh, an advocate from Madurai district challenging the proceedings issued by the director of public health and preventive medicine to recruit 1,415 staff nurses and 585 multipurpose workers at the mini clinics through outsourcing by a private agency. The petitioner stated that the selection process which is done on a largescale has to be done properly by following reservation, communal rotation, either through medical recruitment board or through employment exchanges where qualified candidates can participate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mini-clinics-govt-assures-status-quo-on-nurses-hiring/articleshow/80123555.cms||---
January 6, 2021||India||Centre warns states against spread of avian influenza||NEW DELHI: Taking note of the death of a large number of birds in Himachal, Rajasthan and Kerala, the Centre on Tuesday asked states to “take all possible steps for containing the spread of disease (H5N1 avian influenza) on an urgent basis” and warned them of “possibility of spread of the disease to humans and other domesticated animals/birds”. Asking states and UTs to step up surveillance and monitoring of birds for any sign of disease, the environment ministry in a note to chief secretaries quoted a report of ICAR’s Bhopal-based National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases which said the “samples had tested positive for H5N1 avian influenza” — a virus which is transmitted between affected poultry and also from poultry to wild birds and vice-a-versa. The institute tested samples (five dead bar-headed goose) collected from Pong Dam in Himachal. The samples tested positive through real time RT-PCR test. Thousands of birds, including migratory birds, have died in past few days. Calling the situation “serious”, the ministry also sent generic guidelines relating to avian influenza to chief wildlife wardens of all states/UTs and said measures must be taken on priority to control it. In case of signs of disease and its spread, the respective states take actions including culling of birds as per requirement. The ministry's note, however, did not suggest such specific action on its own. “Considering this grave situation, the ministry requests the states/UTs to take all possible measures/precautions to prevent the transmission of diseases, if any, in other animals/birds and human beings,” said the note while asking them to report such incidences of mortality to the ministry. In a separate note written two days ago, the environment ministry underlined the fact that a large number of migratory birds visit India and move to wetlands spread over the country, urging states to “keep strict vigil on the wintering habitats of migratory birds, including wetlands, for any mortality or disease outbreak signs”. On symptoms of the Avian Influenza, the guidelines, prepared by the department of animal husbandry and dairying in 2015, said the affected birds display symptoms such as Tremors, Diarrhoea, Head Tilt and Paralysis. “The disease spreads quickly causing Paralysis and Staggering,” it said while asking local authorities to look for signs of disease and take action. On monitoring of migratory birds, it suggested setting up a state-level monitoring committee and preparing an action plan for dealing with any arising emergency. “Vigilance should be stepped up in the Zoos,” it said. Watch Centre warns states against spread of bird flu||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-warns-states-against-spread-of-avian-influenza/articleshow/80124910.cms||Vishwa Mohan
January 6, 2021||Dehradun||State BJP prez stirs row with slur on leader of oppn||Dehradun: Uttarakhand BJP president Bansidhar Bhagat, who is on a state-wide tour ahead of the assembly polls, has kicked up a controversy by allegedly calling leader of opposition Indira Hridayesh a “budhia” (old lady) and “doobta jahaz” (sinking ship) during a party meeting in Bheemtal recently. A purported video of the episode, which has surfaced on social media, shows Bhagat asking party workers why BJP lawmakers would get in touch with a “budhia” who is herself a “doobta jahaz”. The state president was referring to a remark made by Hridayesh, herself the sitting MLA from Haldwani, that many BJP MLAs are in touch with her to switch to Congress. He said, “Humari neta pratipaksha keh rahi ki bahut se vidhayak mere sampark me hain. Are Budhiya tujhse kyu sampark karenge? Isse sampark karenge? Doobte jahaz se sampark karege?” While Bansidhar Bhagat couldn’t be contacted for comment, BJP vice-president Devendra Bhasin said that he would be able to respond in the matter only after he speaks to Bhagat. Terming the remarks totally unparliamentary, Hriyadesh said that the language used by Bhagat, who represents the entire party in the state, shows his respect for women. “His language is an insult to all women in the country. It’s sad that such language is being used by a party which claims to be working for women empowerment. I will not stoop to his level but I request Prime Minister Narendra Modi and all the senior leaders of BJP to take note of the remarks and seek an explanation,” she added. “Not only that, BJP national president JP Nadda should ask Bhagat to apologise.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-bjp-prez-stirs-row-with-slur-on-leader-of-oppn/articleshow/80121104.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: FIR against unknown persons for AAP worker’s murder||AHMEDABAD: City police on Tuesday filed an FIR for murder against unknown persons, for allegedly beating an Aam Aadmi Party worker from Anandnagar on December 30, after which he died on the night of January 1. According to the complaint filed by the Saraswati Chavda, the wife of the deceased, Umedsinh Chavda, he was beaten by five or six unknown men in the Khadia area of the city for unknown reasons. Umedsinh was also a contractor with the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). She stated in the FIR with Anandnagar police that Umedsinh’s two friends, Pratik Gajjar and Anand Goswami, told her that Umedsinh had gone to Khadia along with a woman in a car. Near Gebinath Mahadev temple in Khadia, five or six men stopped them and pulled Umedsinh out of the car. They began hitting him and pushed to the ground, causing him injuries to his head. The FIR states that one of the accused who was being addressed as “Munna” was instigating the others to kill Umedsinh. The assailants left him injured on the road after which some locals called an ambulance and rushed him to the Asarwa Civil Hospital. Saraswati states that when she saw her husband, he had injuries on his forehead and he was bleeding from his ears and nose. She said her husband died on the night of January 1 at Civil Hospital. After his last rites and other post-death rituals at their native village, Devalia in Kutch district, she approached police and filed a complaint for murder. The FIR was transferred to Khadia police for investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fir-against-unknown-persons-for-aap-workers-murder/articleshow/80122356.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||10-year-old boy falls off terrace, dies in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: When the Rawats left for a friend’s funeral on Tuesday morning, little did they know that they would return to see the body of their 10-year-old child. Ronak Rawat had fallen to his death while flying a kite on the terrace. A relative of the Rawats, who live in Block 27 of Gujarat Housing Board in Meghaninagar, told cops that Ronak’s father worked as an electrician at the kidney hospital on Civil Hospital campus. The Rawats went to attend the funeral procession in the morning, leaving Ronak with his grandmother at home. Sometime later, he told his grandmother that he was going to the terrace to fly a kite. However, his leg slipped and he fell from the terrace, suffering injuries on his head. His neighbours rushed him to Civil hospital where the doctors declared him dead on arrival. Meghaninagar police have registered a case of accidental death and started an investigation. On January 2, a five-year-old boy died in Surat while flying a kite on the terrace. The deceased who was identified as Kenil Gohil went to the terrace in absence of his parents at their home in Puna area. He too fell and succumbed to his injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/10-year-old-boy-falls-off-terrace-dies/articleshow/80122352.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Coronavirus lingers in air of Covid-19 wards, finds study||HYDERABAD: After finding the novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) in drinking water, sewage and hospital walls, scientists have now isolated the virus from air samples collected from designated Covid-19 wards. Researchers at city-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) and Chandigarh-based Institute of Microbial Technology (IMT) have studied three hospitals each in Hyderabad and Chandigarh to find if the novel coronavirus was present in the atmosphere. They found the virus was circulating in the special Covid-19 wards or hospitals, while those treating non-Covid-19 patients did not contain any traces of the virus.  CCMB and IMT researchers used an air sampler that collected virus particles, and then looked for their presence using RT-PCR. The study was published on preprint server MedRxiv. “This suggests that demarcation of hospital zones has been an effective strategy,” the researchers said, adding the chances of picking up the virus in air was directly related to the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the room, symptomatic status and duration of exposure.” They said when Covid-19 individuals spent longer hours in a room, the virus was found in air for more than two hours even farther than two metres from their seating places. But for asymptomatic cases, the virus did not spread farther from them when they were seated in a room without air flow due to a fan or air-conditioner. CCMB director Rakesh Mishra, the corresponding author of the study, said coronavirus can stay in air for some time. “If we ensure that we follow hygiene protocols such as regular handwashing, using masks and preventing symptomatic people from public mixing, we can start getting back to normalcy. Detecting and isolating positive cases early can help prevent the spread among other family members at home,” he said. IMT director Sanjeev Khosla said: “Till the vaccines are available, social vaccine i.e. wearing mask is the best prevention.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/coronavirus-lingers-in-air-of-covid-19-wards-finds-study/articleshow/80123464.cms||Syed Akbar
January 6, 2021||Lucknow||Will UP go for pro-tem chairmanin legislative council till Oct next?||Lucknow: As the tenure of UP legislative council chairman, Ramesh Yadav, is about to end on January 31, the ruling BJP is in a fix over the issue of election to the post of the chairman. The legislative council will go to polls for 12 seats this month. At present, SP enjoys a majority in the upper house with 55 MLCs while BJP has 25. Given the strength of its MLAs, BJP will win 10 seats in all probability and one will go to the Samajwadi Party. There may be a contest for the 12th seat, and if the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) fields its candidate, like Rajya Sabha elections, it will easily win with BJP’s support. However, even if BJP wins 10 seats, it will not have a majority. If the Samajwadi Party loses 6 out of 12 seats, it will still enjoy a majority but will not have its member as chairman. In such a scenario, will the council be run by a pro-tem chairman, as has been the case in Madhya Pradesh, or will the BJP woo the MLCs of Teachers’ group to secure the post for its candidate? If the Teachers’ group of MLCs do not support BJP, election to the post of the council chairman would be the last option. "The BJP leadership will have to woo Teachers’s group and Independent MLCs for support to its candidate if an election is held for the post of council chairman," says a political analyst. The MLCs whose terms are expiring this month include Swatantra Dev Singh, Dinesh Sharma and Laxman Acharya (BJP), Naseemuddin Siddiqui (disqualified already), Dharmavir Ashok and Pradip Jatav (BSP), and Ahmed Hasan, Ashu Malik, Ramesh Yadav, Ram Jatan Rajbhar, Virendra Singh and Sahib Singh Saini (SP). In BJP, Swatantra Dev Singh and Dinesh Sharma are likely to be repeated while lobbying has intensified for the remaining seats. In SP, its national president Akhilesh Yadav will take the call. The Election Commission is set to announce the dates for elections soon. Currently, SP enjoys a majority in the upper house with 55 MLCs and if it loses five MLCs in January-end, it will still be in a comfortable position with 49 MLCs (one of its local bodies MLC from Badaun passed away recently). BJP has 25 MLCs as of now and if it adds 10 more to its tally after election, it will still have 35, far behind the SP. In such a situation, BJP will not be able to have its chairman. According to insiders, BJP will not be keen on election for the post of chairman unless it is doubly sure of support from Teachers’ group. Instead of taking any risk and giving the SP an opportunity to cause any upset, BJP would want a pro-tem chairman till October-November this year, when SP’s 10 nominated MLCs will retire. BJP will then have a majority by having its own candidates nominated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/will-up-go-for-pro-tem-chairmanin-legislative-council-till-oct-next/articleshow/80087763.cms||Subhash Mishra
January 6, 2021||Goa||Goa caps rate of Covid RT-PCR test at Rs 2,340||PANAJI: The state government on Tuesday issued an order capping the rates for some diagnostic tests for Covid-19. While the fully-automated RT-PCR tests have been capped at Rs 2,340, the semi-automated TrueNat tests are capped at Rs 1,400. The rates, however, are still substantially higher than elsewhere. In Maharashtra, the government has said that an RT-PCR test can’t cost more than Rs 700, while in Delhi, the test costs Rs 800. The order, issued by undersecretary (health) Swati Dalvi, said that the capped rates include the cost of sample transportation and other costs. The order also caps rates for open-ended systems at Rs 1,188 and lateral flow immune chemotherapy at Rs 580. The government currently charges Rs 2,000 for an RT-PCR test, while most private laboratories and hospitals that have been identified as collection centres charge around Rs 3,000 per test. A few still charge Rs 4,500 per test, the rate initially stipulated by the central government for RT-PCR tests. While centres doing Covid-19 tests in other parts of the country later brought down their rates, private laboratories in Goa stuck to theirs. The disparity was brought to the notice of the government more than three months ago, and after which a file was moved for capping the rates of various diagnostic tests for Covid-19. However, it took the government over two months to clear the file that compels all centres in the state to charge an uniform rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-caps-rate-of-covid-rt-pcr-test-at-rs-2340/articleshow/80123528.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Nagpur||Dayashankar Tiwari elected 54th mayor of Nagpur||Nagpur: Veteran BJP corporator Dayashankar Tiwari and first-time corporator Manisha Dhawde of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were elected as the new mayor and deputy mayor in a special online meeting of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) held on Tuesday at civic body headquarters. Four-time corporator Tiwari is city’s 54th mayor, while Dhawad is the 56th deputy mayor. The election of BJP candidates was a foregone conclusion given the party’s more than two-thirds majority in the House. With the NMC election due next year, expectations of the people and the party from Tiwari are going to be high. In a tenure of about 13 months (till the NMC elections in 2022), Tiwari will have to deal with a variety of crucial issues including the acute funds crunch being faced by the NMC. Dhawde’s term as deputy mayor will be co-terminus with that of the mayor. Election was held following resignations by mayor Sandip Joshi of the BJP and deputy mayor Manisha Kothe last month. BJP had a cakewalk in three-cornered contest. The election went on expected lines. BJP has 107 corporators in the 151-member House. Both Tiwari and Dhawde secured 107 votes each. BSP, which has 10 corporators and had fielded Narendra Walde and Vaishali Nitnaware, secured 10 votes each. MVA alliance had fielded Manoj Gawande of Congress and Mangala Gaware of Shiv Sena for mayor and deputy mayor posts but they withdrew their nomination just before the election leaving the field to candidates Ramesh Punekar (mayor) and Rashmi Dhurve (deputy mayor) of Congress faction led by city party president Vikas Thakre to contest the election. Four corporators were absent during the election. Tiwari and Dhawade won by a difference of 70 and 71 votes respectively indicative of BJP’s unity in NMC. While Tiwari trounced Punekar, who secured 27 votes. Factionalism in Congress again reared its head as three of its corporators — Gargi Chopra, Bunty Shelke and Purshottam Hazare — remained absent. While Chopra had already distanced herself from Congress, absence of Shelke could be due his presence at ongoing farmers’ protest over farm bill in New Delhi. Reason behind Hazare’s absence could not be explained by the Congress party. In the three-cornered fight for deputy mayor’s post, Rashmi Dhurve of Congress got 26 votes. Congress corporator Kamlesh Chowdhary remained absent during the deputy mayor’s poll. District election officer and district collector Ravindra Thakre conducted the online special meeting of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) called for electing the mayor and deputy mayor. After the meeting began, Thakre read out the names of contestants. A period of 15 minutes respectively was given for withdrawal of names. The online election was held with show of hands zone-wise. Five nominated members did not have the right to vote while the only independent corporator Abha Pande skipped the meeting. Soon after the collector and election officer declared Tiwari and Dhawde’s elected as mayor and deputy mayor, party activists waiting outside the standing committee hall at the NMC headquarters burst crackers in celebration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dayashankar-tiwari-elected-54th-mayor-of-nagpur/articleshow/80122378.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Poor driving & diversions turn Outer Ring Road into death trap for users||HYDERABAD: Obstructions due to routine maintenance work and the absence of signboards have turned the 168km-long Outer Ring Road (ORR) into a death trap for commuters. After the data shared by Cyberabad and Rachakonda police revealed that there were 34 fatal accidents in 2020 on the ORR, TOI along with a road safety expert-cum-civil engineer drove along the eight-lane expressway and inspected some of the accident spots. TimesViewIt is surprising to note that the traffic police and the ORR maintaining agencies have done little to safeguard the lives of motorists. Appropriate signages must be immediately installed in accident-prone zones and curbs put in place to stop wrong lane driving. Villagers should not be allowed to access the busy thoroughfare using an illegal ramp. Additionally, the maintenance agencies must be hauled up for not putting up glow signages near diversions, which has led to many accidents.Pointing out at the ‘V’ shaped diversions that divide the main expressway at certain points, S P Anchuri, vice-president (south), Structural Engineers World Congress, said, “These are places where most accidents take place. The broken barricades show the impact of the crash and the speed at which the vehicle must have been travelling. This mainly happens because there is no signage to tell the driver that there is a sharp diversion ahead of him.” “Vehicles are usually travelling between 80km per hour to 100km per hour when they are on the ORR. It is not possible to suddenly slow down when they see the diversion,” he said. Anchuri also found that several accidents that take place on ORR can be prevented if commuters took precautions by avoiding wrong lane driving and switching on parking lights. “There are so many four-wheeler drivers shifting lanes without switching on indicator lights and entering into the truck lanes. This is one reason why we see accidents where speeding vehicles crash into trucks,” said Anchuri. Near Narsingi, a road maintenance worker, who was helping a truck driver clear vegetables that fell down from the previous night’s accident, said, “This incident took place due to a tyre blast. The majority of accidents happen either because of over speeding or commuters not following proper lanes,” said the worker. In December 2019, the state government had issued orders for constitution of a team to study all aspects related to ORR safety with focus on fencing, crossings, signage, illumination and cameras-based speed enforcement. However, experts said the team should have had a public representative to tell where commuters are facing problems. Experts suggested authorities start tracking exact time a vehicle gets on and exits the ORR. This way, those not following the speed limit can be penalised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/poor-driving-diversions-turn-orr-into-death-trap-for-users/articleshow/80123489.cms||Moulika.KV
January 6, 2021||Bhopal||Nath tells Congress workers to take civic body polls seriously||Bhopal: PCC chief Kamal Nath on Tuesday called a meeting of in-charges for the upcoming civic polls in Madhya Pradesh. Addressing the gathering at his official residence here, he said that Congress should not take the polls lightly and use it to strengthen relations with voters. Nath told party leaders that the civic polls would set the foundation for the 2023 assembly elections in the state. “Today, politics and times have changed, and the person who accepts that transformation is successful,” he said. “That era is gone when one person could take the guarantee to bring votes of thousands of voters. These days, a person cannot even take surety of votes of his own home,” the former CM said. Nath advised his party colleagues not to make mistakes and take the urban civic polls lightly. “Take this election very seriously. This poll will be the base for the assembly elections. Strengthen your relations with people and build a bond with them,” he said. Former PCC chief Kantilal Bhuria, former ministers Sajjan Singh Verma, Jitu Patwari, state Congress working presidents Ramniwas Rawat, Surendra Choudhary, state party vice-president Prakash Jain, state Mahila Congress chief Mandvi Chouhan, Seva Dal president Rajneesh Singh and state Kisan Congress president Dinesh Gurjar were also present in the meeting along with PCC office-bearers. Nath instructed the municipal corporation election in-charges to go to their respective areas and impartially select suitable candidates and send their names to the state Congress office. He reminded them Congress has its roots in wards and panchayats. “The only requirement is to reach Congress voice to the people. You will reap as you sow. If the results at the ward level are good, then the effects of the mayoral elections will also be good. We have to work for victory,” Nath said. Nath said Congress will organise a rally in Bhopal in support of farmers’ agitation against the three Central laws. He also said that innumerable complaints have come about irregularities in EVMs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nath-tells-congress-workers-to-take-civic-body-polls-seriously/articleshow/80122362.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat Congress launches ‘Hello Corporations’ drive for cities||GANDHINAGAR: To regain lost ground in cities, the Gujarat Congress on Tuesday launched the ‘Hello Corporations’ campaign with the focus to win the upcoming local body elections in six municipal corporations. The campaign was launched in the presence of Gujarat in-charge Rajiv Satav, Gujarat Pradesh Congress Committee chief Amit Chavda, the leader of the opposition in Gujarat, Paresh Dhanani and other notables of the party. As of now, the campaign has been rolled out in Ahmedabad, Bhavnagar, Jamnagar, Rajkot, Surat and Vadodara — the six cities in which municipal corporation elections will be held next month. A phone number, 9099902215, has been set up on which people can call, text, or send WhatsApp messages about their problems. “Citizens in urban areas have so many problems, but it seems that there is no one to listen to them and the government is busy only in spreading propaganda,” said Chavda. Dhanani said: “The voice of the people is heard neither by the state government nor the central government.” He added: “If anyone tries to express dissent, the BJP government suppresses it. The ‘Hello Corporations’ campaign will give voice to the urban public.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/congress-launches-hello-corporations-drive-for-cities/articleshow/80122366.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Dehradun||Two crows found dead near residential colony in Doon, samples to be sent for avian flu test||Dehradun: Raising concerns regarding the outbreak of avian flu, two crows were found dead by the forest department near a residential colony close to SSP campus in Dehradun on Tuesday. Now, the animal husbandry department will send the samples of the dead crows to National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases: ICAR, Bhopal, for avian flu test. Notably, no cases of bird flu have surfaced in Uttarakhand this season. JS Suhag, chief wildlife warden, told media persons, “We found two dead crows and their samples would be sent to National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases: ICAR, Bhopal, for testing. A precautionary alert has also been sounded across the state. A special focus will be laid on wetlands where the majority of migratory birds are found in Uttarakhand.” The animal husbandry department has also put its staff on high alert after cases of avian flu emerged in Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, and Rajasthan in the last few days. “We had sent two poultry samples from Pauri for testing to Bhopal and both samples have come negative, yet our teams are on alert. The new samples will be sent for testing on Wednesday,” said KK Joshi, director, animal husbandry department, Uttarakhand. It is worth mentioning that Uttarakhand has Asan wetland, close to the Himachal border. It is Uttarakhand’s first Ramsar site, a wetland site designated to be of international importance under the Ramsar Convention. The wetland is home to over 6,000 migratory birds which come from China, Siberia, Tajikistan, and Bhutan. The state also has Jhilmil wetland in Haridwar and a few others in the western circle. According to Pradeep Saxena, forester, Asan Wetland Conservation Reserve, “At present, we have over 6,000 migratory birds here but none of the birds have been found in injured or sick state. However, we have put our teams on high alert and are constantly patrolling the area. A rigorous surveillance is ongoing to check if any bird is unwell.” Meanwhile, the Dehradun zoo administration has also announced that no more birds will be allowed in the facility. PK Patro, director of Dehradun zoo, told TOI, “We are simply going by the guidelines of the Central Zoo Authority. The zoo already houses several animals and we have to ensure their safety too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-crows-found-dead-near-residential-colony-in-doon-samples-to-be-sent-for-avian-flu-test/articleshow/80121152.cms||Shivani Azad
January 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana sees lowest daily positivity rate since Covid-19 outbreak||HYDERABAD: The positivity rate in the state dropped to 0.6 per cent on Tuesday, a first since the onset of the coronavirus pandemic. In March 2020, when the first cases of the novel coronavirus were recorded in the state, the average positivity rate was 8.92 per cent, which peaked in June. Positivity rate denotes number of people who tested positive out of total number of tests performed. In March, just 97 patients had tested positive out of 1,087 who were tested.  But by June, the positivity rate went up to 21.73 per cent when 13,534 patients tested positive. The average positivity rate since the onset of the pandemic till now in the state has been four per cent, making Telangana better placed than most other states of the country. The positivity rate began declining from August last year (6.56 per cent). While this is a good sign for the state, which has been able to control the spread of the virus, health authorities have cautioned people to be careful. “It is essential that people take precautions till end of January and early February. We are urging people to avoid celebrating Sankranti in public spaces,” said a senior health official, adding that any lapses can send positivity rate soaring again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-sees-lowest-daily-positivity-rate-since-covid-19-outbreak/articleshow/80123526.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 6, 2021||Madurai||Plea: Ensure unadulterated manufacture of palm jaggery||Madurai: The Madras high court on Tuesday sought a response from the state government on a plea which sought to ensure unadulterated manufacture of palm jaggery and palm misiri. A division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi sought the response while hearing a public interest litigation filed by G T Chandrasekaran, an agriculturalist, and resident of Tuticorin district. The petitioner stated that palm jaggery and palm misiri are manufactured to a large extent at Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Tuticorin, Kanyakumari, Virudhunagar and Ramanathapuram districts. He alleged that the Tuticorin district collector had given permission to manufacture palm jaggery and misiri out of all other sweet substances. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-ensure-unadulterated-manufacture-of-palm-jaggery/articleshow/80123587.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 6, 2021||Dehradun||One-month old leopard found in paddy field, forest officials to reunite cub with its mother||Rudrapur: A one-month old leopard cub, which got separated from its mother, was found by the villagers of Kachnal Gaazi in Kashipur town of Udham Singh Nagar district on Tuesday. The female cub was first spotted by Jeet Singh, a local farmer, while he had gone to his fields to fetch fodder for cattle. Forest officials rushed to the spot after they were informed of the cub by the locals. Senior officials have also been told about the cub and they are now trying to reunite the cub with its mother. Rajan Singh, resident of ward number 40 in Kachnal Gaazi, told TOI that his grandfather Jeet Singh called him after spotting the cub. “I brought the cub to my home so that it is not killed by any other wild animal. The forest officials have been handed over the cub. This is a densely populated area and if the cub is here, then its mother would not be far. We have asked the forest officials to not only reunite the cub with its mother but also relocate the big feline at large here.” Kishan Singh Shahi, forest officer at Kashipur, said that paddy fields provide a perfect hiding place for leopards. “We have examined the cub and it is fit for release. We will tuck the cub into a box and keep it at the same place from where it was found. We will also set a camera to record its reunion. An effort will also be made to force these cats back to the forest,” Shahi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/one-month-old-leopard-found-in-paddy-field-forest-officials-to-reunite-cub-with-its-mother/articleshow/80121160.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Woman fights with cops over mask, booked||AHMEDABAD: Satellite police on Monday booked a 50-year-old woman from Bodakdev for allegedly getting into a verbal spat and scuffle with cops near the Ramdevnagar BRTS bus stand over the wearing of a mask. According to the FIR filed at Satellite police station, Hiral Parikh, a resident of Sea Pearl society in Bodakdev, was sitting next to the driver in her car but did not wear her mask properly. “When we were deployed at Ramdevnagar BRTS bus stand point and enforcing the mask rule, we found that the accused was not wearing her mask properly and we stopped the car to tell her to do so,” states the FIR filed by a police sub-inspector of Satellite police. The FIR alleges that when Parikh was told to pay the fine for not wearing her mask properly, she began abusing the cops and alleged that police personnel were illegally recovering money from her. The accused also said that she would not pay the fine of Rs 1,000 for not wearing a mask. When the cops insisted, she allegedly pushed a woman cop and uttered abuses at her and the other cops. Police personnel overpowered her and took her to the nearby police chowky where a case of violating the notification which mandates masks, and obstructing police was filed against her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-fights-with-cops-over-mask-booked/articleshow/80122371.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Madurai||Madras high court sets aside conviction of former corporation commissioner||MADURAI: Madras high court has set aside the order of a single judge who had convicted and sentenced former Madurai corporation commissioner Aneesh Sekhar for disobeying a court order. A single judge had in October 2016 directed Madurai corporation to revise the inter-seniority list for the post of assistants and give promotion to a few people. Since the order was not complied with, a contempt petition was filed by a person. In March 2019, the court convicted and sentenced commissioner Sekhar to undergo simple imprisonment for one week and pay a fine of Rs 5,000 and in default, to undergo simple imprisonment for one week according to section 12 of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971. Challenging the order, Sekhar had filed the present appeal which was heard by a division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi. The bench observed that the single judge’s order which passed in 2016 was subsequently modified by a division bench. “When the appellate court has passed a specific order and this court, by earlier order dated January 23, 2017, has closed the contempt petition, the re-opening of the contempt petition by the single judge and the consequential conviction under Contempt of Courts Act is bad in law,” observed the judges. The judges observed that the corporation had fixed the seniority list in accordance with the order of the division bench and hence the corporation had compiled with the order of this court. Allowing the contempt appeal, the court set aside the conviction and sentence awarded to Sekhar by the single judge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/high-court-sets-aside-conviction-of-former-corpn-commissioner/articleshow/80123640.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Hyderabad||69% parents in Telangana want schools to reopen in April: Survey||HYDERABAD: Sixty-nine per cent of parents want schools to reopen from April 2021 or after, revealed a survey by LocalCircle, an online platform. The survey recorded responses of 8,695 parents, and 23% said schools should reopen in January. The survey, conducted to understand if parents’ hesitancy level to reopen schools has reduced since the previous survey in September, indicated that the percentage of parents who want schools to open only in the next session doubled in the past three months, from 34% to 69%.  “The fact that there has been an increase in percentage of parents wanting schools to open only in the next session come April 2021, as indicated by the LocalCircles survey suggests that parents are worried about their children’s education and now with declining caseload the balance is tilting towards education rather than fear of Covid-19,” read the survey. The survey also tried to get parents’ pulse on getting Covid vaccines if they were made available to children. Only 26% approved of their children receiving the vaccine if made available by April 2021, or before. Meanwhile, members of Telangana Recognized Schools Management Association, which conducted a similar survey, said many parents, at least in Telangana, are ready to send their children to schools. “Our survey indicated that parents, especially of Class 8 to Class 10 students are willing to send their children to schools,” said Shekar Rao Y, TRSMA. UoH for phased return of PG studentsThe University of Hyderabad (UoH) on Tuesday announced a phased return to ‘in-person’ classes for PG students. Appa Rao Podile, the vice-chancellor, approved a task force recommendation to permit about 148 final semester students of the Science Schools and Sarojini Naidu School to return to the campus for completion of lab or practice courses. “This is the beginning of a gradual process that will continue through the next couple of months,” read a varsity statement. Watch Telangana: 69% parents want schools to reopen in April, says survey||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/69-parents-want-schools-to-reopen-in-april-survey/articleshow/80123563.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
January 6, 2021||Nagpur||NIV did RT-PCR test on sample of UK variant suspect on 8th day||Nagpur: The National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, conducted RT-PCR test on samples of city’s first suspected UK Covid strain patient on eighth day, prolonging discharge of the returnee and also kept Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) officials worried about the results. As reported by TOI, NIV had on Monday informed GMCH that genome sequencing of swab samples of three suspected patients was not possible as they were found negative in RT-PCR test. Accordingly, the three suspected patients were discharged the same day. Confirmatory results whether the suspected patients were infected by old or mutated variant of novel coronavirus, which has emerged in the UK, could not be known. All three had returned from UK and tested positive here. Sources from NMC and GMCH told TOI, “The NIV report mentioned that samples of the three suspected patients were received on January 1 and RT-PCR test was conducted on January 2.” First suspected patient — 28-year-old youth from Nandanwan — was admitted to special ward of GMCH on December 23 and his samples were sent to NIV by IGGMCH on December 25. Second patient — 36-year-old man from Narendra Nagar — was admitted on December 26 and his samples were sent the same day. Third patient, 42-year-old woman from Wardhaman Nagar, was admitted on December 30 and her samples were sent to NIV on December 31. As per NMC and GMCH, it becomes clear that samples of the youth from Nandanwan were pending with the NIV for eight days. Similarly, samples of the man from Narendra Nagar were untouched at NIV for seven days. Samples of three more suspected patients — mother-daughter duo from Deendayal Nagar, 42 and 16, respectively, — are pending with the NIV since December 27, say NMC and GMCH officials, adding similarly, samples of man from Mahal are pending with the Pune institute since December 28. The GMCH had also sent swab samples of remaining two suspected patients — six-year-old son of man from Mahal and 38-year-old man from Vitthalwadi — on December 30. The samples were sent after these suspected patients had tested negative in the retest. To get desired results of genome sequencing, the GMCH on Tuesday collected samples of six-year-old boy from IGGMCH and man from Vitthalwadi at RTMNU centre and sent it to the NIV. Samples of the both tested positive. The NMC, through IGGMCH, had also sent samples of three family members of Nandanwan youth to NIV for genome sequencing on December 26. Results are still awaited. Remaining five suspected patients were not discharged for want of results from the Pune institute. On Monday, it was decided to discharge these persons after completion of 14 days, subject to negative results in two tests. Among 116 residents of the city who had returned from countries in Europe, Middle East and South Africa between November 25 and December 23, eight had tested positive here. Therefore, they were admitted to GMCH’s special ward and samples sent for genome sequencing. On Tuesday, two more flyers, who were in quarantine centres, were discharged as both tested negative and have completed seven-day isolation too. Thus, the number of recent flyers who tested negative and were discharged increased to 18. As on Tuesday, 21 persons are in quarantine centres and their tests will be conducted after completion of 5-7 days of isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/niv-did-rt-pcr-test-on-sample-of-uk-variant-suspect-on-8th-day/articleshow/80122418.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 6, 2021||Trichy||Fresh Covid cases dip to 99 in south Tamil Nadu, 75 in central districts||MADURAI/TRICHY: The 10 southern districts of the state reported 99 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. It is for the first time after June 11 last year that the figure is falling below 100. The region also recorded two deaths. There was a marginal decline in the number of active cases in the region from 999 on Monday to 979 on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the central region witnessed a sudden drop in the number of fresh cases on Tuesday as it reported 75 cases taking the tally to 74,350. The region registered 90 cases on Monday. The number of active cases also dropped from 823 on Monday to 790. The region recorded no casualty maintaining the toll at 929. Both the deaths in the south were in Madurai. According to the health department bulletin one of them died on September 16. Health department officials said that it could have been missed and added by the death audit committee. Kanyakumari recorded 21 fresh cases, the highest in the region, followed by Madurai (15), Tuticorin (12) and Dindigul (11). Six districts recorded less than 10 cases each with Ramanathapuram (3) recording the lowest. The other districts are Theni (5), Sivagangai (7), Tenkasi (7), Virudhunagar (9) and Tirunelveli (9). Kanyakumari has 180 active cases followed by Madurai (160). The drop in the number of fresh cases in Nagappattinam, Thanjavur, Karur and Tiruvarur has pulled down the number of cases in the central region. Trichy reported 27 fresh cases, the highest in the region. Pudukottai reported six cases. Peambalur recorded one fresh case, while Ariyalur registered three cases. Ariyalur, Nagappattinam, Perambalur, Pudukottai and Tiruvarur reported cases in single digit on Tuesday. Thanjavur (208) is on top in the number of active cases followed by Trichy (187), while Perambalur has only three cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fresh-cases-dip-to-99-in-south-tn-75-in-central-districts/articleshow/80128562.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Madurai||Fresh Covid cases dip to 99 in south Tamil Nadu, 75 in central districts||MADURAI/TRICHY: The 10 southern districts of the state reported 99 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. It is for the first time after June 11 last year that the figure is falling below 100. The region also recorded two deaths. There was a marginal decline in the number of active cases in the region from 999 on Monday to 979 on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the central region witnessed a sudden drop in the number of fresh cases on Tuesday as it reported 75 cases taking the tally to 74,350. The region registered 90 cases on Monday. The number of active cases also dropped from 823 on Monday to 790. The region recorded no casualty maintaining the toll at 929. Both the deaths in the south were in Madurai. According to the health department bulletin one of them died on September 16. Health department officials said that it could have been missed and added by the death audit committee. Kanyakumari recorded 21 fresh cases, the highest in the region, followed by Madurai (15), Tuticorin (12) and Dindigul (11). Six districts recorded less than 10 cases each with Ramanathapuram (3) recording the lowest. The other districts are Theni (5), Sivagangai (7), Tenkasi (7), Virudhunagar (9) and Tirunelveli (9). Kanyakumari has 180 active cases followed by Madurai (160). The drop in the number of fresh cases in Nagappattinam, Thanjavur, Karur and Tiruvarur has pulled down the number of cases in the central region. Trichy reported 27 fresh cases, the highest in the region. Pudukottai reported six cases. Peambalur recorded one fresh case, while Ariyalur registered three cases. Ariyalur, Nagappattinam, Perambalur, Pudukottai and Tiruvarur reported cases in single digit on Tuesday. Thanjavur (208) is on top in the number of active cases followed by Trichy (187), while Perambalur has only three cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fresh-cases-dip-to-99-in-south-tn-75-in-central-districts/articleshow/80123656.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Dehradun||Fresh spell of rain recorded in plains, snow lashes hills of U’khand||Dehradun: The hills of Uttarakhand were lashed by snowfall while the plains and foothills, including Dehradun, received intermittent showers on Tuesday. According to the regional meteorological centre, higher reaches of Uttarkashi, Chamoli, Rudraprayag and Pithoragarh districts received snowfall, causing a dip in the temperature levels in the hills. The tourists present in Harsil, Dodital, and Kedarkantha regions of Uttarkashi district enjoyed the snowfall. The Char Dham towns in the Garhwal hills also witnessed snowfall. “The high altitude places in Garhwal hills received snowfall, while the plains and foothills witnessed rainfall. The spell of rain and snowfall is going to continue on Wednesday. As a result, cold conditions will prevail across the state for the next few days,” said Bikram Singh, director of the Met office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/fresh-spell-of-rain-recorded-in-plains-snow-lashes-hills-of-ukhand/articleshow/80121215.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 6, 2021||India||Honour killing convicts in 70s seek parole, SC extremely wary||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday was extremely wary of granting parole to a few septuagenarians serving life terms in Agra and Mathura jails after their conviction in a 30-year-old case of honour killing that saw a khap panchayat, under Barsana police station in Uttar Pradesh, forcing the families of two young men and a girl to kill and cremate them. The septuagenarians have sought parole due to spread of Covid-19 in Agra and Mathura jails. The gruesome incident took place in March 1991 after one Roshni eloped with Vijendra, who had taken the help of his friend Ram Kishan. The khap panchayat decided to kill the three and assigned the task to the three youngsters’ fathers, who with the aid of villagers, first hung them upside down on a tree, burnt their private parts and tortured them, and then killed and cremated them. The trial court convicted 38, awarded the death sentence to eight, including the parents, and life sentence to the rest. The Allahabad HC in 2016 commuted the eight death sentences to life imprisonment. Of the eight, five people, some of them over 70 years old, through advocate Amita Gupta pleaded with a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde for release on parole/bail given the incidence of Covid-19 in Agra and Mathura central jails. UP government counsel Vishnu Shankar Jain opposed their release while terming the incident gruesome and explained the adequate medical facilities and precautionary steps taken by authorities in the two jails. The bench said, “The offences for which they are convicted are serious. This is not an ordinary crime. It can disrupt society and spread fear against the decision to marry according to one’s choice. Nonetheless, Covid too is a serious problem. We will seek a report from probation officers in the jails about the desirability of releasing these persons on parole/bail.” In its order, the bench said, “We are of the view that it would be expedient in the interest of justice to ask the probation officers of Agra and Mathura central jails to interview the applicants, examine their records and submit a report to this court. The report shall indicate their present state of health, physically and mentally, and shall, in particular, state whether their release would create a problem in the sense that they would be inclined to rake up the incident and create trouble for others or themselves.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/honour-killing-convicts-in-70s-seek-parole-sc-extremely-wary/articleshow/80125078.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Mayor seat: BJP rebel Shukla is out of playfield||CHANDIGARH: In a setback for BJP’s rebel mayoral candidate Chandrawati Shukla and the Congress, the additional municipal commissioner-cum-secretary Anil Garg rejected her candidature on Tuesday morning, terming it a violation of the Rule 6 (3) of the Municipal Corporation Conduct and Business Regulation, 1996. With this, the path of BJP’s official mayoral candidate Ravikant Sharma is clear. Rejection of Shukla’s candidature will hit the Congress hard as it was planning to support her and dent the BJP’s prospects by cross-voting. Explaining the reason for cancellation of Shukla’s candidature, Anil Garg said, “As per rules, no one can propose and second the candidature of more than one person for an election. But in this case, Congress councillor and candidate for deputy mayor’s post Satish Kainth proposed Devinder Singh Babla first, who is a mayoral candidate from the Congress, and later he also seconded Chandrawati Shukla, an independent mayoral candidate. This is a violation under Rule 6 (3) of the Municipal Corporation Conduct and Business Regulation, 1996.” Shukla’s candidature was rejected during the scrutiny of nomination papers filed on Monday. The scrutiny started around 11am, and Anil Garg showed the rules to the candidates before rejecting her papers. Though the opposition party had brought along lawyers, who termed it a clerical mistake, the officer issued the cancellation orders. Congress and BJP supporters were also present during the scrutiny. Sources said rebel BJP councillors were mulling their strategy, but with Shukla’s nomination being rejected, they also don’t have many options.  Shukla said, “Satish Kainth was not aware about the rules while filing the nomination papers and so, it was rejected.” ‘BJP’s councillors are united’ Ravikant Sharma, BJP’s official mayoral candidate, said, “The Congress has completely failed in its plan to mislead our colleague. The nomination was rejected as per rules and it shows that God is also with us. We will win all three seats with a full majority. All BJP councillors are united.”  ‘BJP pressurised officer’ Congress president Pardeep Chhabra said, “The decision to reject Shukla’s nomination is wrong and the BJP pressurised the officers to give this decision. The BJP has made a mockery of democracy and people of Chandigarh will teach them a lesson this year in MC polls scheduled for December. Officers should not become puppets in the hands of the BJP.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mayor-seat-bjp-rebel-shuklas-out-of-playfield/articleshow/80122436.cms||Deepak Yadav
January 6, 2021||Dehradun||CM orders to change eligibility for recruitment of nurses; one-yr training in 30-bed hosp no longer required||Dehradun: Resuming work after recovering from Covid-19, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday issued an order to change the qualification required to apply for the post of government nurses. After being discharged from AIIMS Delhi, the CM resumed work from his Delhi residence and his first order was to withdraw the mandatory norm that asked applicants for one-year training experience in a 30-bed (or above) hospital. The order comes as the process to recruit 1,200 nurses is underway in the state. Recently, the issue was raised by Congress MLA Manoj Rawat. He had said, “The state government is asking the applicants for the post of nurse to show a one-year experience in a hospital of 30-bed (or above) capacity. They have also been asked to produce Form-16 to be eligible for the job. Interestingly, none of the nine hill districts of Uttarakhand have a single private hospital with a 30-bed capacity. This clearly reflects that the qualification asked for the job is not suited for applicants from Uttarakhand.” However, the state authorities have maintained that the decision was taken after receiving a memorandum addressed to the CM by one ‘nursing-trained employed youth’. CM Rawat directed health secretary Amit Singh Negi to remove the condition of one-year experience in a 30-bed (or above) hospital for the applicants. He also directed Negi to prepare the proposal and present it in the cabinet meeting. Confirming the development, Negi stated that the proposal for amendment would be brought in the cabinet meeting. He added that after the amendment, the clause of Form 16 for applicants would automatically end and after the cabinet nod, the trained nurses would be regarded eligible for recruitment. Meanwhile, Manoj Rawat said that it was a serious lapse on part of the government and “such facts should be kept in mind while announcing new jobs in the state. What is the point of announcing a vacancy when locals cannot apply for it.” Earlier, he had slammed the incumbent government on the issue of unemployment saying, “The situation is an alarming one and serious steps are required to tackle unemployment in the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-orders-to-change-eligibility-for-recruitment-of-nurses-one-yr-training-in-30-bed-hosp-no-longer-required/articleshow/80121225.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 6, 2021||Madurai||Visitors litter Naicker Mahal with masks||Madurai: Even as Thirumalai Naicker Mahal in Madurai was given a Rs 3 crore facelift, littering on the premises by visitors continues to be a problem. The palace, situated about 2km from the Meenakshi temple, is a major tourist attraction. After the lockdown was eased, the palace was opened to the public about three weeks back and there has been a steady footfall since then. People who visited the palace often dump used masks in some parts of the palace. “It would be better if there were sign boards pointing towards the litter bins to ensure that the palace remains clean,” said Janani Raji, a student, who was visiting the palace with her friends. Meanwhile, as pigeon droppings spoiled the exterior of the pillars, a net was spread across the courtyard to prevent the birds from entering it and has proved to be effective. However, a few birds got stuck in the net. Archaeology officer K Sakthivel said that the net covering work in the courtyard had not been completed as some civil work was pending. “Only one or two birds got stuck and died after the net was spread, otherwise it was quite effective in keeping them away,” he said. The littering menace would be controlled after the 20 bins that they have kept for this purpose is placed in various locations after the work is complete, he added. Constructed in the year 1636 AD by King Thirumalai Naicker, it was said to have been the grandest palace in south India. What remains now is the pavilion known as the Swargha Vilasam. The architecture is a fusion of Dravidian and Rajput styles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/visitors-litter-naicker-mahal-with-masks/articleshow/80123669.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Ranikhet disease suspected, experts take samples again||PANCHKULA: It is being suspected that Ranikhet disease infected the approximately 1.5 lakh chicken that died in Barwala and Raipur Rani poultry farms in Panchkula in the past one week. The belt was under the attack of Ranikhet in 2006, too, when most of the poultry farms were wiped out within three days. A team of Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (NRDDL), Jalandhar, reached the poultry farms of Barwala and Raipur Rani and took the samples of dead chicken for forensic examination, said Panchkula deputy commissioner Mukesh Ahuja. The re-sampling has been done as NRDDL experts were not satisfied with the earlier samples sent by the animal husbandry department. The teams collected 40 more samples from five poultry farms in Barwala and Garhi Kutha village in Raipur Rani. Ahuja said, “We want to be sure before reaching any conclusion. So, the team has taken samples from five poultry farms of two sets each (one set is of four birds), making it around 40 samples. We will wait for the forensic report to chalk out further course of action.” The poultry farm workers in Barwala also suspect attack of Ranikhet disease. Barwala poultry farm owners’ association member Darshan Singla said, “Around 1.5 lakh birds have died in 20 farms across the belt. The death is due to an immense cold wave and not bird flu. Whenever the temperature goes below 5 degrees Celsius, the birds die and the poultry farm owners are aware of such calamity, which is largely inevitable. We do use heaters and cover sheds with cold wave repellent sheets, but birds are sensitive.” Barwala belt in Panchkula is said to be the second largest poultry producer in Asia and houses around 115 farms. The belt was hit by bird flu in 2006 and 2014 and many owners went bankrupt as the epidemic wiped out the birds overnight. Many geese at Sukhna Lake had also died of bird flu and the UT administration later killed them to check the spread. Avian experts said Ranikhet disease, also known in the West as Newcastle disease, was contagious and highly fatal. An acute viral disease that affects the respiratory system and drops egg production, it has a mortality rate of 100% in severe cases. This virus has a zoonotic effect and can cause human deaths too. Ranikhet is largely a disease of the fowls, but also affects turkeys, pigeons, crows, ducks, geese, pheasants, guinea fowls, partridges and doves. Hedgehogs have been suspected as reservoirs of the disease, which is also suspected to cause conjunctivitis among laboratory workers and persons handling infected birds.  ‘Old birds died’A poultry farm owner at Barwala and Raipur Rani said due to Covid-19 pandemic, they were unable to recycle the birds who had completed their lifespan and had become old. So, during the extreme cold season, the old birds could not survive. A poultry farm owner at Garhi Kutha village said, “We replace old birds with fresh chicks after every two years as the lifespan is of 72 to 90 weeks. But this time due to the pandemic, we were unable to replace older birds as hatcheries were closed. This resulted in older birds not sustaining the inclement weather conditions.” ‘Migratory birds’ droppings can spread avian flu’Veterinary and wildlife experts believe that the Barwala and Raipur Rani poultry farm belt falls under the path followed by the migratory birds, whose droppings could cause avian flu. An expert at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Ludhiana, said, “The main cause of avian flu is migratory birds as their droppings carry the virus. The belt falls under their path.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ranikhet-disease-suspected-experts-take-samples-again/articleshow/80122439.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
January 6, 2021||Nagpur||No govt funds, no schools from Jan 16: Maha association||Nagpur: A pan-Maharashtra association representing trusts/societies which manage schools has threatened indefinite closure from January 16, unless state government provides funds for non-salary expenses. Maharashtra Rajya Shikshan Sanstha Mahamandal (MRSSM), a Pune headquartered association, has written to the government saying sanitization costs have compounded financial problems for its members thus leaving no other choice than indefinite closure. Ravindra Fadnavis, executive member of MRSSM from city, said, “We have over 16,000 members, who control one or more educational institutes. Even non-aided institutes are part of our association and this financial pinch is being felt by everyone.” Last month, MRSSM had asked the government to deposit cash in institutes’ bank accounts before asking to reopen schools. With no response coming forth from the government, MRSSM has decided to take an aggressive stance. The association president Vijay Naval Patil, four-time MP and a former Union minister, said schools cannot function unless government chips in. “We are giving the state government an ultimatum to fulfil our demands by January 15. Schools require funds for sanitization and related equipment along with non-salary expenses like electricity bill, rent, maintenance etc,” said Patil. The association represents both grant-in-aid (aided) and unaided schools. Aided schoolteachers’ salaries are paid by the government, while the school is also entitled to a separate corpus to meet expenses like utilities and building maintenance. Such schools can’t charge fee from its students. Fadnavis said, “Aided schools have not received a single penny since last year, and as we can’t charge fee, there is no cash available. Teachers are voluntarily contributing to keep the schools running, but that’s not the right way to go about it.” He added that unaided schools too face a similar issue. “Though schools are providing monthly fee payment facility, parents are not paying up. Now such schools don’t get any government aid and are hence cash-starved,” said Fadnavis. In Nagpur city, schools have not been provided with free sanitization equipment or materials. Such a provision was, however, done by Nagpur Zilla Parishad, under whose jurisdiction all schools outside city limits come.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-govt-funds-no-schools-from-jan-16-maha-association/articleshow/80122438.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
January 6, 2021||Madurai||DMK takes up garbage disposal woes in Sivaganga as they dominate makkal sabha||Madurai: The members of DMK made representations to the Sivaganga municipal commissioner based on grievances raised by the public in the recently held makkal sabhas in Sivaganga. Majority of the representations sought a solution to the garbage disposal problems faced by the residents.The garbage problem was one of the most discussed civic issues in Sivaganga, at the makkal sabha meetings conducted by the DMK. Eight such meetings have been convened by the DMK representatives in Sivaganga municipality till date. Sources said that the people complained that the sanitary workers of the municipality used to collect the garbage from one street and dump it in a vacant plot in another. They had sought the DMK’s intervention to solve this problem which was becoming a major menace.The grievances raised from the people were submitted as petitions to the Sivaganga municipal commissioner Ayyappan by DMK Sivaganga town secretary Durai Anand and other members of the party. Among the other issues raised by residents were erratic supply of drinking water with wards 18,19 and 21 receiving drinking water only once in ten days. The poor state of the roads and lack of street lights were also brought up by the public. Durai Anand said the petitions were submitted along with photos and evidence of the issues. He said that the municipal commissioner had assured them of action in a week’s time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dmk-takes-up-garbage-disposal-woes-in-sivaganga-as-they-dominate-makkal-sabha/articleshow/80123662.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Chandigarh||RPF cop accuses Sec 20 man of duping him of Rs 8 lakh||Chandigarh: A head constable of Railway Protection Force (RPF) has accused a resident of Sector 20 of duping him of Rs 8 lakh on the pretext of providing government jobs to his two cousins.Inderjit Singh, a resident of Railway Colony, Mauli Jagran, said in his police complaint, “I am deployed as head constable with RPF at Ambala railway station. I met the accused, Parminder Singh of Sector 20, in August 2019. He promised to provide jobs of a peon and a lab cleaner at Gurugram University to my cousins and demanded Rs 4 lakh for each.”The complainant gave Rs 8 lakh to Parminder. “After taking the money, he started making excuses and failed to provide any job. When I asked him to return the money, he refused,” he added.He then filed a complaint of cheating at SSP window at police headquarters in Sector 9. The SSP marked an inquiry to Sector 19 police. After verifying the facts and taking legal opinion, police registered a cheating case against Parminder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rpf-cop-accuses-sec-20-man-of-duping-him-of-rs-8-lakh/articleshow/80122437.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Madurai||Meenakshi temple deities to be taken in procession||MADURAI: For the first time since the lockdown, the deities of the Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple are to be taken on a procession on the streets outside the temple on January 6, as part of the Astamisapram festival. In a statement, joint commissioner of the temple, K Chelladurai has said that the palanquins carrying the deities will leave the temple premises and come on procession on the streets for the festival. The ceremonies would begin at 5am on January 6, and the palanquin would go towards Yannaikkal, North Veli Street, East Veli Street , South Veli Street, reach West Veli street via the Thiruparankundram Road and come via the Goods shed street, Naicker New Street, Vakkil New Street, East Marret street, Kamarajar Salai, Vilakuthoon and reach the car junction in East Masi street. This is the first time that the devotees would be able to witness the procession as other events of the temple including the famous Chithirai festival, Aavani festival and others were confined within the temple premises, due to the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/meenakshi-temple-deities-to-be-taken-in-procession/articleshow/80123670.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Dehradun||Colleges, universities set to reopen in Uttarakhand in February||DEHRADUN: After much uncertainty over the reopening of higher educational institutes in the state, state higher education minister Dhan Singh Rawat has finally cleared the air by announcing that all colleges and universities in Uttarakhand will reopen in the first week of February. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by the higher education minister along with the vice-chancellors of several major universities in the state. The reopening of colleges and universities comes nearly a year after the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic disrupted education at all levels in the country. When the classes begin again in February, lessons in full-time traditional mode would be held with strict adherence to the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Union education ministry recently. A final meeting in this regard would be held by chief minister TS Rawat later this month. The department had earlier allowed colleges and universities to reopen from December 15 but only for certain students, primarily those enrolled in practical oriented courses. The decision for reopening higher educational institutions was taken after multiple requests from various stakeholders and complaints of academic difficulties faced by students in online classes. Meanwhile, the department has also decided to increase its annual budget to improve research opportunities in the state. Also, all degree colleges and universities have been asked to organise blood donation camps on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda and Subhas Chandra Bose later this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/colleges-universities-set-to-reopen-in-state-in-feb/articleshow/80121230.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Migratory bird found dead at Sukhna Lake||CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh administration late Tuesday evening spotted a dead migratory bird at Sukhna Lake. UT chief conservator of forests (CCF) Debendra Dalai said the common coot migratory bird was spotted dead at Sukhna Lake. The UT forest and wildlife department, along with UT animal husbandry department, has collected the sample of the bird, which will be sent to the Regional Disease Diagnosis Laboratory (RDDL), Jalandhar. “This is just an isolated case and can be natural death. In the current circumstances, we do not want to take any risk and have collected samples. The UT forest and wildlife department is in constant touch with the UT veterinary department. The administration is keeping a close eye on the situation,” Dalai said. The administration has also received a letter from the Himachal Pradesh government about the death of migratory birds at Pong Dam. It is suspected that the Asian avian influenza (H5N1)—which led to the death of more than 2,500 migratory birds at Pong Dam wetland in Himachal’s Kangra district—may have claimed the lives of poultry birds in Haryana’s Barwala belt in Panchkula district, too. A senior UT officer said in winter, migratory birds begin flocking Sukhna Lake and water bodies in the Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary. The regular winged guests to the city are ruddy shelducks, white-eyed pochards, common pochards, common coot, ferruginous pochards, tufted ducks and greylag goose among others. These migratory birds come from Siberia, China and other parts of the world during November and December and stay till March, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/migratory-bird-found-dead-at-sukhna-lake/articleshow/80122459.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
January 6, 2021||Nagpur||Burglar surrenders in murder case to evade burglary rap||NAGPUR: Suryakant Rajurkar, having more than 20 offences of thefts against his name, had nearly hoodwinked cops by surrendering in a murder case in which he had been absconding for a year-and-half. He decided to get arrested about a week ago after learning cops were after him for his role in theft of 20 tolas gold. According to a police source, Rajurkar plotted his arrest in the murder case registered at Sadar police station with much calculation despite the fact that stringent MCOCA had been invoked in that case. Rajurkar’s aim was to remain in custody of Sadar police and later go to jail from where he could be procured for investigation only after the nod of the special court which meant the investigation into 20 tolas gold theft by Sakkardara police station would run into obstacles. In order to dodge Sakkardara police team, Rajurkar got himself picked up by Sitabuldi police station through an acquaintance and tried to get handed over to Sadar police station in murder case. An effective co-ordination among cops put paid to this plan, said a police source. Sakkardara police under Zonal DCP Akshay Shinde, senior inspector Satyavan Mane, inspector Chandrakant Yadav ensured the accused was taken into custody last week. After his arrest, police recovered more than 14 tolas gold and other stolen materials including six mobile phones and two vehicles. Sakkardara police got a clue from CCTV camera footage of command and control system regarding the involvement of Rajurkar and his close aide Sandeep Ingoley in the burglary at the residence of Khasade family at Raghuji Nagar on December 7. Though Rajurkar could not be traced initially, cops arrested Ingoley and another accomplice Rahul Gujar who had helped Rajurkar escape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/burglar-surrenders-in-murder-case-to-evade-burglary-rap/articleshow/80122474.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 6, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Private school association favours up to 25% cut in fees||BENGALURU: The Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka (KAMS), an association of private schools in the state, has advised its members to reduce the school fees by up to 25% in the best interests of the students. According to an advisory, the association has said schools can reduce the special development fees and the term fee, which form 10% of the whole tuition fee. It has also suggested waiver of fee for extracurricular activities and schools could consider the minimum use of computers and transport this year. Many members expressed desire to decrease fee: AssnOverall, schools, whose fee structure is more than Rs 25,000 a year, can reduce (the fee) between 20% and 25% in the best interest of students’ continued learning and support the parents during Covid circumstances,” the advisory said. According to the association, many of its members have voluntarily expressed desire to decrease the fees by more than 25% as many students have not taken admissions. “Some parents were categorical they will not take admission this year. They create the wrong precedence for other kids too. At the same time, some schools are seeking complete annual fees at one go. We are asking them to take only part of the fees at one go,” said D Sashi Kumar of KAMS. It has asked its members to hold talks with parents and give them some time to make admissions by paying a part of the fees. Other associations like MICSA (Managements of Independent CBSE Schools’ Association) said it has left the decision to individual schools and won’t issue any advisory. Fees has been a sore point this academic year with parents alleging it’s unfair that schools are charging full fees even while many of their infrastructure and other facilities have remained unused. In many cases, teachers bore the brunt by not getting pay. The government has asked school managements to discuss the issue with parent bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pvt-school-assn-favours-up-to-25-cut-in-fees/articleshow/80125107.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru MLAs accuse CM BS Yediyurappa of favouritism||BENGALURU: After senior BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, it was the turn of Bengaluru MLAs, who, on Tuesday, charged chief minister BS Yediyurappa with step-motherly treatment in allocation of funds. They accused the CM of showing favouritism to a section of the ruling MLAs in Bengaluru in announcing outlay for development projects in their constituencies. “As CM, you should treat all MLAs equally. Unfortunately, a few MLAs are getting a bulk of development projects,” Mahadevapura MLA Arvind Limbavali and Bommanahalli MLA Satish Reddy reportedly told the CM on the second day of his interaction with lawmakers. You’ve been consulting only 3 people, legislator tells CM at meetingThey expressed displeasure that they have been overlooked while drawing up projects for the city. “You’ve been consulting only three people — BDA chairman SR Vishwanath, deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan and minister R Ashoka,” said a legislator. Reddy reportedly said: “If you take unilateral decisions based on inputs from select MLAs and bureaucrats, what are we here for?” Limbavali reportedly requested the chief minister to keep the latter’s son off the government’s affairs, besides curbing the role of middlemen, who are “seeking cuts for every project on behalf of others”. Sources said that Yediyurappa remained mum and did not react to the allegations. In his opening remarks, the CM had said: “I’m sure Bengaluru MLAs do not have any problems considering a substantial allocation has been made to them in the previous financial year.” Earlier in the day, Hosadurga MLA Goolihatti Shekar said though many MLAs are upset with the CM for not granting enough funds for their constituencies, they are not openly expressing it out of fear that they could be targeted. “Damned if we do, damned if we don’t. If we speak against ministers, bureaucrats, or those in power, we may not get funds. If we do not speak, then our constituency allocation is cut. Plus, if we speak of our disappointment, then our words could be misinterpreted and we are served with disciplinary action by the party,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bluru-mlas-accuse-bsy-of-favouritism/articleshow/80125113.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Hubballi||Karnataka: Denied phone, 16-year-old pushes brother into well, jumps in; both die||KALABURAGI: Angered by his parents’ refusal to buy him a smartphone, a 16-year-old pushed his younger brother into a well and jumped after him in Bhusanur village in Kalaburagi district. While the 12-year-old did not know how to swim and drowned, the older one, known to be a good swimmer, tied a bag of stones to his waist before plunging in. The incident occurred on Sunday evening, hours after Sunil Tulasiram Maratha asked his parents to buy him a mobile phone with a touchscreen. One of them had epilepsyFamily members said Sunil had dropped out of school while his brother, Shekhar, was a student of Class 6. The family of six, including two older children in their 20s, own a small piece of land and work as farm labourers. Villagers said despite their hardship, they took special care of Sunil as he suffered from epilepsy and tried to fulfil his demands. On Sunday afternoon, Sunil kept pestering his parents to buy him the phone and as the argument grew, they agreed to buy him a keypad smartphone but he refused to relent. Family sources said Sunil was further upset when they told him he might lose a touchscreen phone since he frequently suffered from epileptic bouts. Soon after, both brothers went out to relieve themselves and Sunil pushed Shekhar into a well on the outskirts of the village in Aland taluk. The younger boy did not know to swim and tried to resist his brother, but in vain, police said.  Villagers said Sunil was known as a proficient swimmer but made sure he would not survive by tying a bag of stones to his waist. It was only on Monday afternoon that the boys’ chappals were found near the well. A case was registered at Nimbaraga police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/denied-phone-teen-drowns-bro-in-well-jumps-in/articleshow/80125116.cms||Mouneshwar Sonnad
January 6, 2021||Madurai||SDPI stages protest against farm laws||Madurai: The members of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) staged a demonstration in front of the State Bank of India in West Veli Street on Tuesday urging the central government to withdraw the farm laws. More than 100 functionaries of the party took part in the protest led by the outfit’s Madurai district president Mujibur Rahman. The protesters raised slogans against the central government for depicting the protesting farmers as terrorists and urged it to pay heed to their demands. They also staged a symbolic protest to depict the exploitation of farmers by the corporates while the central government turned a mute spectator. The demonstrators dressed up in the roles of a farmer, a crony capitalist and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. They also charged the central government of supporting corporates while ignoring the interests of farmers and ordinary citizens. Police personnel deployed at the protest site arrested the protesters. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sdpi-stages-protest-against-farm-laws/articleshow/80123676.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Chhatbir zoo closes aviary||Mohali: The Chhatbir zoo authorities have temporarily closed the walk-in aviary as well as all other bird enclosures for visitors with immediate effect.Chhatbir zoo field director M Sudhagar said, “All bird enclosures have been closed for visitors in the wake of deaths of poultry birds in Barwala and Raipu Rani. The enclosure will remain closed for five to six days till the forensic reports are received. If the forensic report is positive, then the closure will be extended further.”“The zoo houses many species of exotic birds in walk-in aviary and they come in close contact with visitors. There are possibilities that avian flu is carried by humans. Therefore, giving human exposure to birds may prove fatal. The bird keepers are also under medical supervision so that the birds do not get infection from them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chhatbir-zoo-closes-aviary/articleshow/80122509.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
January 6, 2021||Dehradun||Farmers wave black flags, block convoy of edu min in US Nagar||Rudrapur: With no resolution in sight after over a month of agitation against the new farm laws, scores of farmers blocked the road and showed black flags to state education minister Arvind Pandey while he was heading to Bazpur for the foundation laying of several development projects on Tuesday. They also raised slogans against the minister and the amended agri laws. Sources said that farmers from Shivpuri and Baanskhera villages, holding black flags and banners, assembled near Gadarpur in the morning and blocked the convoy of the minister. Finally, police had to rush to the spot to convince the protesters to allow the minister’s vehicles to pass. Sources added that Pandey then proceeded to the venue. Earlier on Monday, BJP legislator Harbhajan Singh Cheema had to face similar protests when he tried to pacify farmers who had assembled at the clinic of a doctor who had written anti-farmer posts on social media. They then demanded Cheema’s resignation after which he made a quick exit. Later, the doctor extended his apology to the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/farmers-wave-black-flags-block-convoy-of-edu-min-in-us-nagar/articleshow/80121242.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 6, 2021||Kolkata||Cops to install over 1,000 CCTVs near 259 educational institutes in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Cops have finalized their plan to install over 1,000 CCTV cameras in the areas around 259 educational institutes located under 71 police stations in the city, more than 13 months after it was initially planned under the Nirbhaya fund scheme. They will spend more than Rs 32 crore for the project out of Rs 181 crore that they are planning to use for various projects in 2021. In the first phase, the project will cover girls’ schools and a few co-educational schools. After that, the project will be implemented at colleges. Sources said tenders to install these cameras right outside the schools and at their nearest crossings will be floated soon. “Several schools in the city have CCTVs within their premises. But there is not much CCTV coverage outside on the main road. Our aim is to cover these stretches, from where we often get complaints of harassment,” said a senior officer, adding that several government schools will be benefited under this scheme. One of the in-charges of Taki House, which houses schools for both boys and girls, welcomed the move of the police. “With children coming in and going out together, it is not always possible to keep an eye on everyone. The CCTV surveillance will also create fear in the minds of those who want to make trouble,” he said. “We can ascertain whether anti-social activities are taking place close to these security zones. We are trying to track down any suspicious movement with the help of the CCTVs that will also help us study the traffic situation. In the long run, this will help us take measures that can help in bringing down accidents and traffic snarls,” said an officer. Cops gave the example of Behala where CCTV surveillance was an alien concept before it came under the jurisdiction of Kolkata Police. Loca cops have installed 35 CCTV cameras, in addition to those installed by the traffic police at most of the crossings. As of now, at least 10 schools in Behala will be covered by the CCTV surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-to-install-over-1k-cctvs-near-259-educational-institutes/articleshow/80122516.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 6, 2021||Nagpur||PWD fails to complete KKSU works even by new deadline||Nagpur: The state’s Public Works Department (PWD) has failed to complete three works of Kavikulaguru Kalidas Sanskrit University (KKSU), Ramtek, in revised deadline of January 5. Now, a new deadline of January 9 has been set for finishing the works, according to officials of PWD and KKSU. TOI on January 2 had reported vice-chancellor of KKSU Shrinivasa Varakhedi’s plan to launch a hunger strike from January 1 to protest the delay by PWD in completing the works. The VC later dropped the plan after an assurance from PWD chief engineer Sanjay Dashpute to complete the works by January 5. PWD superintendent engineer Vidyadhar Sardeshmukh visited KKSU and reviewed the works on Tuesday. He told TOI, “Works will be completed on January 9. I have made some additions in the works for giving better results. I also discussed the projects at length with all officials of KKSU.” Dashpute is also likely to take stock of works on January 8. Varakhedi said, “PWD is working round the clock now. We hope they complete the works by January 9. PWD officials are very cooperative and I had no problems with them. I went on to express my feelings as I was upset with delay and system of work. PWD officials accepted that and are now paying heed.” KKSU has reportedly requested governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to inaugurate the three works — Academic Research Centre, Multipurpose Hall and Recreation Centre-cum-Hostel on January 15. KKSU officials said, “Students have already been affected due to the delay. They are supposed to get a new library, research centre, study room, digital platform, a hall for all activities, recreation centre and hostel. KKSU managed to get government and own funds for the works. Timely completion would have benefited all.” As per Varakhedi’s letter to Dashpute on December 28 in which he revealed his plan of launching a hunger strike, the work on Academic Research Centre was supposed to start on May 17, 2016, and completed on August 16, 2017. Construction of multipurpose hall was to start on January 12, 2018, and due to finish on April 11, 2019. Similarly, work for expansion of first and second floor of recreation centre was to commence on August 23, 2019, and end by May 22, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pwd-fails-to-complete-kksu-works-even-by-new-deadline/articleshow/80122545.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 6, 2021||Kolkata||IIM-Calcutta students back on campus, attend e-classes from hostel rooms||KOLKATA: As many as 733 students have been allowed on campus by the Indian Institute of Management Calcutta (IIM-C) for online classes making it one of the first educational institutes in the state to let pupils report in person since the pandemic began. About 696 of the total student strength of 1,100-plus across four programs of MBA, MBAEX, VLMP and doctoral courses have already returned and are attending virtual classes from their hostel rooms. With the upcoming final placements which are going virtual this year, the numbers are likely to rise even further. Physical classes, though, shall resume only after the state government permits. None of the educational institutes in Kolkata has allowed students back on campus or hostels since closing down in March. “The students were given an option to move into the campus if they found it difficult to pursue the courses from their home towns. Some are from the rural towns where there is limited internet connectivity and are facing academic challenges due to multiple members in the families with whom they have to share the resources. These are the students who have been given priority permission to attend the virtual classes from campus,” said a faculty member. She added that those who are involved in the final placement process, other related group work and volunteers are also back on the campus, to speed up the process. The institute has put in place strict testing and quarantine policy where the students who are being brought back are undergoing Covid test on the fifth day after arrival. “There have been positive cases reported as well. But, we have put these students in a quarantine facility. IIMC has also tied up with prominent hospitals to ease the process of settling down the returning students and build confidence. Among the students who have been given permission to return to campus are 629 from MBA, 62 form MBAEX, which is the strength of the program, 36 students of the VLMP and 6 research scholars. When asked about the facilities being offered by the institute to the students on campus, Anju Seth, director of IIM Calcutta, said, “Apart from holding online classes, we have created online virtual places, where students regularly hold events, social meets and recreational activities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iimc-students-back-on-campus-attend-e-classes-from-hostel-rooms/articleshow/80122558.cms||Somdatta Basu
January 6, 2021||Dehradun||National Board for Wildlife clears ESZ proposal of Nandhaur Wildlife Sanctuary||Dehradun: The national wildlife board on Tuesday gave its final nod to the draft notification of the eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) of the Nandhaur Wildlife Sanctuary. The move, officials say, will help create job opportunities for the locals. The government, in May 2020, had invited public opinions on the ESZ draft. However, only 12 recommendations were received. Among them, 10 were in favour of the ESZ draft. According to senior officials who attended the national wildlife board meeting on Tuesday, the national board will conduct a meeting almost every month to increase the pace of developmental activities. According to JS Suhag, chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand, the ESZ range of Nandhuar starts from a minimum of 0.7 kilometres to a maximum of 15 kilometres. Notably, the Nandhaur Wildlife Sanctuary, 269.95 sq km long, is spread across Haldwani, Terai East, and Champawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/national-board-for-wildlife-clears-esz-proposal-of-nandhaur-wildlife-sanctuary/articleshow/80121264.cms||Shivani Azad
January 6, 2021||India||ED attaches 452cr assets of British national in fraud case||NEW DELHI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached assets worth Rs 452 crore of a British national accused of receiving kickbacks through involvement of a Chinese contractor in IL&FS group companies. This latest action takes the total attachment in the IL&FS fraud and money laundering case to more than Rs 1,500 crore. Treating it as ‘proceeds of crime’, the ED has attached assets of a Singapore-based shell company owned by British national Jaimin Vyas. The attached assets are in the form of 8.86% shares of IL&FS Tamil Nadu Power Company Limited (ITPCL), presently worth around Rs 452 crore, the ED attachment order claimed. “There was a well planned conspiracy to defraud IL&FS and Indian banks by Jaimin Vyas in connivance with officials of IL&FS and one Chinese contractor, SEPCO III,” ED said disclosing details of the probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-attaches-452cr-assets-of-british-national-in-fraud-case/articleshow/80125205.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Vadodara||‘11 years in jail for 11 dishonoured invoices’||Vadodara: In an unprecedented ruling, a judicial magistrate’s court ordered one year jail for a provision store owner in Pratapnagar for each of the 11 bills which he had dishonoured. The court of additional chief judicial magistrate J A Baxi has also asked convict Jitendra Tahelramani to pay 1.5 times the amount of Rs 13.6 lakh which he owes to Vrajesh Shah, owner of Gopal Traders. Tahelramani was sentenced to total 11 years of imprisonment with one year for every bill, the punishment for which he will have to undergo one after the other and not simultaneously. The wholesaler, Shah, through his lawyer Atul Mistry, had filed 11 complaints against Tahelramani in June and July 2014, alleging that he had sent Tahelramani stock of semolina, refined wheat and gram flour among other products from his wholesale shop at Hathikhana Market Yard on various occasions in 2014. Since the duo knew each other, Shah had sent the stock along with invoice on credit. After the credit period ended, Shah asked Tahelramani to make payments, which the latter paid with cheques of different amounts and of different bank accounts. Shah alleged that all the cheques were returned upon deposition. Most of them were dishonoured over insufficient funds, a couple of them were returned as Tahelramani had stopped payment and one cheque was returned as the bank account from which the cheque was drawn was closed. During the hearing of the case, the complainant submitted all evidence to the court. However, none of them were objected to. In fact, when Tahelramani was to be examined in 2017, he stopped appearing in the court. The court even issued an arrest warrant against him, yet he did not appear, so he was declared as an absconder. The court gave the judgment in his absence and ordered that he will have to pay the entire amount to Shah within two months. On failing to make the payment, an additional six months imprisonment for every bill will be added to the punishment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/11-years-in-jail-for-11-dishonoured-invoices/articleshow/80121193.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Kolkata||Sourav Ganguly to go home today; angioplasty 2-3 weeks later||KOLKATA: BCCI president and former Team India skipper Sourav Ganguly will undergo an angioplasty for his two blocked arteries after 2-3 weeks, experts have decided. He will be discharged from hospital on Wednesday. The decision was taken after eminent cardiac surgeon Devi Shetty visited the hospital on Tuesday and examined Ganguly. He also met the nine-member medical board formed for the treatment of the 48-year-old who was admitted to hospital last Saturday after a mild heart attack. Ganguly has been diagnosed with triple vessel disease and underwent a coronary angioplasty to remove a 90% blockage in his right ventricular artery at Woodlands Hospital. The medical board at Woodlands consulted several experts from around the country and abroad, including interventional cardiologist of Mumbai’s Jaslok Hospital Samuel Mathew and Sharmin K Sharma of The Mount Sinai Hospital of New York, apart from Shetty and R K Panda, who had joined a video conference on Monday. They discussed whether another angioplasty should be done immediately, or after some time, to unclog the other arteries. Shetty interacted with Ganguly at the hospital and went through his reports before conferring with the medical board members. He agreed with the rest that a second angioplasty can be conducted later since Ganguly was stable and has recovered well. “Our biggest problem is that we think someone who is fit cannot have a cardiac condition. We must remember that we can suffer from heart disease irrespective of how fit or strong or fast we are. A cardiac evaluation and general check-up is a must at least once in two years,” said Shetty. He added that Sourav had a ‘minor cardiac episode’ and there has been no serious damage to his heart. “Sourav was treated early and he remains absolutely fit. Once he undergoes an angiography to remove the other clots, he can return to normal life and do whatever he wishes to. He can run a marathon, play cricket and work out just like anybody else,” said the cardiac surgeon. He went on to add that since Ganguly is a sportsman and leads a disciplined life, he has had fewer and less serious clots. “Those who smoke develop clots along the entire length of the cardiac artery. But in Sourav’s case, there are just three isolated blocks,” said Shetty. Meanwhile, a bulletin issued by the hospital said the cricketer remained stable on Tuesday and his vital parameters are normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sourav-to-go-home-today-angioplasty-2-3-weeks-later/articleshow/80122582.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
January 6, 2021||Surat||Debt-ridden son, mother hang selves at Surat home||SURAT: Depressed over mounting debt and marital discord, a 37-year-old employee of a mobile wallet company and his 59-year-old mother allegedly committed suicide in their house in posh Piplod area. Maharshi Parekh, 37, and his mother Bharti were found hanging from the ceiling fan in their residential apartment Milano Heights on Monday evening. Police said Parekh was suffering from financial crisis and recently developed marital disputes too. Umra police recovered a suicide note from the house in which Parekh wrote that they were taking the drastic step on their own and no one should be held responsible. The family’s friends and police entered the apartment after several calls made to him went unanswered. The apartment on the fifth floor was locked from inside and police opened it using a key that was kept at neighbours home. Parekh and his mother were alone at home as his wife Binita had gone to her parents house due to some quarrel around 15 days ago, taking their three-year-old daughter along. They used ropes to hang themselves. In the two-page suicide note, Parekh requested that no one should be questioned for their step and neither he or his family should be defamed after his death. He held himself responsible for his deeds and also mentioned disputes with wife in the note. “Parekh had borrowed money from mobile application finance services. He was unable to repay and was worried due to it. The exact amount of debt will be known during the course of investigation,” said a police officer. Parekh’s friends told police that they had talked with him till around 12 noon on Monday, but later all went unanswered. “Parekh made a few calls to his friends in the past few days and discussed his financial crisis. He also discussed his marital discord with a friend on Sunday night,” said police. His friend had gone to meet him on Sunday night since he had talked about committing suicide during their conversation over phone. “His friend convinced Parekh that suicide is not the option and he should keep patience. He got anxious when Parekh was not answering calls on Monday afternoon,” said police. Police have seized mobile phones of Parekh and his mother to find out details about their calls and messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/mother-son-hang-selves-at-home/articleshow/80120986.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Nagpur||Nasal Covaxin trials in Nagpur soon||NAGPUR: After Covishield and Covaxin — both already tried in Nagpur — received emergency use approval from the government; now the city is all set to host trial for nasal variant of the Covaxin made by Bharat Biotech. The Indian vaccine maker has collaborated with Washington University to conduct these trials. Phase I and II trials of the nasal variant will start at Dr Gillurkar’s Hospital, where the first two phases of Covaxin were held earlier. “We are all set to host the trials for nasal Covaxine in next two weeks. Enough scientific evidences are available that vaccines given through nasal route are more effective than injected ones,” said Dr Chandrashekhar Gillukar. According to Bharat Biotech, this single dose intranasal vaccine was found effective in preventing infection in mice susceptible to the novel coronavirus. Four times more antibodies were generated in the body of subject after administering the nasal vaccine. Other benefits of intranasal vaccines are that they are simple to administer, and they reduce use of medical consumables such as needles and syringes. Eventually, overall cost of a vaccination drive reduces. Nasal vaccine is given only once. “India needs at least 80 crore doses for an effective first phase vaccination drive. About 2 crore Covaxin doses are ready, apart from 4 crore of Covishield. As our requirement is huge, it’s must for country like India to search for more options by conducting such trials,” said Dr Gillurkar. Dr Ashish Tajane, who has been coordinating most vaccine trials in Nagpur, said the vaccines will be effective, irrespective of mutations and new strains of novel coronavirus. “Covaxin is a whole-viron inactivated vaccine (the whole virus vaccine). It targets all parts of the virus rather than only some. This makes it a more effective tool against the new virus strain like the one found in the United Kingdom,” he said. Earlier to this, human trials of Covaxin with intradermal route are already underway in Nagpur at Meditrina Institute of Medical Sciences. Two phases have been successful so far. Experts have informed that doctors and health workers will initially get Covishield shots, while Covaxin will be available later. Nagpur and Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin — Phase I (55 volunteers), Phase II (50 volunteers), Phase III (1600+) Covishield — Phase II and III trials (200 volunteers in Nagpur, 200 in Sevagram) Covaxin (intradermal route) — Phase I and II trials done in Nagpur Covaxin (nasal route) — set to start soon||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nasal-covaxin-trials-in-nagpur-soon/articleshow/80127595.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 6, 2021||Chennai||What caused the downpour in Chennai?||CHENNAI: The incessant rain, which began as light spells on Tuesday morning, caught meteorologists off guard. According to IMD, the city was to receive light to moderate rain while coastal Cuddalore and Villupuram were to receive heavy rain on Tuesday. But the continuous spells and the occasional bouts of heavy rain in Chennai and the neighbouring districts for nearly 15 hours told something else. IMD officials said an anticyclone pushed rain clouds, expected to bring rain to Cuddalore and Villupuram, over Chennai and its neighbourhoods. While studies have shown that spillover of northeast monsoon to January was not unusual during La Nina years, weather watchers said Tuesday’s spell was one of the highest recorded in 24 hours the past 15 years. It crossed January’s average rainfall of 25.9mm. IMD had forecast that an easterly wave or a trough, an elongated area of relatively low pressure, was to bring moderate rainfall over the city. “We knew it would bring heavy rainfall over Villupuram, Cuddalore and Puducherry. But on Monday night, an anticyclone from Andaman to TN coast, where winds circling in clockwise direction, pushed the rain clouds up over north. That’s why Chennai received rainfall while other coastal regions received less spells,” said N Puviarasan, director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, Regional Meteorological Centre, Chennai. For the next 24 hours, IMD has forecast that Chennai and neighbourhoods may have thunderstorm with moderate rain, heavy at times. The subsequent 24 hours are likely to bring moderate rain over some areas while the skies may be generally cloudy with temperatures at a maximum 29ºC and a minimum 22ºC. Former IMD deputy director general Y E A Raj said one of the reasons for the spillover of monsoon rain in January was the La Nina conditions, where below average sea surface temperatures prevail over equatorial eastern and central Pacific Ocean, which do not favour northeast monsoon. His study with 100-year rainfall data showed a pattern of delay in onset and a weak start to northeast monsoon, which eventually lingers on to the second half of December and January during La Nina years. During El Nino years, the monsoon begins on time and abruptly ends. “But the spillover brings more rainfall over Nagapattinam, Cuddalore and Pamban while Chennai receives less,” he said. “Though rainfall in January may not happen every La Nina year, it is not unusual. In the last 35 years, we have seen five to six similar events.” In the past 35 years, Nungambakkam recorded 168mm rain between January 13 and 18, 1995, and 137mm between January 12 and 15, 1986. Meenambakkam recorded 124mm rain between January 1 and 4, 1985, and 162mm between January 12 and 15, 1986. As of 8.30am Tuesday, Nungambakkam received 63mm and Meenambakkam 44.6mm. From 8.30am to 8.30pm, Nungambakkam recorded 81.8mm and Meenambakkam 115.6mm of rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/what-caused-the-downpour-in-chennai/articleshow/80122618.cms||U Tejonmayam
January 6, 2021||Madurai||Cinema halls gear up for ‘full house’||TRICHY/MADURAI: Theatres owners and moviegoers have welcomed the government decision allowing 100% occupancy in cinemas as it will help revive the sector, which is badly hit by the Covid-19 lockdown. Theatre owners in Trichy and Madurai said they will operate theatres responsibly maintaining the safety measures put forth by the government. Though the orders have come into effect, theatres are planning to allow 100% occupancy from January 13 only when actor Vijay-starrer ‘Master’ will be released. Silambarasan movie will be released on the next day. Theatres will attract more crowds after the release of these two big films, said joint secretary of the Tamil Nadu Theatres Association S Srither. Even though theatres were reopened in mid-November allowing 50% occupancy, they failed to pull crowds. Lack of good films was a major reason for audiences turning away from theatres. There are around 25 theatres and around 40 screens in Madurai with a majority of them concentrated in the city. Theatre owners said that moviegoers are eager to watch movies in theatres, but they did not do so because of the absence of quality movies. P K M Rajangam of Priya Enterplex said, “We have not seen a good response from the audience after theatres resumed operation after Covid-19 lockdown. Out of the 1,400-odd seats available in the complex, hardly 100 seats got filled during weekends. On weekdays, it was even worse,” he said. But, the state government has warned that permission would be withdrawn if something goes wrong. We will be careful in operating the theatres with all precautionary measures, he said. There were no specific preparations for allowing 100% occupancy as theatres have to just remove the stickers from seats; the rest of the SOP issued earlier remains the same. Rm M Annamalai, past president of Tamil Nadu theatre owners association said that there is no fun in watching movies on OTT platforms, and audiences have also realized it in the last few months. He said that it would not be a difficult task to operate theatre, following the precautionary norms like checking body temperature, providing hand sanitizers and ensuring that people are wearing masks. V Senthil, a Vijay fan from Vandiyur, said “It has been more than a year since we saw our idol on the silver screen. We are eagerly waiting to watch movies in the theatre,” he said. He added that people would not hesitate to visit theatres since the covid-19 positive cases have come down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cinema-halls-gear-up-for-full-house/articleshow/80123701.cms||Sampath Kumar
January 6, 2021||Nagpur||From priesthood to selling kites fora living, Tiwari has come a long way||Nagpur: BJP’s Dayashankar Tiwari, a priest, is the city’s 54th mayor. He will take charge on January 7. The 57-year-old Tiwari, a four-time corporator, was associated with the BJP’s Yuva Morcha since the late 1980s. He was an active member of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. Getting projects stalled by the MVA government back on track is Tiwari’s topmost priority. He also intends to get government funds for projects concerning the city’s development. Known for his oratory skills, Tiwari’s contribution in the social and sports arenas are well known. When Tiwari was in the ninth standard, he suffered a personal setback. He lost his father due to cancer in 1978. To help his large family (four brothers and three sisters), Tiwari became a priest to earn money but did not discontinue his studies. “I even sold kites, manja and crackers during Diwali. Actually, I did seasonal business during those times of struggle,” he recalled. Tiwari became a franchisee of IRCTC’s railway reservation counter and continued his priesthood as well. He has done his master’s in history and also has a journalism degree. Apart from being the president of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (Nagpur city) from 1988 to 1991, Tiwari has also held several organizational posts within the party. Tiwari was the president of Nagpur City Boxing, Ice Skating and Chess Boxing Association. He is the founder president of Sanyog Shikshan Sanstha, Nityanand Vidyalaya and College, president of Navin Gyan Vikas Primary School and also heads Lotus Cultural and Sporting Association. He has won as many as 582 awards at various national and state-level debate competitions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/from-priesthood-to-selling-kites-fora-living-tiwari-has-come-a-long-way/articleshow/80122615.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 6, 2021||Dehradun||SSB rescues 5 Nepalese girls crossing Indian border, says they had plans to reach Kuwait via New Delhi||Pithoragarh: The anti-human trafficking unit of the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) rescued five girls from Nepal at Banbasa checkpost in Champawat district on Monday. The officials said that the girls were planning to go to Kuwait via New Delhi and were heading towards the national capital. After recording their statements, the girls were handed over to the Nepal police. On Monday, the five girls reached the SSB checkpost at Banbasa, and when questioned, they gave confusing statements, the SSB officers told TOI. The officers later informed the Nepal police and an NGO about the matter. The Nepal police and the NGO members reached the checkpost and jointly interrogated the girls. “The girls said that they were going to Delhi and from there were heading to Kuwait,” an officer said. The SSB recovered three Nepal citizenship certificates, one Indian Aadhaar card, two Nepali passports and one date of birth certificate from the girls. “Prima facie it was a human trafficking case and the girls were handed over to the NGO through Nepal police for further investigation,” the officer said. “The district police had no information about them as these girls were handed over to Nepal police before crossing border,” said Lokeshwar Singh, SP Champawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ssb-rescues-5-nepalese-girls-crossing-indian-border-says-they-had-plans-to-reach-kuwait-via-new-delhi/articleshow/80121300.cms||Prem Punetha
January 6, 2021||Kolkata||Film body urges CM to lift restrictions||Kolkata: The president of the Eastern India Motions Pictures Association (EIMPA), Piya Sengupta, has written to chief minister Mamata Banerjee to allow cinemas to operate with 100% occupancy. In the letter, Sengupta has cited the notification issued by Tamil Nadu government that has allowed the same. “It is unfortunate that family members can dine together at restaurants but aren’t allowed to sit together and watch movies. This occupancy restriction is preventing many good movies from getting released. That’s also a reason for viewers not turning up at the theatres. This is harming the fate of at least one lakh people directly or indirectly associated with Tollywood,” said Sengupta. However, many medicos are not convinced. On Monday, internationally acclaimed clinician Faheem Younus, who is the VP/Chief Quality Officer/Chief of Infectious Diseases, University of Maryland Upper Chesapeake Health and has been regularly sharing pandemic tips on Twitter, was asked on Twitter about Tamil Nadu’s decision. His reply was: “Cinema theatres are poorly ventilated, indoor, crowded, prolonged exposure settings. I cringe at the thought of opening theatres without complete control over the viral spread. Avoid. Avoid. Avoid.” Reacting to this, exhibitor-distributor Satadeep Saha said, “There are no reports of spread of the pandemic due to cinema screening. Many malls have food courts and auditoria with similar air-conditioning on the same floor. While the food courts are operating with full capacity, cinemas have restricted occupancy. While airlines, buses and metros can operate with full occupancy without complete control over the viral spread, it is strange that cinemas are facing the brunt.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/film-body-urges-cm-to-lift-restrictions/articleshow/80122651.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
January 6, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata's New Town plot, returned by Sourav Ganguly, up for e-auction||KOLKATA: The Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) plans to put up a two-acre plot in New Town for e-auction later this month for developing a high school. Sources from the state government said that the plot, located in Action Area II D and spread over 8,000 squares metres, was earlier allotted to cricketer Sourav Ganguly for setting up a school. According to sources, Ganguly expressed his unwillingness to work on the proposed school plan and communicated to the government that he wanted to return the land. The state cabinet has now decided to take back the plot, cancel the land allotment deed last year and return the money to Ganguly. Sources said that the official procedure to take back possession of the plot and refund the money to Ganguly was on. “The process is expected to be completed within a few days,” said an official. Hidco officials said that the plan now is to allot the plot on a lease-hold basis for 99 years. An expression of interest has been floated to invite non-profit oriented corporate bodies, registered trusts, societies, or individuals to bid for the plot. The e-auction will take place on January 28. However, there should be at least three bidders to conduct the e-auction in the absence of which the auction would be treated as cancelled, officials said. Once the plot is allotted, construction of the building should start within six months from the date of possession of the plot and the project should be completed within five years. According to government officials, the two acre plot in New Town was given to Ganguly in 2013 for setting up a school project. Sources said that there was a litigation over the said land. Incidentally, it was during the previous Left Front’s government’s tenure that a plot in Salt Lake was given to Ganguly for a similar school project but that plot too was handed back to the state government following a PIL filed by a section of residents. Residents of the township said that a high school providing education up to Class XII in the township was the need of the hour. “As a father, I can feel the need for a school that would be close to my house with easy access,” said Kingshuk Chakraborty, a resident. Hidco officials also said that they were also working on plans to set up a high school in New Town on their own which would be a state board-run school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-plot-returned-by-sourav-up-for-e-auction/articleshow/80122612.cms||Suman Chakraborti
January 6, 2021||Trichy||Cinema halls gear up for ‘full house’||TRICHY/MADURAI: Theatres owners and moviegoers have welcomed the government decision allowing 100% occupancy in cinemas as it will help revive the sector, which is badly hit by the Covid-19 lockdown. Theatre owners in Trichy and Madurai said they will operate theatres responsibly maintaining the safety measures put forth by the government. Though the orders have come into effect, theatres are planning to allow 100% occupancy from January 13 only when actor Vijay-starrer ‘Master’ will be released. Silambarasan movie will be released on the next day. Theatres will attract more crowds after the release of these two big films, said joint secretary of the Tamil Nadu Theatres Association S Srither. Even though theatres were reopened in mid-November allowing 50% occupancy, they failed to pull crowds. Lack of good films was a major reason for audiences turning away from theatres. There are around 25 theatres and around 40 screens in Madurai with a majority of them concentrated in the city. Theatre owners said that moviegoers are eager to watch movies in theatres, but they did not do so because of the absence of quality movies. P K M Rajangam of Priya Enterplex said, “We have not seen a good response from the audience after theatres resumed operation after Covid-19 lockdown. Out of the 1,400-odd seats available in the complex, hardly 100 seats got filled during weekends. On weekdays, it was even worse,” he said. But, the state government has warned that permission would be withdrawn if something goes wrong. We will be careful in operating the theatres with all precautionary measures, he said. There were no specific preparations for allowing 100% occupancy as theatres have to just remove the stickers from seats; the rest of the SOP issued earlier remains the same. Rm M Annamalai, past president of Tamil Nadu theatre owners association said that there is no fun in watching movies on OTT platforms, and audiences have also realized it in the last few months. He said that it would not be a difficult task to operate theatre, following the precautionary norms like checking body temperature, providing hand sanitizers and ensuring that people are wearing masks. V Senthil, a Vijay fan from Vandiyur, said “It has been more than a year since we saw our idol on the silver screen. We are eagerly waiting to watch movies in the theatre,” he said. He added that people would not hesitate to visit theatres since the covid-19 positive cases have come down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cinema-halls-gear-up-for-full-house/articleshow/80128532.cms||Sampath Kumar
January 6, 2021||Vijayawada||Ready infra plans for layouts: Jagan||Amaravati: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday directed district collectors to prepare blueprints for creation of infrastructure in housing layouts soon after disbursement of house sites. The chief minister said that plans must be prepared in a way that all upcoming townships for the poor do not become slums in the future. The chief minister extended the deadline for distribution of house sites from the January 7 to January 20. “They should be designed as our signature colonies,” Jagan said. The chief minister reviewed various development works with district collectors, joint collectors , city and district police chiefs through video conference on Tuesday. He told officials that their job was not to be considered complete following the distribution of housing sites. “Now, the focus should shift to creating the best possible infrastructure in upcoming housing colonies. Plan a hi-tech bus station at all colonies in addition to designing roads, drains, street lighting and drinking water facilities,” the chief minister said and added that the elevation of the housing colonies should itself mark the signature of the state government. Jagan told officials that anganwadi centres, schools, YSR clinics, parks, ward and village secretariats should come within the new colonies depending on their size. He asked the collectors to ready the standard operating procedure (SOP) to provide infrastructure in the colonies. The chief minister told collectors to ensure all houses in a particular colony should be completed simultaneously, without delay. The chief minister also asked officials to ready plans for underground drainage scheme in these colonies. “Some of the layouts are too big. Be careful in readying the plans. We might also require sewage treatment plants in some of the colonies,” the chief minister said. Jagan said the government had taken transparency to the next level by granting house-sites to all those eligible. He added that those left out from the present distribution should be granted sites within 90 days if found eligible. He said the government has openly displayed issuance of ration card and pension cards in 10 days and Arogyasri card in 20 days for all eligible beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ready-infra-plans-for-layouts-jagan/articleshow/80121336.cms||Samdani MN
January 6, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Schools, colleges & coaching centres to reopen from January 18||JAIPUR: The state government on Tuesday decided to open all educational institutions, including schools, colleges and coaching centres, from January 18. Since Covid-19 vaccination is about to begin, medical colleges, dental colleges, nursing colleges and paramedical institutes have also been directed to open from January 11. The decision was taken at a high-level review meeting chaired by chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday. He said the pandemic situation in the state is very much under control and the recovery rate has risen to an all-time high of 96.31%. Positive cases have become zero in some districts and the situation is better in others as well. In view of this, direction has been issued to open classes from 9 to 12 in schools, final-year classes in universities and colleges, coaching centers and government training institutes from January 18. All these institutions will have 50% attendance on the first day and the remaining 50% will attend classes on the second day. Teachers will be given necessary training by the health department on precautionary measures to be taken. The chief minister asked all institutions to follow health protocols, including social distancing and masks, guidelines and SOPs issued by the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/schools-colleges-coaching-centres-to-reopen-from-jan-18/articleshow/80123766.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Nagpur||Politics runs in the family for Manisha Dhawde||NAGPUR: Manisha Dhawde, the deputy mayor-elect, was elected as a corporator for the first time in 2017 from Prabhag 31. She is the sixth member of her family to be elected a corporator. She will take charge as deputy mayor of city on January 7. Apart from her mother-in-law Vimaltai Dhawde, four other family members -- Prabhakar Dhawde, Sindhutai Dhawde, Shankar Dhawde and Anil Dhawde— had served as corporators from the east Nagpur area. According to her, the elders in the family groomed her into politics. Dhawde, who is shy and prefers to keep a low profile, holds a masters degree in history and Marathi. Besides, she also possesses B.Ed degree. Before entering active politics in 2017, Dhawde used to conduct coaching classes. Her husband Ashish Dhawde is a civil contractor and now helps her attend to civic issues in her constituency. Speaking to TOI, Dhawde said she was not expecting the coveted post so soon in her political career of just four years. “I am very much grateful to the party for giving me such a big responsibility and will do my level best to serve the city,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/politics-runs-in-the-family-for-dhawde/articleshow/80122653.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Cutting edge: Pioneering drug delivery system||AHMEDABAD: With the development of Covid-19 vaccines across the globe in the past few months, messenger RNA or mRNA came into the popular discussion as one of the methods due to its high potency, rapid development and possible low-cost manufacturing. Siddharth Patel, a youth from Vadodara, is now working at the cutting edge of nanotechnology with Senda Biosciences, a Flagship Pioneering company. “As a researcher, I am leading the work on nucleic acid delivery systems which has long-term implications on a broad spectrum of therapy including cancers,” said Patel, who holds a PhD in pharmaceutical sciences from Oregon State University and master’s degree in biomedical engineering from Cornell University. His work on mRNA therapeutics and lipid nanoparticles is published in the past few years with reputed journals. Vaccines developed by companies like Moderna Therapeutics and Pfizer/BioNTech rely on similar technology utilizing proprietary lipid nanoparticles for mRNA delivery. His path-breaking research focused on engineering enhanced lipid nanoparticles for mRNA delivery leading to potent therapeutic applications. These works were published in leading high impact journals, ACS Nano Letter and Nature Communications and have also been patented. “It is an exciting time for bioscience and medical science at large – never have we seen such a sustained collaborative effort for a disease or infection in the past. But even beyond Covid-19, the technology developed in terms of drug delivery system, diagnostics and therapeutics would go a long way for other diseases as well in the future,” said Patel, adding that youths are now steering towards hitherto unconventional career paths which are both enriching and rewarding. “I would like to see more Gujarati youths in the core research projects that are pushing boundaries of science & technology.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cutting-edge-pioneering-drug-delivery-system/articleshow/80123819.cms||Parth Shastri
January 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Third Covid vaccination dry run held in 28 districts||AHMEDABAD: Dry run for Covid vaccination in 28 districts and five municipal corporations was carried out by the health department on Tuesday, the third such exercise held in Gujarat. AMC-run hospitals were part of the exercise. The exercise, which was held to assess the readiness of the mechanism laid out for the Covid-19 immunisation drive, was earlier carried out in five districts and three municipal corporations. While two of the vaccines have been given nod for emergency use, the state is yet to receive stock for vaccination. Four centres in Sanand, Sanathal and Telav had been identified for the run, said Dr Shilpa Yadav, chief district health officer (Ahmedabad). “We checked if messages had been sent to registered healthcare workers, along with the logistics of storing and transporting vaccine from the designated facility. The exercise was satisfactory,” she said. District Collector Sandip Sangle and DDO Arun Mahesh Babu also inspected the preparations. At Civil Hospital campus in Ahmedabad, 25 health workers were chosen for the mock vaccination. Officials involved in the process said it takes about 40 minutes for one recipient to complete the process – about 10 minutes for identification and registration, and 30 minutes for follow-up. Dr JP Modi, medical superintendent of Civil Hospital, said that about 7,000 from the campus have been identified for the first round of vaccination. “Multiple runs of mock Covid vaccination will prepare the staff for any eventuality. From storage chain management to software update, it will help in identifying and rectifying issues that can arise when vaccine stock is available,” said Dr Nayan Jani, chief vaccination officer of Gujarat. “So far, we have not encountered any major issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/third-covid-vaccination-dry-run-held-in-28-districts/articleshow/80123821.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Chennai||Sudden rain takes Chennai residents by surprise||CHENNAI: Chennai residents were caught unawares as incessant rain lashed the city and its surroundings since the early hours of Tuesday. Office goers and college students were put through hardships as several arterial roads were waterlogged including GST Road, Anna Salai and Rajiv Gandhi Salai. The state highway department, which maintains Kathipara flyover, attributed waterlogging issues over there to ongoing beautification and construction work being done by Chennai Metro Rail Limited. “Ever since the work began (two years ago), waterlogging has been persistent underneath the flyover. Existing storm water drains, constructed by highways department, have been removed partially to facilitate construction of columns for these concrete structures. Only after they finish this, we can construct drains through gaps in between buildings,” said a senior state highway department official. Waterlogging was reported near Vepery flyover junction and Chrompet on GST Road. To end waterlogging in these locations, the highway department is in talks with railways to broaden old culverts and replace some with new ones. Greater Chennai Corporation said in most residential areas, water drained off by noon as the rain subsided. However, residents of Virugambakkam, Velachery and other low-lying neighbourhoods suffered as streets got inundated. “The stretch from Thoraipakkam to Sholinganallur had water even over the service road which is at an elevated level than the carriageway,” said S Gokul, a resident of Thoraipakkam. Corporation said it received only 34 complaints while waterlogging was recorded in 24 locations. These are the same locations across the city which the civic body identified at the end of northeast monsoon as problem areas which needed construction of new drains, a senior official said. Metrorail passengers, who thought they could escape the inundated roads by travelling in metro trains, found roofs in some stations leaking. S Kala, a regular commuter, roofs at underground stations at Thirumangalam and LIC were leaking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sudden-rain-takes-residents-by-surprise/articleshow/80122664.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||135 new Covid cases in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The city reported 135 fresh cases of Covid-19 and two deaths on Tuesday, while four fresh cases were reported in Ahmedabad district. The district is heading close to the 4,000-cases mark. The district has so far reported 3,925 Covid cases. Of the four fresh cases reported in the district over the past 24 hours, three were from Sanand including a case each from Safal Vihaan and The Meadows. One case was reported from Kolat in Sanand. The fourth case was reported from Dholka town. Of the 3,925 cases, the highest number (883) was reported from Sanand. The city registered 2,406 active cases. The South Zone had recorded 418 active cases on Monday but on Tuesday this figure touched 430. The zone comprises Maninagar, Khokhra, Behrampura, and Danilimda. The North West Zone — spanning Bodakdev, Thaltej, Gota, and Ghatlodia — had 408 cases on Tuesday. The other five zones reported below 400 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/135-new-covid-cases-in-city/articleshow/80123820.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Cops check vehicle for weapons, recover 28kg ganja||NAGPUR: A squad of Gittikhadan police ended up recovering 28kg ganja, worth over Rs 4.20 lakh, from a car in Hazaripahad shortly after midnight of Sunday after it inspected the vehicle on suspicion of transporting weapons. The consignment had come from Odisha and was supposed to be taken to Bihar and Jharkhand via city, where the racketeers were supposed to make some deliveries. The squad, led by sub-inspector Datta Pendkar under senior inspector Sunil Chavan, has arrested Feroze Ansari and his accomplice Shubham Karluke. Ansari, earlier engaged in bootlegging, had turned to driving but it was the lockdown crisis which compelled him to take up drug peddling. The crops grew suspicious on seeing Ansari’s vehicle with Jharkhand registration number plate parked in criminally-sensitive Hazaripahad locality. Initially, Ansari tried to mislead the cops. However, on inspecting the vehicle, two sacks of ganja were found in the dickey of the car. An offence was registered against the two at Gittikhadan police station. Further investigation is being done under the supervision of Zonal DCP Vinita S.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-check-vehicle-for-weapons-recover-28kg-ganja/articleshow/80122671.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Complete co-op poll within 2 months: T HC||Hyderabad: Justice MS Ramachandra of the high court on Tuesday directed cooperative department officials to conduct elections for Jubilee Hills Cooperative House Building Society only after preparing afresh a list of eligible voters, strictly in accordance with the provisions of Telangana Cooperative Societies Act. Expressing dissatisfaction over affairs of the society, Justice MS Ramachandra Rao directed coop registrar to do necessary exercise of membership verification after clearing all objections and certify the eligible voter’s list. It also directed all the process should be completed within two months.  Justice Rao was dealing with two petitions filed by several members of society expressing apprehensions over membership malpractices by society management. Of nearly 5,000 members, only 256 declared eligible for voting. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/complete-co-op-poll-within-2-months-t-hc/articleshow/80122668.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat becomes second state to establish road safety authority||AHMEDABAD: Almost three years after the Gujarat Road Safety Authority (GujROSA) Act, 2018, was passed in the state assembly, the authority was constituted in the latter half of December 2020, with the appointment of executive committee members. L P Padalia, a retired IAS officer of the Gujarat cadre, has been appointed as its first head. Experts said that after Kerala, Gujarat became the second state in India to establish the authority that will work as a bridge between various arms of the government. The primary mandate of the body is to ensure the 4Es of road safety: Engineering, Enforcement, Education, Environment & Emergency Services. Padalia said that the authority is committed to reducing road traffic accidents and fatalities in the state through collective efforts. According to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data, Gujarat in 2019 had recorded the deaths of 7,428 persons in 16,503 accidents, whereas 15,976 persons were reported injured. The criticism over the official response had often pointed to the fact that the departments — ranging from roads & buildings to police — think in silos when it comes to issues related to roads. The sticking point was jurisdiction and control over various parts of the roads. “But with the authority in place, we are hopeful that there will be better coordination and cohesive planning in both the urban areas with high traffic density and on the highways where the fatalities are more,” said a member who did not wish to be named. “Citizens can also approach district-level committees or the authority directly about their issues.” Amit Khatri, who is part of the executive committee, said that with members from almost all possible stakeholding sections in the body, it will be easier now to understand the issues of road safety. Implementing a uniform policy will also be facilitated, Khatri said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-becomes-2nd-state-to-establish-road-safety-authority/articleshow/80123822.cms||Parth Shastri
January 6, 2021||India||Net shutdowns cost India $2.8bn in 2020: Report||NEW DELHI: Internet shutdowns cost India an estimated 2.8 billion dollars (about Rs 204 billion) in 2020, with 8,927 hours of disruption or targeted blackouts, according to a report by a UK-based organisation, Top 10 VPN. The report assessed the global internet shutdown cost to be around $4 billion, with India accounting for nearly 70% of the total losses. Top 10 VPN, founded by technologist Antonio Argiolas, is a VPN review site that focuses on privacy and security. It used the Cost of Shutdown Tool (COST) to arrive at the economic impact of global shutdowns. COST uses indicators from the World Bank, International Telecommunications Union, Eurostat and U.S. Census to arrive at the impact of internet shutdowns. The 2020 report stated that 93 major shutdowns took place in 21 countries. The total duration of major disruptions was 27,165 hours, up 49% from 2019. According to the Global Cost of Internet Shutdowns 2020 report, India reported 75 cases of shutdowns, which impacted over 10.3 million internet users. The shutdown also impeded on the right to peaceful assembly & freedom of press, the report stated. In 2019, researchers had estimated a total loss of $1.3 billion for India, out of $8 billion global cost. “The majority of these short blackouts were highly-targeted, affecting groups of villages or individual city districts and so were not included in this report, which focuses on larger region-wide shutdowns. The true economic cost is therefore likely to be even higher than $2.8BN,” the report stated. India was closely followed by Myanmar with 8,808 hours of internet shutdown and Chad with 4,608 hours of shutdown. “...it’s important to make clear that internet shutdowns are themselves a violation of international human rights law. That’s because they directly infringe upon citizens’ freedom of expression, right to information, and rights to freedom of peaceful assembly and association,” read the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/net-shutdowns-cost-india-2-8bn-in-2020-report/articleshow/80125216.cms||Anam Ajmal
January 6, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Mughal era ‘minars’, ‘sarai quila’ discovered on NH-8||JAIPUR: The department of archaeology and museums (DAM) has discovered two ‘unprotected’ and ‘unlisted’ 16th century 'kos minars' (milestones) and one 'sarai quila' (resting fort) built during Mughal Emperor Akbar’s time, between Kishangarh in Ajmer and Dudu in Jaipur, along National Highway 8. The 'kos minars' or milestones, found at a distance of 1.69km between Ajmer and Fatehpur Sikri, provide assistance to travellers or devotees heading towards Ajmer dargah. Over the years, most of these structures have been forgotten and got 'lost' in wild growth. “These minars came up between 1570 and 1582 CE. During the 12-year period, Akbar visited Ajmer almost every year for pilgrimage. The city rose to prominence during this period as locals and foreigners started visiting the dargah. The discovery of a sarai along with two minars at Sakun village will add new information on the life of Mughal rulers from Akbar to Aurangzeb,” said Neeraj Tripathi, circle superintendent of DAM, Ajmer. Acting on information provided by local residents, Tripathi visited the site first in December 2019 and was astonished to see the structures covered by bushes and trees in Sakun village. The minars and the sarai were in a dilapidated condition and were not mentioned in the ASI or state archaeological records. “Once I confirmed that these three sites were not listed in our protected sites, I went there again with a team of experts in an official capacity and was surprised to see that the ‘sarai’ was octagonal in shape, which is pure Mughal architecture. Even more astonishing was a painting in one of the chambers without half its ceiling. This was similar to the painting in the main royal chamber at the Ajmer fort. It indicates that it was the night halt station for royalty back then,” said Tripathi. The examination by the team found that the distance between the two minars was exactly 1.69km and the sarai was in between the minars. The distance between the furlough minar and the last minar, which is a protected site at present at the Ajmer SP's residence, is 45km. “My assessment will be subject to further verification, but the distance between Ajmer and the minar must have been generally covered between sunset and the sunrise,” said Tripathi. As per the preliminary report filed by him, some of the material used in the structures are limestone, brick powder and other natural binding material, including jaggery and methi. The structures have been found under ‘non-claimed or nazool’ land in the revenue records. They have been forgotten due to the local belief that they are haunted by ghosts. The structures come under the Jaipur Circle of museum and archaeology. Sohan Lal, Jaipur circle superintendent, said that they have initiated the process to make them protected sites. “I have already shot a letter to the tourism department seeking funds for their renovation and to develop them as tourist sites. I am hoping that they will consider our plea,” said Lal. The next big challenge is to study the connection between the minars at Sakun village and one on the middle of the highway before Dudu, he said. “The idea that NH-8 is a historical route to Ajmer has been challenged by this finding,” Lal said. He has also prepared the scientific examination, including dating of structures, to support the findings that it belongs to the Mughal period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mughal-era-minars-sarai-quila-discovered-on-nh-8/articleshow/80123786.cms||Shoeb Khan
January 6, 2021||Pune||Pune: Taps to run dry in many areas this Friday||PUNE: Water supply would remain suspended in most parts of the city on Friday to facilitate maintenance and repairs of the pumping stations. The areas getting water from Parvati water works, Wadgaon water works, Chatushrungi/SNDT/Warje water works, Cantonment water works and New Holkar pumping station would be affected, the civic body stated. Taps will run dry in Kothurd, Aundh, Hadapsar, all Peth areas, Swargate, areas near the Ahmednagar road and Kondhwa. The water supply will resume on Saturday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/taps-to-run-dry-in-many-areas-this-friday/articleshow/80123727.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||First sighting of Siberia’s red-breasted goose in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: A red-breasted goose, originally a resident of Arctic Siberia, was spotted for the first time in Gujarat, on Tuesday, at Nalsarovar — the only Ramsar site in the state. Unesco’s Ramsar convention, named after the Iranian city where it was inked in 1971, seeks to protect wetlands of international importance. The red-breasted goose, which is a rarity in the country, was sighted by two Nalsarovar guides, Akbar Alvani and Mahmud Multani. The two were looking for a white-fronted goose, another uncommon bird. When the guides serendipitously saw the red-breasted goose, they took photographs and sent them to experts. The experts confirmed that the bird in the pictures was indeed the red-breasted goose. Red-breasted geese breed mainly in Arctic Siberia’s Taymyr Peninsula. Smaller populations breed in Gyda and Yamal peninsulas. The birds are sometimes found with flocks of brent or barnacle geese. Red-breasted geese are distinguished by their dark sooty colour, relieved by white. Bharat Jethwa, an ornithologist, said that red-breasted geese have never before been seen in Gujarat. Recently, a book titled “Birds of Gujarat” was released and this species was not included as it was never reported in the state. Usually, these birds arrive in groups with other species of geese. Alvani and Multani are considered expert guides and in the past have spotted other uncommon bird species at Nalsarovar. Jethwa said that the two have reported birds such as Stoliczka’s bushchat, black-bellied tern, greater white-fronted goose, sociable lapwing, Namaqua dove, and Arctic Skua. To help bird watchers, the forest department took a cue for Nalsarovar from Bharatpur in Rajasthan and moved a proposal to train guides. As a result, several guides were trained for nearly six months. “We trained them in 2014 and since then they have been finding rare species and earning good money by guiding birders and photographers,” said Jethwa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1st-sighting-of-siberias-red-breasted-goose-in-guj/articleshow/80123785.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 6, 2021||Pune||Demolition of road resumes after court rejects MIT plea||PUNE: A civil court on Monday rejected the Maharashtra Academy of Engineering and Educational Research’s (MAEER) application to maintain a status quo against the Pune Municipal Corporation’s work for removal of road debris from survey 123 of the Vetal Tekdi on the Paud Road side. A B Tahasildar, civil judge junior division (PMC court), said, “The plaintiff (MAEER) does not have any prima facie case. Balance of convenience lies in favour of the defendant (PMC). ...Evidence of the defendant seems more probable and genuine than that of the plaintiff’s.” The court’s order paved the way for the civic body on Tuesday to resume its demolition of the kutcha road that MAEER’s MIT group had constructed on Vetal Tekdi. “We have requested the MIT group to assist in removal of the debris so that the work is done faster, and the slope is restored to its original condition,” Sudhir Kadam, executive engineer from the PMC’s building permission department, told TOI. MAEER’S MIT, Pune had started building a road on survey no. 123 on their section of Vetal Tekdi on Paud Road side in early November. This section is part of the hilltop/ hill slope zone. The work was stopped by the PMC’s building department on November 19, 2020 after complaints from the local residents. The PMC had begun removing the debris but the educational institution had approached the court for redressal. It was the MIT’s case that the road was being laid for access to the fire brigade in case of instances of fire on the hill, among other reasons. After receiving a notice from the PMC to demolish the road, MAEER’s MIT had applied to the PMC for regularisation and retention of the structure under Section 44 of the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act (MRTP Act). But the PMC rejected their application because there is no provision on construction in the hilltop/ hill slope zone as per Pune’s Development Control and Promotion Regulations, 2017. Tahasildar observed that, “The plaintiff is aware that development of any kind whatsoever nature is not permissible on the lands included within the hilltop/ hill slope zone under the relevant statutory provisions and provisions of the DCPR-2017. Suit premises i.e. S. No. 123, over which the plaintiff has commenced the development of the road is included in hill top/ hill slope zone and no development activities are permitted by the rules and regulations....” The court noted that MIT had filed an application under Section 44 of MRTP Act before PMC to regularise the road it had built on the tekdi slope, but the application was rejected by PMC, after which MIT had approached the appellate authority, in this case, the state government. Manjusha Idhate, PMC’s chief law officer, told TOI, “The court observed that as the proposal by MIT was rejected by PMC, the institute had approached the state government. Therefore, the court said that MIT cannot resort to two remedies at the same time. The court also rejected MIT’s application for a status quo against the demolition.” Mangesh Karad , executive director and secretary of MAEER’S MIT Group, and Mahesh Chopade, director of planning and development for MIT Group, did not respond to TOI’s calls, WhatsApp and text messages seeking their views.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/demolition-of-road-resumes-after-court-rejects-mit-plea/articleshow/80122667.cms||Neha Madaan
January 6, 2021||Vijayawada||Push to NH projects, road repair works||Amaravati: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked district collectors to complete land acquisition for National Highways (NH) projects as per schedule. The government is taking up the construction of 31 NHs at a cost of Rs 9,571 crore, the chief minister said, adding that new NHs have been granted at a cost of Rs 12,000 crore. Addressing collectors, the chief minister said delay in land acquisition would derail the project. The contractors, he said, would descope the project if land was not handed over within 270 days. The chief minister said the government would also be taking up repairs on all roads in the state in the next 45 days. He said they would spend at least Rs 2,000 crore on maintenance of roads in the next year and explained the government had readied Rs 560 crore for immediate road repairs. The chief minister said tenders for road reconstruction works would be finalised in the next 10 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/push-to-nh-projects-road-repair-works/articleshow/80121409.cms||Samdani MN
January 6, 2021||Pune||Husbandry department says no bird flu in Maharashtra||PUNE: The animal husbandry department on Thursday stated that no bird flu case has been found in Maharashtra and people should consume chicken or eggs without fear. The department said in a statement that it has been conducting bird flu surveys every year. In the 2020-21 survey, the department stated that at it had tested thousands of faeces, saliva and blood samples from birds in poultry farms as well as from the wild and no avian influenza case was reported. The department has urged farm owners or others to report any unnatural deaths among birds to its officials. A bird flu outbreak in parts of the country has been reported among wild geese in Himachal Pradesh, ducks in two districts of Kerala and crows in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. The Kerala government has ordered culling of ducks and hens located within a kilometre of the affected areas in Kottayam and Alappuzha. The National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases has confirmed that the deaths of crows in Jhalawar (Rajasthan) was due to the avian influenza or bird flu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govt-says-no-bird-flu-in-state/articleshow/80122670.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Delhi||Mix & match of Covid-19 shots not a good idea||NEW DELHI: Is one shot of the Covid-19 vaccine sufficient to protect one from infection? If not, is it okay to take one shot of the vaccine available now and wait for a more effective vaccine to be available for the second jab? For the first time, the US FDA has clear answers to these common queries. It has stated, with respect to the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines being administered in that country, that the answers to the two questions would both be ‘No’. The US FDA said on Monday that Pfizer and Moderna vaccine have shown remarkable effectiveness of around 95% in preventing infection in adults. The US drugs regulator said, “We have been following the discussions and news reports about reducing the number of doses, extending the length of time between doses, changing the dose (half-dose) or mixing and matching vaccines in order to immunise more people against Covid-19. These are all reasonable questions to consider and evaluate in clinical trials. However, at this time, suggesting changes to the FDA-authorised dosing or schedules of these vaccines is premature and not rooted solidly in the available evidence.” For the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, the interval between the first and second doses is 21 days, while it is 28 days for the Moderna vaccine. Public health specialists say the same answers would apply to Covid vaccination in India, likely to start in the next 10 days. “You cannot mix vaccines and a second dose is a must to develop immunity against the coronavirus,” emphasised Dr N K Mehra, honorary emeritus scientist at the Indian Council of Medical Research and former dean of AIIMS. He said there has been no research to assess the impact of mixing two vaccines made on the same or different platforms, so their use together wasn’t advisable. Covaxin and Covishield, available for a rollout in India, are made on two different platforms. Covaxin uses inactivated or dead novel coronavirus to trigger the immune system into manufacturing antibodies. Covishield uses weakened versions of a chimpanzee adenovirus to scuttle the gene for the coronavirus spike protein employed by the Covid virus to enter human cells. The adenovirus is modified so it cannot replicate, but the gene for the spike protein can be identified by the cells and lead to immune reaction and development of antibodies against Covid. Both vaccines have to be administered in two doses. The Covid vaccines developed by Pfizer and Moderna are based on messenger RNA platform, therefore different from the two vaccines to be made available in India. The mRNA is a genetic material that our cells use to make proteins. The two vaccines use a synthetic form of mRNA to trick the body into making the viral proteins to trigger an immune reaction. “The vaccine developed by Pfizer and Moderna are more effective, but have to be stored at -70 degrees Celsius and -20 degrees Celsius temperatures, respectively,” pointed out Dr Suneela Garg, public health expert and master vaccine trainer for Covid vaccination in Delhi. “India doesn’t have adequate storage capacity to keep vaccines at such low temperature. Transportation is another challenge. That’s why I don’t see much hope of these two vaccines being available in the country.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mix-match-of-covid-shots-not-a-good-idea/articleshow/80123879.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
January 6, 2021||Pune||Carcasses of 12 more dogs found in Pune||PUNE: Carcasses of 12 stray dogs, suspected to have been poisoned to death, were found in Pimple Gurav between Monday night and Tuesday morning. With this, the number of stray dogs poisoned to death in the area has gone up to 19 since Sunday. Police said two unidentified men have been captured on CCTV footage collected from Shivneri Colony and Srushti Chowk in Pimple Gurav. No one has been arrested so far in the case. “We suspect the 12 dogs were poisoned in the early hours of Sunday. Seven carcasses were found on Tuesday morning in the Srushti Chowk area,” said Ganesh Mane, sub-inspector of the Sangvi police. The Sangvi police on Monday registered an offence against unknown persons for killing stray dogs. The police also found that one of the dogs was stuffed in a gunny bag and burned. Vinod Murar of Pimple Gurav, whose pet dog was also poisoned to death, had lodged an FIR. Kunal Kamat, member of a dog feeders group in Pimple Gurav. told TOI, “Nineteen stray dogs have been killed so far. On Tuesday, we found seven dead dogs. The carcasses had started decomposing by then.” He said, “It was not possible to conduct autopsy of each dog. Viscera of one of the dogs has been preserved to find the exact cause of the deaths.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/12-more-stray-dogs-found-dead-in-pimple-gurav/articleshow/80122688.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Kochi||City gas project work in Kochi corporation limit to start this month||KOCHI: Kickstarting the implementation of the much-delayed city gas project in Kochi corporation limits, the local body authorities held talks with the Indian Oil Adani Gas Private Ltd (IOAGPL), the implementing agency, on Tuesday. The formal inauguration of the project in the Kochi corporation limits will be held on January 15. Kochi corporation mayor M Anil Kumar pledged all the support from the corporation for implementing the project. The project couldn’t be started in the corporation limits as the local body delayed permission to dig up roads for laying piped natural gas (PNG) pipelines. Though IOAGPL had submitted applications for digging up city roads for laying the pipeline almost four years ago, the local body authorities didn’t give the permission citing various reasons. “PNG being cleaner, cheaper and safer fuel, the corporation will provide all the support for implementing the project. It will be beneficial to thousands of households and others. We have asked IOAGPL officials to expedite the work on the project in the city,” Kumar said. For implementing the project in Kochi city, around 3,000 km of roads will have to be dug up. IOAGPL will remit various fees like supervisory charges and furnish bank guarantee before January 15. “It will take at least a month for mobilizing the contractors and workforce. The project will be implemented in 18 divisions on either side of the national highway in the first phase. We have already laid the pipeline along the national highway bypass. As the city corporation refused us the permission to dig up roads, we had approached the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the agency gave the road cutting permission without delay. So, we could lay the pipeline. Now, it will be comparatively easy for us to give PNG connections to households on either side of the national highway,” an official associated with the project said. A meeting of officials and councillors in the 18 divisions where the project would be implemented in the first phase would be convened on January 18, said the mayor. It was also decided to prepare a work schedule for implementing the project in these divisions. Mayor will review the progress of the project once in a fortnight. The digging and initial restoration of roads should be completed before June. For ensuring that all these works are completed by June, IOAGPL will have to rope in more contractors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/city-gas-project-work-in-koc-corp-limit-to-start-this-month/articleshow/80121422.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Vijayawada||Focus on welfare agenda, Andhra CM Jagan Mohan Reddy tells Tadipatri MLA||AMARAVATI: Expressing serious displeasure against Tadipatri legislator Kethireddy Peddareddy, chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy directed him not to create law and order trouble in Anantapur district. The CM asked the legislator to focus on development and welfare activities instead of personal agendas. According to sources, the CM criticised the legislator for going to former legislator JC Prabhakar Reddy’s residence last week. Peddareddy met the chief minister at the camp office after being summoned on Tuesday. Anantapur in-charge minister Botcha Satyanarayana was also present at the meeting. Tadipatri town in Anantapur district has been on the boil for the past fortnight since Peddareddy went to his political rival Prabhakar Reddy’s residence while the latter was away from home. Clashes took place between TDP and YSRC activists leading to unrest in the town. Police slapped several cases against Prabhakara Reddy and TDP cadre. In protest against being booking under SC, ST (prevention of atrocities) Act, Prabhakar Reddy and former MP Diwakara Reddy said they would launch an indefinite protest. Sources said Peddareddy told the CM the reason behind his visit to Prabhakara Reddy’s residence, claiming that followers of Prabhakar Reddy were spreading a false campaign against him and his family on social media. According to sources, the CM was not satisfied with the explanation and asked the legislator to be careful in handling sensitive issues, pointing out that such incidents divert attention from welfare initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/focus-on-welfare-agenda-cm-tells-tadipatri-mla/articleshow/80121423.cms||Samdani MN
January 6, 2021||Madurai||Row over statue: 30 booked for bid to kill VAO, cop||RAMANATHAPURAM: The district police booked more than 30 people from Oruvanendal village near Kadaladi on charges of attempting to murder a village administrative officer (VAO) and a police constable. They attacked them with stones, doused them with kerosene and attempted to set them on fire on Monday. Police said that the villagers had erected the statue of Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar on a government land in the village on January 1 without getting mandatory permission from the district administration. Police and revenue officials sealed it. However, the villagers removed the cover after breaking open the seal. On being alerted, a police and revenue team rushed to the village. As they tried to cover the statue again, the villagers turned violent. They resorted to stone pelting and doused Oruvanendal VAO Saranya and woman police constable Tamil Selvi with kerosene. The villagers were chased away by other police present there. Based on separate complaints from the constable and VAO, two cases were registered against the villagers. They were booked under various sections of IPC including 307 (attempt to murder) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharging duties).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/row-over-statue-30-booked-for-bid-to-kill-vao-cop/articleshow/80123857.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Pune||Four patients benefit from year’s first organ donation||PUNE: The city registered the year’s first multi-organ donation at Jehangir Hospital on January 4. The husband of a 47-year-old brain-dead woman donated her vital organs, including her heart, lungs, liver, and kidneys, to benefit four patients with end-stage diseases in Pune, Nashik, and Hyderabad. The woman’s heart and lungs were transplanted into a 30-year-old patient diagnosed with end-stage heart and lung condition at the KIMS Hospital in Hyderabad. Her liver gave a new lease of life to a 33-year-old patient with end-stage liver damage at Sahyadri Hospital, Deccan branch. The recipient is a resident of Satara. The woman’s kidneys benefited two patients at Jehangir Hospital in Pune and Apollo Hospital in Nashik. “This was also the year’s first organ donation in Maharashtra and second in India, after Surat,” said Aarti Gokhale, transplant coordinator, Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee (ZTCC), an apex body that oversees the allocation of donated organs. The donor had suffered intracranial bleeding and was declared brain-dead at Jehangir Hospital on January 2. “The woman’s husband, a government official, her brother and son-in-law supported the cause of organ donation by giving their consent. Awareness about organ donation is increasing every day,” said the hospital’s transplant coordinator Vrunda Pusalkar. The donor’s married daughter and son, a college student, gave their consent to the procedure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-patients-benefit-from-years-first-organ-donation/articleshow/80122674.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 6, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: PCB to serve notice to med college over waste disposal||KOCHI: The Kerala State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) would serve a notice to Government Medical College and Hospital in Kalamassery, which is also a designated Covid care facility, for unscientific dumping and burning of biomedical waste in flagrant violation of rules. The chairman of the state-level monitoring committee of the National Green Tribunal had recently inspected the medical college premises after he received evidence of biomedical waste, including PPE kits, being burned in an open ditch. PCB officials said biomedical waste was seen stored openly in the campus. Mixing of Covid-19 waste with the biomedical waste from other wards and general waste is not allowed but it was found that the medical college was found burning them together. Noxious fumes from the burned waste had caused difficulties to nearby residents following which SLMC chairman and two environmental engineers from the board inspected the campus. Under Rule 9 of Bio-Medical Waste Management (BMWM) Rules, 2016, KSPCB is the prescribed authority for enforcement of provisions. “Firstly, they are not supposed to store waste in open space. Apart from a single shed to store waste to be handed over to IMAGE, the biomedical waste management facility being managed by the Kerala chapter of the Indian Medical Association, waste generated by the institution was found lying in the open,” officials said. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had brought out several guidelines for efficient management of biomedical waste in addition to the BMWM Rules, 2016 but they were not being followed. Storing biomedical waste in the open is extremely dangerous as these may attract birds and stray dogs and this would lead to contamination. PCB officials said the Government Medical College and Hospital has violated environmental laws related to both water and air pollution apart from biomedical waste management. “Their treatment plant is also not functional,” said a PCB official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pcb-to-serve-notice-to-med-college-over-waste-disposal/articleshow/80121433.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Braveheart student gets stalker on bus nabbed||KOLKATA: A 23-year-old woman, a research student and a resident BNR Hospital area in Port, showed exemplary presence of mind and courage when she challenged a man clicking her photographs while she was travelling on a bus on Route Number 227. She dialled 100 and then kept challenging the accused all the time ensuring the accused did not slip away. By the time the bus reached the BNR crossing, a West Port police patrol van heard the commotion inside the bus as it slowed down to pick up passengers. The cops intervened and arrested the accused from the spot. Police said the patrol vehicle was part of the PCR vans and Shakti vans that were placed on duty on January 1 with the aim to become first respondent in all such calls, instead of local police, to bring down response time. “She alleged that around 3pm on January 1, she had boarded the 227 bus from BNR Hospital. She noticed the accused, Jitu Singh(42), taking her photographs in his mobile phone. When she was first objected, the accused claimed she was making a mountain out of a mole. However, when she found the accused trying to click her photograph again, she decided to directly challenge him,” said an investigating officer. The woman got up and asked for the mobile phone so that she could delete the photographs. “The accused claimed he was clicking a selfie. While she tried to check the mobile phone of the accused, the accused Singh, a resident of Titagarh, pushed her. The woman then began shouting and blocked the path of the accused, even as she dialled the police emergency number. When we nabbed Singh, we seized the mobile phone and a bus ticket from the accused. We have sent the mobile for forensic examination,” said an investigating officer. The cops lauded the woman’s bravery. “Despite being browbeaten, the woman did not think twice before challenging the man even as she sought police help,” said a senior divisional officer. “We have spoken to other passengers, who were on the bus and tried to find out if the accused had indulged in similar behaviour even before,” the officer said, adding the woman’s statement is being recorded along with that of the conductor, at a city court. Watch Braveheart student confronts stalker, gets him nabbed on bus in Kolkata||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/braveheart-student-gets-stalker-on-bus-nabbed/articleshow/80122724.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 6, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Trials on Vanaz-Garware College Metro stretch in two months||PUNE: With tests successful on the Pimpri-Phugewadi stretch, the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) has now turned its attention to the Vanaz-Garware College priority section. MahaMetro said it aims to install Metro rakes and conduct basic trials on this 5km stretch in the next two months. “Now that the 6km [PCMC — Phugewadi] Metro viaduct is ready, we are planning similar tests on other stretches as well. The rolling stock will start working on the Vanaz-Garware College stretch in two months,” MahaMetro managing director Brijesh Dixit said. Officials said the viaduct is completed for the most part in this section — one of two priority stretches in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad — and that they have expedited the pending work. The viaduct remains to be completed at Paud Phata — where the road curves sharply alongside the flyover — and near Shivtirthnagar on Paud Road. “Even on the PCMC-Dapodi stretch, the basic tests were initially done only on the completed section of the viaduct. The trials will begin on Vanaz-Garware College stretch on similar lines, and at a later stage the trial run will be held across the entire stretch,” one official said. MahaMetro said it planned to use the same rakes — currently running on the PCMC-Dapodi stretch — for the fresh trials. Dixit further said they expect to commercially launch the service in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad sometime this year. “The exact details will be announced at an appropriate time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trials-on-vanaz-garware-college-metro-stretch-in-two-months/articleshow/80122720.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Delhi||Vaccine app not live yet, beware of fakes||NEW DELHI: When the Covid-19 vaccine is made available, people in the priority categories will have to first get themselves registered on the Centre’s official “Co-WIN” mobile app to get inoculated. Though the app is yet to be launched, a few similarly named applications have surfaced and are being downloaded by people eager to register themselves. One of the apps available on Google Play Store is named Cowin, which has been downloaded by over 10,000 people. The reviews make it clear that they mistook it for the official app. The app provides data already available in the public domain, such as total number of cases in the country, deaths, recovered and active patients, apart from location of laboratories and pharmacies and “risk assessment”. While such apps don’t claim to have anything to do with vaccination, their name is making many people believe they are the official ones. These apps can also access the user’s personal information on the phone. Dr Suneela Garg, who is leading Delhi’s vaccination programme and is director-professor in the department of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College, said, “Co-WIN has not gone live yet and the apps available are not the real ones. Some of these apps could be paid too.” She urged people to refrain from downloading such apps, which can access their personal details. “The details of the initial beneficiaries who would get the vaccine is being uploaded on the Co-WIN digital platform at the moment. This will take some time. The official mobile app is expected to be launched soon,” added Garg. Most reviews of the apps created by private developers revealed that those who had downloaded them didn’t realise they were not the government application. Many pointed out that they were unable to register for vaccination, even though these apps, some of them related to music, don’t mention anything about registration. One user pointed out that one such app had a different name earlier, but was relaunched as Cowin. Co-WIN stands for Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network. When the application is launched for the public, it would have four different modules for administrators, beneficiaries, status update, etc. Beneficiaries would be able to register themselves after uploading IDs like Aadhaar card, driving licence, PAN, bank passbook, among others. Apart from self-registration on the app, special camps are also expected to allow people to get themselves registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vaccine-app-not-live-yet-beware-of-fakes/articleshow/80124079.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 6, 2021||Madurai||Application process under way for NMMS scholarship exam||MADURAI: The application process for the national means-cum-merit scholarship (NMMS) exam, scheduled to be held on February 21, is currently under way and interested candidates are invited to apply on or before January 8. The applications can be downloaded from www.dge.tn.gov.in. Only Class VIII students from government, government-aided, panchayat and corporation schools whose family income is less than Rs 1.5 lakh are eligible to take up the exam. Interested students can apply by filling in and submitting the applications to their respective school headmasters by paying Rs 50 as examination fee. School heads have been directed to upload the details of the applicants on or before January 12. Schools also must register and link the details to the TN-Educational Management Information System (EMIS) portal. Declaration forms must also be signed by students so that only verified details are uploaded. Any application submitted after the deadline will not be accepted. The exam will be in two parts - scholastic aptitude test and mental ability test. For SAT, questions will be from Class VII and first two terms of Class VIII state board syllabus. Students who clear the exam will benefit by receiving Rs 12,000 annually from Classes IX to XII.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/application-process-under-way-for-nmms-scholarship-exam/articleshow/80123910.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Patna||All preparations made for Covid vaccination: Bihar CM||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday said the government is fully prepared for Covid-19 vaccination in the state. Talking to the media on the sidelines of a state government’s event here, Nitish said his government has made all necessary preparations for smooth conduct of vaccination exercise across the state. “The vaccine will be given to the frontline healthcare workers and doctors on priority basis. After that, all frontline workers in police and civil administration will be given priority. All elected people’s representatives and common people above 50 years of age would also be given priority in the vaccination. Besides these, those who have suffered from Covid-19, irrespective of their age would be vaccinated,” Nitish said and added, “We will follow the Centre’s guidelines and conduct the vaccination exercise in a very effective way. Nitish also said India has developed indigenous Covid-19 vaccines. “As per the requirement, we will start giving the vaccine shots to priority groups as per the Centre’s guidelines. In the later stages, we will vaccinate all people,” he said. His statement came days after the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) last week announced “restricted emergency use’ of two Covid-19 vaccines — Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and Serum Institute of India’s Covishield. Referring to the new coronavirus strain, Nitish said, “Another round of coronavirus strain has started. Even though vaccines have arrived, people should be careful and take all possible precautions till the Covid-19 is controlled fully.” When asked for his comment on the Samajwadi Party (SP) chief and former UP CM Akhilesh Yadav, who stoked a controversy by asserting that he will not take the “BJP vaccine” and later clarified that he did not question experts or researchers involved in the vaccine making process, the Bihar CM said, “I am not interested in these matters. Some people make statements just to remain in the news.” To a question, the CM also announced that he would resume his popular mass contact programme ‘Janata Ke Darbar Mein Chief Minister’ soon after the Covid-19 pandemic comes under control. The CM said he had already decided to resume the weekly programme. Earlier, the CM addressed an awareness programme on the Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali Abhiyan at the Adhiveshan Bhavan here. The CM enumerated in detail the works executed by his government under the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/all-preparations-made-for-covid-vaccination-nitish/articleshow/80122739.cms||Madan Kumar
January 6, 2021||Kochi||Kochi: Council passes resolution against firm||KOCHI: Thrikkakara municipality has passed a resolution against a private textile company at Kizhakkambalam for polluting Kadambrayar river. The resolution presented by Kunneparambu East 28 division councillor Shaji Vazhakala and backed by M O Varghese and P M Yunus, councillors of Nilampathinjamugal 11 division and Thrikkakara 4 division, respectively stated that the company is discharging waste, containing chemicals, into the river and polluting it. “The protection and conservation of Kadambrayar river, which is passing through Thrikkakara municipality and the main source of water, has become crucial for the society. The river is facing threat to its existence due to the discharge of waste containing chemicals from the company and is causing health hazards. The discharge of waste from the firm is also polluting nearby water sources like ponds and wells,” stated the resolution passed on Monday at its first council meeting. Besides facing shortage of water for agriculture, residents in Thrikkakara is going to face health issues and severe shortage of drinking water in the future with the rising pollution of Kadambrayar. “The factories comprising dying, orienting and bleaching units, which were functioning in Tirupur and closed followed the Supreme Court order, resumed functioning at the textile company at Kizhakkambalam. The products of around 150 factories in South India is processing here and discharging the waste into Kadambrayar,” the resolution added. The resolution asks authorities to take steps to restore the river in its earlier condition and the government to act against the company. “The previous council had passed a project to draw water from the river for drinking purpose. But we could not start the project. We had received a lot of complaints from the residents on the banks of the river. We can launch the project once the river is restored to earlier stage,” said Ajitha Thankappan, chairperson of the municipality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/council-passes-resolution-against-firm/articleshow/80121441.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘Exemplary’: Gujarat govt on food to students||AHMEDABAD: The state government on Tuesday told the Gujarat high court that it has done “some exemplary work” to reach out to the primary students to distribute grains and money in lieu of the mid-day meal scheme during the Covid-19 pandemic when the schools are closed. The state government filed an affidavit in response to the HC notice after taking suo motu cognizance of results of a survey undertaken by the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIM-A) and UNICEF. The survey revealed that 85% of the parents did not receive anything in lieu of grains meant for the mid-day meal scheme. The government maintained that the sample size of the survey — 357 respondents — was too small to reveal a complete picture. Government pleader Manisha Shah submitted that the government distributed 11.22 lakh quintal food grains among 55,418 lakh primary students of government schools for 187 school days. The court proposed that it can either call upon two surveying agencies to throw more light on real situation by going through the government figures or involved public spirited lawyers to assist the court. The government pleader said that neither of these will be necessary because the government has done exemplary work. Showing its figures of online connectivity and availability of gadgets among students, the government claimed that only 6.8% students are deprived of online education. Their need is taken care of by other initiatives. The court finally decided to hear this issue on January 8 along with the PIL on Covid-19 and lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/exemplary-govt-on-food-to-students/articleshow/80123968.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Kolkata||After vaccine dry run, 6 lakh Covid warriors on database||KOLKATA: With the Union health ministry announcing the rollout of Covid-19 vaccines across India by January 13, Bengal has stepped up its preparations for the exercise, with 6 lakh healthcare workers set to be the first beneficiaries. The state government on Tuesday organized a meeting between senior health officials and district administrators and asked them to be ready to start the immunization programme next week. The number of targeted beneficiaries is 2 crore, according to a central guideline. Banerjee on Tuesday held a meeting with chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and principal state health department Narayan Swaroop Nigam and other officials at Nabanna to lay down the modalities and priorities of the programme. Decisions on vaccination sites in the state, storage and logistics are likely to be taken in the next few days. “Vaccination in Bengal will begin with 6 lakh healthcare workers. The database is ready,” said Nigam. The CM asked all officials to maintain a database of beneficiaries, and to properly review the preparatory activities. She sought the syncing of cold-chain preparedness and operational planning to root out communication gap. Transport of vaccines to the Hills and islands in the Sunderbans should not be affected, she said. She also called for proper use of the human resources, for which a state-level task force should properly coordinate with that of districts. After healthcare workers, in the second tier, priority will be given to cops, home guards, civic volunteers, prison staff, municipal workers, revenue staff and other frontline workers. Moreover, officials will have to see if there is any drop-out at any level and authenticate the registration process of beneficiaries. The 6 lakh healthcare workers include those in private units as well as private practitioners. IMA and other doctors’ organizations are looking to include more from the fraternity. Sources in the health department indicated vaccination sites for the first phase could be the teaching hospitals for their good infrastructure. Though the vaccine dry run was held at two urban primary health centres and a rural health centre, those will be used later. “The vaccines are safe, but adverse effects have to be kept in mind as this is the first time people will get the Covid-19 shots,” said a health department official. Healthcare workers are hopeful at the prospect of getting the shot in about eight days. “It is great news that the vaccine rollout is actually going to happen, something many of us have been looking forward to. We hope that with proper planning, immunization goes off well without any glitch. We also request the government to include healthcare workers’ families on the beneficiary list,” said Anirban Dalui, public health specialist at the state health department. A couple of days ago DGCI had given the green signal on emergency use authorisation of Covishield and COVAXIN. “Since these vaccines have established safety, we must use it without any hesitation. But we can be more sure about their effectiveness only after mass immunization,” said Prabhash Prasun Giri, associate professor at Institute of Child Health Kolkata. A section of doctors is, however, sceptical about the vaccine’s efficacy, citing the absence of long-term clinical trial data. “By maintaining strict protocol, like wearing a mask and hand hygiene, I have been able to keep the virus at bay so far, despite taking care of patients. But who will compensate for the vaccine’s adverse events and look after my family?” said plastic surgeon Adhish Basu, who has decided to opt out of vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-vax-dry-run-6l-cov-warriors-on-database/articleshow/80122743.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 6, 2021||Pune||Each station to have water recycling units||Pune: The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) on Tuesday signed a deal with the Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) for the use of the latter’s biodigester technology at every Metro station coming up in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. The technology allows for 100% recycle and reuse of water for flushing and gardening purposes, MahaMetro said. The scale of the technology deployed would depend on the size of the station and its passenger footfalls. “Our aim is to not add to the burden on the city’s sewage management system. This will also help conserve water,” MahaMetro managing director Brijesh Dixit said. Dixit said similar technology was being used to good effect in Nagpur. “Our teams will work with DRDO to finalize a plan for each station. We will use two plumbing systems — one for potable water and the other for recycled water. DRDO will guide us on installation and use,” Dixit added. A K Singh, director general (life sciences), DRDO, called it a versatile technology that can be implemented in diverse geo-climatic conditions. He said the technology was used by the Army at sub-zero temperatures on the Siachen glacier, as well as at a large scale by Indian Railways on passenger trains and at stations. The system was also successfully installed in Lakshadweep and at Dal Lake in Srinagar, Singh said. MahaMetro said no additional space would be required to install the system at Metro stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/each-station-to-have-water-recycling-units/articleshow/80122729.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Pune||Police bust illegal LPG refilling rackets||Pune: Pimpri Chinchwad police on Monday busted two rackets involved in stealing LPG from cylinders and tankers at Alandi and Chakan and recovered gas tankers, cylinders and transport vehicles collectively worth around Rs77 lakh.Senior inspector Vitthal Kubade of the social security cell said the police received a tip-off that an LPG dealer from Chimbali near Chakan had illegally supplied large quantity of domestic LPG cylinders to two stove repairing centres. “The owners of these centres used to refill the 4kg cylinders from the domestic cylinders and sell them in the black market,” Kubade said.He said that the police have recovered 279 LPG cylinders, including 126 empty domestic cylinders, and a commercial vehicle all collectively worth Rs 12 lakh, the officer said.He said that the police have registered an offence against three suspects. Kubade said that the police also received a tip-off that some suspects were stealing LPG from 15-tonne LPG capsule loaded on a truck and refilling commercial cylinders. “We raided the spot near Indori toll naka and seized the LPG capsule, 184 commercial cylinders, 10 vehicles, 18 cellphones, all collectively worth Rs65.7 lakh,” Kubade said.Police have arrested 16 people including the driver of the capsule, and an LPG dealer from Dehu, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-bust-illegal-lpg-refilling-rackets/articleshow/80122731.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Engineering student helps rescue missing fishermen with his drone camera||THRISSUR: The rather adventurous operation using a drone camera by a 19-year old engineering student Dewang Subil from Thalikulam played the critical role in the rescue of four fishermen who went missing in the high seas off Nattika on Tuesday morning. According to state general secretary of all Kerala fishing boat operators’ association Joseph Xavier Kalappurakkal it was for the first time that drone cameras were used for rescuing fishermen in the state. Dewang, who is a second year engineering student at Christ University in Bengaluru, was sailing for the first time, when he ventured into the sea in a fishing boat with other fishermen for the rescue operation. Karappam Veettil Ekbal, 49, Chembanadan Kuttan, 59, Puthanparan Subramanian, 60, and Chembanadan Vijayan, 58, had set sail from Thambankadavu in a country craft around 4am. Their boat capsized mid sea, roughly about nine nautical miles off Nattika coast. Kuttan could somehow alert his friends and authorities about the accident. The coastal police and other fishermen immediately launched a search operation. Around 10am, Debang was alerted by his father Subil Ernath about the incident. He immediately rushed to the beach with his recently acquired drone camera. With the support of Nattika MLA Geetha Gopi he persuaded the fishermen to venture into the sea for another round of rescue operation, though by then the hopes of rescuing the missing fishermen had receded. “It was tough to operate the drone cameras in the deep seas with high waves and strong wind. Some had warned me that I will vomit as I was not used to sea sail. But when the camera captured first vague images of some moving objects, I became hopeful. And when I focussed the camera, we could clearly see three fishermen struggling to stay afloat. We moved towards their direction and rescued them. The fourth person was located by another search team from a nearby location. I’m immensely satisfied now as I could contribute in the rescue of missing fishermen,” Dewang said. All the four rescued fish workers have been hospitalized. People in the area led by the MLA and the block panchayat division member Bhageesh Pooradam gave a rousing reception to Dewang, the coastal police and fishermen who had undertaken the rescue op braving their lives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/engg-student-helps-rescue-missing-fishermen-with-his-drone-camerafor-tvmstudent-helps-rescue-missing-fishermen/articleshow/80121447.cms||T Ramavarman
January 6, 2021||India||Pension of WW-II veterans, widows blocked since 2019||CHENNAI: Nearly 2,000 veterans who fought in World War II, or their widows, haven’t received their monthly pension of Rs 4,000 for the last two years. The monthly sustenance allowance from the Royal Commonwealth Ex-Services League (RCESL) in London is disbursed by the Indian Ex-Services League. But the money can’t be sent now because of lack of sanction under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA). The last payment was made in January 2019. The RCESL has said it cannot transfer the money without the Centre’s nod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pension-of-ww-ii-veterans-widows-blocked-since-2019/articleshow/80125230.cms||Aditi R
January 6, 2021||Pune||One arrested for robbing delivery boy||Pune: A man (23) was arrested on Monday for robbing a delivery boy of his parcel containing four headphones, two cellphones and cash, collectively worth Rs45,000, near Bhumkar Chowk around 1.30pm the same day. A team led by senior inspector Balkrishna Sawant of the Hinjewadi police nabbed Ishwar Londhe in Kalewadi, but his two accomplices fled. Sub-inspector Samadhan Kadam of the Hinjewadi police said, “The delivery boy, Manish Kumar Paswan (22), got mugged in an autorickshaw by three men, including Lodhe, who thretened him with dire consequences.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-arrested-for-robbing-delivery-boy/articleshow/80122733.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Pune||Eight armed men vandalise 3 vehicles, rob owner of Rs 5k||Pune: Eight men carrying sickles and swords robbed an autorickshaw driver of Rs5,000 and vandalised three vehicles parked outside his house in Wadarwadi around 12.45am on Monday. According to a complaint lodged by Sunny Pawar (25), eight men, including three history-sheeters, had arrived at his house on motorcycles to demand ‘hafta’ . The men told Pawar that they were the ‘dons of Pandavnagar’. The complaint stated that the suspects robbed him of cash and vandalised the vehicles with sharp weapons after he refused to recognise them and pay any amount. “Eight men, including three criminals on police record, vandalised an autorickshaw, a car and a motorcycle after its owner refused to meet their demands,” senior inspector Anil Shewale of the Chatushrungi police said. “Pawar identified the suspects by their names as they all live in the same area. We visited the spot and assessed the damage caused to the vehicles and recorded Pawar’s statement. We have formed a team to nab the suspects at the earliest,” Shewale said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/eight-armed-men-vandalise-3-vehicles-rob-owner-of-rs-5k/articleshow/80122738.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Lockdown proximity pulled couples apart||AHMEDABAD: Before Covid-19 struck, families longed for some quality time together. Then, lockdown happened. While many had to adjust to work from home (WFH) as the new normal, several lost their livelihood and were forced to remain at home. This forced proximity gave rise to several relationship issues, as recorded by the trends of Abhayam 181 calls for 2020. While the call volume increased by 18% for domestic violence and 27% for marital issues, experts point out that it could well be the tip of the iceberg. They believe there are several couples that either did not have access to such remedies, or did not wish to approach any formal agency for their issues. Technology played a major role in deciding inter-personal relationships during the pandemic, said Dr Hansal Bhachech, a city-based psychiatrist. “Digital screen consumption increased manifold – both for work and leisure. It inadvertently caused an overlap or even eavesdropping that resulted in marital issues,” he said. “The parents also were often critical of their children’s choices of OTT content or the excessive time they spent staring at the screens, resulting in verbal spats.” Out of 1.36 lakh calls received during 2020, 44% were received from five districts alone. Head-wise, 41% of the calls were for domestic violence – which reported 18% rise compared to 2019. Dr Prashant Bhimani, a city-based psychologist, said that the pandemic revealed several major issues within joint families. “The first of the cases started trickling in within 10-12 days of the lockdown,” he said. The problem with proximity got extended to neighbours, which resulted in average 27 calls daily to the helpline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lockdown-proximity-pulled-couples-apart/articleshow/80123969.cms||Parth Shastri
January 6, 2021||Kochi||Kochi: NIA submits chargesheet in gold smuggling case||KOCHI: In a major development, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) team probing the gold smuggling through diplomatic channel at Thiruvananthapuram international airport submitted the primary chargesheet in the case before special NIA court, Kochi. Investigating officer DSP Radhakrishna Pillai submitted the chargesheet against 20 accused in the case, including key accused Swapna Suresh, P S Sarith, K T Ramees and Rabins Hameed before the court on Tuesday evening. NIA submitted that charges against the accused under sections 16, 17, 18 and 20 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) stand valid. The chargesheet was submitted within 180 days of the first arrest made by NIA in the case. Meanwhile, another key accused Sandeep Nair has turned approver in the case. “During investigation, 31 persons, who had conspired and financed gold smuggling besides having facilitated the disposal of the contraband and transfer of proceeds thereof to the UAE through hawala channels, for purchasing and smuggling more gold, with the intention of threatening the economic security of India, were arraigned as accused in the case. Till now, 21 accused persons have been arrested in the case by NIA, while eight accused persons are absconding,” said the NIA statement. NIA said that the investigation has revealed that the accused had knowingly conspired since June 2019, raised funds and smuggled from the UAE, between November 2019 and June 2020, around 167kg of gold, through the import cargo addressed to diplomats at the consulate of the UAE in Thiruvananthapuram. “Significantly, the main accused persons in this case had also planned to smuggle more gold from countries like Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and Malaysia. Investigation continues against the absconding accused persons and others who had facilitated this crime,” the statement said. The case was registered by NIA on 10 July, 2020, against Sarith, Suresh, Faisal Fareed, Nair and others under UAPA, consequent to the seizure of around 30kg of gold worth Rs 14.8 crore on July 5 at Trivandrum International Airport by customs (preventive) commissionerate, Cochin. Other accused in the case whose named are mentioned in the chargesheet are Jalal A M of Ernakulam, Mohammed Shafi P of Malappuram, Saidalavi E of Malappuram, Abdu P T of Malappuram, Muhammedali Ebrahim of Ernakulam, Muhammedali of Ernakulam, Sharafuddeen K T of Malappuram, Mohammed Shafeeq A of Malappuram, Hamzath Abdulsalam of Malappuram, Samju T M of Kozhikode, Hamjad Ali K of Malappuram, Jifsal C V of Kozhikode, Aboobacker P of Malappuram, Muhammed Abdu Shameem K V of Kozhikode, Abdul Hameed of Malappuram and Shamshudeen of Kozhikode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nia-submits-chargesheet-in-gold-smuggling-case/articleshow/80121489.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: ED opposes bail plea of CFI leader||KOCHI: The enforcement directorate (ED) team probing the money laundering case against PFI – registered in connection with Hathras case – opposed the bail petition submitted by Campus Front of India (CFI) leader KA Rauf Sherif citing that he would try to destroy evidence and influence witnesses. ED submitted before the special court, hearing PMLA cases, on Tuesday that it had clear evidence against Sherif, PFI and CFI about their continuous involvement in criminal conspiracy, money laundering and unlawful activities. ED said Sherif had transferred funds to Ateequr Rehman, an accused in Hathras case, several times and the huge withdrawals he made from his bank account is suspicious. ED added that Sherif’s claim that the foreign remittance he received, on account of dividends/commission for trade of masks, was not substantiated with evidence. The offence of money laundering under Section 3 of PMLA – which is punishable – stands valid against Sherif and granting bail to him would lead to tampering of evidence, the agency said. The court posted the hearing in bail petition to Jan 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ed-opposes-bail-plea-of-cfi-leader/articleshow/80121533.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Far western suburbs top in property registrations||MUMBAI: The Goregaon-Dahisar belt in the western suburbs recorded the maximum property registrations in Greater Mumbai between September and December 2020, when stamp duty was slashed from 5% to 2%. About 35% of the 39,500-odd property registrations in Mumbai were recorded in the Borivli taluka, which covers these areas, reports Nauzer Bharucha. Data collated from the department of registration and stamps reveals that registrations in the city between September and December were 80% higher compared to the same period in 2019. Borivli and Kurla talukas make up 65% of property sales in Mumbai“Close to 14,000 properties were registered in Borivali taluka of the 39,500-odd registrations in entire Mumbai during this period,’’ said Mitesh Raikundalia, director, Intime Services Mumbai, a property registration firm. “This massive jump in registrations was solely due to the stamp duty cut, which came into effect from September 1, 2020,’’ said Raikundalia. He added that over 90% of these registrations are those of apartments and very few are commercial properties. Kurla taluka (Mulund, Nahur, Bhandup, Kanjur, Powai, Ghatkopar, Kurla and Chembur) registered the second highest volume of property sale transactions (30%) during the same four-month period. Andheri Taluka, which covers areas from Bandra to Jogeshwari recorded the third highest registrations (18%). The island city from Colaba to Mahim and Sion, which has some of the most expensive real estate in the world, recorded the least registrations (16%). The island city witnessed a surge of registrations in December though: 3407. This was 250% more than registrations in December 2019 (989). Property experts said Borivali and Kurla talukas make up 65% of total sales in the city between September and December last. “Small budget property purchases have increased,” they said. “Both the Borivali and the Jogeshwari talukas offer mid-end housing units costing Rs 85 lakh to Rs 1.5 crore. This is the bestselling ticket size of Greater Mumbai,’’ said Pankaj Kapoor, MD of Liases Foras. Together, they both contribute around three-fourths of the total supply of Greater Mumbai, according to Liases Foras data. “The region covered under Borivali taluka has 484 projects with 31,514 unsold units, while the region covering Kurla taluka offers 531 projects with 47,623 unsold units. The total ongoing projects in Greater Mumbai are 1,589 with 1,05,903 unsold units,’’ said Kapoor. “However, the magnitude of the transactions suggests that there were more secondary transactions in this period than primary (builders) sales. This implies that several investors have exited during this period. Primary sales of trailing 12 months were just around 10,000 units from these two regions,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/far-western-suburbs-top-in-property-regns/articleshow/80124651.cms||Nauzer Bharucha
January 6, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Rs 17.5 crore bailout package for STUs in distress||KOLKATA: The state government has come to the rescue of the beleaguered West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC) and two other state transport undertakings by announcing a Rs 17.5-crore bailout package for these companies that sustained huge losses while providing service during the lockdown. At the time, the buses had ferried frontline health workers to hospitals and back to their homes. Earlier, it had released Rs 20 crore to cover the cost of ferrying home-bound migrant workers from other states. The WBTC has also cut its expenditure in fuel bills by 50% due to the fiscal crisis. WBTC earlier needed six tankers of diesel daily to run its optimum fleet. Each tanker cost WBTC Rs 8.9 lakh. But now, it is purchasing only three tankers. This resulted in a sharp decline in buses during the evening peak hours with the number of trips halved. Sources said the outstanding amount with oil marketing firms had exceeded Rs 5 crore, the collective credit limit for STU. With the oil companies refusing to sell any more fuel on credit, the STU had to be content with purchasing half the required fuel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rs-17-5cr-bailout-package-for-stus-in-distress/articleshow/80122770.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
January 6, 2021||Coimbatore||Coimbatore logs 81 new Covid cases, 1 death||COIMBATORE: The district recorded 81 fresh Covid-19 cases and one death on Tuesday. While 86 people were discharged from government and private hospitals in the district, active cases stand at 738. The total number of Covid deaths in the district has gone up to 657. Though the health department has managed to bring down the number of Covid-19 cases to less than 90 a day, and deaths to an average of one person a day, the district continues to see deaths occurring within 24 hours of hospitalization. In December alone, nearly 20% of deaths occurred within 24 hours of hospitalization. Of the 41 deaths due to Covid-19 recorded in December, eight occurred within 24 hours of hospitalization. Another seven deaths occurred within 48 hours of hospitalization, which means 36.5% of the deaths, or 15 out of 41, occured within two days of hospitalization. Nine out of 10 deaths have occurred in government hospitals. “There is still a lack of awareness among people. Most of our deaths within 48 hours are patients with comorbidities who don’t get tested and hospitalized despite developing low grade fever and cold,” said ESI Hospital dean, Dr A Nirmala. “They come with both lungs severely affected, low oxygen saturation and high inflammatory markers.” About 80% of deaths in December were patients with co-morbidities, with 53.3% of them with at least one co-morbidity and 26% having two co-morbidities. “Most deaths that occur within 48 hours are people with co-morbidities,” said Coimbatore Medical College Hospital dean, Dr P Kalidas. Health department admits that private hospitals have largely reduced referring patients late to GH. “That has reduced, and most hospitals know the treatment protocol. So only patients who go to a doctor late end up dying within 24 hours,” says deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar. “But hospitals continue interacting with patient attenders to find out why they came late to the hospitals, so we can figure out loopholes in awareness creation,” he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/district-logs-81-new-covid-cases-1-death/articleshow/80122771.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Patna||Home guard jawans to get grade pay on par with Bihar cops||PATNA: The state cabinet on Tuesday approved the home department’s proposal to give a grade pay band of Rs 2,000-Rs 2,400-Rs 2,800 to home guard jawans on a par with police personnel with effect from January 1, 2006 in principle and January 21, 2010 in actual. The decision of the cabinet was hailed by functionaries of police associations. The cabinet also approved the health department’s proposal to provide free treatment to the children born with hole in their hearts. The benefits will be availed under ‘Saat Nischay Yojna-part II’, which seeks to provide “additional health services to all”. The cabinet decided to give relaxations in road tax to the commercial passenger vehicles registered in Bihar and the owners of commercial passenger vehicles plying in the state on permanent permit. As per the cabinet decision, penalty on road tax of the vehicles under the said categories has been waived off and adjusted for a period of 63 days with effect from July 6, 2020 to September 6, 2020. In addition, the penalty on road tax of all such vehicles has also been waived off from March 21, 2020 to March 31, 2021. The cabinet also decided to release Rs 130 crore for payment of remuneration to the executive assistants in gram panchayats under the panchayati raj department for 2020-21 financial year in anticipation of the approval for the same from the state finance commission. The cabinet also approved the proposal to replace the divisional commissioners of the divisions concerned with principal secretary/secretary of the urban and housing department to expedite development works under Smart City Mission in Bhagalpur, Patna, Muzaffarpur and Biharsharif. The cabinet approved the proposal to sanction Rs 178 crore from the state contingency fund for the payment of remuneration to newly-appointed employees on contact to carry out land survey. The survey of land is being done by the state land and reforms department under a special programme. Altogether nine proposals were passed at Tuesday’s meeting chaired by CM Nitish Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/home-guard-jawans-to-get-grade-pay-on-par-with-state-cops/articleshow/80122767.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Coimbatore||Farmer booked after elephant electrocuted near Semmedu||COIMBATORE: A 20-year-old male elephant was found dead on a steel wire fence that was raised around a paddy field at Semmedu village in Boluvampatti forest range on Tuesday. This was this year’s first elephant death. The incident happened outside the reserve forest of Mullankadu and the paddy field is owned by a farmer, Durai alias Aruchamy. After an inspection conducted by Boluvampatti forest range officials, it was revealed that Durai had stolen electricity supply for the fence. When the incident took place, Durai was in his garden and as soon as he saw the elephant electrocuted he disconnected the electric wire connected to his fence and fled. A team of forest officials near the Mullankadu checkpost rushed to the spot at 6.30am and found the carcass of the elephant. People from Kulatheri and surrounding areas near Semmedu paid homage to the male elephant and then the forest department field staff shifted the carcass to Chadivayal elephant camp area on Tuesday evening. Veterinary doctors from Vadvalli and Boluvampatti conducted an autopsy and removed the two ivories from the elephant and handed them over to the forest department. D Venkatesh, district forest officer, Coimbatore forest division, said that the farmer had taken the electricity illegally from an electricity pole at the farmland and he connected the live wife to the steel wire fence on Monday night. “We have collected the evidence at the spot. Tangedco officials and a village administrative officer also inspected the agriculture field which was located at least 2km away from the reserve forest. There are wild boars and wild elephant movements in the agriculture fields at the forest fringe villages. If farmers notice the wild animal movements in their area, they should immediately alert the forest department officials who will send teams to chase away the animals,” Venkatesh said. He added that as per the Wildlife Protection Act, people should not pose any threat to wild animals. The forest department registered a case under Section 9 of the Wildlife Protection Act. “The farmer will be arrested and will be sent to judicial custody,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/farmer-booked-after-elephant-electrocuted-near-semmedu/articleshow/80122774.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Pune||Pune police book BJP’s Girish Mahajan on extortion & 17 other charges||PUNE: The city police are investigating an FIR lodged by a lawyer-cum-director of an education cooperative from Jalgaon, accusing senior state BJP leader and former minister Girish Mahajan and 28 others of conspiracy, extortion, theft, forgery and 14 other criminal charges related to an incident of January 2018. Prima facie, the case arises from a tussle to gain control over the Maratha Vidya Prasarak Sahakari Samaj, a cooperative organization in Jalgaon. Complainant Vijay Patil is one of its directors and the persons named in the FIR are its office-bearers and members, a police officer, who did not wish to be named, said. Patil registered a zero FIR with the Jalgaon rural police. It has been transferred to the Kothrud police as the alleged incident occurred at different locations in its jurisdiction, starting with an eatery on Karve road and an apartment in Sadashiv Peth. Patil claimed that Mahajan and others conspired and called him to the Karve road eatery on the pretext of handing over some documents of the organization. From there, they allegedly took him to a flat in Sadashiv Peth, tied him up and kept him confined while demanding Rs5 lakh and asking him to give up his interests in the cooperative organization. When contacted, Mahajan refuted all the allegations and told TOI, “It’s a politically motivated case to malign me. I have myself moved the Bombay high court (HC) with a prayer for a proper and impartial investigation. I have nothing to hide.” Mahajan has moved the HC for quashing of the FIR on the grounds of delay. The matter has been posted for next hearing on January 7. The HC has allowed the investigating officer to go ahead with the probe but has restrained the police from filing a chargesheet against Mahajan without its permission. It has also restrained the police from taking any coercive action against Mahajan till the next date. The HC bench of Justice S S Shinde and Justice M S Karnik, while hearing the matter on December 17, 2020, took note of Mahajan’s lawyer Milind Sathe’s argument that the three years of delay in the lodging of complaint was by itself a sufficient ground for quashing the FIR. Pune’s assistant commissioner of police for Kothrud division Machchindra Chavan told TOI, “We received the eight-page FIR from the Jalgaon police last (Monday) night and the same has been numbered here for an investigation. We shall now ask the complainant to record his statement afresh before us and investigate the entire matter and the alleged role by each and every person named in the FIR.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-book-bjps-girish-mahajan-on-extortion-17-other-charges/articleshow/80122762.cms||Vishwas Kothari
January 6, 2021||Madurai||Schools in Madurai ready to reopen for classes X, XII post Pongal||MADURAI: Ahead of consultations with parents over school reopening on Thursday in Madurai district, schools said they are well-prepared for resuming classes post Pongal holidays. With Covid-19 safety SOPs also given to them, they are more hopeful of reopening this time compared to November. “We are more prepared now and we have been creating awareness about Covid-19 safety. Masks, sanitisers etc., are already kept ready for students. Some students were already approaching us to clarify doubts. For Class X and XII, it is ideal for schools to reopen. It is still not going to be compulsory,” said the headmaster of a government higher secondary school. Government school teachers said since most Class X- XII students are already going out parents feel it is safer for them to spend at least the day in school with safety measures in place. “Most public places have reopened and there is no reason to keep only schools closed. They can be reopened in a staggered manner. We are expecting at least around 50% of students to turn up. Even if there are concerns for lower classes, there should be no further delay for higher classes like Class X and X,” said M Senthilnathan, president, Private Schools Correspondents’ Confederation. It is only when schools reopen at least partially that we know how safe it is and what can be done to improve Covid-19 safety, he said. “We’ve already started getting feedback from parents. Compared to November, more parents are willing for reopening now. With CBSE board exams announced as well, we need to have practical classes soon as possible. We are planning to divide students for theory and practical classes separately,” said Aruna M V, senior principal and correspondent, Adhyapana School. Most schools in the district are already maintaining their premises sanitised with the staff coming to school as usual. Private schools are however not sure of allowing school buses to be run as it would be difficult to maintain safety norms. Teachers also are counting on safety precautions. “A lot of teachers are elderly and have co-morbid conditions, so we need to take extra precautions. We too have to educate ourselves on safety measures, improve immunity and also be wary of symptoms,” said R S Krishnaveni, a Class XII teacher at a private school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/schools-ready-to-reopen-for-classes-x-xii-post-pongal/articleshow/80124032.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
January 6, 2021||Pune||‘Election-like’ Covid vaccine dry run in Maharashtra on Friday||PUNE: Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said the statewide Covid-19 vaccine dry run would be held on January 8, ahead of the actual inoculation programme. “The entire process will be held in an election-like manner. There should not be crowding at any of the vaccination sites. From sending out message with the time slots to internet connectivity, everything will be monitored closely. The vaccine sites will be only at district and state hospitals, and they will be identified ahead of the dry run,” he told TOI. Tope said a meeting with the central health authorities was scheduled on January 7, where the state would demand clarity on the actual dose count it would be allotted. “We have uploaded the data on the Co-Win app. The Union government should allot the vaccine doses accordingly. Once we get the doses, they will be distributed equally among all districts,” he said. Tope said he was not sure which of the two vaccines approved for emergency use would be approved for the state. “There is also no clarity on the registration of frontline workers and people with comorbidities on the Co-Win app yet,” he said. State immunisation officer D N Patil told TOI that all districts would be covered during the dry run on January 8, but the Centre was yet to issue guidelines on how many beneficiaries would be covered at each vaccination site. Though eight people were found infected with the UK strain in the state, Tope said there was no reason to panic as “all the infected people were stable and contact tracing was on for close relatives”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/election-like-covid-vaccine-dry-run-in-state-on-friday/articleshow/80122777.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 6, 2021||Kochi||Kochi: Twaha Fasak remanded in judicial custody||KOCHI: Twaha Fasal, accused in Pantheerankavu UAPA case related to suspected Maoist links, appeared before the National Investigation Agency (NIA) court, Kochi, on Tuesday, a day after the high court cancelled his bail in the case. He was remanded in judicial custody for 30 days and sent to Viyyur high-security prison. Meanwhile, Fasal, the second accused in the case, told the press that he was a victim of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). He arrived along with his brother at NIA court at 10.50am and said that many people are illegally lodged in the jail after being charged under UAPA. “I am a victim of UAPA and I have not been involved in any anti-national activity. I was working as a labourer to help my family after getting the bail and I was shocked to hear that my bail was cancelled. People should come forward against the misuse of UAPA,” he said, before entering the court. His brother said that they will approach the Supreme Court against Kerala HC decision of cancelling bail and a plea will be filed soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/twaha-remanded-in-judicial-custody/articleshow/80121559.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Pune||Jumbo hospitals for corona vaccination||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) plans to make use of Covid-19 jumbo hospitals for vaccination during the second or subsequent phases. The move is on the lines of Mumbai, where the municipal corporation has decided to use the jumbo hospital for vaccination. “The facilities are well equipped. The health department will take the final call on it,” said Rajendra Muthe, head of the PMC’s building and establishment department. “The facilities available in the hospitals will be useful for carrying out vaccination on a large scale,” said a senior official of the PMC’s health department. Ashish Bharati, head of the PMC’s health department, was not available for comment despite repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/jumbo-hospitals-for-corona-vaccination/articleshow/80122782.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
January 6, 2021||Coimbatore||Covid-19 tally crosses 8,000-mark in Nilgiris||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The number of active cases of Covid-19 in the district has seen a decrease by 28% in the past two weeks. The number of active cases on Tuesday stood at 102, while the same was 140 on December 21, 2020. The recovery rate in the district saw an increase by one percent in the same period when it went up from 97% to 98.1%. The hill district has been reporting new cases of the virus between 11 and 17 in a day for the past two weeks. At least 209 new cases were reported during the period, even as 240 patients recovered and were discharged. In the past two weeks, the district had also reported three deaths due to Covid-19. The death toll stands at 46. On Tuesday, the tally of Covid-19 cases crossed the 8,000-mark to 8,002 with nine new cases registered. As many as 7,854 people have recovered so far, including 15 patients who were discharged on the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-19-tally-crosses-8000-mark-in-nilgiris/articleshow/80122779.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Patna||Rajasthan woman shot dead for resisting molestation in Patna||PATNA: An elderly woman from Rajasthan was shot dead for allegedly resisting molestation of the girls in her nomadic group by four local youths near Raghopur under Bakhtiyarpur police station area in Patna on early Tuesday morning. Bakhtiyarpur police station SHO Kamlesh Sharma said the deceased was identified as Usnawa (65). She was part of a group of around 20 people, who roam around in different states to sell carpets and other items. Sharma said they are members of an extended family of Chinka Naka village near Jaipur. “They had reached Bakhtiyarpur late Monday night from Biharsharif in Nalanda and had put up tents where the incident took place,” he said. Narrating the incident to the media, the one in the group said four armed youths attempted to rape his two daughters. “They pointed gun at my head and demanded money when I begged them for mercy. They thrashed me along with my daughters,” he said. He alleged that one of the youths opened fire, killing the woman. The SHO, however, said the four youths entered their tents and attempted to molest the girls after which they all woke up and objected. “A scuffle took place. The nomadic group immediately decided to leave the place,” he said. But the accused opened fire, killing the woman on the spot. Though the SHO initially accepted that the woman was shot dead for resisting molestation, later in the day he said the youths had only entered their tents. When they objected, a scuffle took place and the woman was killed. He said police were trying to identify the youths involved in the crime. But a chowkidar named Ramji Paswan told the media that the group informed the police about the molestation by the accused and that the woman was killed for objecting to it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/raj-woman-shot-for-resisting-molestation/articleshow/80122783.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 6, 2021||Pune||179 booths for first phase in PMC limits||Pune: The civic body has identified 179 booths for the vaccination drive, covering 55,000 healthcare workers in the first phase in the Pune corporation limits. Vaishali Jadhav, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s assistant health chief, told TOI that they were planning to have at least five vaccination officers per booth in the first phase. Jadhav said, “As many as 42,000 healthcare workers have signed up for the vaccination drive, so far, from the civic as well as private sectors. But we have prepared for over 55,000 healthcare workers. With each booth requiring at least five vaccination officers, we shall need over 700 staffers in the first phase.” Jadhav said the vaccination drive would be conducted in four phases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/179-booths-for-first-phase-in-pmc-limits/articleshow/80122785.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Pune||Recoveries at 583 in Pune metropolitan region, 7 more succumb to nCoV||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) recorded 583 Covid-19 recoveries and 496 new infections on Tuesday. Among the new cases, the Pune municipal limits added 243 new cases, followed by the Pimpri Chincgwad municipal limits (140) and the rural areas (123). When it comes to recoveries, the PMC limits recorded 343 discharges, followed by the rural areas (169) and the PCMC limits (71). The total recoveries and cases in the region now stand above 3.65 lakh and 3.51 lakh, respectively. A report released by the district heath officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that seven deaths were recorded in the region on Tuesday, which included two deaths each from the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits and three from the rural areas. With this, the region’s death count climbed to 8,862, of which 54% deaths (4,825) have been reported in the PMC limits. As many as 2,272 fatalities have been from the rural areas so far, while 1,765 patients have succumbed to the infection in the PCMC limits till Tuesday night. As many as 8,810 samples were tested in the region on Tuesday, which pushed the total sample testing in PMR above 19.09 lakh. The daily testing in the PCMC limits surpassed that of the PMC limits on Tuesday, with 3,401 samples being tested in the PCMC limits as against 3,398 in the PMC areas. Active patient tally in PMR reached 5,578 by Tuesday, including 3,532 patients in home isolation and 2,046 admitted in various hospitals for the treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/recoveries-at-583-in-pmr-7-more-succumb-to-ncov/articleshow/80122790.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 6, 2021||Aurangabad||Covid-19: Marathwada recovery rate at 96%||AURANGABAD: The average Covid-19 recovery rate among the eight districts of Marathwada has further improved to 96%, as per the official data. By October-end, the recovery rate had reached 91% in the region.  Among the eight districts, the recovery rate in Hingoli has reached 97%, followed by Aurangabad (96%), Latur (96%), Osmanabad (96%), while Parbhan, Nanded, Jalna and Beed each have touched 95%. Dr Sundar Kulkarni, the Aurangabad district civil surgeon, said the increased public awareness about the pandemic coupled with the refined treatment protocols led to the gradual improvement in the recovery rate. “It has been almost nine months since the outbreak of Covid and people are opting for early testing due to the heightened awareness, which in turn maximizes chances of recovery. The ICMR continues to refine its treatment protocols as per research and studies, which is helping scores of patients to recover,” he said. The health authorities have appealed to the people not to lower their guard against Covid and continue following the norms such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing.  The total number of confirmed cases in the region has crossed 1.47 lakh, which includes over 1.4 lakh recovered patients and 4,368 deaths, till Sunday. Marathwada has a total of 2,033 active cases, of which, Aurangabad has the most number of active cases (485), followed by Latur (325), Nanded (316), Beed (308), Jalna (305), Osmanabad (147), Parbhani (101) and Hingoli (46).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mwada-recovery-rate-at-96/articleshow/80116230.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Customs issues fresh notice to K Ayyappan||KOCHI: K Ayyappan, additional private secretary of speaker P Sreeramakrishnan, did not turn up for questioning before customs on Tuesday. He was summoned as part of the investigation into the case registered in connection with smuggling of $1.9 lakh by Khalid Ali Shoukry, former finance head of the UAE Consulate in the capital. Ayyappan sent a message to the investigation officer that he didn’t receive a notice from the agency, except informal information passed over a phone call, though customs claimed it had sent the notice via email. But, Ayyappan said he will not appear unless a legally-valid written notice is issued. Following this, customs issued a written notice to him seeking his presence for interrogation on Wednesday Sources said customs found that Ayyappan knew Swapna Suresh and PS Sarith, key accused in gold smuggling case and certain diplomats in the UAE Consulate who are suspected of smuggling dollars. Customs is also trying to question Sreeramakrishnan in the case and in the process of completing procedures and securing requisite approvals. Customs is likely to have a talk with the speaker before issuing a notice, summoning him for interrogation. Asst protocol officer questioned Meanwhile, customs team investigating the gold smuggling case questioned assistant protocol officer MS Harikrishnan from the state protocol department. Sources said customs collected details of goods imported via diplomatic channel with the permission of the department based on the suspicion that several diplomatic baggage sent by UAE Consulate’s staff might have violated protocols. Customs also verified whether the consulate had informed the department about the arrival of diplomatic cargos to avail duty-free import. It was earlier found that Swapna and Sarith had connections in the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/customs-issues-fresh-notice-to-k-ayyappan/articleshow/80121595.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Vadodara||MSUSU threatens BCA on ground use||Vadodara: The row between M S University and Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) over representation of university in BCA’s apex council is escalating. On Tuesday, a group of student leaders led by MSU Students Union (MSUSU) general secretary Rakesh Panjabi and vice-president Kaksha Patel burnt effigy of BCA office-bearers at the D N Hall ground. Threatening that they would intensify their agitation further, the student leaders also warned that BCA will not be allowed to utilize D N Hall ground while they will also obstruct matches that BCA will organize at its stadium if university is not provided representation in the association. MSU had recently sent a letter to BCA asking it to include syndicate member Mayank Patel in its apex council. BCA management has, however, expressed inability to accept MSU’s proposal citing Supreme Court’s directives. Before Patel, MSU had sent syndicate member Jigar Inamdar’s name as university’s representative to the apex council. According to BCA it used to have a university representative in its managing committee in the past but since the apex council has been made on the recommendations of the Lodha committee that have been accepted by the Supreme Court, MSU nominee cannot be include in the council. “BCA is not a private entity but it is being run as one by the so-called elite of Vadodara,” said Panjabi, adding that university had received representation in BCA during the Gaekwadi rule.“Not giving its due representation is injustice to thousands of students of the campus,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msusu-threatens-bca-on-ground-use/articleshow/80120703.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Vijayawada||Hand over houses to cyclone Hudhud victims: HC to govt||Vijayawada: The high court on Tuesday directed the government to take necessary steps to allot houses to people affected by cyclone Hudhud under Visakhapatnam East constituency. The high court questioned as to why the houses were not given to victims even after construction has been completed and issued notices to concerned officials to file counter affidavits. Visakhapatnam East MLA, Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu, had moved high court with a public interest litigation (PIL) alleging that the government was not handing over houses to beneficiaries of NTR Hudhud Housing Scheme even after construction was complete and houses were ready for occupation. The counsel, arguing on behalf of Babu, told the high court that the beneficiaries of the housing scheme are poor fishermen who live along the coast in thatched houses. During the cyclone in 2015, all houses along the coast were completely damaged. To rehabilitate them, the then government had announced a special housing scheme for the fishermen and constructed the houses, the counsel said. “Though the construction has already been completed, officials are not handing over (houses) to the beneficiaries because of which they are facing hardships,” the counsel said and added that the officials did not take any action even after giving repeated representations. Taking his arguments into consideration, the high court directed the managing director of state housing corporation, Visakhapatnam project director and district collector to take steps to hand over finished houses and asked to submit all details before February 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hand-over-houses-to-cyclone-hudhud-victims-hc-to-govt/articleshow/80121643.cms||Srikanth Aluri
January 6, 2021||Surat||Cyclist takes up Everesting challenge on Wilson Hill||Surat: A 20-year-old cyclist took up Everesting challenge on the famous Wilson Hill in Valsad’s Dharampur taluka last Sunday and paddled uphill for a distance of 4,424 meters in record 6.13 hours.Deep Shah, who is pursuing his business finance in Canada, paddled up the hill 20 times making his way in the ‘Hall of Fame’ of world Everesting challenge. With this achievement, Deep has become the first cyclist from Gujarat to complete the half-everesting challenge and now he is planning for the full challenge of 8,848 meters.“I zeroed in on Wilson Hill because it is the Everest of South Gujarat for the cyclists. The hill is about 300-odd metres high, which meant I had to climb more than 20 times to reach my goal,” said Deep, who had returned to Surat during coronavirus pandemic. Asked why he opted for Everesting, Deep explained, “I wanted to prove myself for such a difficult task. I was inspired by a cyclist from Mumbai Kabir Rachure, who climbed 4,424 at Bhor Ghat in 6.49 hours. So, I have achieved the task in 6.13 hours.” Deep’s father, Dakshay Shah, who is also an avid cyclist and member of Surat Cyclist Group said, “My son attempted the task which I could not perform in my entire cycling career. He is the inspiration for other youngsters to take up such challenges and make Gujarat and India proud.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cyclist-takes-up-everesting-challenge-on-wilson-hill/articleshow/80120906.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Patna||17 Patna civil court staff dismissed, booked||PATNA: Altogether 17 staff members of Patna civil court were dismissed from service and an FIR was lodged against them on Tuesday night in a three-year-old bribery case exposed in a sting operation carried out by a TV news channel. The FIR was lodged by Patna civil court registrar with Pirbahore police station within hours of their dismissal on the direction of the Patna high court. Most of the accused were clerks, typists and peons who were shown allegedly accepting bribes from litigants and advocates for doing several kinds of favour, included giving choice dates for hearing and even forwarding those arrested to a jail of their choice after production in the court. Sources said all the employees had received their dismissal letters on Tuesday night. A case was filed before the Patna high court by advocate Dinesh. After hearing on several dates, the court had kept the matter for order by the Chief Justice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/17-civil-court-staff-dismissed-booked/articleshow/80122796.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 6, 2021||Nagpur||Covid fatalities, cases shoot up to 15-day high in Vidarbha||NAGPUR: A day after posting the month’s lowest toll, Covid fatalities shot up to record the highest single day deaths at 19 which is also the most in the last 15 days in Vidarbha. The number of fresh cases too was the highest in the last 15 days with all the 11 districts collectively reporting 857 on Tuesday. No Covid death took place in Gadchiroli, Akola and Washim while Nagpur reported the most at 11. Besides, two deaths were reported in Bhandara and one each from Chandrapur, Yavatmal, Amravati, Gondia, Wardha and Buldhana taking the region’s toll to 6,635. Fresh cases were from Nagpur (423), Bhandara (68), Wardha (52), Gondia (34), Chandrapur (45), Gadchiroli (14), Akola (57), Amravati (68), Yavatmal (33), Buldhana (54) and Washim (9). Now, the region’s caseload is 2,56,031. The region saw 610 recovered from Nagpur (294), Bhandara (27), Wardha (53), Gondia (39), Chandrapur (56), Gadchiroli (16), Akola (15), Amravati (66), Yavatmal (21), Buldhana (9) and Washim (0). This took the tally to 2,40,295. The region has 7,302 patients under treatment. Gadchiroli: No Covid death was reported on Wednesday. New case count increased by 14 while 16 recoveries were reported. The district now has 177 active cases, while total cases are 9,108. So far, 103 have succumbed to the virus while 8,828 defeated it and were declared recovered. Washim: The district didn’t report any Covid death on Tuesday. The district reported the lowest number of day’s cases in Vidarbha at 9 while 14 patients recovered and got discharged. Death toll is 150. New cases took the tally to 6,719, discharged rose to 6,449 while 119 are active. Buldhana: One Covid death took place while 54 new cases and 9 recoveries were reported on Tuesday. According to official data, the district now has 12,779 cases, 12,260 recoveries, 153 deaths and 366 active cases. Bhandara: The district reported two Covid deaths, 68 new cases and 27 recoveries on Tuesday. The district has 384 active cases. Total caseload is 12,578 cases, and 11,898 discharged patients. Covid toll is 296. Gondia: The district witnessed one Covid death, 39 recoveries and 34 new cases on Tuesday. Number of patients under treatment are 248. The new positive patients took the tally to 13,781. So far 179 succumbed, while 13,354 recovered. Akola: The district reported 57 new cases, 15 recoveries. No Covid death on Wednesday. The cases tally climbed to 10,687. So far, 323 people have died here of Covid. With new recoveries, the tally touched 9,857. Still 507 are active patients. Amravati: While the caseload of the district crossed the 20,000 mark with the identification of 68 new cases, the toll reached 400 with one death on Tuesday. There were 66 recoveries, taking the total to 19,271 for a recovery percentage of 96.33. This left 334 active cases under treatment. Yavatmal: A 50-year-old man from Amravati died at the GMC on Tuesday. Out of 163 reports, 33 were found to be positive. Currently, there are 378 active positive patients undergoing treatment in Covid Care Centres across the district. Wardha: While a 70-year-old man from the city died due to coronavirus on Tuesday, 52 tested positive, taking the caseload to 9,264. In all, 53 were discharged with recoveries 8,689 and 299 active positive patients in the district. Chandrapur: With 45 testing positive, 56 were discharged on Tuesday. One death took the toll to 373. The cumulative Covid figure has now touched 22,466 with 21,737 recoveries and 356 active patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-fatalities-cases-shoot-up-to-15-day-high/articleshow/80122736.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 6, 2021||Visakhapatnam||US keen to set up American hub in Vizag, CM Jagan Mohan Reddy welcomes move||AMARAVATI: The United State government is interested in setting up an American hub in Visakhapatnam, according to US consul general Joel Reifman. He said that Ahmedabad is currently the only city in India to have an American hub and that Visakhapatnam will be their first location in south India. A US delegation, led by Reifman, met with chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office on Tuesday. Reifman told the CM about the US government’s plans and that his team has visited Visakhapatnam and was very satisfied with the facilities on offer. During the interaction, the CM is said to have asked the consul general to set up an incubation centre in Visakhapatnam, similar to the one in Delhi to which the latter responded positively. The chief minister assured the United States delegation that all facilities will be provided to set up an incubation centre. He welcomed the decision to set up an American hub in Visakhapatnam and asked for the US’ cooperation in developing it as a smart city. Jagan urged the consul general to take the initiative to further enhance the cooperation between the States and Andhra Pradesh and said that they were keen on working together. “We are ready to provide our fullest support to investors in the state,” the CM said and affirmed that AP is among the most favourable states for investment as it has a vast coastal area. Reifman appreciated the various programmes, welfare schemes implemented by the government and praised its performance in wake of the pandemic and measures taken to contain the spread of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/us-keen-to-set-up-american-hub-in-vizag-cm-welcomes-move/articleshow/80121628.cms||Samdani MN
January 6, 2021||Vijayawada||Vijayawada traffic woes back following unlock 5.0||VIJAYAWADA: With commercial activities gradually resuming, traffic woes have once again resurfaced at Benz Circle, Ramavarappadu Ring Road, PCR Junction and Gollapudi Y Junction. With construction of the second lane of Benz Circle flyover commencing, vehicular traffic on the stretch of NH-16 that bisects the city has increased. Though one side of the flyover is open for vehicles, this solves only part of the problem as the stretch consists of five busy junctions with each junction comprising three intersections of two-way traffic flow and service roads. In the absence of traffic signals, regulating the flow of vehicles has become a tedious task for traffic police. All junctions are presently manually managed. Further, CCTV cameras at many places do not function. City police commissioner B Srinivasulu said at the annual crime review meet that there are plans to divert traffic onto alternate roads to decongest the national highway till flyover works are complete. While opening up the Kanaka Durga flyover solved traffic chaos at bus station, Prakasam Barrage junction and Kummaripalem, the road narrows from a six-lane to four-lane near Bhavanipuram and also has to absorb traffic from the roads below the flyover, creating a bottleneck in vehicle movement. The presence of a four-way junction just a ahead of the flyover also aggravates the problem. Meanwhile, the bypass road from Gollapudi Junction through CVR flyover poses a risky ride for motorists, especially heavy vehicles. The road is damaged with deep potholes and repair works have been long pending. The bypass road which was intended to ease traffic on other roads has bumper-to-bumper traffic due to poor upkeep. Acknowledging the problems, the city police commissioner said that the biggest challenge they are facing following Unlock 5.0 is regulating traffic and a new strategy is being prepared, keeping in view the new flyovers that are now operational in the city. He added that they are also working to install more CCTV cameras and traffic signals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vij-traffic-woes-back-following-unlock-5-0/articleshow/80121556.cms||Srikanth Aluri
January 6, 2021||Kochi||Kerala HC upholds Centre’s decision on slapping UAPA||KOCHI: The high court on Tuesday upheld a single bench’s judgment declining to interfere with central government’s decision to allow CBI to invoke provisions of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in Kathiroor Manoj murder case without the state government’s permission. CPM Kannur district secretary P Jayarajan is accused of being the mastermind in the case. A division bench comprising Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly considered an appeal filed by Jayarajan and 24 other accused in the case challenging the single bench’s judgment of March 15, 2018. It was contended by the accused that it is the state government that has to grant sanction for invoking UAPA and not the central government. While ruling in favour of the central government’s decision to invoke UAPA provisions, the single bench had rejected the contention of the accused and the state government that sanction should be provided by the state government. The court had said that central government is the sanctioning authority for cases being investigated by CBI. After considering the appeal, the division bench upheld the single bench’s findings and observations. Jayarajan is the 25th accused in the case related to the murder of Elamthottathil Manoj alias Kathiroor Manoj, who was the ‘jilla sharirik shikshan pramukh’ (district leader of physical training) of RSS, in 2014. Jayarajan was charged under Section 18 (punishment for conspiracy) of UAPA. CBI had named Jayarajan as the mastermind behind the murder and had said that Manoj was an accused in a case related to a murder attempt on Jayarajan in 1999.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-upholds-centres-decision-on-slapping-uapa/articleshow/80121637.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Vijayawada||Ex-intel chief seeks IPS association’s intervention||Vijayawada: Former state intelligence chief AB Venkateswara Rao has alleged the government is trying to arrest him by fabricating a criminal case. The DGP-rank officer, in a letter to IPS officers’ association (AP chapter), said he has reliable information that attempts are being made to arrest him without giving him an opportunity to get anticipatory bail. Rao requested for a general body meeting of the association to discuss and intervene in the matter. “I am not seeking any favours from the association, but seeking its attention as it’s a case of harassment by the government. This is not a case against an officer being inquired into based on evidence against him, but being inquired into on the basis of false claims and cooked-up evidence,” he wrote. “I only want a fair and impartial inquiry and seek that the officers adhere to constitutional obligations without fear or favour. The officers must remember their oath and conduct enquiries and investigations assigned to them by sticking to the principles of rule of law and natural justice,” he said in the letter. — Srikanth Aluri||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ex-intel-chief-seeks-ips-associations-intervention/articleshow/80121588.cms||Srikanth Aluri
January 6, 2021||Pune||Report shows sharp fall in Maharashtra unemployment rate||PUNE: The Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industry, and Agriculture (MCCIA), based on data from various government departments, compiled a report that showed an improvement in the state’s economic health in the later half of 2020. The report showed there was significant recovery across industries, marked by a decline in unemployment — from nearly 21% in April to under 4% in December — and an increase in foreign direct investment inflows. This is still a way off the highs of 2019 or even the first two months of 2020, MCCIA stated. The report added that some indicators — the demand for electricity, and higher goods and services tax (GST) collections from October to December — point to tangible growth in industries and services, especially in manufacturing. MCCIA gathered the data from multiple sources, including the Central Electricity Authority of India, Union finance ministry, Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, Union commerce and industries ministry, and the Consumer Price Index. “There is still some effect of the pandemic on the informal sector, as well as Tier III or IV suppliers in the market. Their recoveries have been slow due to multiple factors, including the pandemic and commodity prices. But various indicators, such as the low unemployment rate in Maharashtra, or the FDI inflows, or a steady rise in demand for electricity, point to real signs of recovery,” an MCCIA spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/report-shows-sharp-fall-in-maha-unemployment-rate/articleshow/80122794.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Meerut||Bijnor admin to auction farm mafia’s cane crop in 2k bigha in khadar area||Bijnor: With an aim to curb illegal farming in the low-lying fertile khadar area along river Ganga bordering Bijnor-Muzaffarnagar districts, the authorities here have decided to auction ready-to-be harvested crops across 2,500 bigha of land. The auction will take place on Friday, said Vikramaditya Singh, sub divisional magistrate, Bijnor. Sources estimated the sugarcane crop cost to be around Rs 2 crore. According to official sources, the khadar area comprises around 50,000 bigha of land along the banks of the Ganga and is owned by the irrigation, forest and revenue departments in the state. The vast area borders Bijnor, Meerut, Muzaffarnagar and Amroha districts. In winter, when the river recedes, it leaves behind a marshy but very fertile soil. At this time, farmers and land mafia from these districts grab the land to sow wheat, sugarcane and vegetables to make a quick profit. By doing so, they disturb the eco-system by using chemical fertilizers and pesticides that seep into the ground and drain into the river. The illegal agricultural activity also affects wildlife like turtles and swamp deer in the region. To curb the illegal farming, Bijnor revenue officials earmarked around 2,500 bighas of government land at Purushottampur village under Mandawar police area, where sugarcane is ready for harvesting. This time, the authorities have decided to auction the crop in a bid to deter illegal cultivation in future. SDM Singh said, “We have earmarked over 2,500 bigha land on which some people have been growing sugarcane crop for years. We have served notices to them in this connection. Sugarcane crushing season is on in full swing. That is why we have decided to evict this land by auctioning the crop on January 8." Earlier, on the directions of Bijnor divisional forest officer M Semmaran, a picket had been set up in the khadar area to keep a close watch on illegal farmers and to prevent sowing in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bijnor-admin-to-auction-farm-mafias-cane-crop-in-2k-bigha-in-khadar-area/articleshow/80121631.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 6, 2021||Meerut||Covid-19 vaccination mock drill held at 6 locations in west UP||MEERUT: Health authorities conducted a mock drill of Covid-19 vaccination in 12 sessions at six locations across west UP on Tuesday. The dry run was conducted to see how the movement of the patients will be done from one booth to another and to check emergency preparedness in case of any critical case. In the first phase, government and private health workers are to be vaccinated. In Bijnor, 14,000 health workers will be vaccinated in the first phase and 18,750 health workers in Meerut. “In Meerut, the dry run at Daurala health centre was inspected and instructions were given to ensure that all the arrangements are in place as per the norms and there is no negligence,” said Meerut district magistrate K Balaji. Meerut divisional commissioner Anita C Meshram, said, “At each centre, three rooms have been made and bifurcated into waiting room, vaccination room and observation room. According to the statistics of Meerut, the death rate due to Covid-19 infection and the number of cases are on a decline. However, one needs to continue to remain careful and practice healthy habits.” In Bijnor, 16 cold chains have been formed and special instructions have been given to ensure that no glitches are reported from the health centres. Not just this, an individual will get a text message a day before his vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/covid-19-vaccination-mock-drill-held-at-6-locations-in-west-up/articleshow/80121633.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 6, 2021||Delhi||Covid-19 vaccination in Delhi: Preparation in last phase, dry run at booths today||NEW DELHI: A dry run of Covid-19 vaccination will be conducted at several facilities in Delhi on Wednesday. These include Hindu Rao and Kasturba hospitals in north Delhi and Maternity and Child Welfare Centre at Sriniwaspuri. North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash said: “We have converted the swine flu ward at Hindu Rao Hospital into Covid-19 vaccination centre. Seating arrangements for 35 people have been made. We will call them in batches to avoid rush. Some health workers will participate in the dry run tomorrow and we will follow all the guidelines issued for the vaccine rollout.” A north corporation official said that a team from District Disaster Management Authority visited the facilities on Tuesday to ensure everything was in place. In south Delhi, preparations for the dry run were completed at Sriniwaspuri, Defence Colony, Bijwasan and Fatehpur Beri facilities. Altogether 621 sites located in Delhi and central government hospitals, polyclinics and dispensaries across 11 districts of the capital have been identified where vaccination booths are being created for people to get Covid shots. The sites are being managed by nodal officers. Each of these sites consists of three separate rooms/sections-- verification room, vaccination room and observation rooms. “Vaccination booths will also be created in private hospitals, which have more than 100 healthcare workers and are located close to the 621 sites. A total of 603 cold chain points are located at the identified sites. We are giving final touches to the preparations for the vaccine rollout,” said Dr Suneela Garg, director-professor of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College and Covid-19 taskforce member for the Delhi vaccination programme. Delhi will have a total of 1,000 vaccination booths. At the vaccination booth located in GTB Hospital, educational posters on Covid welcome the visitors. In the block, one area has been separated by light blue curtains to create a large observation area. Five three-seater steel benches have been placed in the observation room with ‘no use’ markings on the middle seat. Located next to it is a vaccination room. Each booth will be managed by five vaccination officers. The credentials of each of the beneficiary will be verified in the verification room soon after they arrive. Then the beneficiary will be directed to the vaccination room where they will get the Covid shot and then they will spend 30 minutes under observation to ensure that there is no side effect. Emergency treatment measures will also be in place. Watch Covid-19: Delhi’s Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital geared up for dry run of vaccines||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/prep-in-last-phase-dry-run-at-booths-today/articleshow/80124109.cms||Vibha Sharma
January 6, 2021||Pune||Collector allows archaeological sites like forts, museums to open to public||PUNE: District collector Rajesh Deshmukh has allowed the state archaeological department and Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to open forts, temples, museums, and such other archaeological sites located within Pune district to visitors. “The order is effective immediately,” Deshmukh told TOI. “Visitors at these sites will have to follow the standard Covid-19 safety protocols, including wearing masks, maintaining physical distancing and sanitizing hands frequently,” he added. Deshmukh, in a press release, also noted that these archaeological sites support livelihoods of many people due to tourist inflows. The collector acknowledged that the district authorities had received many representations over the past few months to reopen these sites to the general public. All of the sites under consideration had been closed to the public since March 31 last year, while some sites, including Sinhagad Fort, had been partially reopened to visitors in the second week of December. The state archaeological department said that they will take a decision on reopening the sites after going through the order issued by the district authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/collector-allows-archaeological-sites-like-forts-museums-to-open-to-public/articleshow/80122818.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Pune||Can antibodies from ‘old strains’ fight off new variant? NIV to test||PUNE: The National Institute of Virology, which last week successfully grew the UK strain of the coronavirus inside a lab, will now attempt to answer two critical questions: Can this variant impact vaccine efficacy and will it outfight existing antibodies in those who’ve already had Covid. Scientists at NIV plan to pit the newly grown strain against natural antibodies from recovered patients or against vaccine-triggered antibodies drawn from clinical trial volunteers. In other words, they will test if antibodies from strains that have been circulating in India can take on the UK variant — in what’s known as a ‘neutralization study’. “The isolation and culturing of the UK strain at NIV was the first step towards finding answers to these crucial questions. And now that we have a sufficient amount of the virus, our scientists are gearing up for the neutralization study,” a senior official from the Indian Council of Medical Research said. Officiating director of the NIV, scientist Sarah Cherian on Tuesday refused to divulge details of the study design. “It’s too early to comment,” she said. Virologist Deepak Gadkari, a former director of the NIV, said a neutralization study is the best way to assess vaccine efficacy and chances of reinfection. “With the UK variant in hand, scientists can check if antibodies from human trial participants, the recovered or immunized animals can hold off the UK strain,” Gadkari said The study will also boost confidence in vaccines. “The scientists are in a position to compare the ‘level’ of neutralizing ability against existing strains and the new variant. And beyond cell culture experiments, the protective ability of ‘old’ antibodies can be studied in animal models against the new variant. A positive correlation will increase the confidence in vaccines,” he said. Infection by any strain of SARS-CoV-2 kicks off an immune response against the entire virus, and not just against certain parts such as its ‘spikes’. This is why many experts believe mutations are unlikely to affect vaccine-induced protection. “There are 1,273 amino acids on SARS-CoV-2’s spike protein that trigger the immune response. The new UK variant has nine amino acid changes or mutations in the S protein. So, the assumption that vaccines will offer protection against the new strain is logical,” Gadkari said. Some concern has emerged that a South African variant (501.V2) — with a mutation called E484K — may not be as vulnerable to vaccines as other strains. But some of the shots — that use very new technology — can be tweaked to boost effectiveness in just about six weeks, vaccine makers have said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/can-antibodies-from-old-strains-fight-off-new-variant-niv-to-test/articleshow/80122837.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 6, 2021||Kolkata||UK actor in Kolkata hospital asymptomatic, doing well: Doctors||KOLKATA: The 23-year-old British actor admitted to Medica Superspecialty Hospital after testing positive for Covid-19 upon landing in the city was doing well, hospital officials said on Tuesday. The actor of Indian origin was hospitalized on Monday night. Doctors said the 23-year-old, who was largely asymptomatic, maintained good oxygen saturation level. But she was being kept under close observation. Even if she did not develop symptoms, the actor would stay in complete isolation till the genome sequencing of her samples came negative for the UK mutant of novel coronavirus, doctors said. “The patient is kept in a single cabin that has a negative air-pressure system. She is doing fine,” said Alok Roy, chairman, Medica Group of Hospitals. Sources said the actor arrived in Kolkata on Sunday for the shooting of ‘Kavita & Teresa’. She was put in CNCI’s New Town facility and swab samples sent to School of Tropical Medicine. After her RT-PCR report on Monday confirmed she was Covid-positive, she was taken to the state-run ID Hospital to be admitted to the ward created for UK-strain patients and those suspected of having it. But she refused to get admitted there and after a three-hour drama, she was sent to the private hospital. ID Hospital sources said no one else was brought to the UK-strain ward, and that the six patients already admitted there were doing fine. “All of them are in a stable condition. None has any serious disease,” said a health department source. So far, only one in the state has tested positive for the UK strain. Admitted to MCH, his condition is stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/uk-actor-in-hospital-asymptomatic-doing-well-docs/articleshow/80122792.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 6, 2021||Madurai||Madurai: Village health nurses seek clarity in postings||MADURAI: A section of village health nurses (VHNs) from Madurai on Tuesday staged an agitation at the office of Madurai Corporation seeking clarity over their work. The nurses alleged that for months, they have been put for work under the corporation though they originally have rural postings and are now being overworked without clarity in role. “After some of the primary health centres (PHCs) were turned in to urban PHCs under the corporation, 33 VHNs posted in these PHCs were posted to work under the corporation health department. However, they had rural postings and they received their salaries from the office of the deputy director of health services,” said Chinnaponnu, district secretary, Tamil Nadu government employees’ association. She explained that soon after they received orders to continue their work in rural areas but at the same time, they were not relieved from their work by the corporation. A health official from the corporation said that the VHNs, who were posted at these urban PHCs have only been asked to temporarily continue with their work until the vacancies that have been created are filled. The official added that while PHCs in rural areas cater to lesser populations and can be managed, urban PHCs cater to higher populations and hence these posts cannot be left vacant. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/village-health-nurses-seek-clarity-in-postings/articleshow/80124107.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh trader detained for selling ‘Thakur’ shoes||MEERUT: A Muslim shoe seller in Bulandshahr’s Gulawati town was booked and detained for questioning after members of a right-wing outfit objected to the name etched on the soles of shoes he was selling, “Thakur”. They gathered at his shop, called the police and kept asking him why he chose to “hurt their sentiments", while he tried to explain that it was only a brand name. On Monday evening, Bajrang Dal member Vishal Chauhan, 24, had stopped by Mohammad Nasir’s makeshift shop to buy shoes. “I saw most shoes had ‘Thakur’ etched on the soles,” he said. In his complaint to the police, he added, “Please take the strictest possible action against those who make these shoes and sell them.” In a purported video of the exchange, Nasir is heard asking as he puts back his shoes, “Will you shut my shop?” A man responds, “You should have removed the shoes.” Nasir protests, “Do I make these? … Did I see ‘Thakur’ and bring them to sell?” Another man repeats, “Why did you get these?” In another video clip, a cop comes by to check the stocks while one of the men holds up a shoe and turns the sole to the camera as others gather around. Nasir, in his mid-30s, was taken away after that. “We have held him for questioning. Based on a complaint by Chauhan, we have registered an FIR. An unidentified company has also been booked,” Namrata Singh, circle officer of Sikandrabad, told TOI. “A team has been formed to trace the company. The shop, meanwhile, has been shut.” Nasir and the owner of the company have been under sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, etc), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke) of the IPC. As the video went viral by Tuesday evening, meanwhile, several on Twitter questioned the reason behind holding a seller accountable. In response, Bulandshahr Police tweeted that they acted in keeping with law and had they not started proceedings in the case, “many people might have misconstrued it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/shoe-seller-booked-shop-shut-after-bajrang-dal-men-spot-caste-name-on-soles/articleshow/80121638.cms||Sandeep Rai
January 6, 2021||Nashik||Nashik: Containment zones in rural areas drop to 520||NASHIK: The number of containment zones in rural areas of Nashik have come down by 100, from 620 to 520, as the number of active cases have dropped from 1,232 on December 10 to less than 500. “The number of active cases and containment zones are on the decline in rural areas of Nashik” district health official Kapil Aher said. The officer also pointed out that the decline in the number of containment zones proved that the infection was on the decline and the spread was contained. Earlier, there were large number of Covid-19 patients from the same containment zones. Hence, the number of patients went up, but not the containment zones. But the trend has changed now and the number of Covid-19 patients have fallen drastically and the number of containment zones have decreased though not in similar proportion. This means that the containment zones now have lower concentration of the Covid-19 patients against what it was earlier. “As of now we have one of the two patients from certain containment zone as against three to five number of patients from the containment zones,” the officer said. The officer also pointed out that the positivity of the tests have also gone down. “Despite us conducting the RT-PCR test of teachers about 1,000 per day, the number of cases have dropped only indicating that the number of patients are further decreasing. We are, however, guarded against any kind of surge in the number of patients any day,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/containment-zones-in-rural-areas-drop-to-520/articleshow/80116275.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Kozhikode||Kerala: Prof Sabu wins Janaki Ammal National Award||KOZHIKODE: Noted taxonomist and former head of the department of botany at Calicut University, Prof Mamiyil Sabu has been selected for the E K Janaki Ammal National Award for Plant Taxonomy for the year 2018. Sabu was honoured by Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change for his outstanding contribution in the field of Angiosperm Taxonomy. The award, which carries a cash prize of Rs 5 lakh, a scroll and a medallion will be presented on June 5. Sabu has published over 160 papers in national and international journals and has published six books. He is currently CSIR-emeritus scientist at Malabar Botanical Garden and Institute for Plant Sciences, Kozhikode. He has described 67 species new to science and reported five new generic records, six new combinations and 15 new species records for India, nine for South India. He has assessed IUCN status of all Indian gingers. Indian Botanical Society had honored with the prestigious Prof Panchanan Maheswari Gold Medal 2010 and Indian Association for Angiosperm Taxonomy with Prof VV Sivarajan Gold Medal in 2014.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/prof-sabu-wins-janaki-ammal-national-award/articleshow/80121648.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Pune||Pune: Mutated version ruled out in two positive UK returnees||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Two UK returnees who tested positive for Covid in Pimpri Chinchwad don’t have the new strain, health officials said. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) said samples of seven Covid-positive UK returnees were sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) for genome sequencing. Two tested negative for the UK variant while results of other five are awaited. The PCMC’s health department said 268 UK arrivals have been traced so far in the twin towns. The seven positive cases were among the 188 tested. The rest were negative. The seven have been isolated and are under observation. Varsha Dange, the assistant medical officer with the PCMC, said officials were now waiting for the genome report from the NIV. In the district overall, officials said around 1,000 UK returnees have been traced so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mutated-version-ruled-out-in-two-positive-uk-returnees/articleshow/80122840.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Bareilly||Farmers happy with rain & cold, say it will help pulses, wheat & mustard||Pilibhit: The persistent cold wave along with spells of rain in Pilibhit, has proven to be highly advantageous for Rabi crops like wheat, mustard and lentils. The light rainfall has replenished the depleted soil moisture in sugarcane fields too. Farmers say to a great extent, nature has compensated their losses from being deprived of full minimum support price (MSP) during procurement of their Kharif paddy crop. Not only did Pilibhit farmers have to sell their common variety Kharif paddy at prices much lower than the MSP of Rs 1,668 per quintal, due to the messy government procurement system, but they had also been compelled to sell almost their entire fine paddy crop to private traders at a rate Rs 600-700 below the MSP of Rs 1,888 per quintal, after the state government refused to procure it on the pretext that rice millers had complained of low recovery of rice from the fine paddy, which had been sown by Pilibhit farmers on around 50,000 hectares, yielding 50 quintals a hectare on average. “Amid the cold wave, the intermittent light rains have uniformly irrigated the cropped fields. The minimum temperature of between 3-8°C supports growth of tillers in wheat, mustard and lentil seedlings while the ideal rainfall contributes to their healthy and rapid growth,” said Dr Shailendra Singh Dhaka, an agricultural scientist at Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Pilibhit. He claimed the cold wave and rainfall would increase yield of wheat by 15-20%, and augment the production of lentils and mustard by 25-30%. According to district agriculture officer Dr Vinod Yadav, wheat has been sown in Pilibhit over 1,39,363 hectares, while mustard and lentils on 30,578 and 379 hectares respectively. “The intermittent rains have replenished soil moisture in sugarcane fields, which will help the cane maintain desired level of juice,” said Dr Jai Singh, director of Uttar Pradesh Council of Sugarcane Research. Farmers felt happy at the favourable conditions for healthy growth of their crops. Indrajeet Singh of Puranpur, P S Bindra of Marauri, Sukhveer Singh Gill of Amaria and Mahip Singh of Blisanda block were among farmers who told this reporter that “compassionate” nature has compensated their losses from the “heartless” government procurement system to a great extent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/farmers-happy-with-rain-cold-say-it-will-help-pulses-wheat-mustard/articleshow/80115267.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 6, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Raids unearth excise inspector’s properties||PATNA: The Vigilance Investigation Bureau on Tuesday unearthed properties worth several crores disproportionate to the known sources of income of excise department inspector Niranjan Kumar. Bureau sources said raids were going on at Kumar’s ancestral house at Tikia Toli in Mahendru locality and Paharpur in Patna, Bhabhua in Kaimur and Ara in Bhojpur till going to the press. An FIR was lodged against him on December 30 for amassing disproportionate assets. “At the time of the FIR, movable and immovable properties worth over Rs57 lakh disproportionate to his known sources of income had been unearthed,” a senior officer said. The market value of his properties at government rates is estimated to be in several crores. He said deed papers of 12 different plots either purchased by Kumar in the name his wife and mother were seized from Paharpur. “These plots are estimated to be worth several crores at market rates,” he said and added: “His three-storey house in Mahendru is ancestral property in his father’s name.” “At Paharpur, a private school named Denobili is built on a plot measuring one bigha and 12 katthas. This school and the land are in the name of his relatives. Kumar’s residence is also there,” bureau sources said. The details of Bhabhua and Ara raids were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vig-raids-unearth-excise-inspectors-properties/articleshow/80122842.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 6, 2021||Meerut||Current rainfall good for rabi crops: Agriculturists||MEERUT: The current spell of rainfall has brought smiles on the faces of farmers and agriculturists across west Uttar Pradesh. The weather has proven to be highly advantageous for rabi crops such as wheat, mustard and lentils. The light rainfall has replenished the depleted soil moisture in sugarcane fields as well. Dr Shailendra Singh Dhaka, an agricultural scientist at Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Pilibhit, said the cold wave and rainfall would increase yield of wheat by 15-20%, and augment the production of lentils and mustard by 25-30%. According to RS Sengar, professor of biotechnology at Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Agriculture University at Meerut, says, "Rainfall, accompanied by thunder, is ideal for sown rabi crop, including wheat, chana, etc. Thunder breaks nitrogen bond and transforms it into a plant-usable form, and accounts for physical fixation of nitrogen up to 5% in soil -- which is actually better and natural as compared to fertilisers." North India has been witnessing recurrent rainfall since Sunday morning. "Even the vegetables that will be sown in the near future will grow well because of this rainfall as fields will sustain nourishment for their smooth growth," Sengar said. “Amid the cold wave, the intermittent light rains have uniformly irrigated the cropped fields. The minimum temperature of between 3-8°C supports growth of tillers in wheat, mustard and lentil seedlings while the ideal rainfall contributes to their healthy and rapid growth,” said Dr Shailendra Singh Dhaka. According to Pilibhit district agriculture officer Dr Vinod Yadav, wheat has been sown in Pilibhit over 1,39,363 hectares, while mustard and lentils on 30,578 and 379 hectares respectively. “The intermittent rains have replenished soil moisture in sugarcane fields, which will help the cane maintain desired level of juice,” said Dr Jai Singh, director of Uttar Pradesh Council of Sugarcane Research. A farmer, Naveen Pradhan of Meerut, says, "Rain water at this time is a boon for crops, because fruition hasn't yet started and, so, chances of crop loss get minimised. Natural nitrogen fertilizes the land, which is always more preferable than industrial nitrogen. This rain will be good for crops." Farmers in Pilibhit say nature has now compensated for their losses they suffered after they failed to get the minimum support price (MSP) for their kharif paddy crop. They were forced to sell their common variety Kharif paddy at prices much lower than the MSP of Rs 1,668 per quintal, due to the messy government procurement system. To add to their woes, they were compelled to sell almost their entire fine paddy crop to private traders at a rate Rs 600-700 below the MSP of Rs 1,888 per quintal, after the state government refused to procure it on the pretext that rice millers had complained of low recovery of rice from the fine paddy, which had been sown on around 50,000 hectares, yielding 50 quintals a hectare on an average. Some farmers, however, are a bit skeptical with the prevailing environment. "The weather at this time of the year is quite unpredictable as there is no set pattern like the Monsoon. So, there is always an apprehension in terms of intensity. As long as rains do not turn into thundershowers, things are fine but windy weather accompanied by heavy rains are always counterproductive. If the current intensity is maintained, the rains are welcome," said Satish Balyan from Muzaffarnagar. If one goes by the weather forecast, scattered rainfall accompanied by thunderstorms will prevail in west UP, Punjab, Delhi and northwest Madhya Pradesh till Tuesday. However, cold wave is expected to sweep north India after January 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/current-rainfall-accompanied-by-thunder-good-for-rabi-crops-agriculturists/articleshow/80121636.cms||Sandeep Rai
January 6, 2021||Pune||‘Indirect protection’ can set in even before shots reach all: ICMR expert||PUNE: Even before the full round of vaccinations start in India, those in line are likely to benefit from some “indirect protection”, a top disease expert has said. Dr Samiran Panda, head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases division at the Indian Council of Medical Research, said the chances of infection among the susceptible population will start reducing once the vaccines start reaching the priority groups. “This is because a chunk of those who are vaccinated, and are maintaining precautions such as masks and physical distancing, will go on to become barriers between the infected and the susceptible. This protection will likely break the chain of Covid-19 transmission,” he said. Dr Panda added, “Every vaccine has direct and indirect effects. A direct effect is protection against the virus after inoculation. Now no vaccine is 100% effective, but if one is vaccinated her or his chances of contracting Covid are much lower.” As for the indirect effect on the unvaccinated population, Dr Panda said, “When you have a critical mass that has already been inoculated, then the susceptible and infected individuals have a barrier of protected people between them. After priority groups are vaccinated, those who are not vaccinated, and are susceptible to Covid-19, will not come in contact with the infected so easily.” On the newfound UK variant, the specialist said its impact is yet to be seen in the data India has been generating. “The variant has been found in India. But it hasn’t yet been found in the numbers that would’ve caused worry. Despite the entry of the UK variant, our country’s pandemic curve has been dipping,” he said. Dr Panda also said the UK variant may be more contagious, but not as virulent (the ability to cause severe illness or damage in hosts). “Viruses mutate under immunological pressures. They mutate in order to be more fit — in transmission and survival. Viruses need host cells to survive and cannot transmit if they kill the host. Similarly, SARS-CoV-2 (which causes Covid-19) needs the infected hosts to sneeze, cough and talk. So a virus that becomes fitter in terms of transmissibility does not necessarily become more virulent at the same time. If it were to become more virulent, it would be a bad survival strategy on its part.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/indirect-protection-can-set-in-even-before-shots-reach-all-icmr-expert/articleshow/80122844.cms||Neha Madaan
January 6, 2021||Kochi||Alappuzha: Criminals attack cops, 3 severely hurt||ALAPPUZHA: Three civil police officers (CPOs) suffered severe injuries after they were attacked by criminals in two separate incidents that took place in Alappuzha district on Monday late night. According to police, South police station CPO Sajeesh Sadanandan, 32, Kuthiathodu police station CPOs Vijesh, 37, and Vinoy, 37 suffered severe injuries in the attacks. Vijesh suffered stab injuries on his chest and he was first taken to Alappuzha medical college hospital (MCH) and later he was shifted to a private hospital in Kochi. Vinoy suffered stab injuries on his right palm while trying to save Vijesh. He was first taken to Thuravoor taluk hospital and later he was shifted to Alappuzha MCH. Sadanandan, who suffered hack injuries on his palms, was admitted to Alappuzha general hospital and there are 24 stitches on both his palms. “On Monday night, Vijesh and Vinoy reached the house of Cletus in Ezhupunna after his two sons, Godson and Godwin, entered into melee. Their neighbours called police and when they tried to end the clash, Godwin stabbed Vijesh on the chest with a knife. When Vinoy tried to stop Godwin, he too suffered stab injuries. Police took Godwin into custody. Godson, who had escaped, was taken into custody later. Vijesh is now out of danger,” the police said. Alappuzha south police team reached Valiyachudukadu after two criminals Linoj and Kapil Shaji entered a house with weapons to attack a man. Though police reached the spot, they escaped. During their search, police traced Linoj and while trying to take him into custody, Linoj hacked Sadanandan with a sword. He was later arrested. Police have launched a hunt for Shaji.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/criminals-attack-cops-3-severely-hurt/articleshow/80121667.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Day after vaccine war, Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech call truce||HYDERABAD: India’s top vaccine makers – Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech – seemed to have ironed out their differences, a day after they had an open spat over the quality of the Covid-19 vaccines the two have developed. On Tuesday, a joint statement issued by SII CEO Adar Poonawala and founder and chairman of Bharat Biotech Krishna Ella, said both companies jointly pledged to work to develop, manufacture and supply Covid-19 vaccines for India and provide global access for their vaccines as well. Important Announcement: Joint statement @BharatBiotech and @SerumInstIndia https://t.co/la5av27Mqy— SerumInstituteIndia (@SerumInstIndia) 1609838192000“Now that two Covid-19 vaccines have been issued EUA (emergency use authorization) in India, the focus is on manufacturing, supply and distribution, such that populations that need it the most receive high quality, safe and efficacious vaccines,” the statement said. Our pledge towards a smooth roll out of #COVID-19 vaccines to India and the World, along with @SerumInstIndia… https://t.co/JPQUXupl0S— BharatBiotech (@BharatBiotech) 1609838446000The war of words had broken out after Poonawala claimed in a TV interview on Sunday that there were only three vaccines with proven efficacy – Pfizer, Moderna and AstraZeneca-Oxford. According to him, the rest were “safe like water”. The comments came on a day that the Drug Controller General of India gave EUA to the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine being manufactured by SII, and Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech and ICMR-NIV. On Monday, Ella said Covaxin was definitely not water. He questioned the AstraZeneca-Oxford and alleged that volunteers of those trials were administered paracetamol to suppress adverse reactions, while the trials conducted by Bharat Biotech were “200% honest and ethical”. But the two appeared to bury the hatchet on Tuesday. “The more important task in front of us is saving the lives and livelihoods of populations in India and the world. Vaccines are a global public health good and they have the power to save lives and accelerate the return to economic normalcy at the earliest,” the joint statement said. “Both our companies are fully engaged in this activity and consider it our duty to the nation and the world at large to ensure a smooth rollout of vaccines. Each of our companies continue their Covid-19 vaccines development activities as planned.” It’s great to see India’s leadership in scientific innovation and vaccine manufacturing capability as the world wor… https://t.co/XR68nmXE3g— Bill Gates (@BillGates) 1609790395000The public spat took place even as several world leaders, including tech tycoon and philanthropist Bill Gates, lauded India’s leadership in vaccine manufacturing. “It’s great to see India’s leadership in scientific innovation and vaccine manufacturing capability as the world works to end the COVID-19 pandemic,” Gates tweeted on Monday, tagging the Prime Minister's Office. #India continues to take decisive action & demonstrate its resolve to end #COVID19 pandemic. As the 🌍’s largest vac… https://t.co/7mbZFuWZRg— Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus (@DrTedros) 1609794792000World Health Organisation director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus also tweeted that India “continues to take decisive action & demonstrate its resolve to end #COVID19 pandemic”. “As the world's largest vaccine producer, it’s well placed to do so. If we #ACTogether, we can ensure effective & safe vaccines are used to protect the most vulnerable everywhere,” he tweeted, tagging PM Modi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/day-after-vaccine-war-sii-and-bharat-biotech-call-truce/articleshow/80124119.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
January 6, 2021||Business||India poised to be cybersecurity hub as Covid ups virus threats||Chennai: After cementing its place as a global hub for Information Technology (IT) services and products, India is on track to emerge as the epicenter for the cybersecurity product sector, and increased instances of cyber attacks during the pandemic is accelerating this growth. The number of Indian cybersecurity product firms has grown to over 225 in 2020 from over 175 in 2018 while revenue has zoomed to over $1 billion in 2020 from $275 million in 2016 at a CAGR of around 39%, according to a recent report by the Data Security Council of India (DSCI), the national industry body on data protection.“In terms of revenue, the cybersecurity product industry grew 2x times in the last two years; when compared to the IT product Industry CAGR in 18-20, the cybersecurity product industry CAGR was 6X times higher,” the report said. The talent pool in the Indian cybersecurity product sector has grown at a CAGR of 25% from 2018 to 2020 and is pegged at around 18,000 now. Global cybersecurity enterprises such as Cisco, CrowdStrike, Lucideus, FireEye, and Symantec etc., all have key R&D hubs in India, and homegrown cybersecurity enterprises too are seeing increased business from local and global companies as the pandemic drives demand in cloud adoption, remote working technology, and cost optimization. “It is heartening to note that from the [cybersecurity] products analyzed, 63% of them have integrated AI-ML capabilities, 78% are cloud ready and startups in niche domains such as Quantum and Blockchain are reinventing traditional cybersecurity stack,” Rama Vedashree, CEO, DSCI, said.DSCI further noted that around 20% of cybersecurity startups have been set up in the last two years, and Bangalore, Mumbai/Pune, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad and Chennai are the largest hubs. While a cumulative funding of around $490 million was realized in the last four years, a 88% YoY growth in fundraising was recorded just from 2017 to 2018.Lucideus, a cybersecurity firm headquartered in Palo Alto with its R&D out of Bengaluru, has recorded a topline growth of almost 250% in the October-December quarter as the complexity of cyber threats pushes enterprises to strengthen IT security.India’s status as a global engineering hub, a robust national digital vision by policymakers, and presence of institutions with deep research capabilities makes the country a global hub for cybersecurity R&D and a gateway to Asia, co-founder and CEO, Lucideus, said. Globally, 63% of the cybersecurity product revenue comes from India, and the US is the second largest contributor with 16% revenue share, the report said. While BFSI and IT sectors are dominant sectors in terms of revenue contribution, healthcare, e-commerce and Manufacturing are growing at a robust pace post the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-poised-to-be-cybersecurity-hub-as-covid-ups-virus-threats/articleshow/80122853.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
January 6, 2021||Ludhiana||Xcelerator prog’s pilot project put on fast track||Ludhiana: The Global Alliance for Mass Entrepreneurship (GAME) in partnership with the department of industries and commerce (government of Punjab) and Chamber of Industrial & Commercial Undertakings (CICU) launched Xcelerator programme, ‘Sadda Karobaar, Punjab di Shaan’ on Tuesday. This is a six-month business accelerator programme to support promising mass entrepreneurs (SMEs) in improving their productivity, efficiency, and profitability and scale their businesses faster. In this programme 27 entrepreneurs in the Rs 2 crore-Rs 50 crore annual revenue category have been selected from an application pool of over 450. Under the programme, once the Ludhiana pilot project is completed, it is expected to be rolled out across other districts of Punjab. The formal launch of Xcelerator was done by Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, who was the chief guest, along with chief secretary Vini Mahajan by addressing prominent city businessmen online. This programme is being led by GAME, Punjab Task force, with two prominent business tycoons of the city Sachit Jain (vice-chairman and MD, Vardhman Special Steels), along with Upkar Singh Ahuja, president, Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertaking, and chairman of New Swan Group). During the launch programme, Manpreet said, “Entrepreneurial spirit of Punjab is well known everywhere and in the last few years, we have made consistent strides towards a more business friendly environment in the state. Our government is committed to creating more opportunities for the existing and new entrepreneurs, attract more investment and amplify ease of doing business for robust industrial growth. On the same lines, I am very happy to launch the Xcelerator initiative by GAME starting with Punjab’s largest industrial hub Ludhiana and hope that this initiative, geared towards providing the much needed hand-holding for mass entrepreneurs, will strengthen the entrepreneurship ecosystem in Punjab.” Giving more information about this programme, Vini said, “Xcelerator is an important step towards amplifying the entrepreneurial dynamism and enabling a conducive entrepreneurship ecosystem for the growth of Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in Punjab. Initiatives like Startup Punjab and Invest Punjab are examples of the Punjab government’s efforts towards achieving this end. The government is committed to supporting GAME and other stakeholders in this programme.” Sachit said, “As an important support to Punjab’s industrial transformation, Ludhiana has huge potential in some of its core-sectors like agri-tech, textiles, healthcare, light engineering, auto components, in which there is robust local expertise and a rich ecosystem of customers, suppliers, etc. Xcelerator has been designed in a way that will help small businesses scale up faster in a short span of time and will also help them sustain market realities.” According to Ravi Venkatesan, founder of GAME and former chairman of Microsoft India and Bank of Baroda, “We are extremely delighted to have the government of Punjab partner with us in this effort. Ludhiana has been chosen as the first location for this programme because of the entrepreneurial energy which exists and potential to create a model that can be replicated across Punjab and the rest of the country.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/xcelerator-progs-pilot-project-put-on-fast-track/articleshow/80121733.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Ludhiana||Re-shuffle in state taxation dept||Ludhiana: In major re-shuffle in the state taxation department, seven new officials have joined the department’s ranges, mobile wing and audit dept as state tax officer (STO) equivalent to pre-GST designation of ETO. The orders in these regard were issued by financial commissioner (taxation) A Venu Prasad recently and along with Ludhiana, transfers and postings of 27 more officials had been done in other districts and divisions, and that too only for STO. In the office of state taxation department, Ludhiana, STOs Davinder Singh and Harvir Kaur have been posted to Ludhiana-2 range, while Amritdeep Kaur and Gurdeep Singh have joined as STOs of Ludhiana-3 range. Similarly, Sumit Thapar and Navjot Singh have been posted as STOs in the mobile wing, Ludhiana, while STO Moti Khan has been posted in audit wing of Ludhiana zone. Meanwhile, no postings have been done on other designations and the officials serving on these charges earlier, who have been relieved, have joined their newly allotted assignments as the posting orders were issued on December 30. Ludhiana department recently grabbed limelight when its SIT arrested three persons who had claimed fraudulent input tax credit (ITC) created by way of bogus invoices without actual purchase of goods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/re-shuffle-in-state-taxation-dept/articleshow/80121698.cms||Mohit Behl
January 6, 2021||India||Value of homemaker’s work same as hubby’s at office: SC||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday said the value of a woman’s work at home was no less than that of her office-going husband and enhanced the compensation to relatives of a couple who died when a car hit their scooter in April 2014 in Delhi. A bench of Justices N V Ramana and Surya Kant enhanced the compensation by Rs 11.20 lakh to Rs 33.20 lakh to be paid to the father of the deceased man by the insurance company with 9% annual interest from May 2014. Justice Ramana expanded the idea first espoused by the SC in Lata Wadhwa case in 2001 when it had dealt with the issue of compensation for victims of a fire during a function and had ruled that it should be granted to housewives on the basis of services rendered by them in the house. He said as per the 2011 Census, nearly 159.85 million women mentioned “household work” as their main occupation, as against only 5.79 million men. He also referred to a recent report of the National Statistical Office titled ‘Time Use in India-2019’ which suggested that, on an average, women spend nearly 299 minutes a day on unpaid domestic services for household members versus 97 minutes by men. Similarly, in a day, women spend 134 minutes on unpaid caregiving services for household members as compared to 76 minutes by men. The total time spent on these activities per day makes the picture in India even clearer — women on an average spend 16.9% and 2.6% of their day on unpaid domestic services and unpaid caregiving services for household members respectively, while men spend 1.7% and 0.8&, Justice Ramana said. “The sheer amount of time and effort that is dedicated to household work by individuals, who are more likely to be women than men, is not surprising when one considers the plethora of activities a homemaker undertakes. A homemaker often prepares food for the entire family, manages the procurement of groceries and other household shopping needs, cleans and manages the house and its surroundings, undertakes decoration, repairs and maintenance work, looks after the needs of the children and any aged member of the household, manages budgets and so much more,” he said. In rural households, they often also assist in sowing, harvesting and transplanting activities in farms, apart from tending cattle, he said. The issue of fixing notional income for a homemaker, therefore, served an extremely important function and was a recognition of the multitude of women engaged in this activity, whether by choice or as a result of social/cultural norms, the SC said. “It signals to society at large that the law and courts of the land believe in the value of the labour, services and sacrifices of homemakers. It is an acceptance of the idea that these activities contribute in a very real way to the economic condition of the family, and the economy of the nation, regardless of the fact that it may have been traditionally excluded from economic analyses. It is a reflection of changing attitudes and mindsets and of our international law obligations. And, most importantly, it is a step towards the constitutional vision of social equality and ensuring dignity of life to all individuals,” the bench said. Watch Should women be paid for household work: What people think||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/value-of-homemakers-work-same-as-hubbys-at-office-sc/articleshow/80125241.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 6, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Cops are constantly equipping themselves with skills to tackle new-age crimes’||Q. What should be the first things we do if we realise our gadgets -- phones, laptop etc – are hacked. -- Raghu Vamsi Kadiri  A. In case mail/social media account is compromised, do the following: Change passwords immediately Inform your contacts/bank /employer that your mail is hacked Run an antivirus scan on your system. Add two factor authentications Inform service provider that there’s been login from unknown locations Consider creating a fresh ID In case a device compromised, Take back up of data Log out of all accounts on device Remove unnecessary apps Run an antivirus scan Format device/restore to factory settings Q. I used to get SMS till sometime back saying that my details will be made public if I didn’t pay my loan/credit card. Since bank name was not mentioned, l tried to contact them several times to get details, but nobody answered the phone. Kindly advise. -- Anand Kulkarni A. The bank/finance company will definitely make efforts to recover outstanding payments. But there is a proper lawful procedure for doing so. In case you are getting messages, you may contact your bank/NBFC/Credit Card company and verify if such messages are being sent by them and the procedure/rules which they follow. In case calls/messages appear suspicious or are in the nature of threats/intimidation, contact the local police station or cyber crime police station. Q. Online fraudsters are getting smarter by the day and using the latest technology to commit offences. Are the police adequately equipped to tackle these new-age fraudsters? -- K Bala Rao A. Police has constantly been equipping itself with skills and capabilities to deal with situations arising out of this explosion of new technologies. Even conventional crimes have digital footprints. Police are also reaching out to stakeholders like banks, payment gateways, telecom providers, social media and e-commerce websites/apps so that all of them are aware of ways in which fraudsters are misusing their platforms to dupe people. Q. Action against online fraud is not being taken seriously on several websites as you see many scammers are still active with unknown contact numbers. Would like to know your take on this issue. -- Rizu Zamma A. It is a fact that a lot of frauds happen on online e-commerce platforms. These happen by way of impersonation especially as members of armed forces or trying to dupe unfamiliar users by telling them to scan a QR Code to receive money or by making unsuspecting public download screen mirroring App so that they have access to the victim’s screen. The e-commerce site /apps have been told to warn users regularly about these frauds. Awareness is also being carried out by police. In case of any fraud, contact jurisdictional cyber crime immediately. Q. Schools are disclosing students’ information to a third party like an online education portal without consent of parents. What is your advice to parents? Are network providers not responsible for cyber fraud? -- Soumendra Kumar A. Every custodian of data is liable for the safety and security of data they possess. I am sure we all are aware that the data collected when using the internet or using apps is often used for advertisements, promotions etc. Any organisation that is misusing data, may be liable under various legal provisions depending on the agreement between data providers and receivers. However, when data is stolen, it is a criminal offence under the IT Act, 2000. In your particular issue, you may contact the school and find out if they have shared your data with others and if you have entered into an agreement regarding the data. Q. Is it true that iOS is a safer platform for online transactions when compared to android devices? – Satya Prasad A. There cannot be a clear answer for that as it depends, to a large extent, on the usage and personal habits of the person owning the device. But since android platforms are more prevalent with more applications being run on them, it is widely considered more vulnerable to external threats. Whichever the platform, I would suggest strict digital hygiene and all precautions that are prescribed to keep a device safe. Q. How can women be more careful while creating their online profiles, considering they are mostly targetted by cyber bullies? -- Srilakshmi Y S A. Though applicable to everyone, protection of personal data and privacy on the internet is the key to online safety. One has to be extra cautious of relationships on social media. Any unwelcome communication on the web should be complained to the SHE Teams or cyber crime or local police station. Q. This is with regard to the payment I made to this consultancy when they assured me a job over the phone. However, despite multiple reminders they have shared inappropriate job details. I am sharing the details here so that you can take action against them. Also, please advise on how people should be careful about such frauds –regarding job offers. Teacher online placement: Rs 500 (Ph:8077759402)  Career flow consultant: Rs 3000. --- Sajjadia S A. Any job offer on the digital platform has to be physically cross-verified for veracity. This is true of any financial transaction on the web. They should satisfy themselves that it is a genuine offer and only then go ahead. Also, in no genuine job offer would anybody seek money or any other form of appeasement. Q. There seems to be a steep jump in cases of hacking, cyber bulling, phishing, pornography, cyber terrorism etc. Can you please guide us on what we can do to avoid falling prey to them? -- Moses Buthapati A. Remember that anything that appears to be too good to be true is probably not true and that the digital world can be equally prone to risk than the real world if not more. Have only as much presence on social media as is required Don’t share data about yourself like date of birth, address, phone, occupation, identity proof etc., online to the extent possible. Always cross verify any online transaction like purchase, sale, job offer, matrimonial proposal etc., for physical existence before finalizing or transferring any funds. Don’t download apps or click on links shared by strangers. Never reveal passwords, OTPs, CVVs and keep changing passwords. Don’t use public networks for accessing Wi-Fi. Try to keep a separate account with minimum balance for online transactions. Get to know the use of a technology or app properly before you use Don’t give your phone/tab to strangers. Don’t access sensitive accounts on public devices Don’t share personal photos, videos, locations on social media platforms Lock your profile photo so that it cannot be downloaded or copied by others||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-are-constantly-equipping-themselves-with-skills-to-tackle-new-age-crimes/articleshow/80122897.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana high court bouncer to HCA after bank fair play plea||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Tuesday had the Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA) on the mat for the way the sport was being managed as it stayed all further league matches till HCA allowed Union Bank of India’s team to participate. Justice Challa Kodanda Ram gave this interim direction after hearing the plea of Union Bank of India which said that the HCA by their actions had left no space for the bank’s team in the ensuing league matches. The row stemmed from merger of Andhra Bank, an institutional member of HCA, with Union Bank in April 2020. With Andhra Bank team no longer there, Union Bank claimed the spot in HCA league matches for the Cricket season 2020-21. But HCA did not allow it. HCA refused to include teamBank’s counsel K Lakshmi Narasimha said that in spite of earlier orders of the court to include the team in all league matches, HCA refused to do so. Narasimha told the court that the stand of the HCA was contrary to Justice Lodha Committee guidelines and that the Union Bank of India had all the rights to participate in all matches to be conducted by HCA. “Bank used to identify talented cricketers and give them jobs under the sports quota. But the decisions of the HCA not to allow our team has affected both cricket and prospects of talented sportsmen,” the counsel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-high-court-bouncer-to-hca-after-bank-fair-play-plea/articleshow/80124123.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Kolkata||First-year students yet to get taste of campus, freshers’ welcome goes online||KOLKATA: For the last few weeks, Gunjan Rathi’s day has been beginning at 7.45am. Within 15 minutes of dragging herself out of the bed, she is in college, a virtual one. Gunjan’s experience is not different from that of thousands of other youngsters who rue the fact that they have been robbed of a “milestone” in their lives due to the pandemic—that of attending classes on a college campus. “I took admission in September and have attended several classes since then. But I am yet to see the inside of a college,” said Gunjan, who has taken admission to Loreto College. Till last year, the first few weeks of college life meant making new friends, banter with seniors, exploring college canteens and paying a quick visit to the eateries near the campus. But the pandemic changed everything: now for the UG first-semester students, the first few weeks mean getting a strong internet connection, positioning the smartphone or laptop at the right angle to hide their pyjamas during online classes and keeping their families and pets out of the frame. All new-comers look forward to freshers’ welcome, where seniors give them a crash course on the legacy of their institutes, a get-together filled with songs, dance and, of course, food. Sometimes love also blossoms. Devlina Chatterjee met her future husband, Pulak, at their freshers’ welcome. “First, we exchanged notes and then, our hearts. Now we share a home,” said the Seth Anandaram Jaipuria College alumna. But the Covid year saw seniors holding online “freshers’ ceremony”. “We could not repeat the fun-filled introduction that our seniors held for us on the campus last year. So, last week, we, second-year students, decided that we would meet our juniors online. Helping college-mates cutting departments and batches has been a Presidency tradition. We did not want our juniors to be denied the connect just because we are having off-campus classes,” said a second-year student of sociology department at Presidency University. “The first step into a campus is like a whiff of fresh air that fills up a youngster with a sense of independence. The gamut of emotions young adults go through in those few moments can never be brought back,” said Bivas Chaudhury of the alumni association of Presidency University. Several principals and administrators of colleges and universities, too, sympathize with the batch of 2020. “The first day in college is a mixed bag of feelings of both excitement and apprehension. It shapes the college lives of these students and cement the bonds with friends. The entire focus is on the new joinees while they are introduced to a new life as adults,” said Deepali Singhee, principal of J D Birla Institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/first-year-students-yet-to-get-taste-of-campus-freshers-welcome-goes-online/articleshow/80122852.cms||Zeeshan Javed
January 6, 2021||Delhi||One lakh names on Delhi corporations’ vaccine priority list||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s three municipal corporations have sent out names of over 1 lakh frontline workers and healthcare workers who are to get Covid-19 vaccine in the first phase. Both Delhi government and the central government had earlier asked the civic bodies to submit a list of staff who need to be vaccinated on a priority basis. A senior civic official said that sanitation workers formed a majority of these staffers, followed by healthcare workers and field workers, like domestic breeding checkers. The east corporation has recommended names of 21,511 workers, out of which 15,000 are safai karamcharis, 2,616 healthcare staff and 1,074 workers from the public health department. The south and north corporations have forwarded details of 44,710 and 35,000 workers, respectively. Teachers who served at ration centres as well as crematoria staff have also been included in the first list, say officials. East Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Nirmal Jain confirmed that the priority list had been submitted. “A total of 21,511 officials and workers from the east corporation will be vaccinated. We have submitted details of 18,895 frontline workers and 2,616 health workers,” he said. North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash said that the 35,000 beneficiaries would cover temporary and regular sanitation staff, teachers as well as frontline workers. “Priority has been given to people who have served the city during the pandemic,” the mayor added. TOI had recently highlighted the demand of sanitation workers for inclusion in the priority list. “The workers are expected to get the vaccine once the dry runs are over in the capital,” said the civic official. South Delhi Municipal Corporation has submitted a list of 44,710 workers and staff members, which include 4,500 waste collectors, 20,500 sanitation workers, 571 plant operators and 10,207 frontline staff engaged in providing essential services, like contact tracing, door-to-door tax collection, certificate issuance among others. A total of 146 cremation ground staff who deal with Covid- protocol funerals will also be vaccinated in the first phase. The list includes names of 4,606 healthcare workers, doctors, nurses and paramedic staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/1l-names-on-corpns-vaccine-priority-list/articleshow/80124129.cms||Paras Singh
January 6, 2021||Kozhikode||Kerala: Cops unhappy over promotion delay||KOZHIKODE: Serious discontent is brewing in Kerala Police Senior Officers Association (KPSOA) over the denial of promotions to senior deputy SPs. The general body of KPSOA, which met online on Monday, said that the promotion of many as SPs were long overdue and some IPS officers were responsible for obstructing the same. It is learnt that some members wanted to pass a resolution naming some IPS officers who are allegedly blocking promotions, but they were pacified by association leaders. The association argued that the delay in sending the list of officers – who were to be conferred with IPS from 2018 – has complicated matters. It said that though a total of 52 IPS conferred posts will become vacant in May 2021, a list of four was prepared for the year. KPSOA claimed that it was the failure to send IPS officers on central and other state deputations that robbed the promotion opportunities of officers who have a service of nearly 11 years as deputy SPs. A resolution passed at the meeting said that a total of 37 IPS officers from Kerala should have been sent on central deputation as per the IPS civil list, but only 20 were sent, till date. The association said that some IPS officers misled the government and are continuing in Kerala. IPS officers should be sent on central deputation to preserve the national character of the service. But many of them are clinging to the posts in Kerala that should have gone to promoted officers. Moreover, they are unwilling to occupy the posts coming under state deputation posts in Kerala. Only five persons have taken up posts though there are 23 posts to be filled by IPS officers, the association said. The net result is that officers– who joined the force as sub-inspectors – are denied promotions they deserve, added KPSOA. It requested the government to send IPS officers as directed in IPS Kerala cadre civil list and conduct recruitment in vacancies as per the IPS Recruitment Rule 9. The meeting also pointed out that the reports of police commission and various Supreme Court verdicts have maintained that 33.5% of the total posts should be filled via promotions and the officers are dismayed that only 5% will remain in the category by June 2021. The meeting also expressed its dissent over violation of the Supreme Court order that the number of direct IPS officers should not cross 50%, which is followed by central police force and forces in other states. It said that government can create non-cadre posts and appoint promoted officers as there will not be additional financial burden.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cops-unhappy-over-promotion-delay/articleshow/80121758.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Kochi||Gas pipeline will benefit us on several counts: Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||KOCHI: The effort taken to complete work on the Kochi-Mangaluru natural gas pipeline has earned the Pinarayi Vijayan government widespread praise. Of far greater import are the financial, environmental and other benefits to the state. Dharmendra Pradhan, Union minister for petroleum and natural gas, hailed chief minister Vijayan’s contribution in helping realize the project. The CM, on his part, said his government had fulfilled one of the most important promises in the election manifesto. There had been many obstacles before the project and the government overcame all of them by allaying the reasonable fears of the people, Vijayan said. Work on the project was stopped in 2014. Government took the initiative to carry ahead with the project in 2016 because the state had a lot to benefit from it. The people stood by the government disregarding the difficulties, he said. It was a big challenge to lay pipes through thickly populated areas, hilly regions and water bodies, he said. The Nipah outbreak, 2018 floods and Covid-19 slowed down the pace of the project, but the government was determined to complete it,” the CM said. Commissioning of the pipeline will help initiate city gas projects in Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod. Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) has already awarded the implementation of city gas projects in these districts to a joint venture firm. The project is already under way in Ernakulam. It is expected to revive many industries in the state on the verge of closure. Fertilizers and Chemicals Travancore Ltd (FACT) is among the major public-sector undertakings that will benefit immensely from the project. FACT can save crores of rupees on fuel bills once it fully switches over to natural gas. Many industries along the alignment of the pipeline are also gearing up to switch over to cheaper natural gas. Introduction of CNG outlets will slash the fuel bills of the vehicles as well as reducing environmental pollution. Piped natural gas (PNG) is cheaper and safer compared to LPG. The project will replenish the state exchequer as well. According to officials with Gas Authority of India Ltd (Gail), which implemented the project, the Kerala government may get up to Rs 1,000 crore as tax on natural gas being sold from the liquefied natural gas terminal in Kochi. Many industries in Kerala and Karnataka will use natural gas and this will increase demand for LNG from Kochi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/gas-pipeline-will-benefit-us-on-several-counts-cm/articleshow/80121784.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Fake insurance racket busted, 11 held||Hyderabad: A fake vehicle insurance racket was busted and 11 persons, including an insurance agent, have been arrested for allegedly issuing fake insurance polices to motorists. Cyberabad police have seized 1,125 fake insurance certificates from their possession. Addressing a press conference on Tuesday, Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar said 11 persons, including owners of mobile pollution testing vehicles —G Ramesh, G Govardhan, G Ramesh, G Raju, A Praveen, G Sudheer Kumar, G Krishna, M Shankar, Jeethender Kushwa, K Ravi— T Sairam, an insurance agent and car driver K Ravi, were arrested from diffeent locations in the city. The accused could execute their fraud as they were aware that integration of insurance policies was not done with RTA information system. To issue a fake insurance policy, the accused charged Rs 1,000-Rs 2,000 for two-wheeler, Rs 5,000 for car and Rs 10,000 for goods vehicles. For availing RTA services like vehicle registration, transfer of vehicle, permit and others, it is mandatory for vehicle owners to have valid insurance. ``Sairam, who previously worked in different insurance companies as sales executive, installed a software program on his mobile phone to prepare fake insurance policies and sold them to other accused, who from their pollution testing centres generated insurance documents and sold it to customers,’’ the CP said. RTA officials blindly accepted fake certificates and extended different services. In the past, Sudheer Kumar was arrested in Karnataka after a person involved in an accident case tried to claim money, but he was unaware that he was in possession of a fake insurance policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fake-insurance-racket-busted-11-held/articleshow/80122923.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Chennai||2,000 veterans, widows of WW2 in dire straits without pension for last 2 years||CHENNAI: Nearly 2,000 veterans who fought in the second world war or their widows haven’t got their monthly pension of Rs 4,000 for the last two years. The monthly sustenance allowance from the Royal Commonwealth Ex-Services League (RCESL) in London is disbursed by the Indian Ex-Services League (IESL). But the money can’t be sent now because of lack of sanction under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act.  The last payment was made in January 2019. The RCESL has said it cannot transfer the money without the Centre’s nod. “We applied for registration in 2018, but it was denied to us,” said IESL president Brig. (retd) Kartar Singh. They applied thrice and were rejected. “We were given reasons such as concerns about national security and personal gain. All payments to the veterans or widows are made by cheque after obtaining their life certificates from the banks. We have also submitted complete records of receipts and payments to the FCRA division concerned,” he said. The FCRA was first enacted in 1976 and amended in 2010. It later became mandatory for all organisations to register themselves under the FCRA to continue receiving grants from abroad. “We are ready to submit any document or records they want, our people are suffering,” said Captain Bala, who heads the IESL in south India. Between January 2019 and July 2020, some 176 of the veterans and widows have died. The surviving veterans live in Punjab, Rajasthan, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, and Kerala. While the majority of them are in the north, around 40 are in the south. Kalyanikutty Menon, a 94-year-old war veteran, operated switchboards that linked telephones across the war front. “We used the amount to meet her medical expenses. It’s not that we can’t take care of her without the money, but it is her right to receive, because she has worked during the war,” said her daughter R. Sudha. The IESL members have also written to the Prime Minister’s Office, the chief of defence staff, ministry of home affairs and the department of ex-servicemen welfare. TOI tried contacting Santosh Sharma, director of FCRA, on phone and through e-mail, but is yet to receive any response. During the war, the British had conscripted a large number of Indian nationals and over 87,000 Indians (in united India) died fighting. The surviving soldiers were demobilized and sent back home without any pension or monetary benefits. The IESL was established in 1964 by field marshal KM Cariappa and general KS Thimmayya to look after their welfare. Later, the RCEL began sending sustenance pensions in two installments every year through the Indian league. From 1972, pension amount increased from Rs 200 to Rs 4000. “The allowance is our token of gratitude to the veterans and their widows We wonder how many more will have to breathe their last till the case is finally decided by the FCRA,” said Kartar Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/2k-veterans-widows-of-ww2-in-dire-straits-without-pension-for-last-2-yrs/articleshow/80122921.cms||Aditi R
January 6, 2021||Pune||‘Anti-counterfeit technology still evolving’||Pune: NeuroTags, a Pune-based anti-counterfeiting technology firm, says new technologies need to be deployed to prevent unauthorized duplication of products. “To prevent counterfeits, companies have traditionally used bespoke holograms, which are now being copied very easily. Manufacturers then started using QR codes. But now, counterfeiters have started to copy even those. That is where technologies like AI can help us stay a step ahead of counterfeiters. The market for such technology is still evolving,” NeuroTags founder and COO Abhishek Agarwal said. Agarwal said their ever-expanding portfolio boats of clients from the electronics, fertilizers and automobile sectors. “In the US, we see potential in multiple markets, such as pesticides, pharmaceuticals and automobiles, as well as the legal cannabis sector,” Agarwal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/anti-counterfeit-technology-still-evolving/articleshow/80122873.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
January 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana cops complain against 113 loan apps, Google knocks out just a few||HYDERABAD: Though 50 cases have been registered against money lending applications (apps) and Telangana police requested Google to remove 113 apps from its PlayStore, the Internet search giant is yet to remove most and has axed only a handful of apps. Hyderabad police have registered 29 cases, Cyberabad 10, Warangal seven and Rachakonda four cases based on complaints lodged by harassed victims of money lending apps. Read AlsoProbe into instant loan apps fraud throws up China linkCriminal Investigation Department sleuths probing the alleged data theft by instant loan apps said they have sufficient circumstantial and scientific evidence to link the scam to China. According to officials, the application server and the dashboard accessed through the app is based in China. TheAs of now, 50 cases have been registered in the three city commissionerates and Warangal commissionerate against instant money finance apps and police identified over 80 apps linked to these cases. Read AlsoED starts probe in loans app case, may look for money trail abroadHYDERABAD: The Enforcement Directorate on Sunday said that it has filed a money laundering case on the basis of FIRs registered by police in the countrywide instant loan app scam. ED officials said they have taken up FIRs booked by Hyderabad and Cyberabad police against locals and Chinese nationals,Cops are going on a case-by-case basis and so far Hyderabad police had identified 42 apps linked to complaints they have received. Read AlsoInstant loan apps: Chinese woman, 2 others held in PuneThree persons, including a Chinese woman, have been arrested by Telangana police from a Pune call centre in connection with the instant loan case. ​​“We have seized 101 laptops, 106 mobile phones and several documents, besides freezing Rs 1.42 crore parked in their company’s bank account,” anSimilarly, Rachakonda police had identified 18 apps linked to cases being investigated by them, while Cyberabad police identified 25 apps linked to their 10 cases. Read AlsoLoan apps scam: Chinese held at IGI before flightThe Telangana police on Wednesday arrested yet another Chinese national from Delhi in the illegal instant loan app case. He was picked up in dramatic fashion from Delhi airport minutes before he was to board a flight to Frankfurt on his way to Shanghai. His Indian colleague was arrested from Delhi.Cops of the three commissonerates have already written to Google to remove the money lending apps from PlayStore, citing the cases registered here. Read AlsoChinese man to be made accused in all loan app casesChinese national Zhu Wei alias Lambo, who was arrested by Hyderabad police in connection with instant financing app business in India, is unlikely to be sent back to his native country any time soon and held here for several years. Police said Lambo will be made an accused in all the relevant loan“We have initially written to Google to remove three apps and those have been removed from PlayStore. Subsequently, we wrote to the search engine asking it to remove 113 more apps and some of them have already been removed. There are about 350 money lending apps we have identified and 113 of them are on PlayStore. Remaining are file links shared to victims by the fraudsters,” Cyberabad inspector T Sanjay Kumar said. Read AlsoLoan apps scam: Police stunned by the Rs 21,000 crore loan racketSleuths probing the countrywide illegal instant loan app case, involving Chinese national, Zhu Wei said four companies run by him carried out Rs 1.4 crore transactions worth nearly Rs 21,000 cr. The scale of the racket can be gauged from the fact that Rs 21,000 cr is a total loss that the domesticHyderabad police have written to Google asking the IT giant to remove 66 money lending apps, Rachakonda police have also requested for removal of similar apps and they too were expecting a positive response. Read AlsoHyderabad: HR manager held in instant financing loan apps caseAn HR manager, who is linked to one of the companies operated by Chinese national Zhu Wei alias Lambo who organised the instant financing apps, was arrested by Hyderabad central crime station sleuths in Bengaluru on Monday.So far, three Chinese nationals have been arrested by cops of the three police commissionerates in relation to money lending app cases. Read AlsoTelangana: Several loan takers still harassed; recovery agents get more brazenDespite the Telangana police cracking down on organisers of instant financing loan apps who have been shaming the defaulters for the past 15 days, the organisers continue to press their employees to recover the loan amount by shaming the defaulters. Police have arrested 29 persons so far. While the Warangal police also named a Chinese national, Erik Penglu, as an accused in a money lending app case registered with them, but he is absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-cops-complain-against-113-loan-apps-google-knocks-out-just-a-few/articleshow/80124131.cms||Mahesh Buddi
January 6, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Staff of airport ground handlingagency protest after co shuts op||Thiruvananthapuram: More than 160 employees of Bhadra International, one of the two ground handling agencies at Thiruvananthapuram International Airport, have been left in lurch after the firm wound up its operations last year without settling their allowances. The employees on Tuesday staged a dharna in front of the airport under the aegis of confederation of Trivandrum airport workers trade union, a joint forum of all trade unions operating in the Thiruvananthapuam International Airport. CPM state secretariat member and former MLA V Sivankutti inaugurated the dharna. The workers staged the dharna after the company failed to pay their allowances, including gratuity, bonus (from April 2019), leave encashments and pending salaries. According to R S Vijayamohan, president of Thiruvananthapuram international and domestic airport contract workers’ union (CITU), the employees of the company had been working on slashed salaries for nearly a year. In March 2020, before the lockdown was announced, the airport authorities had even served a notice to Bhadra International management regarding termination of their service after they defaulted in paying license fee. In October, the agency wound up its operations. However, they were not able to shift their equipment worth several crore, owing to the stiff protest from workers. The workers have also filed an industrial dispute suit before the regional labour commissioner seeking their intervention to settle the pending allowances. The trade union has placed a request before the airport authorities to rehabilitate the employees abandoned by Bhadra International by giving them first priority while appointing new ground handling agency at the airport. They have also requested airport director not to release the equipment owned by Bhadra International without settling the industrial dispute or without producing the ‘no objection certificate’ from the regional labour commissioner. The year 2020 has not been very kind to the workers employed under ground handling agencies at the Trivandrum International Airport. Air India SATS, the other ground handling agency at the airport here, had terminated service of more than 120 employees citing losses as flight services were stopped during the lockdown. Following this, the workers had gone on an indefinite strike from July 1, 2020. The company, however, resolved the issue and reinstated the terminated employees. They were then granted long leaves on promise of being called back to duty once their operations return to normalcy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/staff-of-airport-ground-handlingagency-protest-after-co-shuts-op/articleshow/80121798.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: 14-year-old girl raped by relative found pregnant||IDUKKI: A 14-year-old girl who underwent sexual abuse for a long time at the hands of a 16-year-old boy, who is also her relative, has been found to be pregnant. Cumbummettu police registered a Pocso case and produced the boy before a juvenile court. Cops said the girl was raped multiple times during the lockdown when she was alone at home. According to circle inspector G Sunilkumar the issue came to light when the girl complained of abdomen pain. “After the pregnancy was confirmed, hospital authorities informed us and we registered the case,” the CI said. “The t wo are relatives and live in nearby houses. The boy used to visit her on the pretext of online classes. He used to show her pornographic videos and sexually abuse her,” the official said. “Both the kids’ parents are cardamom plantation workers who leave for work early in the morning and return only in the evening. The kids were always alone at home during daytime,” said Sunilkumar. “Most of the families in the region are plantation workers. Due to the pandemic the kids were always at home. Mobile phone misuse was one of the main issues in plantation areas during the lockdown,” the CI said. Two months ago, a 17-year-old girl was found pregnant after she was raped by an 18-year-old boy within the same police station limits. Police had registered a case against the boy. According to them, the two in that instance were also neighbours. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/14-yr-old-girl-raped-by-relative-found-pregnant/articleshow/80121802.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Time for India’s pharma industry to become self-reliant||Like bears and bulls in the stock market, two forces are forever active in the phenomenal world, to change the status quo and to retain it. When India faced the impossible option to ignore millions of its people suffering for want of modern drugs, or ignore the IPR of medicines developed abroad, the government of the day opted for the good of the people and Indian Patent Act 1970 made it free for Indian companies to manufacture any drug they could. This led to the era of generic drugs and Indian pharmaceutical companies flourished to become a leading global player in manufacturing generic drugs that were eventually imported by the western countries for their own people, especially the United States. But the great Indian pharma success story was not without intrigue and a siege within the situation was created by China after its entry into the World Trade Organization (WTO) in 1999. China, in a very focused manner, invested in its chemical industry and became the supplier of choice for most of the Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs) and Key Starting Materials (KSMs) with innovatively positioning intermediate molecules. The Indian pharma industry which was self-reliant in all materials till the mid 1990s fell prey to the ploy and landed itself in a situation where billions of dollars started going to China for import of more ready and cheaper materials at the 'China Price'. As this was accomplished through private enterprise, no one knew exactly what was going on. With billions of dollars being made out of exporting the finished products, thriving pharma companies preferred someone else doing the low-grade dirty chemical works. Then came the coronavirus. It showed up in the Chinese city of Wuhan first around December 2019 and with the Chinese New Year, travelers reached Europe via Italy and to the US via New York and into India from there and the Middle East. Panic-stricken governments called for lockdowns, which saved millions of lives, but brought economic disaster for billions of people. Schools and colleges, sports events, entertainment avenues, and regular travel are still suspended. For reasons that defy logic, the Chinese government chose this difficult time to infiltrate into Indian territory in the Himalayan highlands and tried to secure access to strategic highways. In a violent scuffle with the alert Indian military men, several soldiers on both sides died. The sad truth of the precarious situation of the Indian pharmaceutical companies with almost all the raw material coming from China is indeed staring at us. What if the supply chain is cut? Now, to become self-reliant again is neither easy nor viable. Chemistry has made great strides in the last two decades and there are technologies like the C-1 platform, the semi-synthetic fermentation processes, and computer-driven catalytic transformations, which now need to be acquired and mastered as they cannot just be wished for and created over-night. The moment of a renaissance in Indian pharma industry has indeed arrived. An end-to-end pharmaceutical self-reliance is imminent and this time we must base it on the new state-of-the-art. And it is not a daydream. The Indian vaccine against coronavirus being developed along with the western countries is indeed a proof of the remarkable feats we can achieve, when we get to the hard work. Giving these vaccines to billions of people is going to be the next tall mountain to climb. Let us keep our mental fabrications out of this and remember Shakespeare’s immortal words – Our doubts are traitors and make us lose the good we oft might win, by fearing to attempt. Let us defeat Covid-19 as a resolute and united nation, once and for all! (The writer is as an eminent missile scientist and recently co-authored the book, India Wakes: Post Coronavirus New World Order, with Bart S Fisher)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/time-for-indias-pharma-industry-to-become-self-reliant/articleshow/80123005.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Coimbatore||No frost this winter in Ooty puzzling experts||Udhagamandalam: Ooty, the famed hill retreat, has not experienced frost formation for even a single day during the ongoing winter season. Experts view this as an unusual event. The lowest minimum temperature recorded in the past one month in Ooty was 7 degree Celsius. Normally, the temperature dips to 2-3 degree Celsius and even touches zero degree rarely. Horticulture officials said there were no instances of frost due to an extended spell of rain during December. However, the average amount of rainfall received in the hills during the northeast monsoon season is comparatively less this year than earlier years, they said. Traditionally, winter season sets in the hills by the end of November and lasts till mid-February. December is when peak winter sets in. “The lowest minimum temperature recorded last month was 7 degree Celsius at the Government Botanical Garden in Ooty on December 7. There was no report of frost formation during last month,” said Shiva Subramaniam Samraj, joint director, horticulture department. Samraj said the extended spell of rain during the winter season has benefitted both vegetable crops and tea gardens. The average minimum temperature throughout December in Ooty was between 10 and 11 degree Celsius, which is substantially more than the average minimum temperature in earlier years. “In the past one decade, I haven’t seen Ooty without frost formation for at least for a few days in in December. This year, very unusually, we experienced wet weather,”, said M Kannan, a farmer from Ooty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/no-frost-this-winter-in-ooty-puzzling-experts/articleshow/80122962.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Police book 23 BJP corporators for protest||Hyderabad: Newly-elected BJP corporators staged a protest at Pragati Bhavan on Tuesday demanding immediate formation of the GHMC Council. Police took the protesting corporators into preventive custody and released them later on personal bonds. “We booked 33 protesters, including 23 corporators. They were released on personal bonds,” Punjagutta SI D Nagaraju said. Police also took Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) activists protesting at Tivoli cinema hall in Secunderabad into preventive custody. As many as 25 activists staged a rasta roko against obscenity in a Telugu film. State BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar condemned the arrests, saying that the activists were on the right side of law. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-book-23-bjp-corporators-for-protest/articleshow/80122957.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Flora gallery opens with twin exhibition||Thiruvananthapuram: When George Fernandez returned to his native city after spending decades in Bengaluru as a teacher and headmaster in 1989, the first thing he did was to set up an institute of arts and crafts. Turning everything around into a piece of art has been his hallmark since childhood and the mastery over teaching acquired during professional life made him a favourite art teacher for hundreds of disciples in and around city. He welcomed all, irrespective of their age or qualification, to learn the art and city’s art lovers reciprocated positively. Now, after 21 years, he has opened a new chapter. A gallery named ‘Flora’ was launched by Fernandez at his house in Oottukuzhy. “The house I am staying is more than 75 years old. I am staying alone and since the house is big enough, I divided a portion of the house into two art galleries. These galleries will provide a platform for aspiring artists to display their talents,” Fernandez said. The gallery opened on December 17 now hosts two exhibition – one by Fernandez and the second by artist Krishnakumar. While handmade flowers and other craft works and paintings dominate the exhibition of Fernandez, Krishnakumar’s showcases paintings that capture moods of nature and Gods in myriad hues. Krishnakumar who has three decades of experience as an artist, graphic designer, editor and filmmaker had served at Brahmakumaris Ashram in Mount Abu, Rajasthan, as an artist. Over 50 paintings in acrylic are on display at the exhibition that will continue till month-end. The gallery will be open from 11am to 5pm every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/flora-gallery-opens-with-twin-exhibition/articleshow/80121862.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||AICC on a mission to woo Kerala’s Christian votebank||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As the traditional Christian vote bank started eroding from UDF as was evident in the local body election, AICC has taken the initiative to woo them back. AICC general secretary Tariq Anwar and AICC secretary Evan D’Souza started meeting the church leaders in the state as part of this mission. On Tuesday, they met cardinal Mar Cleemis, archbishop of the Syro-Malankara Catholic Church, and held discussions for almost an hour. The AICC leaders also met Joseph Mar Barnabas Episcopa of Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church. “This is just a courtesy call. It has been decided to meet all community leaders and in the coming days we will be meeting them. The meeting and discussion are to strengthen the ties with them,” said Anwar, after the meeting. UDF received a setback in traditional vote banks in Kottayam and Pathanamthitta during local body polls due to a severe erosion in Christian votes. The alignment with Welfare Party and IUML’s stand on the reservation for the economically poor in the majority community, etc, are seen as the reasons behind this. Meanwhile, the AICC leaders, who are in the state capital, are meeting senior party leaders and leaders of the party feeder organization as part of collecting opinions to strengthen the party before assembly elections. Anwar had discussions with opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, former chief minister Oommen Chandy and KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran. Winnability alone will be the criterion for selecting candidates and no selection based on the group affiliation will be allowed, he is learnt to have told the state leaders. AICC has also decided to conduct a survey on the choice of candidates similar to the one conducted during the last Lok Sabha elections, in the party assembly seats. The survey will be conducted among booth-, mandalam- and district-level leaders and workers to find out their choices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/aicc-on-a-mission-to-woo-states-christian-votebank/articleshow/80121886.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: Abandoned baby dies||KOLLAM: A two-day-old baby found abandoned in a garbage heap at a house in Kollam died during treatment at SAT Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, on Tuesday. It was on Tuesday early morning that the baby boy was found at the house compound of Sasidharan of Oozhayikkodu, Kalluvathukkal. Hearing the cries of a baby around 4am, Sasidharan’s son-in-law Vishnu started searching on house premises and found an infant, fully dressed up, lying in a heap of dry leaves. The baby’s umbilical cord had not been cut off and it was bathed in blood. The family informed Parippally police and they shifted the baby to Medical College Hospital, Parippally. Later, the baby was shifted to SAT Hospital in Thiruvananthapuram. Health authorities have started an enquiry about child births in the area over the last couple of days. Police have also intensified the enquiry to identify the mother of the baby.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/infant-found-in-garbage-heap-dies/articleshow/80121900.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||John Samuel to head KPCC public policy wing||Thiruvananthapuram: With a view to formulating effective strategies for election campaigning and manifesto preparation, KPCC has launched a public policy wing. John Samuel, who had formerly worked with the United Nations and a leading NGO, will be the chairman of the public policy wing. A committee comprising opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, former CM Oommen Chandy, AICC general secretaries K C Venugopal and Tariq Anwar nominated Samuel for the post. Public policy wing has been assigned the responsibilities for formulating public policies to be followed by the party, assisting the preparation of election manifesto and providing training to cadres and leaders on economical and social subjects. Samuel will work in close association with the state leadership of the party. John Samuel, who is from Adoor, had been the head of international governance cell of the development department of the United Nations. In a career spanning over three decades, Samuel worked in international development and research organizations. He had also served as governance working committee member of Planning Commission. After his return to India, Samuel functioned as the chairman of Ekta Parishat. Presently, he manages an NGO ‘Bodhigram’ based in Adoor. He writes articles on governance and public policy under the pseudonym J S Adoor in journals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/john-samuel-to-head-kpcc-public-policy-wing/articleshow/80121922.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Hyderabad||KTR gets WEF invite for Japan summit||Hyderabad: Information Technology minister K Taraka Rama Rao has been invited by the World Economic Forum (WEF) for the Global Technology Governance Summit in Japan to be held from April 5 to 7. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-gets-wef-invite-for-japan-summit/articleshow/80123026.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Aurangabad||Citizens pick development over Aurangabad renaming||AURANGABAD: With political parties slugging it out over the issue of renaming Aurangabad, the citizens have come out in unison and demanded that the politicos should focus on the development of the city instead of frivolous issues. Sharad Advant, of advocacy group Marathwada Janta Vikas Parishad, said the issue of renaming Aurangabad has been deliberately raised ahead of elections to the local civic body. “The city, known as a metro in the state, has been supplying drinking water to citizens once in a week. The proposed water supply scheme has been pending for years, but political parties choose to remain mute on such issues and raise hue and cry over non-issues,” he said. Abhishek Ranjangaokar, an entrepreneur, said renaming a city cannot guarantee development. “The city once had the identity as one of the fastest growing cities in Asia. That identity has been wiped out completely over past two decades. While no one is vocal about this, the issue of renaming the city is raised often conveniently,” he said. Ujwala Pawar, a resident from Garkheda, said people should not get swayed by the politics of emotions. “People should no longer support the polarization tactics of any political party. No doubt, we are proud of our great ruling ancestors, but we should not allow parties to capitalize on such pride for political gains,” she said. BJP MP Chhatrapati Sambhaji Raje has also joined the list of political leaders who have publicly expressed their views about renaming of Aurangabad. In his latest tweet, the BJP functionary has appealed to the state government to take a call on the demand at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/citizens-pick-devpt-over-city-renaming/articleshow/80123033.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Rise in mortality rate among the elderly a cause for concern||Thiruvananthapuram : An analysis of month-wise data related to Covid-19 in the district has revealed that there has been a drop in the average daily and monthly deaths due to Covid-19. The monthly deaths began to soar in the district from the middle of July. It stood at seven in July and peaked to 78 by August and touched as high as 184 in October. However, there has been a slide since October and by December, the monthly deaths in Thiruvananthapuram due to Covid-19 have come down to 108. The average daily deaths which had also increased from 2.6 in August to 6.1 by October have now dropped to 3.6 in the district. However, mortality rate has remained high along expected lines in the age group 60 years and above. The highest mortality rate has been recorded in the age group 80 years and above. As many as 1,362 people in their 80s were infected with Covid-19 and 96 of them died of the disease. The mortality rate till January is 7.05% in this age group. Though the capital recorded highest number of Covid-19 cases in relatively young age groups, more deaths were reported in people above 60 years of age. As many as 3,511 people between the age group 70 and 79 years were tested positive Covid-19 and 148 deaths were reported. Though infection rate was higher in other age groups (between 40-59 years and 10 to 39 years), the mortality rate has been less than 1%. The highest number of positive cases was reported in the age group 10 to 39 years — 38,535 people were infected of which 26 had died of Covid-19. A total of 25,792 positive cases was reported among the age group 40 to 59 years and 172 deaths were reported in this age group. While elderly persons and those with co-morbidities were considered highly vulnerable to infection, the pattern of positive cases in the district shows that comparatively younger group were infected with disease. However, even with lesser infection rate, elderly age groups showed higher mortality rate. This points at a serious failure in reverse quarantine. In many cases, aged, bed-ridden patients confined to rooms in their houses were brought to hospitals and confirmed with Covid 19. There were also instances where many old people were brought dead and later confirmed positive. “District’s high mortality rate can be attributed to the manner in which cases were picked up among elderly patients in hospitals. There had been cases where aged patients would be admitted for longer periods mainly owing to other diseases and then death would happen in hospital and since they would have been tested positive for Covid-19, it would be recorded as Covid death. The fact that how such persons became exposed to infection is a point of concern,” said a health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/rise-in-mortality-rate-among-the-elderly-a-cause-for-concern/articleshow/80121936.cms||Aswin J Kumar
January 6, 2021||Aurangabad||DBATU offers ‘major-minor’ for BTech students||AURANGABAD: In a major reform, Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Technological University (DBATU) has introduced the concept of ‘major-minor’ degrees for students who will pursue BTech programmes from the 2020-21 academic year . Executive council member of DBATU Nilesh Patil said the university was the first in the state and one of the very few in the country to introduce the concept. “Looking into the multi-disciplinary requirements of the industry, students can opt for some courses from other disciplines to get a ‘minor’ degrees besides securing their majors in BTech. This will enhance the employability of the students. Students who do not get the discipline of their choice at the time of admission can opt for their field of interest as a ‘minor’ degree,” said Patil. Citing an example, Patil, who is also principal of MIT here, said a student can pursue a major in mechanical engineering a minor in computer engineering. Abhijit Wadekar, another executive council member of the DBATU, said the technology university has decided to set up centres in Maharashtra, including one in Aurangabad. “These centre will be set up keeping in line with the local relevant industries. These will benefit students, faculties as well as local industries,” he said. Accordingly, Aurangabad has been identified for setting up a centre for automotive and robotic research and pharmaceutical testing facilities, Pune for cyber security and data science, Ratnagiri for food engineering and fishery, Akola for start-up activities related to rural and agricultural fields and Solapur for research for rural energy and rural water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/dbatu-offers-major-minor-for-btech-students/articleshow/80123038.cms||Prasad Joshi
January 6, 2021||Nagpur||Serum institute says vax orders from across the world, but India is priority||Nagpur: While government machinery is gearing up for Covid-19 vaccination dry runs across the state and the actual drive is expected to start anytime by January 15, Serum Institute of India (SII), manufacturer of Covishield vaccine, is still awaiting order from the government of India, revealed its executive director Dr Suresh Jadhav. Dr Jadhav, who hails from Nagpur, was speaking to TOI about the vaccine distribution. He said the company already has big orders from seven institutions across the world, but it has not committed on these yet as SII is committed to fulfil Indian order on priority basis.Orders as big as 100 million to 200 million doses have been officially received. Further, there are many orders ranging between 7 million and 8 million doses, informed Dr Jadhav.“We have 50 million doses ready and can deliver it the day we receive the order. We have been told verbally several times, but no official order has been placed by the government authorities yet,” said Dr Jadhav. As per official statements of health department, India plans to vaccinate 30 million health care and front-line workers in the first phase of the vaccination for free. The government has said it plans to vaccinate 300 million (30 crore) people on priority by July this year.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan had earlier this week said that vaccination drive in India would begin in 10 days after the two vaccines — SII’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin — received emergency use authorization. Vaccines have got approval on Sunday (January 2). It’s already January 8 and as per government’s plan, vaccination should start by January 13. Health ministry sources said the government is negotiating price of the vaccines with both the companies. SII has already made it clear that its vaccine will cost Rs200 in government set-up. Bharat Biotech has not given any official statement on the pricing so far. Dr Jadhav also made it clear there is no ban on export of Covishield. “There was news in a section of media that government has banned export of the vaccine made by SII. We have already clarified that it was misinformation. SII will produce the vaccine for entire world. India is on our priority. About 50% of our production is reserved for India while the other half can be exported,” said Dr Jadhav. Waiting For Official OrderOxford-AstraZeneca vaccine is manufactured in India under the brand name of Covishield Serum Institute of India, world’s biggest vaccine maker, has already received emergency use authorization in India for CovishieldSII has already committed to provide vaccine to government of India on priority basis Company is now waiting for official orders from the government Doctors, health workers, police and security persons are going to get Covishield in first phase of vaccination, expected to start mid-January||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/serum-institute-says-vax-orders-from-across-the-world-but-india-is-priority/articleshow/80157415.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 6, 2021||Hyderabad||How I gave wings to my passion for writing||Since the past one year, life has taught everybody that it isn't all beer and skittles. The pandemic has led to unprecedented times and it is only in such moments of despair that one needs to stay grounded. With headlines stating figures of the increasing number of positive cases and precautions to be undertaken constantly buzzing in my ears, I was brooding only over the pitiable and uncontrollable situation of the world. After months, when I was mindlessly gazing at my bookshelf, I fell into a brown study. ‘Why fuss over things that are absolutely beyond your control?’ I thought. Afterall, the Almighty doesn't burden a soul beyond what it can bear. Then, I reminded myself of the recognition that I had received as a writer. Writing is something that gives me a sense of contentment. I believe, if one is convinced with what one has written, then one must go ahead with the next step -- i.e., trying to find an audience. Being heard, in this case read, is of paramount importance. Recognition boosts passion. Last year, when I got the opportunity of sending write-ups various media and online platforms, I grabbed it. Although it is said that in the middle of difficulty lies opportunity, I firmly believe that you need to lay your hands on it. Look for it, for it won't come to you on a plate. I remember reading a quote that said, "If a window of opportunity appears, don't pull down the shade." If you are passionate about something, do not make it a mere pastime but work on it in pursuit of letting the best version of yourself out conscientiously. Living by Randy Pausch's words, 'Luck is where preparation meets opportunity,’ I recently signed up as an Assistant Content Writer at Glendale Academy International, Hyderabad. After all these months of average productivity, I was desperate for the exposure and experience this opportunity brought. When it comes to writing, many either start building castles in the air or consider it a pipe dream. I'd say, instead of straight away wanting to reach the top, begin by taking small steps and doing what it takes to reach where you aspire to. I'd like to conclude by quoting Pausch again, ‘The key question to keep asking is: Are you spending your time on the right things? Because time is all you have.’ (The writer is a second year student of Psychology & Literature)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/how-i-gave-wings-to-my-passion-for-writing/articleshow/80123036.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Kochi||Keralite wins Rs 39 crore jackpot in the UAE||KOCHI: A Keralite expat won a staggering 20 million dirhams (approximately Rs 39cr) in a monthly raffle in the United Arab Emirates. Abdussalam N V, who runs a shopping centre in Muscat won the raffle, the first draw of this year. Though Salam, 28, from Kozhikode, won the Big Ticket Abu Dhabi draw on Sunday, he came to know about it only after a day as the organizers of the raffle could not locate him and break the news. The organizers even approached community members to reach out to Salam. Things started on December 29 when Salam bought the ticket with the number 323601. He gave his Indian mobile number instead of the Oman number, making it difficult for organizers to reach him. Later, he came to know about the win from his friend. Salam told a newspaper in the UAE over phone from Muscat that he would share the amount with his friends who were part of drawing the ticket. Draws of 3 million dirhams (Rs 5 crore) and 1 million dirhams (Rs 1 crore) were also held. Saju Thomas won 3 million dirhams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/keralite-wins-jackpot-in-the-uae/articleshow/80121938.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Delhi||Survey to assess seismic hazards in Delhi, NCR towns||NEW DELHI: In the backdrop of multiple quakes of low intensity in Delhi-NCR last year, the National Centre for Seismology (NCS) is conducting a unique geophysical (magnetotelluric-MT) survey in the region to accurately assess potential seismic hazards. Its findings will help different user agencies for designing quake-resistant buildings, industrial units and structures such as hospitals and schools. The survey, being carried out by the NCS under the ministry of earth sciences (MoES) in collaboration with Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG), Dehradun since October last year, will be completed by March 31. In addition to MT, analysis and interpretation of satellite imageries and geological field investigations for locating the faults are also being carried out in the region in collaboration with Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kanpur. Both these geophysical and geological surveys will help in taking multiple preventive measures in the quake-prone region. “The survey is conducted across three major seismic sources, namely Mahendragarh-Dehradun Fault (MDF), Sohna Fault (SF) and Mathura Fault (MF). It will ascertain the presence of fluids, which generally enhance the possibility of triggering earthquakes,” said Kapil Mohan, scientist at NCS. He said, “Magnetotelluric (MT) is a geophysical method which uses natural time variation of the earth’s magnetic and electric fields to understand geological (underground) structure and processes. It’s quite a reliable technique.” Similar surveys have already been done in other seismic zones of the country, including Gujarat and all smaller states in the Himalayan region. The NCR had experienced four small earthquakes during April – August 2020, with the first event of magnitude 3.5 on April 12 in the north-eastern boundary of Delhi, during the first lockdown phase. These earthquakes were followed by a dozen micro-events (magnitude of less than 3.0) including a few aftershocks. The epicentre of these events fell in three different areas — north-east Delhi border, 15 km south-east of Rohtak (Haryana) and 17 km east of Faridabad (Haryana). “Soon after the second event (magnitude of 3.4) on May 10, the MoES had a detailed discussion with experts to address the ongoing earthquake activity and it was felt necessary to characterize the earthquake sources in Delhi and surroundings through strengthening of local seismic network and delineation of sub-surface features such as fault, which may cause earthquakes,” said the ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/survey-to-assess-seismic-hazards-in-delhi-ncr-towns/articleshow/80123066.cms||Vishwa Mohan
January 6, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: KMRC seeks five-day Sealdah flyover block for Urvi’s journey||KOLKATA: The Sealdah flyover needs to remain shut for five days to allow tunnel-boring machine (TBM) Urvi to burrow the west-bound tunnel of the East-West Metro corridor. KMRC had asked for the closure from next Monday but since the traffic department wasn’t game, the implementing agency had to stop Urvi in its track on Tuesday. The TBM was supposed to start digging below the flyover from next Monday. KMRC and the traffic department are now zeroing in on a later date for the flyover closure. The latter had offered the traffic block from January 22 instead. Since that was not feasible, KMRC has sought closure of the flyover from 11pm of January 15 till 6am on January 19. This way, the flyover is only out of bounds to vehicles during the daytime on January 16, 17 and 18 while the TBM gets five nights (starting midnight of January 15 ) and three days, till 6pm of January 19, to complete its job. The flyover must remain closed to traffic when the TBM passes below it and a lot of safety measures must be taken and sensors installed to provide real-time data, showing how the structure behaves against the 450tonne TBM’s movement 20m below the ground. To match the revised routine, the TBM had to be stopped 24 hours after it started rolling. Having covered 5m from Sealdah station, it is positioned barely 20m from the flyover. KMRC and contractors ITD-ITD Cementation took the decision to stop the machine after a meeting with the traffic department on Tuesday morning. DC (traffic) Rupesh Kumar told TOI: “The closure dates are not final yet.” Officials of Sealdah traffic guard said the January 22-26 dates wouldn’t have affected the traffic much. “But as KMRC pointed out, it will mean huge monetary loss, besides technical issues, if there is a such kind of delay. They have drafted a fresh application and proposed to hand over the flyover at 6am on January 19,” said an officer who was present in the meeting. Sources said commissioner Anuj Sharma and civic officials will be consulted before the final call. The flyover was blocked for three days in October when the TBM was building the other tunnel. “There was hardly any movement at Sealdah station at that time. Now, local trains are plying. Many of our staff members are on leave. So we have a stiff challenge ahead,” said an ACP. While building the east-bound tunnel, Urvi, digging on its optimum speed, had crossed the 25m across the flyover well before time, without leaving any impact on the structure. But this time, the machine is on the slo-mo “initial” drive. Its journey has been split into “initial” and “main” drives because the entire TBM is 75m long. The main operative part (the cutterhead, the front body, middle body and the tailskin) is only 9m. To accommodate the entire machine (backup gantry), the TBM must initially dig 75m so that the backup gantry are joined with the main part and the entire machine can be inside the tunnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmrc-seeks-five-day-sealdah-flyover-block-for-urvis-journey/articleshow/80121950.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
January 6, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS in a dilemma over Warangal and Khammam civic elections||Hyderabad: While the opposition parties have already begun ground-level work for the civic polls in Khammam and Greater Warangal, the ruling TRS is playing a waiting game. With the early GHMC election and the results having gone not so well for the TRS, party insiders said there was an internal debate on when to conduct the civic elections. Term of both these corporations will end on March 14. In the meantime, the final list of voters has to be released and delimitation of wards, reservation of wards and a meeting of political parties with the State Election Commission have to be completed. “If the TRS wants to be cautious, there is a possibility of appointing special officers to run the administration in the corporations. The government has also not been forthcoming about announcing any schemes for these two municipal corporations,” said sources. The BJP and Congress, however, are of the view that elections will happen on schdule, if not early. TRS working president KT Rama Rao had toured Warangal recently and a rally to be addressed by him was cancelled on Monday. State BJP chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar, TPCC chief Uttam Kumar Reddy and Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy have been touring Warangal in the last few days. Sources said the TRS may opt for civic polls after the bypoll for Nagarjuna Sagar assembly constituency and MLC elections are over. “By then, the party leadership will know the mood of the people and work on ironing out flaws,” they said. Meanwhile, equations in Khammam district are changing with BJP trying to make inroads into the district, which was once a left stronghold. Though TRS won the last civic polls, the corporation was in the hands of the TDP. With several leaders from the TDP and communist parties ready to jump into the BJP, the TRS leadership is keeping an eye on the changing political scenario. With transport minister P Ajay Kumar, who is close to KTR, Ponguleti Srinivas Reddy, who joined the TRS from YSRCP, and ex-minister T Nageswara Rao at war with one another, the TRS leadership has its task cut out. Nageswara Rao denied rumours that the BJP was in touch with him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-in-a-dilemma-over-warangal-and-khammam-civic-elections/articleshow/80123055.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 6, 2021||Vadodara||Student duped of Rs 82,000 in online deal||VADODARA: An alleged army man duped an MBA student in an online scooter deal. Marutinandan Raulji told police that he was interested in buying a used scooter for Rs 19,000 from an advertisement which he saw on Facebook and called up on the listed number on December 30. The receiver identified himself as Akhilesh Kesarwani who told Raulji that he is posted at Ahmedabad airport security and due to Covid-19, they he cannot meet in person. He sen all documents on WhatsApp for verification. Kesarwani sent the scooter’s registration card in which the owner’s details matched with details available on m-Parivahan application. The accused later made a video call in which he was seen in an army uniform, due to which Raulji started trusting him. As the deal was finalized, Raulji made an advance payment of Rs 3,020. Although, the amount was debited from Raulji’s account, Kesarwani said that he had not received. Later, Raulji ended up paying Rs 82,338 for insurance, GST, delivery etc in different accounts mentioned by the accused. Raulji was also told to pay Rs 20,000 more if he wanted the delivery early, however, he did not pay. Next day, when Kesarwani called again asking for money, Raulji’s father Ashwin him to return the money. Kesarwani said that he will return the money if he is paid Rs 16,000 more. On January 3, Raulji realized that he had been cheated when he opened his Facebook timeline and again saw the advertisement for the same scooter but this time the seller was different.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/student-duped-of-rs-82k-in-online-deal/articleshow/80121217.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Vadodara||BJP-backed panel wins Mehsana Dairy election||VADODARA: BJP-backed ‘Parivartan’ panel led by Ashok Chaudhary won the poll battle for formation of the new board of the Mehsana District Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union Limited popularly known as Dudhsagar Dairy held on Tuesday. Of the 15 seats in the milk union’s board for which the polls were held, Ashok Chaudhary’s panel emerged victorious by bagging 13 seats. The poll battle was between ‘Vikas’ panel backed by dairy’s former chairman Vipul Chaudhary, who is also the former chairman of the Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF) and Ashok Chaudhary, whose panel in 2015 had won three out of 16 seats. The polls were held at a time when Vipul is in judicial custody for his alleged involvement in a bonus scam. Vipul, a former minister, was arrested by Gujarat CID last month for allegedly siphoning off Rs 14.8 crore that were meant to be distributed as bonus among dairy’s employees. On Tuesday, polls were held for 15 out of 16 seats of elected representatives as there is a stay on polls for one seat of the board. The poll battle in which 1,129 representatives of village level milk societies were eligible to exercising their voting right, witnessed 99 % turnout during the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bjp-backed-panel-wins-mehsana-dairy-election/articleshow/80121322.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Birds’ paradise amid concrete jungle gets a new life||KOLKATA: The Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco), with the technical knowhow of an NGO, has thrown open the renovated Pakhibitan (bird park) in Eco Park with new nests for birds on trees, re-engineered waterbody with fish for birds, elevated walkway with a bird watchers’ cabin and special tree plantation. The authorities are also preparing to arrange a morning birdwatching tour at the place soon for bird lovers to catch a glimpse of different species of birds, including the migratory ones. The Pakhibitan is located near the golf arena and food court of Eco Park, which was set up as a birdwatchers’ paradise in January, 2016. According to officials, around 133 species of birds have been spotted in and around the area so far, out of which 99 species are migratory and the others are spotted throughout the year. Among the rare species that have been spotted include yellow bittern, taiga flycatcher, Siberian rubythroat, greater coucal, plum-headed parakeet and common snipe. A mudflat has been created and bird nest boxes have been installed on trees for birds to roost. Besides, floaters and wooden logs have been provided in the water body for birds to rest. The existing water body has been re-engineered to suit the habitat of birds, officials said. Special grass and trees have been planted to attract birds and an elevated walkway with a bird watchers’ cabin have also been set up for bird lovers. “Bird watchers will be brought in groups and documentation of birds that are spotted at Pakhibitan is being done,” the official added. Besides, with the help of the forest department, over 200 birds and over 20 turtles have also been released at the area. The initiative has enthused bird lovers in the city and beyond. “This will help bird watchers and photographers to learn and take photographs of different species of birds,” said Narayan Sarkar, a software professional who has a passion for bird photography.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/birds-paradise-amid-concrete-jungle-gets-a-new-life/articleshow/80121973.cms||Suman Chakraborti
January 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Lyricist Vennelakanti, who wrote 2k songs, passes away||Hyderabad: Acclaimed Telugu film lyricist and dialogue writer Vennelakanti Rajeswara Prasad passed away in Chennai on Tuesday. Popular as ‘Vennelakanti’, the lyricist wrote as many as 2,000 songs. The Telugu film industry mourned the passing away of the 63-year-old, who suffered a heart attack and died at his home in Chennai. Hailing from Nellore in AP, Vennelakanti, who was introduced to the film world in 1986 with the film ‘Sri Rama Chandrudu’ directed by Bhaskar Rao, went on to pen lyrics for several hit films. Writer Paruchuri Gopalakrishna said he was shocked at the passing away of Vennekanti, whom he considered elder brother. He expressed his condolences to the bereaved family. “We have lost a gem of a writer,” said lyricist Raj Kandukuri, describing Vennelakanti as one of the finest lyricists of Telugu cinema. He also wrote lyrics for Tamil films apart from being a scriptwriter and dubbing artiste. A bank employee, Vennelakanti forayed into films as his father ‘Pratibha’ Koteshwara Rao was also associated with the film industry. Vennelakanti’s two sons are also lyricists. Some of his songs include ‘Maatarani Mounamidi’ from the film ‘Maharshi’, ‘China damme’ in ‘Simhadri’, ‘Hrudayam Ekkadunnadhi’ from ‘Ghajini’, and ‘Konda Konallo’ from ‘Swati Kiranam’. The final rites of Vennelakanti will take place in Chennai on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lyricist-vennelakanti-who-wrote-2k-songs-passes-away/articleshow/80123068.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Blood group database for New Town residents||KOLKATA: The residents’ association in New Town is drawing up a bank of blood group details of all residents of the township. The association is also collecting details of voluntary blood donors in the township who can be reached out to in case of an emergency. During the lockdown, there were several incidents when residents required blood and the family members and the association had to struggle to arrange for a donor. “We have sought the details through social media apps where residents have been requested to fill up their details. We will also organize camps in blocks and gated communities to gather details of residents who are unable to fill it up online,” said Samir Gupta, joint convenor of the New Town Residents’ Welfare Association. According to figures provided by the association, there are close to 50,000 residents staying in various pockets across the township. Out of these, close to 75% are senior citizens, most of whom stay alone since their children are settled elsewhere. During the total lockdown, which started in March last year, several senior citizens faced extreme difficulty in procuring medicines, paying their electricity and phone bills and shopping for essential items. The residents’ forum had set up a team of volunteers in different blocks to assist them. “In the past, many of them have required blood and some times, the family members have struggled to arrange it. It is important that we must have a database of blood groups of all the citizens residing in the township. We are also preparing a list of voluntary blood donors and those with rare groups so that we can reach out to them in an emergency,” said Gupta. The form can be accessed on WhatsApp groups, Facebook page and the app of the township. The donors will require to provide their personal details, blood group and their medical history, if any. “It was the need of the hour. In an emergency, we cannot figure out how to get hold of a donor. This database will come handy,” said Oindrila Sen, a resident of Shukhobrishti in New Town. The residents’ forum is also conducting a medical camp that will cover maximum number of citizens. Many residents are providing their blood group details at the camp which the forum is adding to its database. “We request all the residents to treat it as a priority,” said a member of the forum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/blood-group-database-for-new-town-residents/articleshow/80121977.cms||Zeeshan Javed
January 6, 2021||Kolhapur||Seal establishments causing Panchaganga pollution: Maharashtra CM||KOLHAPUR: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday directed the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) to seal all the establishments responsible for polluting the Panchaganga river. Thackeray — during a meeting with the MPs/MLAs of the district and officials of the MPCB and Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (IDC) held in Mumbai — appointed a coordination committee of MPCB and MIDC which will draft a plan to stop pollution of the river which is among top-10 polluted rivers in the state. State environment minister Aditya Thackeray was also present in the meeting. “There is a need to act against those causing pollution. The panel of MPCB and MIDC must take steps such as sealing of the establishments that release untreated waste water generated in their establishments into the river. The establishments should be reopened only after all measures to stop the release of untreated water are set up or installed by the establishments,” the chief minister said. Pollution is also affecting the life in the water body. Currently, waste water from the villages, towns and cities along with effluents from sugar, textile mills and industries also make their way into the river. Environment minister said there is a need for third-party audit of the pollutants entering the water and accordingly treatment facilities can be developed in a decentralised manner. “The MPCB and MIDC must hold regular meetings over the issue. We want the monthly report over the measures adopted and the actions taken to stop further pollution of the river on fifth day of every month to CM’s office,” said Thackeray. District collector Daulat Desai said there is a need for around Rs 220 crore for developing treatment facilities in areas under the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC), 174 villages, textile town of Ichalkaranji and several MIDCs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/seal-establishments-causing-panchaganga-pollution-cm/articleshow/80123050.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Bareilly||55-year-old man set on fire by daughter in UP's Budaun||BAREILLY: A 55-year-old man was allegedly set on fire by his daughter and other family members after he objected to her relationship with a local youth in Wazirganj area of UP’s Budaun. While the man is now critical, all the other family members are on the run. The incident came to light after an unidentified caller alerted police that the man —Mohammed Aamir of Hatra village in Wazirganj — had set himself on fire. Aamir, a marginal farmer, has two daughters aged 26 and 21, and a 24-year-old son. A police team immediately rushed to the spot and found him lying on the floor all alone with over 50% burns. They then shifted him to the district hospital and recorded his statement after preliminary treatment. While recording his statement, Aamir said, “My daughter has an affair. When I raised objection to it, my daughter, son and wife along with my nephew poured petrol on me and set me on fire. They all wanted me dead.” Additional SP (rural) Siddharth Verma said, “We have not received any complaint in the matter which is why no case has been registered. However, we are on the lookout for the family members.” The doctors looking after Aamir’s treatment said that his condition remains stable but needs constant medical attention to prevent infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-set-on-fire-by-daughter-for-objecting-to-her-relationship-with-youth/articleshow/80120840.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 6, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: FIR lodged after man died, probe ordered against cops||NEW DELHI: An inquiry has been initiated into the lapses on part of cops from Model Town police station in the case of death of a man, who was beaten by two of his friends on December 17. The victim, identified as Iqbal, died on January 3. The FIR in the case was registered, for causing hurt, on January 3 itself on Iqbal’s statement. However, Iqbal had died by then. At the time of the incident, Iqbal’s daughter had filed a complaint with police, but no action was taken. The arrests were made only after he died. While action has been taken against the investigating officer, it is being probed why an FIR of assault was registered on a dead man’s complaint. Iqbal worked as a security guard. He was having a liquor party with his friends, Dharmendra and Jai Prakash, when an argument broke out. Iqbal was allegedly beaten up by the duo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fir-lodged-after-man-died-probe-ordered-against-cops/articleshow/80123073.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Hyderabad||10% reservation: Telangana high court notice to govt||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Tuesday issued a notice to the state government asking it to explain its stand on a PIL that charged the state with ignoring the implementation of 10% reservations for economically weaker sections in the fields of education and employment. The bench was dealing with the PIL filed by BJP activist Ale Bhasker Raaj questioning the alleged negligence by the state. Rajasheker Thallapally, counsel for the petitioner, told the court that except in MBBS and BDS courses, the reservation is not being implemented for other courses. Palle Nageswar Rao, counsel for the state, sought four weeks’ time to file counter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/10-reservation-hc-notice-to-govt/articleshow/80123075.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Hyderabad||KCR won’t anoint KTR as CM: Bandi Sanjay Kumar||HYDERABAD: BJP state president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Tuesday said CM K Chandrasekhar Rao has no plans to make his son KT Rama Rao the CM. In wake of reports that KTR could be anointed CM after Ugadi, Sanjay said KCR will remain in office till the next assembly elections. Bandi was addressing a rally in Jangaon. Further, BJP activists held a massive rally in Warangal to welcome Sanjay during his visit. Meanwhile, government whip and TRS MLC T Bhanu Prakash said Sanjay has no role in internal affairs of TRS. “Sanjay will not decide what happens in TRS. Our party has decided that KCR is the CM. Any issue will be decided by the TRS. Are we asking if Amit Shah will be made PM or not,” he asked. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-wont-anoint-ktr-as-cm-sanjay/articleshow/80123072.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Covid test facility for Sagar pilgrims||KOLKATA: KMC may declare the Babughat area along Strand Road a containment zone ahead of the pilgrim rush for Gangasagar. Also, all pilgrims heading to Gangasagar through Kolkata will undergo rapid antigen tests for Covid-19. Though few pilgrims and saints have arrived till now this year and the numbers are expected to be far lower than the usual turnout every January, sources said there were many waiting to board buses and trains after they received a signal from the Sadhusamaj. The state public health engineering department is constructing a testing centre and a quarantine facility behind the Mohun Bagan ground. The facility will be able to temporarily hold around 50 people who test positive. Only those who test negative will be allowed to proceed to Gangasagar. The facility will become functional from January 8 with KMC doctors deployed 24×7 at the camp. “A team of medical officers will check the health of devotees assembled at Babughat while another specialised team will conduct the tests,” said Atin Ghosh, a senior member at the KMC board of administrators. (With inputs from Biplab Bhattacharya)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-test-facility-for-sagar-pilgrims/articleshow/80121997.cms||Saikat Ray
January 6, 2021||Kolhapur||20 new cases in Kolhapur; Sangli reports 32 patients||Kolhapur: The district on Tuesday reported 20 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the total number of cases to 49,589. The district also reported one death, while 20 people being discharged from hospitals after recovery. Till date, 1,710 people have succumbed to the infection and 47,830 have been cured. Meanwhile, Sangli district reported 32 fresh cases — highest single day tally in recent weeks. The district reported no death on Tuesday. The active cases in the district has increased further to 202. Solapur district reported as many as 67 cases while 119 people got discharged. According to the official information, three deaths were also reported on Tuesday. The rural areas of the district has reported 38,327 cases till the date along with 1,133 deaths. The rural areas currently have 499 active cases, while as many as 36,695 patients have been discharged. The city, however, has reported 11,148 positive cases that includes 6,617 men and 4,531 women. The death toll stands at 602. All tehsils in Satara district reported new cases of Covid-19 in single digit as a total of 41 cases and one death were reported on Tuesday.  The district has reported 54,857 cases till date, out of which 52,343 of them have been discharged. The death toll stands at 1,795 and active cases are 719.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/20-new-cases-in-kolhapur-sangli-reports-32-patients/articleshow/80123069.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Chennai||Of rare rhythms and beats||By Suganthy Krishnamachari The month of Margazhi is a celebration of dance and music and while it stands as an affirmation that the legacy of art and culture still runs strong, a few traditions unique to certain regions have faded over the years. While many Chola temples nurtured music and dance, the Tiruvarur temple deserves special mention, says archaeologist Kudavayil Balasubramaniam. Fifty-one dancers at the Big temple were from Tiruvarur. Temple dancers performed in the ‘devasiriya mandapam’ of the Tiruvarur temple, with the deity, kings and devotees watching the dance. This is the biggest mandapam in the temple, 210ft long and 140ft wide. "Kings who gave gifts to the dancers at this time, worded the orders in such a way, that it seemed as if the gift was coming directly from the deity Veedhividangar," says Kudavayil. A Kulottunga I period inscription (1118-19CE) says he witnessed a dance by Pukkathurai Vallava Thalaikkoli in the ‘devasiriya mandapam’. From Silappadikaram, we learn that accomplished dancers were conferred the ‘thalaikkoli’ title. "When an enemy king was defeated in battle, his royal umbrella was seized by the victor. The handle of the umbrella was then decorated with gold and precious gems, and anointed with waters of sacred rivers. This decorated umbrella handle was called thalaikkol. On an auspicious day, the royal elephant would take it to the dancing hall, with the king accompanying the procession. The thalaikkol would be placed in a prominent place in the hall. In Silappadikaram, Madhavi’s arangetram is in such a hall, and instruments like the flute, yazh, maddalam, muzhavu and amandirikai ( drum) are played. She is conferred the title of Thalaikkoli," says Sarala Rajagopalan, a retired Tamil professor. "Devasiriya mandapam has 18th century paintings, which show dances performed in the temple. The names of the types of dances are also given," says Kudavayil. Among the many musical instruments played in the Tiruvarur temple, the ‘panchamukhavadyam’ (five-faced drum) also called ‘kudamuzha’, has pride of place. Tiruvarur and Thiruthuraipoondi are the only two temples which have this instrument. "Sangam literature talks of muzhavu, but not kudamuzha. The first reference to kudamuzha is in the Thiruvalangadu Padhigam of Karaikkal Ammayar (6th century). Sundarar (8th century) says it was used in the dancing hall. A detailed description is given in the 12th century literary work Kalladam, which says the instrument was played as Siva danced according to the rules of natya, showing that it was an essential accompaniment to dance. Sculptural representations show the evolution of the ‘muzhavu’ into ‘panchamukhavadyam’. The Big Temple has a Chola painting of a three-faced drum, while the rajagopuram of the Sarangapani temple has a sculpture (11th -12th century) of a five-faced drum. ‘Panchamukhavadyam’ must have made its appearance in the 11th-12th century. The faces represent Siva’s aspects of Vamadeva, Tatpurusha, Aghora, Eesana, Sadyojata, explains Kudavayil. "The Tiruvarur ‘panchamukhavadyam’ is a bronze pot, 244cm in height. The players are called Muttukaarar. Sankaramurthy muttukaarar, played both the Tiruvarur and Thiruthuraippoondi ‘panchamukhavadyams’, for many decades until his death in 1997. He was given an award in 1985, at the inaugural of the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts, Delhi, for playing such a rare instrument. His granddaughter now plays in Tiruvarur. These days, it is played only on Mondays and Fridays during the evening puja, and during festivals," says Kudavayil. A huge, single-face drum called ‘mizhavu’ is used for chakkiar koothu and koodiyattam in Kerala. A 16th century mural at the Ettumanoor temple shows Vishnu playing the ‘mizhavu’ as Siva dances. Chakkai Koothu is described in the Silappadikaram which mentions Chera King Cheran Senguttuvan and his queen Venmaal watching it. Ilango Adigal’s description gives us an idea of what a great dancer Paraiyur chakkayan was. "The chakkayan is dressed as Ardhanariswara. When he portrays Siva dancing, the anklet in his right foot jingles; he strikes the drum (parai); his right eye shows many expressions; the hair on his right side waves in different directions. But on the left side of the dancer, which represents Uma Devi, nothing moves, whether it is the anklet, bangle, hair, or earring!" says Sarala. The Pazhuvettarayars, feudatories who ruled over parts of Ariyalur and had marital ties with the Cholas, were migrants from Chera Nadu who introduced Chakkai koothu in the Chola kingdom. "The earliest inscriptional reference (979 CE) to Chakkai Koothu in Tamil Nadu, is in the Alanduraiyar temple, Kizhapazhuvur," says T Karthikeyan guest lecturer, Government Arts College, Ariyalur. "The artist- Alaiyur Chakkai- performed three angas of chakkai koothu, and was rewarded with gold and land. We learn from a Rajendra I period inscription (1041CE), that Chakkai Maarayan Vikramacholan performed Chakkai Koothu in the Kamarasavalli temple for three days during the Vaikasi and Margazhi Thiruvadirai festivals. Representatives of four important areas of the town passed a resolution to gift land to him." A Big Temple inscription (29th regnal year of Raja Raja) mentions the king’s grants to Thiruvellarai Chakkaiyan, who performed here, showing that the Chera art introduced by the Pazhuvettarayars had spread to areas beyond their administration. But these glorious days are locked away in the pages of history. Today chakkai koothu is no longer performed in the temples of Tamil Nadu, where the chakkayans were once honoured for their art. (The author is a freelance journalist)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/of-rare-rhythms-and-beats/articleshow/80124317.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Hyderabad||New TPCC chief by Jan 8 or after N’sagar bypoll||Hyderabad: A month after Nalgonda MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy resigned from the post of president of state Congress following the party’s poor show in the GHMC polls, an air of suspense over who will be the next TPCC chief continues. A senior AICC leader told TOI that a suitable candidate for the top party post in the state would be finalised before January 8 or after the bypoll to Nagarjuna Sagar assembly constituency. The party leadership is looking for a candidate who enjoys ‘acceptability’ within the party and also among the people to lead Telangana Congress against a resurgent BJP and the TRS. “The AICC is looking at a candidate who has an acceptability factor. Popularity and ability to deliver aggressive speeches are not our priority. The high command does want to give a scope for a split in the party over the TPCC chief choice,” he said. A section of party leaders from Telangana have sounded the high command about the possibility of Congress suffering badly in the Sagar bypoll if the TPCC chief is finalised before the election. In view of these factors, the party leadership has proposed to constitute four major committees to avoid any split in the party. Top leaders would be accommodated in the committees which would include all important campaign and strategy committees. The strategy committee will be responsible for unveiling strategies to bring Congress to power in 2023 assembly polls. Meanwhile, Congress veteran K Jana Reddy told AICC leaders in Delhi that finalisation of a candidate for TPCC chief’s post at this juncture may not be advisable with bypolls to Nagarjuna Sagar assembly constituency likely to be held soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-tpcc-chief-by-jan-8-or-after-nsagar-bypoll/articleshow/80123080.cms||Roushan Ali
January 6, 2021||Kolhapur||Dacoity suspect flees from Covid hospital||KOLHAPUR: A 30-year-old man, who is suspected to be involved in a dacoity case in Sangli district, ran away from a government hospital where he was taking treatment for Covid-19. The suspect has been identified as Keram Ramesh Mehda , a resident of Dhar district in Madhya Pradesh. A case has been registered at Mahatma Gandhi Chowk police station. Sangli police have formed five teams to trace him. Police said Keram and two others were arrested on December 30 for their alleged involvement in a dacoity and remanded in police custody for three days. All three were tested for Covid-19. Keram was admitted to the civil hospital in Miraj when his swab report confirmed that he had contracted the viral infection. On Monday, Keram left his ward under the pretext of going to the washroom and fled from the window by breaking the iron bars. An attendant immediately sounded an alert. A police team immediately rushed to the spot but could not trace Keram. Police have sealed all the areas near the hospital to locate him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/dacoity-suspect-flees-from-covid-hospital/articleshow/80123076.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Bareilly||UP: 50-year-old gang-raped and murdered in Budaun; priest, 2 disciples booked||BAREILLY: A 50-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped and murdered on the premises of a place of worship in a village in UP’s Budaun district. The alleged incident took place on Sunday night. However, an FIR was registered on Tuesday evening after the post-mortem examination revealed that the woman had sustained multiple injuries, including several on her private parts. The autopsy suggested that the woman's private parts were brutalised, sources said. A priest and his two disciples were later booked under sections 376-d (gang-rape) and 302 (murder) of IPC at Ughaiti police station of Budaun, and one of the accused has been detained for questioning. According to the woman’s husband, his wife had gone to the place of worship on Sunday evening. But she didn’t return. Priest & two disciples were later bookedLater in the night, the accused and his two aides brought the woman home in a car and told the family that she had fallen in a dry well on the premises. The husband said, “My wife was alive by then. But before we could understand anything or ask any question, they left in the car. After a few minutes, my wife succumbed to the injuries. She had multiple injuries, including those on private parts.” The woman’s elder son said, “We were sure that the priest and his aides were lying. They didn’t take my mother to hospital.” Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Budaun, Sankalp Sharma, who rushed to the village, said, “The post-mortem has confirmed injuries on private part and the reason of death is shock and haemorrhage due to ante-mortem injuries. The priest and his aides are missing. We have registered an FIR against them. We have deployed multiple teams to nab the accused." (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)Watch UP: 50-year-old allegedly gang raped, murdered in Budaun||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-50-gang-raped-brutalised-murdered-inside-a-place-of-worship-in-ups-budaun/articleshow/80120861.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 6, 2021||Agra||Flights to Goa, other major cities from Agra soon||Agra: Tourists visiting the Taj city will soon be able to reach Agra by air from Goa and other major cities with the airport authorities planning to start the service by month-end. While Air India is finalizing a weekly flight to Goa from Agra, private carrier Zoom Airlines is also looking to start operations to Lucknow, Mumbai and Bhopal. All the flights would be operated under the Udan scheme. Sources in the know of the matter said that the airport authorities have received a flight schedule from Air India for its Goa flight which is likely to be started by month-end after approval from its counterparts in the coastal state. The lone flight to Jaipur from Kheria airport was suspended last year due to poor response. Kheria airport director AA Ansari said, “Air India will be operating a flight to Goa once a week on Saturday initially. Permission has been granted in this regard. The schedule will be finalized after approval from the Goa airport authorities. Zoom Airlines has also sent a time schedule to start flights to some major cities. They too are likely to start operations in January.” The Union civil aviation ministry has chalked out a plan to provide an independent approach road and a new terminal building to avoid security bottlenecks at the Kheria airport which is administered by the Air Force. Meanwhile, tourism operators in the Taj city have welcomed the new initiative hoping it would boost business. Agra Tourism Development Foundation president Sandeep Arora said, “Flights providing air connectivity between Agra and major cities will definitely enhance the opportunities. Authorities must also try to connect the Taj city with West Bengal and the northeast.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/flights-to-goa-other-major-cities-from-agra-soon/articleshow/80120855.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Hyderabad||No call from AICC yet, says Jeevan||Hyderabad: Amid speculations that he may be made TPCC president, party MLC T Jeevan Reddy said he has not received any call from AICC leadership about finalising a name for the TPCC chief’s post. However, he said he had gone to Delhi a few days ago and submitted his opinion to the high command on the prospective candidates for the TPCC chief post. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-call-from-aicc-yet-says-jeevan/articleshow/80123081.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Nilgai rescued by forest officials after month||NEW DELHI: A nilgai, which had over a month ago strayed into a park situated in the rear of Purana Qila, was finally rescued by forest officials on Tuesday. After the medical examination, it will be released into Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary. The forest officials had recently sought permission for tranquilising the nilgai for its rescue operation. After they got the approval from the chief wildlife warden, a team of experts reached the area on Tuesday. “However, we managed to rescue the nilgai without using the tranquiliser shots. We first tried to rescue the animal using net and it entered our net,” said a forest official. The nilgai was spotted in a park near Bhairon Mandir in the last week of November. A few activists and locals had then contacted the forest department for its rescue as the park was not a suitable habitat for the animal due to shortage of food and manpower. They apprehended that it might also stray to the main road and get hurt after coming in contact with a speeding vehicle. “Over the last one month, we tried a few times to rescue the nilgai but failed in our attempts. As we did not have proper rescue equipment and also, there was a shortage of manpower, we could not catch the animal in our first attempt,” said another forest official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nilgai-rescued-by-forest-officials-after-month/articleshow/80123093.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
January 6, 2021||Chennai||In a tryst with tribals, sculptors find a groove||CHENNAI: Sculptor Karthikeyan Pitchaimallian spent three days with an elderly tribal woman of the Toda community at her hamlet in the Nilgiris to study the intricate patterns of her earrings. The traditional style has given way to modern changes, but some still wear the earrings and other parts of the attire. Karthikeyan wanted to sculpt the Nilgiris tribals against the backdrop of their tradition and customs. A group of 12 artists has been working on sculptures of tribal people of the Nilgiris to be installed at a proposed tribal eco-village near the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) in Erode. The team, headed by sculptors Karthikeyan and P V Prabhakaran, has finished more than 60 sculptures of people belonging to various tribes such as Paniya, Kattunayaka, Irula, Kurumbha, Kota, Toda and Oorali. To get the exact feel of their lives, the artists stayed with the tribal people in their homes for more than two weeks. Started in October 2019, the project is an initiative of the Tamil Nadu forest department and the STR. "Travelling and staying with the tribal people in the hamlets helped us know more about their daily lives and age-old practices. We spent at least two weeks with people belonging to various tribes in their hamlets," said Prabhakaran. The 15-acre tribal eco-village in Karachikorai village near the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve in Erode will create awareness among people about the rich tribal lives, their customs, daily lifestyle, food, handicrafts and languages. "We used to sit with the tribal people and talk about their way of living. We even recorded their voices. Initially, they were initially hesitant to interact" he said. Communication wasn’t easy. "Even though they live in the Nilgiris, none spoke proper Tamil. Their language was a mix of Tamil, Kannada and Malayalam," said Karthikeyan. The life-size sculptures are first made in clay and molded into plaster of paris and then converted into fiber. "Each one is different when it comes to physical features. The Paniya people are shorter so we sculpted them as it is. We had to observe the physical as well as stylistic aspect of each one closely," said Karthikeyan. Even though the team has finished more than 60 sculptures of the 65 planned, a 25ft piece encompassing all tribes in cement is left. What disappointed the team was the sudden shift in the lives of these hill people due to technological advancements. "Their traditional lifestyle is transforming. Their ornaments and attires have undergone drastic changes. We had to collect some old photographs for the traditional sculptures," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/in-a-tryst-with-tribals-sculptors-find-a-groove/articleshow/80124362.cms||M T Saju
January 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Telugu film industry roots for 100% occupancy in theatres||Hyderabad: With Tamil Nadu permitting 100% occupancy in theatres, relaxing Covid norms, the Telugu film industry too has asked Telangana and Andhra Pradesh governments to remove the 50% occupancy norm. After the Unlock 5.0, the Centre had relaxed lockdown norms and said up to 50% occupancy could be allowed in theatres, which were the last to be allowed to open with the standard operating procedures (SOPs) in place Telugu Film Producers Council (TFPC) has written to AP chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy and his Telangana counterpart K Chandrasekhar Rao and pointed out the decision taken by Tamil Nadu on January 4 to permit 100% occupancy in view of the decrease in number of Covid cases. They urged the government should consider the request of the council in view of the problems faced by single theatres and multiplexes as they had been shut for several months. TFPC honorary secretaries T Prasanna Kumar Reddy and Mohan Vadlapatla, in the letters written to AP and Telangana governments, on Tuesday said 100% occupancy would help theatres and multiplexes meet necessary expenditure for their maintenance. The Telugu Film Chamber of Commerce, the umbrella body of the film industry, has also asked for permission for ‘full theatre occupancy’ in view of the Sankranti season as ‘film watching’ is a part of the celebrations. Film chamber president Narayandas Kishandas Narang said in a letter to CM K Chandrasekhar Rao that screening of films had completely stopped in March 2020 due to the pandemic. He said theatres had opened after the state government allowed 50% occupancy.  “Our revenues come only at the point of release of a film. With theatre capacities presently at 50%, it is unviable for any film to run successfully. Many theatres have since not operated as they will have to incur expenditure and producers are apprehensive to release their movies due to the uncertainty,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telugu-film-industry-roots-for-100-occupancy-in-theatres/articleshow/80123089.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Harish: Govt is pro-farmer||Hyderabad: Finance minister T Harish Rao on Tuesday said the government is spending a major chunk of its annual budget for the welfare of farmers and on agriculture. “KCR has transformed agriculture into a glamorous sector by spending Rs 1,000 crore on 24x7 free power supply, Rs 7,500 crore on Rythu Bandhu and Rs 1,300 crore on Rythu Bima. This expenditure is in addition to thousands of crores of loan waiver for farmers,” Harish Rao said at the inauguration of New Year diaries and calendars of agriculture and private officers and employees, and pensioners associations. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/harish-govt-is-pro-farmer/articleshow/80123103.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Delhi||Northeast Delhi riots: Court says Umar Khalid, Tahir Hussain conspired together||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Tuesday took cognisance of a supplementary chargesheet filed by Delhi Police against former JNU student Umar Khalid in a case related to the northeast Delhi violence. The court said there was reasonable ground to show that Khalid, former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain and another accused in the case had conspired together to commit offences as mentioned in the chargesheet. “Hence, there is sufficient material on record to proceed against accused Khalid under Section 204 CrPC,” it said. Chief metropolitan magistrate Dinesh Kumar stated, “I have gone through the supplementary challan filed against Khalid. It is alleged by the prosecution that he was an active participant in the criminal conspiracy to instigate communal riots in various parts of Delhi. Due to his instigation, a mob had gathered that robbed people and burnt down properties, including houses and shops. They also destroyed public property.” The prosecution, according to the chargesheet, had relied on the statement of a witness, who knew Hussain and the other accused. The court order added that the witness had allegedly seen Hussain distribute money to people participating in the demonstration against CAA. According to the witness, on January 8, 2020, Hussain went to Shaheen Bagh where he entered an office where he allegedly also saw Khalid and United Against Hate member Khalid Saifi enter. It is alleged that Hussain came out of the office after 1-1.5 hours. The court directed the investigating officer to supply the copy of the chargesheet, filed on December 26, to the accused through the jail superintendent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ne-riots-court-says-khalid-tahir-conspired-together/articleshow/80123119.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Goa||With no foreign tourists, no takers for boating excursions||Calangute: This tourist season, there have been no takers for crocodile spotting and other nature-based adventure boat trips and excursions in the absence of foreign charter tourists, said the tourism stakeholders. A senior boat operator John Rodrigues from Candolim said that though most boat and watersports activities have resumed, they have not been getting any bookings for crocodile or other adventure boat excursions. There is also no demand for backwater trips in houseboats. “Domestic tourists are not interested in nature or adventure trips. They are not keen on going for crocodile spotting or backwaters boat trips. They are only interested in going for jetski rides, dolphin trips or para-sailing. So the people who operate crocodile or other similar trips are badly affected,” Rodrigues told TOI. Seby D’Souza, another water sports operator at Candolim, also said he is not doing any nature trips this season. “Most domestic tourists come for two-three days. They just want to go to the beach, party, eat and drink well and go back,” Rodrigues said. ‘Day trips’ or ‘excursions’ are very popular with foreign tourists. A typical excursion starting at around 8am would combine crocodile spotting with bird watching in the backwaters of the Cumbharjua canal with a lunch stop at a spice plantation on the banks of the canal, with the trip ending by 4-5pm. This is a popular trip with British tourists. Other excursions would combine a visit to Old Goa, temples in Ponda taluka, a visit to a spice plantation and Dudhsagar waterfall. These trips are favourite with Russian visitors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-no-foreign-tourists-no-takers-for-boating-excursions/articleshow/80124411.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 6, 2021||Delhi||Northeast Delhi violence: All accused to get soft copies of chargesheet||NEW DELHI: Former student of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) Umar Khalid on Tuesday sought access to the chargesheet filed in the conspiracy case related to northeast Delhi violence — on a jail computer — following which the prosecution agreed to do it for all accused persons. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat said, “All the accused persons have simultaneously taken up the issue of providing a soft copy of the chargesheet and the prosecution has not objected to it. Hence, directions are given to provide a soft copy to all accused persons except Devangana Kalita to whom the e-chargesheet has already been provided. Let soft copy in the form of pendrive be supplied by the IO/prosecution to all the jail superintendents concerned who may upload the same on the computer, which may then be made accessible to all the accused for the study of the chargesheet.” Khalid’s lawyer had earlier expressed anguish over not being able to have a proper discussion with his client, as the chargesheet ran into thousands of pages and the meeting duration is too short. “Khalid may be allowed to access the chargesheet on jail computer. We have only half-hour calls,” Khalid’s counsel submitted. Khalid, who appeared from jail via videoconferencing, said in his conversation with the jail superintendent in the last 20 days, he was told that pendrives were not allowed inside the prison. “What I know is only what is reported in the media. I made a written request that as soon as the court issues a direction, jail gets it,” he said. The court then turned to co-accused Kalita, a Pinjra Tod activist, and asked if she had received a copy. “Chargesheet folder was put in the computer, which we were provided access to,” she said. Advocate Sowjhanya Shankaran, who appeared for Jamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, submitted she had moved an application on her client’s behalf November 18. She had sought either access to a computer or that the chargesheet be uploaded on the computer. “We are not getting any response. I am very disturbed,” she said. Special public prosecutor Amit Prasad said, “So far as Khalid’s application is concerned, a similar order be passed for all the jails. I completely agree to that. I agree to it that the chargesheet be uploaded to a computer and all have access to it.” Another accused Athar Khan, however, claimed that he was suffering from a deteriorating medical condition without being provided proper treatment inside the prison. Khan’s counsel also said that his co-inmates passed communal remarks against him. The court posted the hearing for January 19 — till then judicial custody of all accused was extended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/all-accused-to-get-soft-copies-of-chargesheet/articleshow/80123146.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Meerut||Villagers kill leopard, take selfies with carcass in UP's Saharanpur, 26 booked||MUZAFFARNAGAR: An adult leopard was brutally killed in a sugarcane field on the fringes of the Shivalik forest range in UP’s Saharanpur district by a group of young men, who later lifted the carcass high in the air and posed for selfies with it. As the videos of the alleged brutality started doing the rounds of social media platforms, the forest department took note of it and filed a case on Tuesday. On the basis of the complaint, police booked 26 people for the alleged brutality which took place in Saharanpur’s Buddha Kheda village on the same day. The animal was attacked with sticks and axes. Station house officer (SHO) of Fatehpur police station, Manoj Chaudhary, said, “26 people have been booked for animal cruelty. Attempts are being made to arrest them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/villagers-kill-leopard-take-selfies-with-carcass-in-ups-saharanpur-26-booked/articleshow/80120881.cms||Mohd Dilshad
January 6, 2021||Jaipur||Acute water crisis in Jhotwara, Mansarovar for past 10 days||JAIPUR: Residents of different colonies of Jhotwara and Mansarovar areas are facing acute water crisis for the past 10 days. Many colonies are getting water supply in low pressure, while others are not getting water at all. Water supply has been a perennial problem in the area and people are forced to purchase water tankers from private owners. Many people are purchasing water tankers together to divide the cost. Sanwar Kumawat, resident of Shivpuri, said, “For the last 10 days, it has become difficult to live here. Not a drop of water is supplied here. We have to either purchase tankers or request the government to supply water. We have filed complaints in the PHED department and they assured us of quick supply, but nothing has changed so far.” On Monday, around 25 residents of the colony protested in front of the PHED office in Jhotwara against the poor supply of water. Dinesh Aman, another resident and former councillor of the area, said that PHED officials visited the area in the morning when it showed water is being supplied. “Usually, water is supplied in most areas for 15 minutes in low pressure and in other areas there is no water supply at all. Now, the PHED officials visit usually those areas where the water is being supplied and leave before the supply stops in 15 minutes. Officials are not understanding the gravity of the situation,” said Aman. PHED officials of Jhotwara station said that they have been receiving complaints many times and there is some problem in the pipeline system which needs to be looked into. “We have taken cognisance of their issue and will resolve the problem as soon as possible. We need to change the system of pipeline as there is some technical glitch that this problem is being repeated,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acute-water-crisis-in-jhotwara-mansarovar-for-past-10-days/articleshow/80123121.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Agra||97% of 10k Covid patients recover in Agra dist||Agra: About 97% of the 10,302 patients who were detected in Agra district have been declared cured of Covid-19 and discharged from hospital till date. Thirteen patients who recovered were discharged from hospital on Tuesday. The number of active Covid cases decreased from 145 on Monday to 139 on Tuesday. Till Tuesday evening, seven new Covid-19 cases were detected in Agra, taking the district’s tally to 10,302. The patients included a staffer of SN Medical College and one of Agra Municipal Corporation. Besides, five people were tested positive in random testing conducted by the health department. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “The current sample positivity rate has reduced to 2.33%. So far, 9,993 people have recovered from the infection. People who had come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened. Random testing is being conducted in different parts of the city. People are advised to wear face masks as much as possible and strictly practice social distancing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/97-of-10k-covid-patients-recover-in-agra-dist/articleshow/80120895.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Delhi||Level of scrutiny can't be 'heightened' for important projects: SC||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday scoffed at suggestions to enhance and sharpen the level of scrutiny of statutory and environmental clearances given to Central Vista and new Parliament building projects and green signalled the projects while remaining rooted to its traditional methods of scrutiny and adjudication. "The petitioners have argued at length as to why the present case calls for a heightened judicial review... We are compelled to wonder as to what could be the circumstances, if at all any, wherein the Court not only surpasses the boundaries reserved for its oversight in the Constitution but also provides it an express recognition by acknowledging a heightened review," said Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Mheshwari, who formed the majority in a three-judge bench that green lighted the two projects. "Would it be justified for the Court to innovate and elevate the standard of review after a decision has already been taken by the executive in accordance with the procedure established by law, in pursuance of a policy," they asked. Rejecting the petitioners' plea, Justice Khanwilkar said, "there is absolutely no legal basis to 'heighten' the judicial review by applying yardstick beyond the statutory scheme and particularly when the Government has accorded no special status to the project and has gone through the ordinary route of such development projects as per law." The court said such a proposition (heightened judicial review) for select projects is "fraught with unforeseen consequences and replete with uncertainties". The SC said, "Once the Government decides to construct a new space for its sitting or to construct a highway or water dam or school or university and follows the procedure prescribed under law commensurate with the nature of project, then the Court cannot act as a multiplier of regulations and add its own notion as to what ought to be additional essential procedure for going ahead with a particular project." "In a democracy, the electors repose their faith in the elected Government which is accountable to the legislature and expect it to adopt the best possible course of action in public interest. Thus, an elected Government is the repository of public faith in matters of development," it said. "Some section of the public/citizens may have another viewpoint if not complete disagreement with the course of action perceived by the elected Government, but then, the dispensation of judicial review cannot be resorted to by the aggrieved/dissenting section for vindication of their point of view until and unless it is demonstrated that the proposed action is in breach of procedure established by law or in a given case, colourable exercise of powers of the Government," it said. "Therefore, it is important for the Courts to remain alive to all the attending circumstances and not interfere merely because another option as in the perception of the aggrieved/dissenting section of public would have been a better option," Justices Khanwilkar and Maheshwari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/level-of-scrutiny-cant-be-heightened-for-important-projects-sc/articleshow/80123142.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 6, 2021||Jaipur||Forest panel against jumbo rides at iconic Amber Fort||JAIPUR: A cloud of uncertainty hangs over the livelihood of Jaipur mahouts after a Union forest ministry panel advised withdrawal of elephant rides at the iconic Amber Fort. The panel has recommended the withdrawal in a phased manner and to replace it with electric or battery-operated vehicles. The panel was formed on a Supreme Court order based on concerns over alleged cruelty to elephants and their illegal use for joy rides and other activities at Amber Fort and Elephant Village in Jaipur, said a joint statement by Wildlife Rescue and Rehabilitation Centre and PETA India. In its report dated December 28, the committee has advised withdrawal of elephant rides considering the advancing age of jumbos and declining trend among tourists for rides. The report reads, "The declining trend of tourists on elephant rides and ageing animals are indicators for changes. The owners of the elephants also may be rehabilitated suitably in such situations. The new addition of elephants for rides should be completely banned". The committee noted in its report that of the 98 captive elephants inspected, 22 suffered from irreversible eye problems and 42 had foot problems, including overgrown nails and flat footpads due to walking on concrete roads. "Three elephants who tested positive for tuberculosis (TB) – a potentially fatal zoonotic disease of public health concern – in tests carried out by the committee had also been found to be reactive for TB in tests conducted by the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) in 2018," said the report, refuting the Rajasthan Forest Department claim that no elephant in the state had TB. Animal rights organisations believe the evidence-based report with long-term solutions for ending cruelty to elephants is now calling for these animals to be retired to reputable sanctuaries. PETA India CEO Dr Manilal Valliyate said, "These landmark scientific and humane recommendations mean that the days of using ageing, ailing elephants as toys for tourists are numbered". Mahouts in the state, however, alleged it was a conspiracy against them by an influential NGO. Hathi Gaon Vikas Samiti president Ballu Khan said, "The facts mentioned in the report are manipulated. The photographs of elephants published in the report were clicked in 2015 and not in 2020. I presume same photographs must have been presented in front of the authorities. All elephants are heathy and we have always cooperated in fair investigation. The influential NGOs are misguiding everyone for their vested interests". Elephant owners further claimed there is no declining trend in elephant safaris as mentioned in the report. Mahout Abdul Raoof said, "Elephant ride at Amber is popular across the globe. Even in pandemic times, when only domestic tourists are coming to Amber, one elephant is making two rounds a day. The move will not only jeopardise country’s first elephant village project, but also snatch livelihood of mahouts and their 25,000 family members".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/forest-panel-against-jumbo-rides-at-iconic-amber-fort/articleshow/80123156.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Delhi||It’s not a vanity project, new Parliament for posterity: Hardeep Singh Puri||The Supreme Court clearance to the new Parliament building and the Central Vista redevelopment project is a win for the government’s effort to remodel central Delhi. Soon after the judgment, Union urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri told TOI’s Dipak Dash that the project was a necessity. Excerpts:The Supreme Court has given a green signal for the project. Is it a big relief for the government?This is a very major step. A point often forgotten is that we are a 7,000-year-old civilisation and our history as a republic is a very small part. We were subjected to foreign invasion. Today we have a Parliament building which is 93 years’ old. It was never designed to be the legislature (bicameral chambers) of an independent country. When the current building was constructed, it was not the mindset of the colonial power to grant India independence. That came much later. Many countries which became independent, some within 20-25 years, and some after a few more years, constructed their Parliament building. But there is something more. Now a democratically elected government of independent India is constructing the temple of democracy for posterity, for the next 200 to 250 years. There was a global competition for design and best shortlisted companies participated in the bidding process. We followed the process and intend completing it by the winter session of Parliament in 2022. So, it was long overdue?The significance lies partly in a demand which has been around for a long time and now somebody has got the ability and political bandwidth to complete it. To say that it’s a vanity project is not right, it’s a posterity project. Vanity is coming from those who don’t understand it. Now the same people are opposing who once talked about the need for a new Parliament. To give an example, a sitting MP from a particular party, which was the ruling party, had given an interview to a newspaper in 2012 saying there was a need for a new Parliament and the current one is inadequate. The deterioration of the building is problematic. Today the building lies in seismic zone-IV. Surely, a responsible government can’t wait till it goes wrong. Will you take the matter to the heritage committee?Of course, so far as heritage and green cover, I have always maintained that as minister of this department, we will follow and go strictly by the rule book. I have gone through the 600-plus page judgment. The judges have made some suggestions and we welcome them like making the smog tower an integral part of the building and also asking the environment ministry to make these as built-in provisions for the large projects. How do you respond to questions raised on the timing of the project especially when we are battling a pandemic? This is a project they (earlier government) initiated in 2012. When we started working on this project, we did not anticipate the pandemic. But what is the suggestion over the timing — should we shelve it for next 4-5 years? We have an outflow of nearly Rs 1,000 crore annually on rentals. The good thing about pandemic is we have got the vaccine done — Atmanirbhar and Made in India vaccine. They are questioning that also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/puri-its-not-a-vanity-project-new-parliament-for-posterity/articleshow/80123160.cms||Dipak K Dash
January 6, 2021||Delhi||SC or HCs can't become 'superlative authorities' through PILs||NEW DELHI: Hitting out at misuse of public interest litigations by a group of diehard dissenters masquerading either as civil society or a political outfit, the Supreme Court on Tuesday said the constitutional courts cannot transform themselves into 'superlative authorities' while adjudicating high-pitched PILs. While validating the statutory and environmental clearances given to proposed new Parliament building and Central Vista Project, a three-judge bench by two to one majority hinted that it was drawn into examining in detail, expending considerable judicial time by granting opportunity for elaborate arguments to petitioners and the government, the clearances to the projects on the basis of allegations, which were found unsubstantiated. The majority, Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari, said, "The tool of public interest litigation or 'social interest litigation', as it is more appropriately called, was devised to open the doors of the constitutional Courts for remedying glaring injustices against humans, that is, for securing constitutional rights." "It was never meant to transform the constitutional Court as a superlative authority over day-to-day governance. Judicial time is not meant for undertaking a roving enquiry or to adjudicate upon unsubstantiated flaws or shortcoming in policy matters of Government of the day and politicise the same to appease the dissenting group of citizens – be it in the guise of civil society or a political outfit," they said. "The foregoing comments are not because the Courts feel burdened by untenable and frivolous claims but to highlight that Court time saved would be time-earned to be best spent on more deserving claims of have-nots due to long incarceration, affecting liberty, denial of pension and salary, motor accident claims, land acquisition compensation, including genuine corporate resurrection and revival to benefit large number of workmen and investors etc... We need to say so because we had to spend considerable time and energy on this matter (lest the petitioners entertain a feeling of having been denied a fair opportunity), despite the pandemic situation, which at the end, we find to be devoid of substance," the SC said. The SC said the route of public/social interest litigation is being increasingly invoked to call upon the Court to examine pure concerns of policy and sorts of generalised grievances against the system. "No doubt, the Courts are repositories of immense public trust and the fact that some public interest actions have generated commendable results is noteworthy, but it is equally important to realise that Courts operate within the boundaries defined by the Constitution. We cannot be called upon to govern. For, we have no wherewithal or prowess and expertise in that regard," it said. Justices Khanwilkar and Maheshwari said political issues, including regarding development policies of the Government of the day, must be debated in the Parliament, to which the government is accountable. "The role of the Court is limited to examining the constitutionality including legality of the policy and Government actions. The right to development is a basic human right and no organ of the State is expected to become an impediment in the process of development as long as the government proceeds in accordance with law," it said. Referring to increased use of environment clearance as an issue to question development projects, the SC said, "Indubitably, environment and development are not sworn enemies of each other. It would be an anomalous approach to consider the environment as a hurdle in development and vice-versa." Emphasising the concept of sustainable development, the SC said, "The right to development is intrinsically connected to the preservance of a dignified life. It is not limited to the idea of infrastructural development, rather, it entails human development as the basis of all development. The jurisprudence in environmental matters must acknowledge that there is immense inter-dependence between right to development and right to natural environment."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sc-or-hcs-cant-become-superlative-authorities-through-pils/articleshow/80123163.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 6, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Restoration goes around in circles||NEW DELHI: The heritage Gole Market was to have been developed into a museum, but its long-pending restoration has been deferred once again after a recent New Delhi Municipal Council meeting failed to come to a consensus on the name and theme of the museum. While the museum was initially planned to house materials of cultural importance related to the city mainly to showcase the history of Lutyens’ Delhi, NDMC members were unconvinced about the need to highlight the achievements of the British colonialists and demanded more thematic options. An NDMC official said, “It is for the third time that the matter is being deferred. We expect a clearer response in the next meeting. As far as we can figure it, there is disagreement over displaying the history of the making of New Delhi at the museum. While all the modification and strengthening plans will remain the same and have already been approved, we are waiting for the nod from the council for the name and theme before going ahead with the project.” Virender Singh Kadian, MLA representing the Delhi Cantonment constituency and member of municipal council, confirmed that the subject was deferred to the next council meeting after some disagreements arose with the proposed name of the museum. “We will soon call a joint meeting where all these matters will hopefully be sorted out so that the members can finally clear the proposal for the revamp of Gole Market,” Kadian said. The octagonal market, constructed in 1921 to serve the British civil servants, had turned into an urban eyesore. So, in 2016, NDMC gave its nod to a restoration project for this colonial-era shopping complex in central Delhi and work was expected to be finished in a year. The redevelopment included structural refitting of the structure and creation of a museum there. But there were changes in plan, including a subway to access the island market place, leading to 2020 being declared the new deadline for the project. The project, however, has yet to see the light of the day despite NDMC having evicted several shopkeepers after the redevelopment plan was conceived in 2006. This had led to legal wrangles until the Supreme Court delivered a verdict in favour of NDMC in 2013. Elaborating on the plans, the official said, “The main structure of the building will remain intact as it falls within the definition of a Grade 2 Heritage Building. A glass dome roof structure will be erected over the central courtyard. The whole complex will have a central air conditioning system with a subway and lifts to reach the site. Ornamental fixtures and fittings are also part of the plan.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/restoration-goes-around-in-circles/articleshow/80123169.cms||Vibha Sharma
January 6, 2021||Delhi||Delhi government keeping close watch as four states face bird-flu scare||NEW DELHI: As states such as Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala are battling both Covid-19 and a bird flu scare, Delhi government is keeping a close watch on the situation. Bird flu, also called avian influenza (H5N1), is a viral disease that can spread from one bird to other birds and other animals. After tests of samples of dead birds in Rajasthan confirmed bird flu, some other states have sounded an alert to tackle the spread. The national parks and wildlife sanctuaries have also been asked to take precautions and Central Zoo Authority has issued an advisory to all facilities across the country to stay vigilant about animals showing any symptom. “Even in normal course, we maintain surveillance in the poultry market and since December, it has only been made more stringent as the chances of bird flu are usually higher in the winter,” a Delhi government official said. The animal husbandry unit of the development department has issued letters to all authorities concerned to stay vigilant. “Teams of veterinary officers have been deployed across all 11 districts of Delhi to keep a check even as stringent checks by doctors are on at the wholesale poultry market,” he said. The forest department is also keeping a watch in the Ridge and forest areas. “In case any dead bird is found anywhere, the sample will be immediately sent to the specialised laboratory in Bhopal,” a source said. “Even under normal circumstances, if any bird brought to the wholesale market shows any symptom, the entire vehicle is sealed and the birds are culled,” said another official. “Surveillance was at a high last March when bird flu cases were found in Bihar but there was no case in Delhi. Even during the 2016 bird flu outbreak, there was not much effect in the supply in the market,” he added. Till Monday, there was no effect on the supply coming to the market and it was business as usual, said Mohd Aftab, a wholesaler at the Ghazipur poultry wholesale market. It remains closed on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-govt-keeping-close-watch-as-4-states-face-bird-flu-scare/articleshow/80123171.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 6, 2021||Bareilly||Man killed by tigress in DTR forest, 4th death in three months||Bareilly: A 42-year-old man was mauled to death by a tigress inside a buffer forest area of Dudhwa tiger reserve (DTR) in Lakhimpur Kheri district on Tuesday afternoon. This is the fourth human death in a tiger attack in Singahi range of forests since October. Foresters suspect that a tigress with two cubs killed Preetam when he entered the forest to collect firewood along with three other people in the morning. Anil Patel, divisional forest officer, Dudhwa (buffer), told TOI, “Despite our warning, the locals entered the forest and one of them was killed by a tigress which is raising its cubs in the area. The tigress had killed the man but did not feed upon the body. The tigress is aggressive because of its cubs.” Earlier, the forest department had installed camera traps in the area after three people were killed in tiger attacks there. Within days, the images of a tigress with two cubs were captured. Since then, villagers were warned not to enter the forest. Latest victim, Preetam of Khamaria village was a marginal farmer. The villagers claimed that he was working near the forest area when a tigress lurking amid the bushes suddenly pounced on him and dragged him inside the forest. The forest department field staff did not find any tiger pugmarks outside the forest. However, at a spot in the forest area, they discovered pugmarks and blood clots suggesting that the attack took place there. Last year, on October 5, one Gyaan Singh was killed by a tiger and his remains were recovered three days later in the forest area. On October 9, the partially eaten body of a 60-year-old farmer, who took his cattle for grazing inside the forest area, was recovered inside the forest area. On October 24, Avdhesh Yadav (34), who was grazing cattle near forest area, was mauled to death in the presence of several people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-killed-by-tigress-in-dtr-forest-4th-death-in-three-months/articleshow/80119333.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 6, 2021||Jaipur||JLN Hospital to have new building||Ajmer: Underground parking construction at the new medicine block of JLN Hospital started on Tuesday. The new block with 310 beds will cost Rs 36.22-cr under the Ajmer Smart City project. This block is coming up by removing doctors' quarters and Ren Basera in JLN Hospital. According to officials, the new G-plus 6-storey building will have 20 waiting rooms for 200 patients and 40 super specialty ICU blocks. The whole complex will be air conditioned in addition to cottage wards.Official said construction of the multi-storey parking started on Tuesday in which 27 four wheelers and 61 two-wheelers can be parked in one flank and 91 cars and 592 two-wheelers in the other flank. The project also has a full AC paedifuatric block with 6 floors with ICU facilities. Poor people will get medical facilities in the hospital which is at present available in private hospitals. At present JLN Hospital treats serious patients from Nagaur, Bhilwara and nearby districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jln-hospital-to-have-new-building/articleshow/80123175.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Delhi||Temple row: War of words continues||NEW DELHI: For the third consecutive day, politics over the removal of the Hanuman temple in the Walled City continued with AAP blaming BJP for taking the court-ordered action. BJP retaliated by saying that removal of the structure was sought by the public works department of the AAP-led Delhi government. AAP MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj showed an affidavit filed by Satnam Singh, the deputy commissioner of the BJP-led north corporation, in Delhi High Court in which it was mentioned that the temple existed on encroached land and the civic body had allegedly expressed its readiness to remove it. The affidavit added that the temple could not be removed during the festive period, but all preparations had been made now. “The deputy commissioner also gave the court the date of demolishing the temple. At the same time, an organisation called Manushi Sangathan also demanded removal of the religious structure. Sanjay Bhargava, who heads this organisation, is close to BJP MP Vijay Goel and his party volunteers,” said Bharadwaj. Bhargava, however, refuted the allegations saying he was not linked to any political party. “This project is being monitored by Delhi High Court since 2007 when AAP was not even formed. I’m the president of Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal and we have been trying to get the redevelopment done since 2000. Bharadwaj should withdraw his comments,” he added. Bharadwaj raised the question as to how a top official could file an affidavit in court without informing the mayor and the standing committee. “The Delhi BJP chief should answer this query,” he added. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta claimed that in October 2019, PWD had sought permission from the court for removal of the temple as it was coming in the way of the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project. “PWD also stated that the corporation and police were not cooperating with it. The religious committee of Delhi government, chaired by the home minister, could have saved the temple by informing the court that the redevelopment work could be tweaked, but it did nothing,” he added. North East Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari blamed chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for the removal of the temple. “It is surprising that even after claiming to be a Hanuman devotee, Kejriwal has not uttered a single word. This shows his double standards. Respecting the sentiments of people, he should ensure the temple is rebuilt immediately,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/temple-row-war-of-words-continues/articleshow/80123179.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Delhi||In a rare case, Delhi HC gives pre-arrest bail to rape accused||NEW DELHI: In a rare relief in a case of alleged sexual offence, Delhi High Court on Tuesday granted anticipatory bail to a man accused of raping a woman on false pretext of marriage. Justice Anup J Bhambhani took into account the fact that the woman complainant had been in a consensual relationship with the man since 2013 and had even entered into some kind of property transaction with him. The court further disregarded the police’s argument that since provisions of SC/ST Act had also been slapped on the accused Danish Khan, he had no right to seek anticipatory bail. The court pointed out that there were no ingredients for invoking the stringent SC/ST Act, and further stayed the operation of an NBW issued against him by the trial court. Appearing for the accused, advocate Pradeep Teotia questioned the stand of police, arguing that as per the woman’s own case as recorded in the FIR, she had been in a relationship with the accused since 2013, during which she had also travelled outstation with him. Even in her statement before a magistrate, the woman admitted that Danish had sought concurrence of her parents for their marriage, to which her parents had even agreed. However, the marriage couldn’t materialise later. The lawyer placed documents showing some transactions in relation to a Wazirabad property, where the victim and her family lived. The property has now become a subject of civil dispute between the woman and the accused, since he has issued an eviction notice to the victim’s mother, the lawyer said, alleging that his client is being framed. According to the woman, Danish had established physical relations with her on the pretext of marriage. She later alleged that he also used a casteist slur against her. While noting that the accused has not been arrested yet, the court granted him anticipatory bail even as it asked him to appear before the court in response to the NBW.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-a-rare-case-hc-gives-pre-arrest-bail-to-rape-accused/articleshow/80123174.cms||Abhinav Garg
January 6, 2021||Jaipur||Vax row: PM’s intervention sought||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday sought the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the ‘unfortunate’ exchange of remarks between the Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech over their Covid-19 vaccines.Taking to Twitter, he said the “bayanbaazi” (remarks) between the SII and Bharat Biotech after the approval of their vaccines by India's drug regulator is unfortunate.“It is a sensitive issue in which the PM must intervene,” Gehlot tweeted in Hindi.Gehlot was apparently referring to a remark by Adar Poonawalla, Chief Executive Officer of SII, in the media that seemed to question the efficacy of the vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech.India’s drugs regulator had on Sunday approved Oxford’s Covid-19 vaccine Covishield manufactured by the SII and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country paving the way for a massive inoculation drive.Gehlot also said cases of new coronavirus strain (that has emerged in the United Kingdom) are increasing in India, adding that the Centre should reconsider its decision to resume flights from Britain from January 8.“If flights from foreign countries were stopped in January 2020 at the beginning of Covid-19 outbreak, this situation probably would not have happened today,” he said in a series of tweets.He said the central government must ensure that after resuming the flights from Britain, the new Covid strain does not spread like the current one. “I appeal to all who have come back from Britain in the recent times should come further for their corona test to prevent this new strain from spreading further,” he tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/vax-row-pms-intervention-sought/articleshow/80123176.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Jaipur||RU sacks assistant prof for being absent without leave||Jaipur: After six years, Rajasthan University has sacked an assistant professor from the Hindi department, Shruti Sharma, for continuously remaining absent without any reason. Faculty in the department has said that the administration should have taken this decision much earlier so that the post could be filled during the 2018 recruitment. Appointed in 2013, Sharma was absent from her post for many years due to some personal reasons. According to a press declaration published in a Hindi daily, the university has stated that from August 16, 2014 to September 1, 2015, Sharma was on leave for various reasons. After that, from September 3, 2015 to May 5, 2016 she remained absent continuously without informing the department. This has continued till today acting on which RU sacked Sharma from July, 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ru-sacks-assistant-prof-for-being-absent-without-leave/articleshow/80123173.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Army jawan was at farmers’ protest||CHANDIGARH: After almost a month, security agencies and military intelligence have identified one serving Army jawan who participated in one of the farmers’ protests against the Centre’s agriculture laws. The security agencies had swung into action after photographs and videos circulated online indicated participation of men in Indian Army uniform in the protests. TOI has now accessed details that reveal that the jawan, identified as a native of Ghudda village in Bathinda district, had participated in the protest during his leave period. The soldier is presently posted in Udhampur area of Jammu & Kashmir. TOI is withholding the name of the jawan and his regiment to protect his identity. The young jawan, who is of the rank of ‘sepoy’ and serves in one of the most decorated regiments of the Indian Army, had participated in the protest outside the office of Bathinda deputy commissioner on December 14 when farmers held dharnas outside district headquarters across Punjab in response to a call given by farm leaders. The jawan was on leave from his unit at that time and had reached the protest spot wearing camouflage uniform. As the jawan’s identity has been established by the security agencies as well as the military intelligence, he is expected to face disciplinary action for his conduct as per army rules. In photographs, the jawan was seen wearing full uniform and carrying a placard in his hand supporting the farmers’ protest. “My father is a farmer. If he is a terrorist, then I am also a terrorist,” read the placard. “Although he was on leave, participating in a dharna and that too wearing the military uniform is a grave misconduct as per the Army Act and he may face severe punishment, including court-martial for this,” said a senior serving military officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/agencies-identify-army-jawan-who-took-part-in-stir-in-military-uniform/articleshow/80125253.cms||Ajay Sura
January 6, 2021||Chandigarh||PGI to promote safety norms via poems, songs||Chandigarh: Using the medium of shayaris, poems and songs, the health workers at the PGI will promote the habit of wearing masks, hand wash and maintaining social distancing even after the vaccination. This will be a part of the national campaign – Jan Andolan, which was launched in October to spread awareness among the people about the precautions to be taken against the virus. “We have been organising some or the other activities. By using this creative form, we hope many hidden talents will unfold,” said Prof J S Thakur, department of community medicine and school for public health, PGI. Usually, such activities are encouraged among the students and paramedical staff. However, this time there will be a competition involving the faculty, students and other staff. “We will have entries from the faculty, students, residents etc. All this will be sent to us online. Even videos are allowed. After a committee screens them, we will felicitate the winners,” said Prof Thakur. The entries can be submitted till January 18. The department had also initiated ‘Salam Namaste’ campaign at the start of the pandemic, which encouraged no handshake, but Indian-style of greeting to avoid contact. “We shall expand to schools so that a larger participation is there. Even after vaccination, this new norm will remain as no one knows how long will the protection will sustain after the immunisation,” said Prof Thakur. There have been some faculty and doctors who had made songs and videos on Covid-19. There are some public health experts from the institute who made comic on Covid-19 for children. “This competition will encourage many health workers to get engaged and express their feelings without using medical lexicon,” said Prof Thakur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pgi-to-promote-safety-norms-via-poems-songs/articleshow/80122134.cms||Shimona Kanwar
January 6, 2021||Jaipur||Over 3 lakh beat Covid in Rajasthan, recovery rate stands at 146%||JAIPUR: Recovered Covid cases breached the 3-lakh mark in the state on Tuesday after 751 persons were declared cured of the virus taking the overall tally of such cases to 3,00,126. In the first five days of the year, 4,139 persons have recovered from the virus, while 2,432 have been infected with the virus. In December, 40,180 persons tested positive and 58,889 recovered. The recovery rate remained at 146.5%. Though the recovery rate in December was close to 146%, but the number of persons who recovered from the virus was highest in October with 66,759 recovering from the ailment. “The recovery rate in the state has gone above 96% as more than 3 lakh persons have already been cured. The number of active cases have also been going down each day,” said a health department official. Former health minister and BJP leader Kalicharan Saraf has appealed to chief minister Ashok Gehlot to remove the tag of dedicated Covid facility from Jaipuria Hospital. “Since very few persons are now getting treatment in the dedicated hospital, it should now be open for general patients fully by shifting Covid patients to RUHS Hospital,” he said. While the recovery rate is above 96%, some parts of the state have reported Covid deaths. Five persons died while 397 tested positive on Tuesday taking the overall casualty count to 2,719 and cumulative infections to 3,10,675. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (88), Udaipur (39), Kota (38), Jodhpur (32), Bhilwara (31), Nagaur (26), Rajsamand (23), Ajmer (20), Pali (14), Alwar (12), Baran (10), Sriganganagar (8), Dungarpur (6), Banswara (6), Jhalawar (6), Bikaner (5), Barmer (4), Chittorgarh (4), Sikar (4), Sirohi (4), Sawai Madhopur (3), Dholpur (3), Tonk (3), Bundi (2), Jaisalmer (2), Churu (1), Hanumangarh (1), Jalore (1) and Pratapgarh (1). Jaipur reported its 505th Covid-19 death, Jodhpur 293rd, Udaipur 112th, Nagaur 92nd and Chittorgarh reported its 40th Covid-19 casualty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-3-lakh-beat-covid-in-raj-recovery-rate-stands-at-146/articleshow/80123180.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Delhi||Age & gender no bar: These elderly women won’t budge||NEW DELHI: At 86, Charanjir Kaur is the oldest woman at the shelter home built especially for the women protesters at the Singhu border. She is also the head of her family that has only women as its surviving members. With no man left in the family, Kaur is braving the cold to stand by all women and men protesting against the three central farm laws. “This protest has united everyone in Punjab and I plan to remain here till the very end of this protest,” said Kaur. “Every youngster of Punjab is out here in the cold, battling everything that’s coming their way. Why? So that women like me can have three proper meals a day. Our lives depend on the withdrawal of these three laws that the government is not ready to take back,” she added. The shelter home, built by Khalsa Aid, can house at least 150 women at a time. At least two kilometres into the protest site, the home mostly has elderly women as its occupants. Battling the cold and now rain, these women are persistently protesting to fulfil their demands. Jarnail Kaur, another elderly woman, said, “Everyone is out here on the road for a common cause; we are not here out of happiness. None of us will budge till the black laws are withdrawn.” Emphasising that she has dreamt of a better future for the children in her family, the 68-year-old rued, “If such laws are implemented, we won’t be left with enough money to educate them well. These laws impact everything big and small in all the families.” Amid all of them sat a 10-year-old girl who listened to everyone intently. “My entire family is here and nobody stopped me from coming. I am comfortable inside the shelter and will stay as long as my family is here.” On the bed beside her was Harjit Kaur Sandhu, who feels age is just a number and one shouldn’t go by her age but her enthusiasm. “If the youngsters are protesting for our rights, I decided to come here to do whatever sewa I could offer. As I watched the news every day, my heart would sink thinking about the plight of my people here. So I decided to be a part of this revolution,” said the 64-year-old. Echoing Harjit, 70-year-old Arjindar Kaur said they had formed a new family at the shelter. “Women of all ages are here and they all are on the same page. We are not getting any personal pleasure by causing trouble to anyone. The moment our demands are met, we will clear out the place in a day,” she said. “If Prime Minister Modiji wants us to beg in front of him, we women are also willing to do that.” Watch Farmers' protest: Age is just a number for these elderly women at Delhi's Singhu Border||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/age-gender-no-bar-these-elderly-women-wont-budge/articleshow/80124412.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
January 6, 2021||Jaipur||‘Conduct survey of crop loss due to bad weather’||Jaipur: Agriculture minister Lalchand Kataria has directed the district collectors to conduct a survey of the damage to crops due to hailstorm notified under Rabi 2020-21 Prime Minister Crop Insurance Scheme.Kataria said there has been hailstorm in the state since January 4 due to which damage has been caused to the crops notified under the scheme. Under the Rabi 2020-21 Pradhan Mantri Crops Insurance scheme, there is a provision for estimating crop losses at the level of individual insured farmers.He said that under this provision, it is necessary to inform the insurance company within 72 hours of damage or in writing within seven days to their bank or insurance agent or officials of the agriculture department. He asked the district collectors to complete the survey of hailstorm-affected farmers by a joint team of representatives of the agriculture department, revenue department and insurance company so that the affected eligible insured farmers will get compensation for the losses in the Rabi crops for 2020-21. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/conduct-survey-of-crop-loss-due-to-bad-weather/articleshow/80123177.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Bareilly||Two minor sisters rescued, two booked for kidnapping||Bareilly: Two men belonging to a minority community were arrested on Monday a day after they allegedly abducted two minor sisters, aged 14 and 8, from a village in Faridpur area of Bareilly district. The accused were booked under sections 363 (punishment for kidnapping) and 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage, etc) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. However, a few right-wing activists have been demanding addition of appropriate sections of the anti-conversion act to the FIR. Bareilly SSP Rohit Singh Sajwan said, “One of the girls was in a relationship with one of the accused who had, along with his friend, come in a car to meet her on Sunday night. The girl, who was accompanied by her sister, eloped with her boyfriend, taking her sister along.” “After the matter was reported to police, a manhunt was launched and the girls were traced using mobile surveillance. Both the accused were booked. One of them was arrested and sent to jail. The girls were handed over to the family after recording their statements before a magistrate,” added the SSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-minor-sisters-rescued-two-booked-for-kidnapping/articleshow/80119343.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 6, 2021||Chandigarh||UT pushes for Resco model for solar power||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration has given its approval to Chandigarh Renewable Energy and Science and Technology Promotion Society (Crest) to move Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) for Resco (Renewable Energy Service Company) model clearance. As over 300 city residents had shown interest in installation of solar rooftop plants at their houses under Resco model, the administration had planned to knock on the doors of JERC. Recently, in a meeting under the chairmanship of UT adviser Manoj Parida, Crest officials submitted the status report, and accordingly, the adviser approved to file petition before the power regulatory body. On the directions of JERC, the administration had started a demand survey for the Resco model. Though the process of demand survey is still on, over 300 people have already given their consent for the model. Debendra Dalai, director, Crest, said they will seek permission of JERC for floating tender for installation of solar plants for these 300 applicants under Resco model. Crest, the project's nodal agency, had proposed this model after the approval of the UT administrator V P Singh Badnore as residents were wary of the initial capital investment. Under the scheme, the agency will install 2,400-odd rooftop SPV power plants on the build-operate-transfer (BOT) model on a first-come, first-served basis. Details and the application form are on www.solarchandigarh.com. The plant's capacity will be 5 to 10kWp (kilowatts peak) for residential sectors. Under the Resco model, private companies will install solar-energy plants on private property, and in return, charge the building owner a much lower tariff (Rs 3.44 per unit) than the normal electricity rate (Rs 2.75 to Rs 5.20) for about 15 years (or whatever period is agreed in the tender). Thereafter, the house owner will get the plant. The building owner and the private company will sign a deal. The plant will be installed under the net metering mode, whereby a solar-energy unit is connected to the building's electricity system and the solar energy exported to the grid is adjusted in terms of units imported from the electricity department during a billing cycle. 100MW by 2022-endThe ministry of new and renewable energy has enhanced the city’s solar power generation target from 50 megawatt (MW) to 69 MW to be achieved by 2022. The UT has achieved generation of 35MW as of now If UT officials are to be believed, solar power generation figures will touch 100MW in Chandigarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-pushes-for-resco-model-for-solar-power/articleshow/80122137.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
January 6, 2021||Jaipur||MiG-21 crashes in Suratgarh, pilot safe||Jaipur/Jaisalmer: A MiG-21 fighter jet of Indian Air Force (IAF) crashed near Suratgarh on Tuesday evening. The pilot managed to eject safely. The primary cause of the crash is suspected to be technical malfunction. A Court of Inquiry has been ordered to probe the accident, the IAF said in a tweet. “There was no loss of life or any damage to civilian property. A court of inquiry has been initiated and once that is completed, we will know the reason behind the crash. These are preliminarily details and all causes will be known after the inquiry. The pilot is safe and the incident happened around 8:15pm,” said a defence official. Two years ago, a MiG-21 fighter aircraft of the Indian Airforce (IAF) crashed in Rajasthan’s Bikaner. The aircraft took off from the Nal air base for a routine mission and crashed at Shobhasar ki Dhani area, 12 km from Bikaner city, the officials said. In this case, the crash happened possibly due to a bird hit though of Tuesday incident, the officials have not confirmed any reason. Defence spokesman Wing Commander Punit Chadda said during a training sortie in the western sector, the aircraft experienced a technical snag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mig-21-crashes-in-suratgarh-pilot-safe/articleshow/80123188.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Kulbhushan sworn in as Panchkula mayor||Panchkula: The oath-taking ceremony of the newly elected Panchkula mayor Kulbhushan Goyal and other councillors was held on Tuesday. The oath was administered by Deepti Umashankar, commissioner, Ambala Division. Councillors from Ward Number 4 Sonia Sood and Ward Number 19 Paramjit Kaur administered the oath in Punjabi, whereas all other councilors administered the oath in Hindi. The other councilors, who took oath of the secrecy of the office, were Narinder Pal Singh Lubana from Ward Number 1, Suresh Kumar Verma from Ward Number 2, Ritu from Ward Number 3, Sonai Sood from Ward Number 4, Jai Kumar Kaushik from Ward Number 5, Pankaj from Ward Number 6, Usha Rani from Ward Number 7, Harinder Mallik from Ward Number 8, Rajesh Kumar from Ward Number 9, Gurmail Kaur from Ward Number 10, Om Wati Punia from Ward Number 11, Sonu from Ward Number 12, Sunit Kumar from Ward Number 13 and others. Goyal said, “We will take Panchkula to new heights of development, which will put the city on the highest podium of livability quotient in the country.” Local MLA-cum-Haryana assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta said, “People have voted for the development works done in the city. Earlier, they elected me and now Goyal. Now the residents of Panchkula will see new heights of development in the city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kulbhushan-sworn-in-as-panchkula-mayor/articleshow/80122136.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
January 6, 2021||Jaipur||Udaipur students’ WhatsApp bill payment idea wins top contest||Jaipur: A team of three students from Udaipur secured first position ideathon organized by in National Payments Corporation of India’s (NPCI) and Bharat Bill Pay Systems (BBPS) for improving and expanding digital payment through innovative ideas. In the national competition for innovative ideas where more than 750 teams had participated, Abhinav Jain, Abhay Jidge, and Ruchika Bafna showcased a bill payment technology using WhatsApp. Abhinav Jain, ideator and team leader who pursues bachelors in computer science from Maharashtra Institute of Technology, Pune, said, “WhatsApp is popular in India with almost every person using it for communication. Leveraging its use for bill payments can give a major boost to digital payments in the country where still 80% of the population uses offline medium for their utility payments.” Jain said people can pay their electricity or gas bills just by sending messages on WhatsApp. “It supports features like multi-lingual and natural language processing (NLP) making payments convenient for large sections of people. It also enables users to pay bills just by clicking their picture,” added Jain. Some banks have already shown interest in the idea. Jain said they will be doing application programming interface with the banks’ software to demonstrate how it works. However, they have not floated a registered company as of now. “We are still at an early stage. We started getting offers from banks recently. We see a huge opportunity for the B2B service. We are documenting everything for our intellectual property rights. We will register the company as soon as possible.” NPCI has created disruption in the fintech space with products like BHIM, UPI, IMPS, Rupay, and BBPS of course. With 95 customer Bharat Bill Payment Operating Units (BBPOUs) including HDFC Bank, PayTm, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, SBI Bank, PayU, and more than 500 agent institutions including Google Pay, PhonePe, Amazon Pay, the magnitude of the impact that BBPS is creating today is enormous.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/udaipur-students-whatsapp-bill-payment-idea-wins-top-contest/articleshow/80123196.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 6, 2021||Goa||State financial assistance for retd teachers in need||Panaji: The state government has constituted a state working committee to implement the national foundation for teachers’ welfare scheme, under which financial assistance will be extended to educators in need. The scheme is for the benefit of only retired teachers, with or without pension, and their dependants. “The funds shall be utilised for financial assistance for retired teachers and their dependants (wife and children), where the pensioner is deceased. It was decided to give priority to retired teachers who are seriously suffering from chronic life threatening diseases,” the state government said. Applications under the scheme have been called by February 15. For those seeking benefit of the scheme, the family income should not exceed Rs 2 lakh per annum from all sources. The financial assistance will be provided for a maximum period of 10 years and the benefits will be discontinued at any point of time if the income of the beneficiary exceeds Rs 2 lakh per annum, the circular states. The financial assistance is also available to teachers who have permanent disability such as loss of limb, eyesight, hearing impairment. “Financial assistance to those having permanent disability shall be decided taking into consideration the insurance coverage and medical reimbursement obtained. The financial assistance is available to teachers with at least 15 years of meritorious service,” the circular issued by the directorate of education states. The committee for the scheme will be headed by chief minister and education minister Pramod Sawant and the applications will have to be forwarded through the deputy education officers or the additional district education inspectors. The education officials will have to provide their comments on whether or not the application is recommended for the financial assistance under the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-financial-assistance-for-retd-teachers-in-need/articleshow/80124430.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh: Over 1,000 tourist vehicles stranded in Solang valley||MANALI: Over 1,000 tourist vehicles have been stranded between Palchan and Solang valley as the road turned slippery following snowfall on Tuesday. Three days ago, more than 300 tourists stranded in the snow were rescued from near the south portal of Atal tunnel. Sources said tourists had been stranded since 3pm, when vehicles started skidding on the snow-covered road, and the over 4km-long highway is completely jammed with no space to drive forward or backward. The tourists had reaching Solang valley, 13km from Manali, in the morning to enjoy the snowfall. Palchan to Solang stretch along the Manali-Leh highway is covered with 8cm to 15cm of snow. Anil Goyal, who has come from Kanpur, said, “Conditions are getting terrible here. We have been stranded at Solang for over five hours now and plan to leave the vehicle and walk down to the hotel. Otherwise, we’ll have to spend the night here in cold.” “All rooms in my hotel are fully occupied. Some rooms have even 6 to 8 persons. They were requesting for help and are okay sharing rooms. This happened for the first time that vehicles have been stranded in so little snow,” Roshan Lal, a hotelier from Solang, said. Police officials claimed the situation was under control and all tourists were safe. “Traffic has been jammed because of slippery road and we are trying to bring down vehicles one by one,” said a cop. An ambulance of the 108 national ambulance service, which shifted a 70-year-old woman in critical condition from Keylong to Lahaul amid heavy snowfall, got stuck in over 2ft deep snow while returning on Tuesday. The pilot and emergency medical technician had to shovel the snow from the highway to move. The four-wheel drive ambulance is in huge demand in the snowbound valley. While Atal Tunnel is open for emergency, roads connecting it are blocked with thick snow cover, making driving very risky. Still, Lahaul residents are making optimum use of the Tunnel for evacuation during medical emergencies. Avalanche warningThe Himachal Preadesh meteorological centre had issued an orange alert for heavy snowfall as the western disturbance will remain active in the state till Wednesday and is likely 0to bring widespread snow. Meanwhile, parts of the state continued to receive heavy snow on Tuesday. The Snow and Avalanche Study Establishment has issued avalanche warning bulletin for the state along Manali-Leh axis. SASE has predicted chances of avalanches in Solang-Dhundi and Sissu-Tandi stretch and near both portals of Atal tunnel. Kothi to Koksar via Rohtang, Zingzingbar to Sarchu and Hadsar areas are also under avalanche threat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/over-1k-tourist-vehicles-stranded-in-solang-valley/articleshow/80123197.cms||Suresh Sharma
January 6, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Joint panel to study high ammonia levels in Yamuna||NEW DELHI: A joint study group and surveillance team comprising officials from Delhi Jal Board (DJB), Haryana State Pollution Control Board, Delhi Pollution Control Committee and the irrigation and water resources department of both Delhi and Haryana was constituted on Tuesday to check the recurring issue of increase in the ammoniacal nitrogen in the Yamuna. In a meeting convened on Monday by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the issue and the possible reasons, including the discharge of untreated sewage from upstream towns in Haryana, industries units, common effluent treatment plants and sewage treatment plants, were discussed. The illegal discharge from unsewered colonies was also looked at. “The group will review uniform monitoring protocol and requirement of strengthening monitoring mechanism, analyse past data and carry out field surveys to identify critical hotspots as well as period of high ammonia levels,” said CPCB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/joint-panel-to-study-high-ammonia-levels-in-yamuna/articleshow/80123211.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Bareilly||5-year-old girl raped by 14-year-old neighbour in Shahjahanpur village||Bareilly: A 5-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a 14-year-old youth on Monday evening, in Lalpur village under Jalalabad police station in Shahjahanpur district. The girl was playing outside her house when she was lured with a chocolate and taken to a cane field, where the accused raped her.Her parents found the girl later at night and rushed to a hospital. After being informed, additional SP (rural) Nipun Agarwal rushed to the spot. An FIR was registered against the accused, who was caught by police on Tuesday morning.SHO Jasveer Singh said, “The accused is also a minor, and lives in a neighbouring village. He used to come to the victim’s village to meet his relatives. Since he was known to the victim, she didn’t hesitate to come along with him.”He continued, “After sexually assaulting the girl, the accused ran back to his village and was hiding in a cane field when we found him. He was presented before the magistrate of the Juvenile Justice Board, and sent to a juvenile home. The girl’s medico-legal examination was done at district hospital in the presence of her parents, and reported to be stable. She will be presented before the magistrate for having her statement recorded.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/5-year-old-girl-raped-by-14-year-old-neighbour-in-shahjahanpur-village/articleshow/80119368.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Daily Covid-19 tests drop from 22k to 18k in Punjab||Chandigarh: The count of fresh Covid-19 cases has dropped substantially in Punjab andso has the number of tests conducted to identify infected people. From December 26 to January 4, the daily test average has dropped to about 18,000. Prior to this, Punjab was conducting over 22,000 tests a day on an average. Data of the health department reveals the state crossed the mark of 20,000 tests only twice in the past 10 days. Though the state’s overall figure of 1,31,032 tests per million population is higher than the national average of 1,29,844, as many as 12 districts are testing less than the state average, while 10 districts are testing less than the all-India average. Fazilka is the worst-performing district with an average of 73,516 tests per million population. Ferozepur and Moga have testing averages of 74,647 and 83,978 tests per million population, respectively. The list of districts which are testing less than the state average include Fatehgarh Sahib, Barnala, Amritsar, Sangrur, Tarn Taran, Mansa, Bathinda, Faridkot and Muktsar. Kapurthala has the highest testing average with a figure of 2,16,335 tests per million population followed by Jalandhar, where the average is 2,15,465. Punjab is using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and rapid antigen test for detecting Covid. Testing is considered the most important factor in controlling the spread of the virus by identifying infected people early and isolating them. Punjab Covid-19 spokesperson Dr Rajesh Bhaskar attributed the decline in number of tests to a drop in the number of cases. “Due to drop in positive cases, less contacts are being tested and this is the key reason for the daily number of tests coming down in recent days,” said Dr Bhaskar. On an average, at least 10 contacts of an infected individual are traced and tested. The exercise of contact tracing is considered as key to containing the spread of the virus. Districts lagging in testing have been directed to ensure improvement in the rate, said Dr Bhaskar. Districts with low testing per million and high positivity rate have been asked to increase testing on priority, while districts with high testing and high positivity rates have been instructed to assess reasons and take corrective measures. Maximum testing in 15-50 age group Of the total people tested in Punjab, 79% are in the age group of 15 to 50 years, while 10% are in the age group of 51 to 60 years and 5% each in the age group of 61 to 70 years and 0 to 14 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/daily-covid-19-tests-drop-from-22k-to-18k-in-punjab/articleshow/80123195.cms||Vinod Kumar
January 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Heaters, quilts to beat the cold at Pkl night shelters||Panchkula: With winters turning more harsh, homeless people in the city are taking refuge at the shelter set-up by the Panchkula municipal corporation. Of the nearly around 100-odd homeless men and women who turn to the night shelters set up by the corporation in Panchkula for warmth and solace, Krishna, who works as a daily wage labourer in the city, has now managed to have a peaceful sleep at night at the shelter. He says the night shelter provides him with quilts and that is enough for him to survive. “Whatever money I make is enough for me to sustain. When there is no work here, I try finding the same at other places and move there,” he said. Krishna’s story is not uncommon. With many marginalised men, women and children working and begging on streets, turn to these night shelters to prepare for yet another day. The city has managed to set-up night shelters like the ones already in place in Chandigarh. The shelters have been set up at MDC Indira Colony, sectors 16, 14, 8 and various other places. R K Singh, commissioner of the Panchkula municipal corporation said, “A total of 10 shelters will be set up in the city and we have so far set up six of them. Earlier, the shelters were limited to a mere tent, but we have now prepared the shelters like the ones our Chandigarh counterparts have prepared.” The night shelters are equipped with quilts and heaters. The authorities have also installed CCTVs, made provision of drinking water and table and chair at these shelters. Each night shelter has a capacity to accommodate 50 persons. “Due to the coronavirus pandemic, we are only accommodating 25 persons in each shelter to maintain social distancing. Those who come at shelters are screened and provided with masks and sanitisers. The shelters are properly sanitised as well,” said the MC commissioner. The homeless in the city are the migrants who come from Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan for work. A family, living on the footpath of the Sector 8 main market, usually spends the night in the shelter, which is only a few steps away from their dwelling. “We are comfortable in these shelters as we dont feel cold. We are given quilts too. There is no provision of separate men and women shelter, but we feel safe because our husbands are with us,” said one of them, who did not wish to be named.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/heaters-quilts-to-beat-the-cold-at-pkl-night-shelters/articleshow/80122175.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Jaipur||Truck mows down three, injures four; driver held||Jaipur: Three persons were killed and four injured by an overloaded rashly-driven truck at different locations from Paada Mandi to Chungi Naaka near Bangali Baba Aashram on Delhi Road on Tuesday evening. The deceased included a pedestrian and two bikers. Police have arrested the truck driver from the spot. According to police, the accident took place at 7.42pm when the truck carrying sacks of rice was taking a turn in high-speed. It started hitting the vehicles from Paada Mandi and continued doing it at Eidgah and Chunginaka. “It started from Paada Mandi and kept hitting vehicles until it reached Chungi Naaka near Bangali Baba Aashram where it overturned and fell on the bikers. Three persons were crushed to death while four others were injured and rushed to SMS Hospital,” said a senior police officer of Brahmpuri police station. Locals alleged that neither police nor transport authorities keeps tabs on overloaded trucks passing through residential areas. “The driver lost control and he was taking turn in a speed of almost 60 km per hour. Why it was not stopped by local police? Action should be taken against authorities,” said Nanak Ram Saini, a passer-by. Soon after the accident, a team of senior police officers, cranes and men from civil defence rushed to the spot. Police said the deceased were identified as Salman (23), Rajkumar (32) and Lalchand Saini (36) who were killed after been hit by truck at various locations. “Of the four injured, the condition of Prem Prakash (27) is critical while three others are undergoing treatment,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/truck-mows-down-three-injures-four-driver-held/articleshow/80123192.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Jaipur||Less infectious variant of bird flu detected in Kota & Baran||JAIPUR: Bird flu outbreak spread to two more districts on Tuesday after H5N8 subtype of Influenza A virus was reported in samples of dead birds collected from Kota and Baran.  Earlier on December 31, for the first-time dead crows were tested positive for the H5 avian influenza virus in Jhalawar. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot convened a meeting of officials on Tuesday. It was informed that toll of birds has reached 622 in the state. Total 122 samples were sent to National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, out of which 29 were tested positive for avian influenza virus. The CM directed to run an awareness campaign for the poultry farm owners and retailers. A video conferencing with poultry farm owners will be organised on Wednesday. The administration on January 1 had sent more samples to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, after collecting carcasses from Nandlal Meena Bagh Area in Baran district. As per the report three house crows and one kingfisher were tested positive for H5N8 avian influenza virus. Similarly, sample of a dead Magpie was tested negative for avian influenza virus. Samples of eight dead crows collected from Dara forest range in Kota district were tested positive for H5N8 avian influenza virus. An official at animal husbandry department said, “Like in Jhalawar, the Avian Influenza Action Plan-2015 will be enforced in Kota and Baran. For the same, the district collector took meeting and exercise has been initiated. The H5N8 strain of avian influenza has a lower possibility of spreading to humans compared to H5N1, but it can be lethal for birds. Other than this, in a meeting with agriculture minister Lal Chand Kataria it was also proposed to set up a testing laboratory in Rajasthan. Proposal will be sent to Centre soon,” Officials added that 100 more samples of dead birds will be sent to NIHSAD which were collected on Tuesday. Suspected cases of avian influenza (bird flu) are being reported from various other parts of the state too. On Tuesday, 281 deaths had been reported in 17 districts of the state. Highest bird mortality (53) was reported from Jhalawar where influenza hit for the first time. Total 38 deaths were reported in Baran and 31 birds died in Jaipur. In Jaisalmer, 30 deaths included six crows, one White-Cheeked Bulbul, one Indian Roler. Following this, the district administration and forest department have increased monitoring, especially near water bodies in Jaisalmer, Phalodi and Balotara where thousands of migratory birds are present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/less-infectious-variant-of-bird-flu-detected-in-kota-baran/articleshow/80123208.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Homeless in Mohali prefer sleeping in corridors||MOHALI: Homeless prefer sleeping in corridors under the CCTVs surveillance instead of taking the facility of the government-run night shelters in Mohali. Many prefer spending nights in roadside huts at Phase VI. During a visit to the night shelters, it was observed that the homeless were sleeping in corridors brazing the cold wave, but when they were asked about why they do not opt sleeping in the government-operated night shelters, which are being run free of cost, they said they feel safer sleeping in the corridors. Ramesh Kumar, Prabhu, Bunty, Ramanand, and a family of four, a couple and two children, said they feel safer as the shopkeepers have installed CCTV cameras in the corridors and everything is being recorded. Ramesh Kumar, Prabhu, Bunty, Ramanand said, “We sleep here as we believe that CCTVs will capture any miscreant trying to steal our money, which we earn daily. We have been sleeping in the corridors from the past two years and no one has till date been able to steal our savings.” The couple sleeping with their two children in the corridors of Phase VII market, not wishing to be named, said, “We think that we are secure here as when we opted for night shelter, we lost some cash and valuables. Here we feel that we have others also like us and are under the continuous watch of the CCTV cameras.” Many homeless also show their ignorance of any night shelter in Mohali as it has been observed that there are no directions or sign boards for the same. Mostly, rickshaw pullers, beggars and daily wagers are found sleeping in the corridors. Ram Asray, a rickshaw puller, said, “Last year, when I slept at the night shelter, someone stole my wallet. Such incident never happens in corridors.” Another rickshaw puller Janak Bhaj said, “The night shelter is situated at the end of the city and away from my work place in Phase XI. So, we prefer corridors.” Street vendor Dayal, who sets up a cart, was unaware of its existence. He said, “If poor are aware of the free night shelter services, they would definitely avail the same. But, the night shelter is too far off from the spot where we put up our carts and it is not possible to go there.” The night shelter at the Dara Studio Chowk in Phase VI has 43 beds with separate rooms for men, women, families and patients. There are three rooms with 13 beds each. Although mats, quilts and pillows are in abundance, but over 30 beds lay vacant. In 2012, the Mohali MC had renovated a few vacant rooms of the octroi naka adjacent the fire brigade office in Phase I and converted it into a night shelter at a cost of Rs 10 lakh. However, the shelter was not used and shut down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/homeless-in-mohlai-prefer-sleeping-in-corridors/articleshow/80122187.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
January 6, 2021||Delhi||JNU human chain marks a year of violence||NEW DELHI: A year after masked intruders ran amok in Jawaharlal Nehru University, students and teachers retraced the spots that were under attack on January 5 last year. In their peace vigil on Tuesday, students and teachers stood in a human chain that started from the Sabarmati T-point to the North Gate of the university campus, from where the as yet unapprehended rioters were said to have entered the campus a year ago. “It was like any other afternoon in JNU campus. The JNUTA was organising a peace March at Sabarmati Dhaba and common students of the campus also joined in large numbers,” recalled N Sai Balaji, AISA head and former JNU Students’ Union president. “But as the afternoon stretched to evening, things changed horrifically. We saw the brutal attacks on JNU students and teachers by a group of masked men and women armed with sticks, iron rods and sledgehammers. We saw the bloodied faces of the university students’ union president and general secretary. We saw one of our beloved faculty members from Centre for the Study of Regional Development grievously injured and we saw hostels after hostels being attacked by the masked goons.” On Tuesday, JNUSU vice-president Saket Moon said, “We are on this peace vigil to raise our voice for justice because there is an attempt being made to make people forget the incident that shook the campus a year ago. We want those who wore masks and attacked us to be brought to account.” Moushumi Basu, secretary, JNU Teachers’ Association, added, “We do not want people to forget what happened that day. And we came back to the spot of the attack to show the assailants that you cannot wipe us out.” Addressing the gathering, JNUSU president Aishe Ghosh declared that the fight was for an “alternative idea of JNU” that was socially inclusive and gender-inclusive. “We may be beaten and attacked for this, but we will continue to fight and protect that JNU. Our university culture is of debate and dissent. These are enunciated in dhabas discussions and through pamphlets. Today, we perceive an attempt to shut down these very dhabas on the campus.” The protest culminated in the students and the JNUTA members lighting candles and placing them in formation to spell JNU. Earlier in the day, the RSS-affiliated ABVP conducted its own remembrance march against ‘red terror’ on the campus. “A padayatra from Sabarmati dhaba to JNU main gate was held to condemn the hooliganism of Left Unity,” said Shivam Chaurasia, president of ABVP’s JNU unit. “Several organisations such as JNUTF, YUVA, Vivekananda Vichar Manch and Ambedkar Vichar Manch also participated in the padyatra to show their dissent against the Left-sponsored violence in universities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jnu-human-chain-marks-a-year-of-violence/articleshow/80124415.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Night shelters bring relief for homeless and those in need||Chandigarh: Amid extreme cold weather, provision of night shelters provided by the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) has come as a blessing for the homeless as well as for those who are here for the treatment of their relatives at the PGI. However, not many are aware of these night shelters and the officials of the civic body must step up to promote these night shelters so that the facility could be availed by people. 70-year-old Mehnga Singh, who hails from Mukhtsar and is staying here at the night shelter in front of the PGI, said, “My son is admitted here. We slept at a bus stand for two nights amid the cold waves and it was very tough. We then got to know about this shelter. The facility provided by the MC is good and the staff is also cooperative.” TOI checked various night shelters at sectors 16, 22 and in front of the PGI recently. Due to the Covid-19 outbreak, officials have made sure to keep sanitisers as well as infrared thermometers for those, who wish to live here. People are also checked before they enter the shelter. “To make sure that social distancing norm is followed, we have kept mattresses at a distance. People themselves are careful now,” said an official at the night shelter in front of the PGI. Meanwhile, at the Sector 22 night shelter, 33-year-old Subodh Mandal, who works as a labourer in the city, said, “Before these night shelters were set up, I was sleeping at the corridors of the markets. I don’t feel cold here. When I saw the white tent here, I asked the officials about the same and now I am comfortable.” 40-year-old Rimpy, who hails from Manali, said, “My husband is undergoing treatment at the PGI. Night shelters are safe and sound for women. For two days, I was literally sleeping on the floor and then one day a tea vendor told me about this.” The MC has set up a total of 10 night shelters all across the city, which started from December 1. “I am here with my son, daughter and my wife. It’s our third day here at the night shelter. My kids are safe here when I am not around. The officials are up all night and provide help,” said Ravi, who hails from Sirsa and is here at the PGI for treatment of his leg infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/night-shelters-bring-relief-for-homeless-and-those-in-need/articleshow/80122205.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Bhopal||Corona on the wane? MP count breaches 40K mark||Bhopal: Covid-19 infections in the state capital have crossed the 40,000 mark. The first case of the infection was detected in March 2020. In 288 calendar days, or nine and half months, on an average, 138 people have been diagnosed with the infection in Bhopal. Currently, the rate of corona infection seems to be declining in MP. The number of cases in the state capital too are coming down, despite news of the emergence of new Covid-19 strains. The corona situation has been improving in Bhopal since December 2020. In first five days of January, the infection rate is low, but active cases are still around the 2,000 mark. For the last few days, the number of corona patients in the state has been steadily decreasing. On Monday, the number of new corona patients in the state was 621. More than 25,000 people were tested for the infection on Monday. The coronavirus growth rate currently is 2.4%. Earlier on Sunday, it was 2.7%. The way the growth rate is going down, it is believed that the infection is weakening in the state, according to experts. The death toll due to Covid-19 has touched more than 586 in Bhopal. Covid-19 most commonly manifests as fever, dry cough, shortness of breath and tiredness. Most people (80%) experience mild disease and recover without hospitalization, while around 20% may become more seriously ill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/corona-on-the-wane-mp-count-breaches-40k-mark/articleshow/80122208.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 6, 2021||Bareilly||UP: Dogs maul minor girl to death, villagers look on||PILIBHIT: A pack of stray dogs attacked a 13-year-old girl and mauled her to death while she was heading home in Pilibhit’s Bagwa village on Tuesday even as locals looked on helplessly. Sources said that the dogs attacked Neha Maurya, a class IV student, after spotting her all alone near the family’s agricultural field. On seeing the ferocious dogs, even locals who rushed to help couldn’t do much to save the girl, they added. She succumbed to injuries on the spot. On information, district magistrate Pulkit Khare and superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav rushed to the village to take stock of the situation. Forest range officer Satyendra Chaudhary, deputed to examine the case, said that the dogs were surviving on cattle remains for long and must have been starving due to which they attacked the girl. Decision to sterilize animals would be taken after consultationLater, the DM ordered the forest authorities and chief veterinary officer Dr Akhilesh Kumar Garg to catch the dogs and release them away from human settlements. He also sought an explanation from the gram pradhan, village development officer, panchayat secretary and revenue officials concerned about negligence in curbing stray menace on time. Khare said that a decision on whether to sterilize the animals would be taken after consultation with experts. Meanwhile, the CVO said that they would constitute a committee to tackle the menace after receiving a report from the area veterinary officer. Earlier, stray dogs had killed a 10-year-old boy in the district in August. The boy, Ajiz Raza, was on his way home from their field in Rasiyakhanpur village when the dogs attacked him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/stray-dogs-maul-13-year-old-girl-to-death-as-locals-look-on-helplessly-in-pilibhit/articleshow/80119383.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Complaint filed after fishing nets found in Brahmsarovar||Kurukshetra: A police complaint was filed here after fishing nets were spotted in the holy Brahmsarovar on Tuesday morning. Some of the devotees, who visit Brahmsarovar every morning to offer prayers, noticed the nets and alerted the on-duty divers and tourist police post. Thanesar resident Ashutosh said, “10 fishes were caught in the nets, of which one died. The rest were released into the water again. We were shocked to see this happen at a sacred place like Brahmsarovar. The authorities were caught unaware of the incident.” Another resident said, “The nets were apparently set in the night. When we informed the Kurukshetra Development Board (KDB) and the tourist police, they started blaming each other for the absence of security personnel there. For an area of about 3 km around Brahmsarovar, only four tourist police officials remain on duty. KDB has also deputed one guard, which looks after its office.” KDB honorary secretary Madan Mohan Chhabra said, “Fishing is completely prohibited at Brahmsarovar as it is a shrine. If such a thing has happened, there is a big lapse on the part of the police. It’s the duty of tourist police to check such activities.” Kurukshetra University police station SHO sub-inspector Gurmail Singh said, “We have received a complaint digitally from the KDB office in this regard and the matter is being probed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/complaint-filed-after-fishing-nets-found-in-brahmsarovar/articleshow/80123221.cms||JK Singh
January 6, 2021||Jaipur||LS speaker’s daughter clears UPSC exam||Jaipur: Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla’s daughter Anjali has cleared the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) exam in the first attempt. “My entire family is serving society. My father is a politician, mother is a doctor and elder sister is a CA. I chose the civil services medium to serve society,” said Anjali. She owes her success to the family. “My entire family stood by me from the time I started preparing for the exam and helped me face the interview. They always motivated me of doing great things in life,” said Birla. Ready to take up any challenge as an administrative officer, she said, “I would be happy if I get a chance to work for women empowerment” said Birla, who attended Sophia School in Kota. Born and brought in a city which is known for the producing engineers and doctors, Birla chose to build her career around humanities. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ls-speakers-daughter-clears-upsc-exam/articleshow/80123219.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 6, 2021||Chandigarh||No pension raise announced in 2020, opposition cries foul||Chandigarh: With the government yet to make any formal announcement or initiate the process, uncertainty prevails over increase of Rs 250 in old age and widow pension scheme. There are 17.38 lakh beneficiaries of old age pension scheme and 7.49 lakh beneficiaries of widow or destitute women social security pension scheme. Earlier, money under this pension scheme used to be increased on Haryana Day. However, this time, there is no clarity on when the increased pension will be disbursed. After the BJP-JJP government took over in October last year, an increase of Rs 250 in pension was made from December. Beneficiaries received pension of Rs 2,250 in their accounts in the first week of January 2020. Sources said the department of social justice and empowerment is going slow for 2021 on account of the burden on the state exchequer caused by Covid outbreak. The most popular scheme of social justice and empowerment was started by then chief minister Devi Lal in 1987. It started with Rs 100 per month and now, the monthly pension has gone up to Rs 2,250. Increasing pension by Rs 250 in January last year, the government also announced that pension would be increased every year in January. The announcement was due in December. “In fact, we never fixed any date and increase of the amount is linked to the consumer index as well. But even then, we shall increase it and make the announcement soon,’’ said Anand Mohan Sharan, additional chief secretary (ACS), social justice and empowerment department. Increase in pension is one of the major promises made by all political parties during the elections. While the BJP promised a substantial increase in pension, the Dushyant Chautala led-JJP, which is now an alliance partner, announced that pension would be raised to Rs 5,000 per month. The Congress also announced that it would double pension money for beneficiaries. Meanwhile, opposition leaders are criticising the social justice and empowerment department and the government for delay in increase of the amount. “If the government or alliance partner could not honour the commitment of doubling the pension or raising it to Rs 5,000, they should have kept their word of announcing the increase in the last week of December,’’ said Manoj Aggarwal, a senior Congress leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-pension-raise-announced-in-2020-opposition-cries-foul/articleshow/80123220.cms||Manvir Saini
January 6, 2021||Jaipur||5-yr-old boy among 3 who tested +ve for UK strain||Jaipur: Among three persons who tested positive for the mutated Covid strain in Sriganganagar is a five-year-old boy who had returned from the UK on December 19. The boy, found infected with his mother and father, have been kept at an institutional quarantine facility in Sriganganagar. The health authorities are now taking samples of the persons who came in contact with them after their return from the UK. “We have identified 10 persons who were in close contact with them and taken their samples for Covid test,” said a health department official. Besides, he said all the three persons who tested positive for the UK’s mutated strain are asymptomatic as they do not have fever or other symptoms. The doctors are closely monitoring their health and after a gap of five days, they will take their samples again for test. In Jaipur, where highest number of persons in the state reached from the UK in November and December, no person has tested positive for the mutated strain. “The Centre had sent us list of 333 persons who returned from the UK in November and December. So far not a single person has tested positive for mutated UK strain,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officier, Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-yr-old-boy-among-3-who-tested-ve-for-uk-strain/articleshow/80123230.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Rajkot||Rajkot: Man kills wife’s sister, father-in-law; faces mob fury||RAJKOT: A man was nearly lynched by mob after he brutally hacked to death his sister-in-law and father-in-law in a fit of murderous rage that was triggered by some family dispute in Sarodi village of Surendranagar district on Tuesday. The assailant Hitesh Koradia locked himself in the verandah as a mob of nearly 500 villagers surrounded the house, demanding that he be handed over to him. The mob violently resisted the police teams that rushed there to rescue him and even threw chilli powder on the cops who managed to get his custody after nearly one hour of struggle. Koradiya came to meet his wife who was staying with her parents house for the last few months after some domestic squabble with him. After some heated argument, Koradiya, who was armed with a knife, recklessly started stabbing his wife’s sister Sonal Chavda (22) and father-in-law Damji (50). Sonal and Damji died while Koradiya’s wife, her mother and brother also suffered severe injuries. They were shifted to Wankaner hospital. The other three people including his wife and mother in law got injured in a scuffle. With great difficulty, police rescued Koradiya who was later shifted to Rajkot Civil Hospital for severe injuries.  Talking to TOI, Surendranagar superintendent of police (SP), Mahendra Bagadiya said, “It looks like he went on a stabbing spree in a fit of rage. He locked himself inside the room but angry villagers gathered in huge numbers.” Deputy SP, CP Mundha said, “There was a mob of nearly 500 people outside the house and they did not allow police to enter inside the village. Some of them also threw chilli powder on us, but the cops arrested Koradiya after persuading the villagers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-kills-wifes-sister-father-in-law-faces-mob-fury/articleshow/80120970.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Shimla||HP cabinet relaxes norms for polls, lifts night curfew||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh cabinet on Tuesday decided to lift the night curfew imposed in four districts of Shimla, Kangra, Mandi and Kullu and restore the usual six-day week schedule in government offices in the state. The state cabinet meeting was held in Shimla, chaired by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, in which on the request of state election commission, the condition of allowing not more than 50 persons in an indoor meeting was relaxed so that the panel could undertake its election-related training programme effectively. It gave nod to allow coaching classes in the state with 50% capacity. The state education department would issue SOP in this regard. The council of ministers also decided that makeshift hospitals at IGMC Shimla, CHC Nalagarh and Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College Tanda in Kangra would be made functional for dealing with Covid-19 by outsourcing the posts of ward sisters, staff nurses, DEOs and Class-IV staffers for the time being. In addition, medical officers would be arranged through fresh/direct walk-in-interviews. The cabinet also passed a resolution thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Government of India for approving Covid vaccine for use in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-cabinet-relaxes-norms-for-polls-lifts-night-curfew/articleshow/80123216.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Dehradun||Vaccines are safe, take them without fear, says Ramdev||Haridwar: “The Covid vaccines are safe and people should take them without fear,” asserted yoga guru Ramdev at a press conference at Patanjali Yogpeeth in Haridwar on the occasion of the organisation’s 26th foundation day. “People who suffer from chronic diseases and have comorbidities should take the vaccine first. Healthy persons like me, who do not have sugar, blood pressure or obesity, can wait. The vaccine is safe as it does not have any ingredients derived from cows or swine. We should thank our scientists for developing the vaccines in time,” Ramdev added. Ramdev also said the Prime Minister Narendra Modi had brought in the new farmer bills with their progress in mind. “The government is ready to address the farmers’ demands. They should also step forward and help reach a resolution. Some doubts will prevail but abolishing all three farm bills is not the solution. Farmers should think about the bigger picture.” “Anti-social elements, with their anti-national agenda, have infiltrated the protests and we must check them. Meanwhile, the Opposition has become mentally unstable. It seems to have no job other than targeting the PM,” Ramdev added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/vaccines-are-safe-take-them-without-fear-says-ramdev/articleshow/80120991.cms||MS Nawaz
January 6, 2021||Goa||Goa: Another Class X student tests positive in Valpoi||VALPOI: After schools reopened following the Christmas break, a Class X student from an aided school in Valpoi has tested positive for Covid-19. The student tested positive on Monday and this is the second such case reported from a Valpoi school since the directorate of education allowed physical classes to be conducted for Class X and XII students, starting from November 21. Recently, a student from another school at Velus-Valpoi had tested positive. Meanwhile, authorities of the Valpoi school disinfected the premises and closed down the wing where the infected student had attended classes. “We learnt on Tuesday from the Valpoi community health centre that one of our students has tested positive. Immediately, we asked him to stay home and suspended classes till further instruction,” said headmaster of the school. He said that all students and staffers, who had come in contact with the infected student, have been strictly instructed to get themselves tested and to home isolate. But following the news of the student testing positive, panic gripped the teaching community and students across Valpoi. Locals said it is still unclear how exams will be conducted for students of lower classes. They said they fear that if students of lower classes are also called for offline exams, they will be exposed to the risk of infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/another-class-x-student-tests-positive-in-valpoi/articleshow/80124461.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Goa||BJP seeks action against Congress Goa in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao||PANAJI: BJP demanded on Tuesday that contempt proceedings be initiated against Congress Goa desk in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao for his comments against the judiciary over the disqualification petition filed by Congress. “Contempt proceedings should be initiated against Rao for the contemptuous, malicious and irresponsible statements casting aspersions on the judges of the SC. His frustration is palpable,” BJP general secretary and former South Goa MP Narendra Sawaikar said. He also said the statement smacks of arrogance and least respect for the judiciary. On Monday, soon after a Supreme Court bench headed by Chief Justice of India S A Bobde adjourned Congress’ petition for an early hearing into the disqualification petition filed against 10 rebel MLAs, Rao alleged that it appeared that the Supreme Court was backing defections engineered by BJP. “By the time the judges decide to hear and dispose of the disqualification petition, it will be infructuous as elections in Goa will be in a year. The CJI seems to have his priorities set. Looks like defections by BJP has the backing of the Supreme Court,” Rao, the former Karnataka Congress president, alleged in a tweet. A bench comprising CJI Bobde and justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian heard the matter and posted the next hearing for February. State Congress president Girish Chodankar had approached the Supreme Court pointing out the nearly nine-month delay by the speaker in deciding the disqualification petitions filed against the MLAs. Chodankar in his plea had cited an order in the Manipur assembly case passed by the Supreme Court in March 2019 and sought a direction to restrain the MLAs from attending the assembly proceedings during the pendency of the disqualification petition. In August 2019, Congress filed a disqualification petition before the speaker against the 10 rebel MLAs who quit and joined BJP in July 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-seeks-action-against-congress-goa-in-charge/articleshow/80123246.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Rain, hailstorm hit farmers hard||JAIPUR: Mild to moderate showers and hailstorm continued for the third consecutive day in the state on Tuesday. This spell of rainfall accompanied with hailstorm has increased the worries of local farmers in Dausa, Sikar, Jhunjhunu, Alwar and Bharatpur district as the crops of vegetables have damaged. However, mercury continued to take an upward swing. Alwar with 10.2°C remained coldest in the state. Many places in the state witnessed mild showers and hailstorm especially in Sikar, Alwar, Jhunjhunu, Bharatpur and some parts on the outskirts of Jaipur. Farmers were worst-affected with this spell of unprecedented rainfall in state as local crops of vegetables were damaged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rain-hailstorm-hit-farmers-hard/articleshow/80123248.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Rajkot||Jail term for farsan shop owner for spurious food items||RAJKOT: A namkeen shop owner was sentenced two months’ imprisonment by the judicial magistrate first class (JMFC) court while four accused were penalized for Rs2.9 lakh for selling unsafe food, samples of which were collected by the food safety officials of Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) six and half years ago. The adjudicating authority in Rajkot under food safety and standard act imposed the penalty on the accused after a they filed a criminal case in the municipal court when the test reports of the samples suggested that the food is dangerous for human consumption. The resident additional collector is adjudicating authority to dispose such cases and impose fine. The food safety officer of RMC had collected food samples from ‘Bhavya Farsan’ on May 17, 2014. The samples of cow ghee used in cooking was sent for testing at a laboratory in Vadodara. According to RMC the in the test report the adulteration of non permitted and non edible colour dye was found. The test reports confirmed the samples to be unfit for human consumption and of sub standard quality. RMC, thereafter, lodged a criminal complaint. In his order on December 31, JMFC Naresh Ramchandra Vaghvani convicted Arjun Dhanvani, owner of Bhavya Farsan, under various sections of the Act and sentenced him to two months’ simple imprisonment and imposed a penalty of Rs 1,000. Food safety officials also collected samples of silver leaves from captain enterprise in Para Bazar. The silver leaf was produced by Mira Brand of Delhi which didn’t carry a FSSAI logo on the packaging. The adjudicating authority held the seller as well as manufacturers responsible and imposed a fine of Rs 75,000 jointly. In the same way, a penalty of Rs 75,000 was imposed on Yash enterprise for not carrying an FSSAI logo on its pack of edible groundnut oil. Bhagvan developers of Kothariya road were fined Rs 1.4 lakh for adulteration of other vegetable fat in cow ghee, while the packets did not have the expiry date printed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/jail-term-for-farsan-shop-owner-for-spurious-food-items/articleshow/80121017.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Pune||Pune: Colleges to reopen with UGC norms for safety of students on campus||PUNE: Colleges are getting ready to open from Monday after the Savitribai Phule Pune University allowed them to conduct practical, industrial training, laboratory and dissertation work. From sanitisation equipment to scheduling classes to avoid overcrowding, college authorities said a task force has been constituted to oversee a smooth reopening. At Cummins College of Engineering for Women, principal Madhuri Khambete said, “We are still finalising a detailed plan. Laboratories may start in the first phase. We are trying to ensure that the arrangements for hostel students are in place.” On Monday, deputy registrar of SPPU, Uttam Chavan, issued a circular stating that practical, theory, industrial training projects, dissertation of undergraduate, postgraduate and doctoral programmes in colleges affiliated to the SPPU will start from January 11. The practical, internship and dissertation related work of odd semesters for second year and the rest will be conducted from January 11. Principal Sanjay Kharat of Modern College of Arts, Science and Commerce said they have been getting ready since the past couple of weeks. “We have planned a single entry into the college with thermal scans and oximeter checks. Hand-wash points with foot-touch wash basins are also on the campus. We are scheduling laboratory sessions with just 15 students at a time.” Principal Gulshan Gidwani of St Mira's College for Girls said they would have staggered timings and more classrooms for junior college. “It will be a challenge to open junior, senior and postgraduate sections together. We had scheduled the online semester exams between January 10 and 21, so we have that time to prepare for the reopening for our students,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/colleges-to-reopen-with-ugc-norms-for-safety-of-students-on-campus/articleshow/80122222.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 6, 2021||Trichy||Three arrested for hoarding 5 tonnes of PDS rice at rice mill||TRICHY: Three people were arrested in Mannachanallur on Monday for hoarding 5,000kg of rice meant for public distribution system (PDS) in a rice mill. The accused have been identified as owner of JK Flour mill at Bhuvaneswari Nagar, J Thyagarajan, 58, and his workers R Karthik, 28, and G Rengaraj, 58. Acting on a tip-off, a special police team led by sub-inspector D Nagaraj searched the premises of the flour mill and found the PDS rice hoarded in 85 bags. The 5,000kg of rice was valued at Rs28,250. Preliminary inquiry with Thyagarajan and his staff brought to light that the trio had indulged collected the PDS rice from villages around Mannachanallur. Nagaraj said that Thyagarajan employed the two men to visit the villages and buy the PDS rice from people who don’t use it. The two would bring the rice to the flour mill where it is broken into granules and sold for poultry feed. “They buy each kg of rice for Rs 5 and sell it for poultry feed at Rs 20 to Rs 25 per kg,” Nagaraj told TOI on Tuesday. Police also inquired if the trio had links with staff of the ration shops to collect the contact numbers of the cardholders not using the rice. Nagaraj said that they suspect the role of some staff as they only know the customer details. The accused were remanded in the Thuraiyur sub-jail on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/three-arrested-for-hoarding-5t-of-pds-rice-at-rice-mill/articleshow/80123249.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Madurai||Over 2,000 names missing in voters’ list: DMK, CPI||TRICHY: The CPI and DMK claimed on Tuesday. that names of more than 2,000 voters in Railway Colony and BHEL Township in Thiruverumbur constituency are missing from the voters’ list. In a consultative meeting chaired by the electoral roll observer for Trichy Sajjan Singh, the opposition parties demanded the election officials look into the issue. The meeting was attended by Trichy collector S Sivarasu, election Tahsildar K Muthusamy and the representatives of the recognized political parties AIADMK, DMK, Congress, BJP, CPI, CPM, BSP and NCP. The issue was raised by a DMK representative and former MLA of Thiruverumbur constituency KN Sekaran. The issue was seconded by the former CPI district secretary of Trichy K Suresh. Suresh said that names were deleted from the voters’ list in the recent exercise of summary revision. “The process of deletion of a name from the voters’ list requires Form 7 but the names were removed from the list without the forms. It should be clarified by the election department,” Suresh told ToI. He also said that such issue occurred in Sengulam Colony in Trichy city. The parties also underlined about the incomplete list of newly added voters. “Since the part numbers and ward numbers are missing, it creates a lot of confusion,” said Suresh. The officials also assured the parties to look into their complaints and suggestions. The election department officials said that Trichy district had 2,531 polling booths as per the existing maximum voters per booth of 1,200 in urban and 1500 in rural. Going by the new system, the district would have 910 additional polling booths. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/over-2k-names-missing-in-voters-list-dmk-cpi/articleshow/80123244.cms||---
January 6, 2021||India||Punjab BJP netas meet PM, say govt ready to help tillers||BATHINDA/ NEW DELHI: Punjab BJP leaders Surjit Kumar Jayani and Harjit Singh Grewal met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday evening and apprised him about various factors pertaining to the farmers’ agitation. Both the BJP leaders, who have been mediating between the Centre and the farm groups, are learnt to have briefed the PM about the stand of the farmers on the three agricultural laws and the situation in Punjab. After the meeting, which went on for over two hours, Jayani said the PM underlined that the government is always ready to do something in the interest of farmers. “However, Maoists have entered the (farmers’) movement and are not letting this issue (on farm laws) get resolved,” the BJP leader said. “He (PM) wants to help them out so that farmers end their protest but the protest is leaderless. It would be more convenient for the Union government to speak to a small number of people. If two members come up for talks, a solution could be found. It is hard to talk with over 40 people,” Jyani added. “Modi knows a lot... all will be resolved and something good will happen. I cannot disclose what transpired in the meeting but something good will happen... when something is conceived there are fears of a miscarriage,” Grewal said after the meeting. Jayani said that the proposed next round of talks on January 8 will be held as per protocol and hoped that some solution is worked out “and the matter is solved in a dignified way as the PM is serious about this”. Jayani, former Punjab minister, was appointed chairman of the coordination committee formed by BJP to discuss the issue with farmers before the bills were passed in Parliament and Grewal was a member of the panel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/punjab-bjp-netas-meet-pm-say-govt-ready-to-help-tillers/articleshow/80125271.cms||Neel Kamal
January 6, 2021||Pune||First list for engineering CAP round 1 out today||PUNE: The first final merit list for admission to various undergraduate engineering degree courses in the state through the centralised admission process (CAP) will be declared online on Wednesday. Candidates can submit and confirm the option form for CAP round-I through their login from January 7 to 9. A total of 3.86 lakh students had appeared for MH CET in both PCM (physics, chemistry, mathematics) and PCB (physics, chemistry, biology) groups. The provisional categorywise seats too would be declared for CAP round I on Wednesday. The allotment list for CAP round I would be declared on January 13. The admissions are slated to be tough this year as cut-offs are expected to be higher. As many as 19 students received 100 percentile in the PCB group while 22 students got 100 percentile in PCM group. Last year, only one student in each group had scored 100 percentile. About 95,000 students have registered for admissions to 1.30 lakh seats. Candidates need to accept the offered seat through his or her login ID and report to the allotted institute and confirm their admission by submitting the documents and payment of fees from January 14 to 16. Candidates who have been allotted the seat as per their first preference in round I (auto freeze) should pay the seat acceptance fee via online mode through their login and such candidates will not be eligible for participation in the subsequent rounds. Those who have been allotted other than first preference but are happy with the choice need to self-freeze their allotment in the round I through their login. They must then accept the seat and pay the seat acceptance fees online. Such candidates shall not be eligible for participation in any of the subsequent rounds. Candidates who have been allotted other than their first preference and want betterment in the subsequent rounds must claim the allotted seat in round I by accepting that seat by choosing ‘Not Freeze’ option and then pay the seat acceptance fee through their login online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/first-list-for-engineering-cap-round-1-out-today/articleshow/80122234.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 6, 2021||Jaipur||90 municipal bodies go to polls on Jan 28||JAIPUR: The state election commission on Tuesday announced elections to 90 municipal bodies spread over 20 districts. The election will be held on January 28 and counting would takes place on January 31. Elections were announced to one municipal corporation, nine municipal councils and 80 municipalities. Election commissioner P S Mehra said that with the announcement of the election, the provisions of model code of conduct have come into force with immediate effect in the relevant body areas which will remain in force till the end of the election process. Mehra informed that the filing of nomination papers will begin on January 11 with the issue of notification of the election. Nomination papers could be submitted till January 15 by 3pm. Scrutiny of nomination papers will be done on January 16. Candidates could withdraw their nominations by January 19 till 3pm and election symbols will be allotted on January 20. Voting will be held from 8 am to 5 pm on January 28, while counting of votes will take place from 9 am on January 31. Mehra said the election expenditure that for contesting the elections is limited to Rs 2.5 lakh for the municipal corporation member, Rs 1.5lakh for the municipal council member and Rs 1 lakh for a municipality member. He said that during the campaign, it will be necessary to obtain the written permission of the officer authorized by the election officer to use the loudspeaker and its use will be completely banned from 8pm to 8am. Mehra said that till the last publication of the voters list of 90 urban bodies, 29,51,835 voters have been registered. Of these, 15,11,208 are male, 14,40,565 are female and 62 are other voters. The Election Commissioner informed that to carry out elections process about 30,000 personnel will be deployed. He said that more than 6,000 EVM machines will be used in this election. He informed that 5,253 polling stations have been set up for election to 3,035 wards. The Commission has kept the number of voters at a polling station has been restricted to about 750 in view of Corona situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/90-municipal-bodies-go-to-polls-on-jan-28/articleshow/80123276.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Coimbatore||Private bus rams into three cars; 2 injured in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: Two people from Pollachi were critically injured when a speeding private bus rammed a car on a rail over bridge (ROB) near SIDCO at Sundarapuram here on Tuesday morning. The bus hit two more cars before coming to halt by smashing into the parapet wall of the bridge. The car in which Nithin Prasad, 24, and his elder sister Kanjanadevi, 35, were travelling was completely mangled and other two cars were slightly damaged. Bus driver Prakash was trying to overtake a vehicle on the bridge when he lost control of the bus and collided head-on with the car in which the injured were travelling from the opposite direction. The bus was on its way towards Pollachi from Coimbatore. The bus then hit two more cars. The windshield and the front portion of the bus were damaged. Passengers of the bus suffered minor injuries. The bus driver and conductor managed to escape from the place. Nithin Prasad and his sister were admitted to a private hospital. They suffered head injuries and fractures and are in an ICU, a police officer said. Traffic investigation wing (west) police inspector D Veerammal and team rushed to the spot and cleared the cars from the bridge using a crane. Police registered a case against Prakash and picked him up for interrogation on Tuesday evening. In yet another accident, a truck laden with bricks rammed into an autorickshaw parked on the NSR Road here on Tuesday morning. It came to halt after smashing into a hotel compound wall. The driver, Ramesh, 31, from Chinna Thadagam, dozed off for a few seconds while riding on NSR Road from Thadagam Road. The TIW (west) police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/private-bus-rams-into-three-cars-2-injured/articleshow/80123275.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Dehradun||Tourist couple from Muzaffarnagar dead, 3 others hurt after car falls into gorge in Tehri||Dehradun: A tourist couple from Muzaffarnagar was killed and three others sustained injuries after the SUV they were travelling in fell into a 200-metre-deep gorge in Tehri district on Tuesday morning. The car — with a family of four and the driver on board — was heading towards Dhanaulti after visiting the recently-inaugurated Dobra-Chanti bridge in Tehri district when the accident took place. The deceased have been identified as Ajay Singhal (45) and Monika Singhal (40), both residents of Kambalwala town under Muzaffarnagar district of neighbouring Uttar Pradesh. The injured also include 19-year-old Shourya Singhal, 21-year-old Surayansh Singhal, and driver Pramod Pal. Upon receiving information of the accident, a team from the local police station reached the spot and rescued the injured persons from the accident spot and rushed them to the hospital. An official of the district emergency operation centre (DEOC), Tehri, told TOI, “ Monika Singhal died on the spot while Ajay Singhal, who was referred to a higher centre in Dehradun, succumbed to his injuries during treatment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tourist-couple-from-muzaffarnagar-dead-3-others-hurt-after-car-falls-into-gorge-in-tehri/articleshow/80120997.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 6, 2021||Jaipur||28 IFS officers transferred||The state government on Monday late night announced the transfer of 28 Indian Forest Services officers. Deep Naryan Pandey IFS (Rajasthan 1988) has been appointed as Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Development, Jaipur. Additional PCCF, Arijit Banerjee was transferred from forest protection to silviculture Jaipur. Gobind Sagar Bhardwaj IFS from 1994 batch was posted as member secretary, Rajasthan State Pollution Control Board. Additional PCCF, Anand Mohan and deputy conservator of forest (DCF) T Mohan Raj who were put on awaited posting orders (APO) after the tiger deaths in Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR) have been posted to Jaipur (forest production) and Chittorgarh respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/28-ifs-officers-transferred/articleshow/80123259.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Goa||80 infections take active tally to 859||Panaji: Goa detected 80 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, double the number that was reported a day earlier. As many as 70 people were cured. One morality was reported. The tally of active cases reached 859 while the mortality count rose to 745. An 87-year-old man from Margao died at Goa Medical College (GMC) after two days of treatment. With 2,022 swab tests done during the day, the case positivity rate rose to 4%, a point higher than on Monday. The day saw 24 hospital admissions and 61 patients chose to be home isolated. With a decline in new infections reported during the last few days, the caseload of all centres except for Panaji has dropped below 50. On Tuesday, Panaji’s caseload stood at 57. Mayem and Casarvarnem have one case each. The two centres saw minimal cases even when Goa witnessed a peak in September. In South Goa, the Margao urban health centre continues to see new infections and its caseload during the day was 103. Other centres, including Ponda, have fewer than 50 cases. Loutolim has the least.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/80-infections-take-active-tally-to-859/articleshow/80124464.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 6, 2021||Bhopal||Covaxin trials: Volunteers being administered second dose||Bhopal: The second dose of Covaxin trials is going on in the city. Volunteers who were administered the first dose are now being given the second dose.Around 1,700 volunteers were administered the first dose during the phase III human trials of the vaccine, that is being developed by Bharat Bio-tech. The second dose of the vaccine is to be admitted after 28 days of the first dose, said sources.The process of providing second dose to the volunteers had started on December 28 and will be on till January 28. A gap of 28 days is mandatory between the two doses.Sources from the People’s hospital where these trials are going on said that so far, no severe side effect of the vaccine has been reported by the 1,700-odd subjects who had participated in the trials. Hospital officials also said that free treatment will be provided to any volunteer who had undergone trials, irrespective of the ailment, barring accidental cases.It is noteworthy that initially, only 1,000 subjects at People’s hospital were to be administered the vaccine. The figure was later increased and a total 1,700 people volunteered for the trials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covaxin-trials-volunteers-being-administered-second-dose/articleshow/80122237.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gandhinagar man booked for possessing air pistol||AHMEDABAD: Ignorance about the law that requires one to have a license to for a .22 calibre air pistol landed a man from Gandhinagar district behind bars, after he allegedly used it to hunt animals. According to an FIR lodged with Mansa police, Ali Ahmed Sindhi, 34, from the Rajvipura area of Itadara village in Mansa taluka was caught with a .22 calibre air pistol. Its barrel was 23 cm long and its wooden butt was broken. The description of the weapon in the FIR suggests that it was assembled by Sindhi. Cops did not find any pellets on him. Sources in the police said cops of the local crime branch (LCB) got an input that Sindhi had a “pistol-like weapon” after which cops were deployed near Itadara village bus stand, where Sindhi was to come. As he arrived, the cops nabbed him and recovered the air pistol. A police officer said that Sindhi earned his livelihood from hunting and daily wage labour, and was not aware that he needed to have a licence to keep a .22 air pistol. The FIR states that the price of the air pistol recovered was around Rs 500 and it was sent to the FSL. The accused was sent for a Covid-19 test before he was arrested. Cops charged him under Section 25(1-B) of the Arms Act for converting an imitation firearm into an original firearm along with the charges under the Gujarat Police Act. Police said they are yet to question Sindhi about the source of the tools with which he made the air pistol and if he had hunted animals in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-booked-for-possessing-air-pistol/articleshow/80122244.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Pune||Institutions revamp infirmaries, tie up with hospitals for Covid emergencies||PUNE: From a tie-up with the nearest hospital to training staff in first aid and responding to emergencies, schools are taking care of medical needs of students as schools in the city have started reopening. The schools have equipped their medical rooms with basic facilities with isolation beds and having a doctor stationed and making arrangements at the nearest hospital to get ready for emergencies. Principal of The Stepping Stone School, Ritu Mendiratta, said they are going to test all the children every day as physical classes begin. If any emergency situation arises, we have made an infirmary where proper arrangements are made for resting, till the parents of the child are contacted." History teacher at the Army Public School, Kirkee, Madhu Lalotra, said significant arrangements have been made by the school administration and support staff has been trained and equipped well to meet all essential, safety and cleanliness measures in and around the school campus, for any medical emergency. A fully functional medical room is adjacent to the school, she said . The Victorious Kidss Educares (VKE), an IB World School in Kharadi, has trained and equipped teachers to deal with both recovery and students’ mental health and psychosocial needs. A school staff member must get a doctor’s certificate along with a Covid-19 test report before joining. Since all the teachers must undergo the mandatory testing, the school has set up a sample collection booth. President of the school, Robbin Ghosh, said, "There is always a trained nurse available in school and a doctor on short notice calls. A regularly sanitized medical room is available to take care of students for any minor situation. We have tied up with Columbia Asia Hospital to tackle any medical emergency. Vehicles would be made available for any such situations to take students to the hospital immediately." The school has made arrangements to deal with anyone found with Covid-19 symptoms. A designated waiting area has been provided. The school medical and support staff has been trained and will monitor temperature and oxygen level regularly during school hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/institutions-revamp-infirmaries-tie-up-with-hospitals-for-ncov-emergencies/articleshow/80122238.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 6, 2021||Pune||Covid-19 impact high on SPPU senate’s agenda for 2-day meet||PUNE: Covid-19 and its impact on fees, college budgets and examinations are on the agenda of the senate meeting of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) on January 9 and 10. The 47-page agenda, comprising over 200 items, lists suggestions on postponing all the examinations to the second semester, a decrease in affiliation fee and special scholarship for poor students. Senate member Santosh Dore said examinations would be the biggest issue discussed this time. “The postponement of examinations, the pattern and the syllabus will be discussed in detail. It was expected that Covid-19 and its impact would come up in a big way. Colleges are starting on January 11 and much needs to be clarified by the university,” Dore said. Member Motiram Deshmukh said a committee must look at an objective view of examinations. “The lockdown has brought starvation to many students from tribal and rural areas. Many do not have smartphones or internet connections and no connectivity. Parents and students don’t know what course, or the syllabus he or she has to study. By announcing examinations, the university has put them in a more difficult position. Such a decision does not rest on reports from a handful of institutions and colleges. A committee must review and take a decision,” Deshmukh said in his resolution. Another member Shamkant Deshmukh has sought a reduction in the affiliation fee taken from colleges by the university. “Alumni and HR meets must be organised regularly and a fund must be created where alumni can contribute to their alma mater,” he added. Another senate member has sought free Covid-19 vaccination for all staff members of the university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-19-impact-high-on-sppu-senates-agenda-for-2-day-meet/articleshow/80122255.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 6, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: Missing teen was abducted, raped; police nab accused||JAIPUR: A 15-year-old girl who went missing from her house at Murlipura locality on Monday evening was recovered by the police on Tuesday. It was found that she was kidnapped and raped by a 26-year-old man living in the same locality as a tenant. Police have arrested the accused and registered a case of kidnap and rape under appropriate sections of IPC and POCSO Act. The parents of the girl had approached cops late on Monday evening. They stated that the girl was not seen since Monday evening, police said. Rather than treating it as just another missing complaint, police started talking to people in the neighbourhood and shopkeepers in the locality. "The accused identified as Manoj alias Monu (26) kidnapped the girl and took her to some place and raped her. The girl was found with the accused during early hours on Tuesday," Anshu Jain, probationer RPS who is in-charge of Murlipura police station said. Police stated that the girl is a minor and was befooled by the accused who claimed that he was in love with her. "In every case where the girl is minor, her consent is not maintainable in court. In such cases, the accused who is an adult is charged with kidnap. Since the girl was also raped, we have registered a case under appropriate sections of POCSO Act," Jain added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/missing-teen-was-abducted-raped-police-nab-accused/articleshow/80123321.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Goa||For 12th day, active Covid cases under 1k||Panaji: Active Covid cases in the state have remained under the 1,000-mark for 12 days now. Daily new infections, too, haven’t crossed 100 for a week. On Monday, Goa reported the lowest number of infections in six months, with just 40 cases. All Covid care centres in the state except the one at Fatorda have been closed, as those who test positive for Covid-19 either opt for home isolation or are admitted in hospitals. The last of the patients at Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee indoor stadium at Taleigao-Bambolim were discharged on December 19. “The centre is closed now and the staff has gone, but the infrastructure is still in place. If we get a second wave or if need be, we can activate it at any time,” a government official said. From over 200 admissions at the centre during the peak of the pandemic, the admissions were reduced to only five over a 20-day period last month. Hospitals too have experienced a decline in patients, but private hospitals cannot divert the beds without an order from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/for-12th-day-active-covid-cases-under-1k/articleshow/80124471.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Bhopal||Administration in election-like mode across MP for vaccination||BHOPAL: With India getting ready for Covid-19 vaccinations, district administrations are in an election-like mode to check the adequacy of the proposed vaccination sites with respect to the necessary arrangements. The administrations are being entrusted with monitoring the rollout of the Covid-19 vaccine in the districts and resolving bottlenecks. The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) has recommended staggering beneficiaries, stating that this will help avoid overcrowding at vaccination sites, said a health expert here on Tuesday. Requisition of the required human resource and infrastructure, including vehicles if needed from other departments for implementation and monitoring, is also underway. While so far, the focus has been on strong measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 through better diagnostics and treatment, vaccines will provide a lasting solution by enhancing immunity and containing the disease spread. In response to the pandemic, the vaccine development process has been fast-tracked. Globally, over 274 candidate vaccines are in different stages of development as of December 2020. With two vaccines cleared for emergency use, in the first round, about 4 lakh healthcare workers are expected to get the vaccine shot. A vaccination site would comprise about three vaccination officers along with the vaccinator. Vaccinator Officer would be doctors (MBBS/BDS), staff nurse, pharmacist, auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM), lady health visitor (LHV) or anyone authorized to administer an injection. Vaccination Officer 1, at least one person (police, homeguard, civil defense, national cadet corps (NCC), national service scheme (NSS), NYKS who will check the registration status of a beneficiary at the entry point and ensure the regulated entry to the vaccination session. Vaccination Officer 2 would be the verifier who will authenticate/verify the identification documents. Vaccination Officer 3 and 4 are the two-support staff who will be responsible for crowd management and ensure 30 minutes of waiting time by beneficiary post-vaccination. Support staff will provide Information, education and communication (IEC) messages and support to vaccinator as well as the vaccination team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/admn-in-election-like-mode-across-state-for-vaccination/articleshow/80122266.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Trichy||BDU syndicate forms panel to run university as VC’s term set to end||TRICHY: A four-member vice-chancellor’s committee was constituted at Bharathidasan University’s special syndicate meeting held on Tuesday to run the administration as the three-year tenure of incumbent vice-chancellor P Manisankar is ending on Thursday. Until the next vice-chancellor is appointed, the four-member committee will run the administration. The committee is headed by higher education secretary S Apoorva as convenor. Director of collegiate education (DCE) in-charge K Vivekanandan is the ex officio member of the committee, and V Nithya is the chancellor’s nominee and M Selvam, syndicate member from BDU are the other members. The selection process for the next vice-chancellor has already started with the appointment of the three-member vice-chancellor search committee in November last year. The search committee headed by former vice-chancellor of Alagappa University P Ramasamy will give three names to the governor to select the next vice-chancellor. The committee is expected to complete the work in the next three months. During the special meeting of the syndicate, the higher education secretary appreciated outgoing vice-chancellor P Manisankar for his works. Other members of the syndicate also thanked him for his administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-syndicate-forms-panel-to-run-univ-as-vcs-term-set-to-end/articleshow/80123328.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand tableau depicting Kedarnath temple shortlisted for Republic Day parade||Dehradun: The central government has shortlisted a tableau depicting the Kedarnath shrine to be the official tableau entry for Uttarakhand on the Republic Day parade to be held at Rajpath in New Delhi on January 26. Named as “Kedarkhand”, the tableau will showcase the renovated model of Kedarnath. This will be the 12th tableau to be shown in the Republic Day parade from Uttarakhand since the formation of the state in 2000. Elaborating on the various components of the tableau, Meherban Singh Bisht, director general, information, said, “ The front part of the tableau will depict the state animal ‘Kasturi Deer’, the state bird ‘Monal’, and the state flower ‘Brahmakamal’ whereas the rear part will show the renovated Kedarnath temple complex and devotees.” KS Chauhan, deputy director, information, who was actively involved in presenting the tableau’s theme, design and model to the central government, said that final orders of Uttarakhand’s selection were issued on Tuesday. “The selection of tableau design is a very complex process. A total of 32 states and union territories had applied for it and the tableaux of only 17 states have been finalised,” Chauhan told TOI. He added that a song sung by Kailash Kher on Kedarnath will be the background score when the tableau goes down the Rajpath. Earlier, Uttarakhand had showcased the ‘Phool dei’ tableau in 2003, ‘Nanda Raj jat’ in 2005, ‘Valley of Flowers’ in 2006, ‘Corbett National Park’ in 2007, ‘Adventure Tourism’ in 2009, ‘Kumbh’ in 2010, ‘Herbs’ in 2014, ‘Kedarnath’ in 2015, ‘Ramman’ in 2016, ‘Rural Tourism’ in 2018 and ‘Anashakti Ashram’ (Kausani) in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-tableau-depicting-kedarnath-temple-shortlisted-for-republic-day-parade/articleshow/80121004.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 6, 2021||Business||Fatal accidents drop by 25% in lockdown yr||Kolkata: Aided by the over three-month lockdown in the initial days of the pandemic in India, the city witnessed a 25% drop in fatal accidents in 2020 as compared to the previous year.On Tuesday, the Kolkata Police traffic department stated that 2020 saw 192 accidents that led to 201 deaths. In 2019, there were 260 accidents leading to 267 deaths in the city. In 2018, there were 283 accidents resulting in 294 deaths.The traffic brass at Lalbazar said they were not going to compare the final figures from last year, as is the usual practice. Instead, they would focus on the individual road stretches and their accident statistics over the year. Senior officers said there were two critical takeaways from last year — with commercial vehicles staying off roads, private cars and taxis saw a major jump of being involved in fatal accidents and pedestrians and two-wheeler riders, including cyclists, formed a chunk of the victims.Incidentally, 124 of the fatal accidents occurred after the lockdown was lifted, from June 1 till December 31. The lockdown period in Kolkata — from March 22 to May 26, a span of around 66 days — saw five fatal accidents.November and December had been grim with 37 deaths. Sources indicated that besides drivers of commercial vehicles and two-wheelers, some special drives aimed at private car drivers are likely to be launched.The traffic police have blamed the mixed vehicular use of roads (cycles and scooters have overrun every other form of transport, unsafe driving practices and speeding due to less congested roads for the accidents. “A look at the accident spots shows people were either careless or trying to speed.“We shall also focus on pocket-to-pocket analysis and carry out traffic re-engineering, if possible, rather than concentrate on the overall statistics. Traffic volume and its flow this year has been erratic due to the pandemic and does not provide the scope for the usual comparisons,” stated an IPS officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fatal-accidents-drop-by-25-in-lockdown-yr/articleshow/80122236.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 6, 2021||Jaipur||Major bureaucratic rejig ahead of local body polls||Jaipur: In a major bureaucratic reshuffle, the state government on Tuesday transferred 288 officers, including 21 IAS, 56 IPS, 28 IFS and 183 RAS officers. The transfers came just before the announcement of elections to the remaining 90 local bodies on Tuesday evening.The government changed three collectors, SPs in 14 districts and five inspector general of police late on Monday night, while the RAS officers were reshuffled on Tuesday.Additional chief secretary and 199-batch IAS officer Sudhanshu Pant, who had returned to the state after a stint at the Centre has been given charge of public health and engineering department.Mugdha Sinha has been given the charge of the science and technology department in addition to art and culture.Ashutosh A T Pednekar will be the whole and sole in-charge of the industry department as secretary.P C Kishan has been shifted to secretary, rural development.The collectors of Churu, Baran and Jhalawar were also changed.Sanwarmal Verma, who was awaiting posting orders, has been made the Churu collector.The project director-cum-joint secretary of the Employment Guarantee Scheme, Rajendra Vijay, will now be the Baran collector.Khadi Board secretary Harimohan Meena has been appointed as Jhalawar collector.Dinesh Kumar Yadav, commissioner of Jaipur Greater, has been replaced by Yagmitra Singh Dev. Yadav has been transferred to the post of secretary, general administration department. Rohit Gupta is the new managing director of Rajasthan Urja Vikas Nigam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/major-bureaucratic-rejig-ahead-of-local-body-polls/articleshow/80123311.cms||---
January 6, 2021||India||Outfits cheer as govt drops ‘halal’ meat tag||NEW DELHI: The organisations, which have been campaigning against “halal” certification of meat, have welcomed the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) decision to remove the term from the specifications for export of red meat, but said this is only a first step towards the goal to ensure that meat of animals and poultry who are slaughtered in accordance with Islamic religious guidelines is not served to those who are unwilling to consume it. APEDA on Monday had announced the decision to drop “halal” from its Red Meat Manual following escalating protests from Hindutva groups and some Sikh bodies. The manual of APEDA, a body under the ministry of commerce, which handles agri-exports, emphasised that “animals are slaughtered strictly according to halal method to meet the requirements of Islamic countries”. It also further mentioned the meat being exported was of animals slaughtered “by the halal system under the strict vigilance of a recognised and registered Islamic body and as per the tenets of Islamic Shariyat”. Hindutva bodies said the manual represented the larger trend where consumers of all faiths were being served meat obtained through an Islamic religious practice. Certain Sikh groups said consumption of halal meat violated their religious practice. After the change, the manual says “the animals are slaughtered according to the requirement of the importing country/ importer”. “Not only the meat produced in country for import but meat served everywhere in India be it hotels, restaurants, trains, flights are halal meat, which is considered haram for many communities here as well as other countries,” said Harinder Sikka from Halal Niyantran Manch (Halal Regulation Forum), which had on several occasions petitioned the government to remove the term. Harinder Sikka also says the requirement to secure halal-compliant attestations from Islamic bodies translated into a tax from bodies of clerics like Jamat-i-Ulema who charged thousands for issuing the certification. VHP has also argued that the requirement for certification had rendered non-Muslims jobless and turned the meat and poultry business into a monopoly of a particular religious community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/outfits-cheer-as-govt-drops-halal-meat-tag/articleshow/80125272.cms||Akhilesh Singh
January 6, 2021||Ranchi||East Singhbhum gets 221 plasma donors, 30% are from rural areas||Jamshedpur: Efforts of the district administration bore fruit after East Singhbhum managed to get 221 plasma donors, of which 30% were from rural areas of the district. “Due to our awareness campaigns, donors from rural hinterlands came forward to donate plasma in the last two to three months,” said deputy collector and district in-charge for plasma donation campaign Smita Nagesia. She said FM radio channels have been quite effective in enlightening and encouraging those who recovered from the virus in the villages to come forward and donate. Nagasia added that banners and posters have been put up in public places such as bus stands and rural markets to encourage villagers for the plasma donation. “Also, our volunteers personally contacted potential donors to aware them about plasma donation and successfully motivated several donors,” said the campaign in-charge. A total of 1,000 plus potential donors were screened, of which 221 were chosen for donation. “Due to the complex criteria involved in the selection process, only about 20% to 22% get selected,” Nagesia said. “During the peak of the pandemic, at least 20 requisitions for convalescent plasma would come in from several hospitals every day. Now, we get around 10. We did not fail the hospitals during the peak and even today, we are supplying them sufficiently,” she said. Plasma collected at the Jamshedpur Blood Bank has been served to Tata Main Hospital, Brahmananda Narayana Multispecialty Hospital, Tata Motors Hospital in Jamshedpur, beside Abdul Razaak Ansari Memorial Hospital and Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in Ranchi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/east-singhbhum-gets-221-plasma-donors-30-are-from-rural-areas/articleshow/80122358.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 6, 2021||Surat||Surat: Businessmen accused of selling duplicate products denied pre-arrest bail||SURAT: The Surat district and sessions court on Tuesday refused to grant anticipatory bail to businessman Mukesh Mayani (44) who along with others is accused of selling duplicate products of well-known FMCG brands. Mayani and his friend Brijesh Patel were booked by Kamrej police on December 21, 2020 for cheating and violation of Copyright Act and Trade Mark Act. According to case details, Mayani and co-accused Patel, stored duplicate goods with the brand name of multi-national companies in the house of one Ramesh Movali. They sold the products claiming it to be of the original brand. When one of the multi-national firms Hindustan Lever Ltd came to know of the this alleged cheating, it lodged a case against Mayani and his aides. Public prosecutor D V Dave opposed the anticipatory bail plea of the accused’s on the grounds that duplicate products worth Rs 30 lakh was seized from him. He added that Mayani’s custodial interrogation was needed to know who all were involved in this racket of selling duplicate products as the original one. The court observed that there was prima facie evidence against the accused and since he and other co-accused were on the run, anticipatory bail can’t be granted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bizman-accused-of-selling-duplicate-products-denied-pre-arrest-bail/articleshow/80120930.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Ranchi||1.26 lakh Jharkhand health workers, kin to get Covid vaccine in 1st phase||Ranchi: Jharkhand government’s department of health, medical education and family welfare will administer Covid-19 vaccines to at least 1.26 lakh health workers in the state during the first phase of the nationwide vaccination drive, the dates of which are yet to be announced by the Centre. The health workers include doctors, nurses, paramedics and laboratory technicians who have been attending to Covid-19 patients since the pandemic broke out in Jharkhand on March 31 last year. “Through the Co-WIN portal, as many as 1.26 lakh health workers across Jharkhand have registered themselves for getting themselves vaccinated. As per the guidelines of the Union government, they will be administered the vaccines first,” Dr Ajit Prasad, the nodal officer of the vaccination programme in the state, told TOI. Prasad said in the second phase, frontline workers such as police and essential services personnel will be vaccinated. The third phase of vaccination drive will cover citizens with co-morbid conditions. Prasad said the process to identify those with co-morbid conditions was still unclear. “We are awaiting instructions from the Centre about the process for their identification. There can be a survey or some other method. We will have to wait for the instructions,” he added. Recently, mock drills for the vaccination were held across six districts of the state. As on Monday night, Jharkhand had reported 1.15 lakh Covid-19 cases and 1,036 deaths. There were 1,528 active cases in the state. The Jharkhand government said the Centre has not send any instructions detailing the commencement of the vaccination drive. Meanwhile, Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan huddled district officials on Tuesday morning to review the preparations for the vaccination drive, as and when it is undertaken. A statement issued by the district public relation officer said: “At the meeting, it was agreed that 10 vaccination centres will be set up in each block, the site for which will be finalized by medical officers in consultation with the BDOs. Each centre will have a five-member team, which will constitute one vaccinator and four vaccination officers. The credentials of the beneficiaries will be uploaded to the Co-WIN portal after they are vaccinated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/1-26-lakh-jharkhand-health-workers-kin-to-get-covid-vaccine-in-1st-phase/articleshow/80122443.cms||Dhritiman Ray
January 6, 2021||Ranchi||Nilgais destroy crops in Chatra, farmers stare at huge losses||Chatra: Nilgai or blue bulls, found in large numbers in the Huntergunj block of Chatra district, have damaged standing crop on at least 2,000 acre land across 28 panchayats. Farmers of the area, who stare at losses, alleged that the forest department is taking no step to protect their produce. Range forest officer Surya Bhushan Kumar of Huntergunj area said they had sought directives from the department's higher-ups as how to protect crops from the animals. Regarding losses, he said, “In case of losses due to activities by wild animals, there is a provision to get compensated. For this, farmers should make claims at the forest range office.” A farmer said that after a bumper paddy production, they had started growing vegetables, but with days left for the harvest, Nilagai appeared in large numbers. The maximum loss has been recorded from Ghanghri and Kobana panchayats. Ghanghri mukhiya Usha devi said, “Around 250-acre of crop have either been eaten or damaged by Nilgais.” Ureili mukhiya Chinta Devi said, “Farmers who worked hard and invested money for better returns are still in shock as to how will they compensate for the loss.” Farmer Satish Verma of Ghangri said in the recent years, the number of Nilgais increased manifold. He said, “During daytime, Nilgais take shelter in bushes near the fields. After dusk, they start their rampage.” Retired government teacher Ramnagina Singh said many farmers stayed away from their fields this year due to the menace just like last year||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/nilgais-destroy-crops-in-chatra-farmers-stare-at-huge-losses/articleshow/80122303.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 6, 2021||Ranchi||2 Covid deaths, 155 fresh cases and 255 recoveries reported in Jharkhand||Ranchi: Jharkhand reported 155 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday night while 255 patients recovered from the viral infection. One death each was reported from Ranchi and Hazaribag districts, taking the state’s death toll to 1,038. The bulletin, issued by the state department of health, medical education and family welfare, said Jharkhand’s cumulative caseload is 1,15,840 while 1,13,380 patients have recovered so far. There 1,422 active cases statewide. Ranchi reported 47 new infections followed by Dhanbad (17), Palamu (16), Bokaro (14) and East Singhbhum (12). As many as 16 districts reported new infections in single digits while Chatra, Godda, Pakur and Sahibganj did not report a single infection on Tuesday. The daily bulletin put Jharkhand’s recovery rate at 97.87%, which was higher than the national average of 96.30%. The state’s mortality rate stood at 0.89%, lesser than the national average of 1.4%. Jharkhand’s weekly growth was 0.12% as on Tuesday, which is also lower than the national average of 0.16%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-covid-deaths-155-fresh-cases-and-255-recoveries-reported-in-jharkhand/articleshow/80122327.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 6, 2021||Ranchi||Police to blame for attack on CM’s convoy, says Babulal||Ranchi: A day after protestors attacked chief minister Hemant Soren’s convoy in Ranchi’s Kishoreganj, BJP’s leader of legislative party and former chief minister Babulal Marandi on Tuesday called for action against erring police officials for intelligence failure and laxity. A massive crowd descended at Kishoreganj Chowk on Monday evening to protest against the rape and beheading of a young girl in Ranchi’s Ormanjhi area, whose body was recovered on Sunday. During the protest, some of the agitators turned unruly and attacked a cop and the pilot vehicle of the CM’s convoy. Hemant was later forced to take a different route to return home from Project Building while JMM and Congress, a part of the ruling alliance in the state, maintained that the incident was orchestrated by certain groups to attack Hemant. Reacting to it, Marandi on Tuesday grossly held police responsible for the incident and justified protests against growing crimes in the state. “My party (BJP) or I do not support any form of violence, but what happened yesterday (Monday) in Kishoreganj is solely an outcome of the failure of the police administration and government at large. I have been a CM too. Before a CM moves, the entire route is secured in advance. This is clearly a failure at the level of police and erring officials must be identified and punished,” said Marandi. He accused the government and police of trying to silence growing unrest among public. “Protest is everyone’s right in a democracy, but to hide its failures, police are trying to pass the buck on to the people. We will oppose if any innocent is harassed by police,” said Marandi, adding that while BJP held different protests on Monday against the rape, another round will be held statewide on Wednesday. “The Ormanjhi incident is bigger than Delhi’s Nirbhaya rape case. Government and police have completely surrendered before criminals,” he said. On the other hand, Ranchi police are yet to trace the severed head of the girl. On Tuesday, IG Akhilesh Singh reached to the spot as a part of the investigation. Police have also announced a cash reward of Rs 50,000 for inputs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/police-to-blame-for-attack-on-cms-convoy-says-babulal/articleshow/80122384.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 6, 2021||Goa||Aguada jail will be open in March: CM||Panaji: The renovated Aguada jail will be opened for visitors from March onwards, said chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday. Sawant, during a review meeting on the development of Aguada jail with tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar, science and technology minister Michael Lobo and freedom fighters, said a lot of suggestions have been given by them. “Ninety per cent of work on Agauda jail is completed and all the suggestions will be incorporated. We will inspect the jail in the first week of February,” Sawant said. The total cost of the renovation is over Rs 25 crore. Sawant said the renovated jail will house a museum and prison cells in which freedom fighters were kept and will showcase the history of Goa’s freedom struggle. Lobo said the time has come to show Goa’s freedom struggle to the people of the state and tourists. “We have decided to get on-board Zilu Harmalkar to design the prison cells,” he added. The science and technology minister said that a light and sound show would be scheduled at the jail and that visitors would have to buy tickets to visit the jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aguada-jail-will-be-open-in-march-cm/articleshow/80123404.cms||---
January 6, 2021||India||Steps taken to protect mobile towers: Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Adequate security personnel have been deployed to ensure no further damage was caused to mobile towers of Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited, the Punjab government told the Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday while responding to a petition filed by Jio, seeking action against “miscreants” for damaging its telecom infrastructure and business stores. Punjab advocate general Atul Nanda said the state has deployed 1,019 patrolling parties in 27 districts and appointed 22 nodal officers to ensure no further damage was caused. Over 1,500 mobile towers have been damaged in Punjab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/steps-taken-to-protect-mobile-towers-punjab/articleshow/80125277.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Goa||Mardol locals gherao Ponda power dept staff||Ponda: Irked with the fluctuating and high voltage power supply, which is damaging their electronic gadgets, residents of Mardol and Mangeshi, Ponda, mobbed the power department engineer on Tuesday. According to the villagers, they are get high voltage supply as they are connected to the same transformer that feeds power to high voltage consuming plants at the Kundaim Industrial Estate. The villagers have demanded a separate transformer for domestic consumers. Executive Engineer (EE), Ponda, Deepak Naik, based at the Curti office of the electricity department, was at the receiving end of the villagers’ anger. The villagers said they were not satisfied with the official’s response and that they now plan to meet power minister Nilesh Cabral. Zilla panchayat member from Veling-Priol, Damodar Naik, recalled a fire incident in the village on the day of the recent ZP elections, in which a house was damaged. The fire was triggered by the high voltage supply. “It was due to a faulty transformer. But, the electricity official refuses to accept responsibility and blames the house owner,” Naik said. Local Varad Mardolkar said that about a year ago he along with Naik and a local doctor Ghanashyam Mardolkar had met the official to bring the issue to his notice. He alleged that the official was not in a mood to listen to their grievances. “Power officials blame villagers saying they have changed the miniature circuit breaker inside the meter box. But how could villagers change the MCB when the meter is sealed by the department,” another villager Ravi Amonkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mardol-locals-gherao-ponda-power-dept-staff/articleshow/80123450.cms||---
January 6, 2021||India||Kerala man wins 39cr jackpot in UAE||KOCHI: A Keralite expat won 20 million dirhams (approximately Rs 39 crore) in a monthly lottery in the United Arab Emirates. Abdussalam N V (28), who runs a shopping centre in Muscat won the raffle, the first draw of this year. Though the Kozhikode native won the Big Ticket Abu Dhabi draw on Sunday, he came to know about it only after a day as the organizers of the raffle could not locate him and break the news. The organizers even approached community members to reach out to Abdussalam. Later, he came to know about the win from his friend. He told a newspaper in the UAE over the phone from Muscat that he would share the prize amount with his friends who were part of drawing the ticket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-man-wins-39cr-jackpot-in-uae/articleshow/80125278.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Goa||Locals complain about illegal poultry waste dumping in Poinguinim||Poinguinim: Residents of Aframent, near Ardhofond, Poinguinim, are angry over poultry waste being found dumped on one side of the culvert along NH66 in the area. The waste is giving rise to a foul stench and locals are worried that it may lead to health hazards for residents of Aframent and Ardhofond. The poultry waste, tied inside small plastic bags, has possibly been dumped at night by miscreants. Barely 150m away from the location of the dumping, are residential areas on either side. Locals fear that the waste may also attract wild animals, posing a danger to residents in the area. Fr Estevao Rodrigues, superior of Capuchin farm house at Ardhofond, is the nearest neighbour to this location. He said that they are being adversely affected by this unchecked dumping of animal waste. “We are affected by this mess and something will have to be done soon about it,” he said. Poinguinim sarpanch Jagdish Gaonkar, feigned ignorance about the issue, but assured to discuss it with deputy sarpanch Elda Fernandes in whose ward the site is located. After discussion, a decision will be arrived at and the next course of action will follow, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/locals-complain-about-illegal-poultry-waste-dumping-in-poinguinim/articleshow/80123519.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Nagpur||Curious case of 246 missing minors||Nagpur: Around 246 minors, including 172 girls, went missing and officially remained untraceable between 2017 and October this year as per an RTI reply furnished by the city police. In the records, their status is ‘still missing’. Their families and the investigating agency are clueless. The RTI reply underlined the fact that 15 minors were untraceable in 2017 which included six girls. In 2018, the statistics of girls, who remained untraceable, had shot up to 29 while 11 boys were missing. In 2019, there was a more than two and half times rise in the number of untraceable minor girls and boys. Around 78 minor girls were missing without any trace while 28 boys too were not found. In 2020, 59 minors went missing and were not found while 26 boys too remained untraceable. After taking charge, CP Amitesh Kumar had conducted a review of missing cases. It was only after his intervention that the number of missing and untraceable persons came down to some extent. He had said that he would put in more efforts to bring down the number further with more follow ups. Nine-year-old Sujal Wasnik’s missing case in 2017 has remained a baffling failure of the city police with the issue being raked up once again during a press conference of state home minister Anil Deshmukh. It was during an operation last year that the city police had rescued a couple of young women who were sold off as brides in a remote village in Madhya Pradesh. The women had claimed then that several women like them are still trapped in the same village and also in the adjoining hamlets are slaves. According to a police source, a substantial numbers of girls from the city are getting sold off as brides in states like Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Haryana and where the male-female sex ration is skewed due to excessive practices of banned female infanticide. “Young girls are being lured by good paying jobs and catering services to take them to other states and forcibly getting them married,” said the source. “After marriage, the girls are turned into sex slaves, made to toil in the field and raped by entire family to produce children. Only the lucky ones manage to flee or get police help to return,” said the source. “Some of the girls are also taken to places like Delhi, Pune and Bangalore where they are pushed into high profile flesh trade rackets on the pretext of beauty parlour job, catering services and such entrapments,” said a source working in the red-light locality of Ganga Jamuna. According to another social activist Yash Gourkhede, many young boys are being dragged into begging rackets too. “There is a racket in place which gets the boys operated and turns them into beggars. The boys are also forced to become addicts of drugs and cannabis and such narcotics so that they do not try to escape or want to return home,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/curious-case-of-246-missing-minors/articleshow/80121097.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 6, 2021||Goa||FIR against ex-secretary & ex-sarpanch of Reis Magos||Panaji: The anti-corruption branch of the directorate of vigilance on Tuesday registered an FIR against Subodh Prabhu, the then panchayat secretary of Reis Magos village panchayat, and Prasanna Nagvekar, the then sarpanch, for alleged misuse of powers in allotting house numbers. The FIR is registered upon a complaint lodged by the block development officer, Bardez (1&11), Mapusa. Police said the panchayat received an application from Suraj Shah who proposed himself as the authorised representative of Binoy Berry. Berry is the representative of a private company Spark Healthline. The company had bought property within the jurisdiction of the panchayat in survey numbers 96/6 and 95/1-A. In his application, Shah had stated that five houses were existing since more than 100 years ago in survey no. 96/6 and house tax details were not reflecting in the panchayat’s records. He requested the panchayat to rectify the records and complete the registration formalities. He also offered to pay all the necessary taxes, levies and penalties. The accused were acting in the capacity as the secretary and sarpanch, respectively, during the relevant period. The application was processed on the same day and a resolution was passed stating that the existing five structures in survey no. 96/6 should be assessed for house tax purpose and levy of garbage tax. These structures were allotted house nos. K-86, K-87, K-88, K-89 and K-90. However, ACB in a press note maintained that no such structures were existing in property bearing survey no 96/6. Instead, they were existing in survey no.95/1-A, owned by Spark Healthline. The sale deed dated June 27, 2005 in respect of purchase of the property measuring 30,451 sqm under survey numbers 95/1-A and 96/6 had no mention of such structures, the ACB said. “The property in survey number 95/1-A and 96/6 falls in ‘no development zone’ of CRZ area and therefore no new construction is permissible except for repairs and renovation, and at the most reconstruction,” ACB said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fir-against-ex-secretary-ex-sarpanch-of-reis-magos/articleshow/80123557.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Goa||Encroachment in Vasco fruit market cleared||VASCO: The Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC) carried out a drive to clear encroachments at the fruit market.  The market operates next to the footpath outside the vegetable market on F L Gomes Road, and vendors had placed their fruit baskets beyond the space allocated to them. On Monday morning, with the help of Vasco police, the extended portions were removed and the fruits kept outside the allotted slots were seized. However, vendors were irked as sheets made of wood and the tarpaulin used to cover their carts were also removed and taken. Though the vendors objected to the removal of the shelter on their carts, the MMC staff did not pay heed. “Our commodities are perishable, especially when kept under heat. They are expensive too for local vendors like us. The shade protects our fruits and that helps them last longer. Removal of the extended portions is fine, but taking the shelter out will cause losses to our business,” a fruit vendor, Anil Naik said. Ashpak Pasha, another seller, appealed to the MMC chief and other government authorities to intervene in the matter. He said the vendors have already suffered losses in business during the pandemic. They have pleaded to be allowed to put up roofs on their carts again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/encroachment-in-vasco-fruit-market-cleared/articleshow/80123596.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Nagpur||NFSC allows students to appear in online exam||NAGPUR: Two days after TOI reported on how the Nagpur University (NU)’s colleges were forcing outstation students to appear offline for backlog examinations amid the pandemic, one of them relented and allowed them to appear online from their respective places. A few other colleges, however, are continuing their diktats for the students to appear offline only. Following TOI’s Saturday report, the National Fire Service College (NFSC) authorities sent text messages to the aggrieved students that their papers would be held in online format on the same day. On Monday, the students received a detailed instruction manual informing them that their exams will be held in virtual mode and that the question paper will have two sections. “Section A will comprise multiple choice questions (MCQs) and Section B will have one or two sentence questions. The exams will be conducted on Google Forms. The links for both question papers will be sent to the students ten minutes prior to the exam on their registered e-mail IDs,” the manual (shared by students with TOI) mentioned. The NFSC authorities asked examinees to make arrangements for smooth conduct of papers, including uninterrupted power supply, internet connection and laptops/desktops. A majority of the college’s students hail from other states and cities, as the college is being run by the Union home ministry. NFSC consultant G Natrajan, who had earlier defended the college’s move to hold offline exams, confirmed to TOI that the college has decided to go online for students’ convenience. But he refused to comment on what led to the withdrawal of their earlier decision. Another lecturer Dhananjay Singh, too, declined to comment on the issue. Social worker-cum-influencer Shashank Gattewar, whom NFSC students approached with their plight, said the college authorities should have thought twice before putting lives at risk. “Thankfully, better sense prevailed after the issue was highlighted and they withdrew their decision. It was surprising that when the university itself wasn’t making it mandatory to conduct offline exams, college managements were harassing students by forcing them to personally appear in papers.” He added that he had received many complaints from students hailing from pharmacy and general courses institutions, who were also forcing them to appear in offline exams. As reported earlier, the students were asked to undergo RT-PCR test before arriving in the city. One of them had suffered an accident and was bed-ridden, but college authorities were adamant on their stand and told him to appear in exams the next semester. NU’s board of examination and evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable had also told TOI that NU hadn’t issued any instructions to the colleges to mandatorily conduct offline exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nfsc-allows-students-to-appear-in-online-exam/articleshow/80121111.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 6, 2021||India||Cong failed to see end of charismatic leadership: Pranab memoir||NEW DELHI: Late President and Congress stalwart Pranab Mukherjee blamed Congress’s failure to acknowledge the end of “charismatic leadership” being the reason behind its failure in 2014 elections even as he said that it had pained him to see the sorry fate of his erstwhile party. In his memoirs “The Presidential Years, 2012-2017”, released on Tuesday after his recent death, Mukerjee said he was relieved at the decisive mandate in 2014 elections but “disappointed at my one-time party’s performance”. “It was difficult to believe that Congress had managed to win just 44 seats. Congress is a national institution interlinked with people’s lives. Its future is always a concern of every thinking individual,” he wrote. Talking about Congress’s defeat, he observed, “I feel the party failed to recognise the end of its charismatic leadership. Tall leaders like Pandit Nehru ensured that India, unlike Pakistan, survived and developed into a strong and stable nation. Sadly, such extraordinary leaders are not there anymore, reducing the establishment to a government of averages.” While expressing satisfaction with his stint as the President, he noted that he had very cordial relations with PM Modi and while there were differences, they knew how to manage them. Mukherjee said that Modi government 2014-19 failed in its primary responsibility of ensuring smooth functioning of Parliament and blamed the PM for it. Watch Congress failed to see end of 'charismatic leadership': Pranab Mukherjee memoir||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cong-failed-to-see-end-of-charismatic-leadership-pranab-memoir/articleshow/80125280.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Goa||Goa: Two booked for hurting religious sentiments||VASCO: Vasco police on Tuesday arrested two men for hurting religious sentiments, abusing and threatening people from their ward on Saturday. According to a Vaddem local, Shrijeet Kavlekar, 53, had put up an arch in front of a temple to celebrate its anniversary. Joseph Fernandes damaged the arch and threatened the ward residents. The locals alleged that Fernandes regularly harasses residents. This time, as he hurt their religious sentiments, they approached the police. Fernandes and his son-in-law Angelo Avileli, 37, a resident of Quepem, were arrested after residents of their ward met Deputy superintendent of police, Mormugao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/2-booked-for-hurting-religious-sentiments/articleshow/80123647.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Pandemic serves as deterrent to cockfighting this Sankranti||VISAKHAPATNAM/VIJAYAWADA: What courts, governments and police have been unable to do, Covid-19 seems to have achieved. The pandemic coupled with crop loss has made a significant dent on preparations for cockfights this year. Every year, organisers start preparing arenas for cockfights ahead of the Sankranti fest in January. But pandemic has hit pockets of all. “There are usually a hundred big arenas and thousand small ones prepared in the twin Godavari districts by January first week. But the picture is completely different this year. Most organisers are not ready to get involved due to a shortage of money,” a cockfight organiser told TOI on condition of anonymity. Sankranti, the harvest festival, is celebrated with great vigour by farmers. Cockfights are part of festivities organised around this time in East Godavari, West Godavari, Krishna and Visakhapatnam. Bets worth Rs 1,500 crore are placed on the blood sport. But this year, punters say that the situation is so dire that organisers may have to be confined to very few arenas. Politicians in the Godavari districts, the alleged usual sponsors of cockfights, have donated lakhs in relief works, resulting in them being too cash-strapped for the blood sport this year, says Srinivasa Raju, a farmer from Ravulapalem. However, training of roosters has been going on in interior villages and rooster sale has begun in Godavari districts. Online sale of roosters is going on since the third week of December, said a rooster trainer. In Krishna district, rooster demand has seen a sudden spike. The cost of well-trained roosters has reached Rs 35,000 per bird at Aagiripalli. Demand for Nemali, Kaki Dega, Pacha Nemali, Hamsa, Setuva and other local varieties have seen a spike. “We anticipated poor sales this year due to Covid-19. But many organisers are approaching us. We have limited stock and are prioritising regular customers,” said another rooster trainer from Nekkala Gudem in Krishna district. Meanwhile, West Godavari police have registered 700 cases, bound over 3,200 people and seized 1,200 rooster knives. “We have already started enforcement activity. We are following court orders. There will be no permission for rooster fights,” said West Godavari SP K Narayan Naik. East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi said that the police will start enforcement in a day or two. “Additional teams will be put in action. Section 144 is already in force. We are creating awareness among the public.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/pandemic-serves-as-deterrent-to-cockfighting-this-sankranti/articleshow/80122425.cms||Siva G
January 6, 2021||Nagpur||Katepurna mining report seeks action against road contractor||Nagpur: The report submitted by the revenue and forest department in the illegal extraction of murrum in the eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) of the Katepurna wildlife sanctuary in Akola and Washim districts have recommended the filing of a complaint against trustees of Gupteshwar Gajanan Maharaj Temple Santhan, Waghagad and road contractor Shree Swami Samarth Engineering Company, Pune, in high court.The report submitted by Akola district collector and deputy conservator of forest has also recommended to include the name of the Barshitakli tehsildar in the complaint after a green signal from Amravati divisional commissioner. Tehsildar Gajanan Hanmad had allowed the Pune-based firm to extract 600 brass murrum from the ESZ. The report on violations was sought by the high court after local environment activist Sheikh Mohammed Sheikh Makbul aka Munna of Akola lodged a complaint. Munna termed the report as an eyewash and added that it protects both revenue and forest officials. The findings are based on submissions by three separate committees set up on October 14, 2020, to verify the area of extraction, whether it was done in the sanctuary or outside, illegal tree felling and measurement of the mined area.“Those who were hand-in-glove with the contractor were also members of the committee. So, how will justice be done? The temple trustees and contractor are being made scapegoats to save foresters and revenue department personnel,” alleged Munna. The report (a copy with TOI) says that extraction was done in E Class land in survey number 45, which is around 300 metres away from the sanctuary in the ESZ. However, complainant Munna says, “Officials say extraction was done in survey number 45, which is not part of the sanctuary area. But as per the maps, the area is part of the sanctuary. There is no village called Waghagad as mentioned in the report. My complaint was about extraction in sanctuary compartment number 122 in Kasmar beat but the report makes no mention about it.”“If survey number 45 is not part of the sanctuary then why did boundary pillars of the sanctuary uproot during extraction activity? The entire report is a cover-up bid by both the departments and to save their own skin they are putting the blame on the temple trustees and the contractor, who was granted permission by the tehsildar himself,” said Munna.Akola district collector Vasant Papalkar says, “Some sanctuary pillars were wrongly installed at the spot where the extraction took place. The road which was used to transport the murrum doesn’t fall in the sanctuary area but is part of survey number 45 of Waghagad.”On no action against tehsildar, Papalkar said, “We need permission from the government to prosecute any employee and hence permission has been sought to file a plaint against the tehsildar.”On the large-scale tree felling in the ESZ, the report states that no trees were felled in the ESZ while extracting murrum. The 30-odd trees that were found dumped in the disputed area were the ones which were felled in July 2020 during widening of the Mangrulpir-Mahan road and were transported illegally on the request of temple trustees for fuelwood.Munna says, “This is completely false. Why will the temple need so many trees for fuelwood? The entire report is misleading and the high court should set up an impartial committee to unearth the irregularities.”Munna alleged both wildlife and territorial officials turned a blind eye to the illegal activity. “I filed the complaint on August 23, 2020, but physical investigations started after two months,” he adds.The report with the signatures of Akola district collector and deputy conservator of forests was prepared on November 27, 2020, and submitted to the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court recently after the court sought a detailed report from APCCF, Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/katepurna-mining-report-seeks-action-against-road-contractor/articleshow/80121159.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 6, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra on alert for bird flu after cases in several states||VISAKHAPATNAM: Following reports of incidences of avian influenza (commonly known as bird flu in several states, the Andhra Pradesh animal husbandry department has sounded an alert. Bird flu cases have been reported in Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala and Haryana in recent weeks. The AP animal husbandry department officials and field-level staff have been asked to immediately report any unusual mortality in birds in their areas. State officials are also focussed on areas visited by migratory birds as there is a chance that these birds are carrying viruses causing the avian influenza. Commercial birds with high density and backyard birds such as ducks, wild or migratory birds are core areas for targeted surveillance. Dr Y Krishna Jyothi, deputy director of epidemiology, animal husbandry department said that even in absence of bird flu incidence, surveillance is carried out throughout the year. “Now, we have laid greater emphasis on surveillance after cases were reported from other states. The department has alerted field-level officials and is well prepared for containment operations. There is nothing to worry about,” Dr Krishna Jyothi said. Avian influenza (AI), as per the World Organization for Animal Health (OIE), is defined as an infection of poultry caused by any influenza A virus of the H5 or H7 subtypes or by any influenza A virus with an intravenous pathogenicity index greater than 1.2. The AI viruses have been circulating worldwide for centuries with at least three major pandemics recorded in the last century. India notified its first outbreak of H5N1 highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) in February 2016. Since then, several outbreaks of HPAI have been reported from different parts of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/andhra-on-alert-for-bird-flu-after-cases-in-several-states/articleshow/80122442.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
January 6, 2021||Visakhapatnam||95 per cent beds vacant in hosps as Andhra Pradesh reports 377 Covid cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 377 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday and four deaths as 95 per cent hospital beds remained vacant with fewer patients admitted in hospitals. The cumulative coronavirus caseload rose to 8,83,587, while the toll increased to 7,122. The deceased are one each from Chittoor, Guntur, Krishna and Visakhapatnam. Altogether, 278 patients were discharged from various treating facilities. There are currently 3,038 active cases with the 8,73,427 cumulative recoveries and 7,122 deaths. Chittoor reported 82 new infections on Tuesday, followed by Krishna (66) and Guntur (60). The remaining 10 districts posted less than 50 cases. The active cases are less than 200 in seven districts. Andhra Pradesh conducted 51,420 Covid-19 tests on Tuesday and detected the 377 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of about 0.7%. The state so far conducted 1.2 crore Covid-19 tests with an overall case positivity rate of 7.3%. The national average positivity rate is 5.8%, while states like Maharashtra recorded near 15% positivity rate. Andhra Pradesh continued to retain its lead among all states in terms of per capita testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/95-per-cent-beds-vacant-in-hosps-as-state-reports-377-covid-cases/articleshow/80122469.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Scolded for excessive mobile use, girl hangs self||NAGPUR: A 20-year-old girl, Avanti Fulzele, ended life at her Balkrushna Nagar residence in Parsodi of Umred taluka on Monday after being chided by father for remaining engaged with the cell phone for most part of the day. It’s learnt Avanti’s father Ashok was miffed at his daughter for relentlessly spending time playing games on mobile. Enraged by her attitude to ignore education, Ashok had scolded Avanti and also snatched the cell phone from her. Angered by father’s reaction, Avanti hanged herself from the ceiling fan with a rope. A case of accidental death has been registered at Umred police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/scolded-for-excessive-mobile-use-girl-hangs-self/articleshow/80122526.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Vijayawada||Deeksha Viramana starts at Kanaka Durga temple||VIJAYAWADA: The Bhavani Deeksha Viramana commenced at the Kanaka Durga temple in the city on Tuesday. Due to Covid-19 restrictions, fewer devotees were witnessed at the temple on the first day of the six-day-long festival. The relinquishment of Deeksha started with the Agni Prasthapana at Homa Gundams arranged at Kanaka Durga Nagar. Shiva Prasada Sharma, Sthana Acharya of the temple, started the festivities with the special offering. Temple trust board chairman Paila Somi Naidu and executive officer M V Suresh Babu lit a fire at Homa Gundams and began the relinquishment process. Darshan for Bhavani devotees started at 5.30 am and multiple counters were arranged for relinquishment. Physical distance was maintained at the counters and Guru Bhavanis were provided hand sanitizers and protective gear. Devotees were given a chance to drop their ghee-filled coconuts directly in the Homa Gundams, marking the relinquishment of Deeksha. Masks were made mandatory and devotees without masks were not permitted for darshan. Temple authorities provided free food for devotees at the Maha Mandapam. Voluntary organisations also joined hands with temple authorities to arrange food. Fear of Covid-19 was visible on the first day with around 14,000 devotees visiting the temple till 6 pm on Tuesday, compared to the 1.5 lakh devotees who had darshan of the Goddess Kanaka Durga on the first day of the fest last year. Temple authorities expect the numbers to increase over the next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/deeksha-viramana-starts-at-kanaka-durga-temple/articleshow/80122507.cms||Venu Lanka
January 6, 2021||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Police, temple committees mull ways to guard places of worship||VIJAYAWADA: In the wake of recent incidents of vandalism and theft on temple premises, Vijayawada police on Monday held a review meeting with ward-level committees to protect places of worship under their respective jurisdictions. City police commissioner B Srinivasulu held a meeting with the committees and sought to strengthen the security apparatus at temples by setting up CCTV cameras. The commissioner asked the temple protection committees to conduct security audits at churches, mosques and temples. Police said that each committee comprises ten persons, including police officers and representatives from different religious groups. The commissioner noted that security around places of worship had increased by 60 per cent since the formation of the committees last year. However, he expressed concern over the absence of security apparatus such as CCTV cameras or a security guard at 1,131 temples in the city. Police suggested the committees place volunteers as security guards across different places of worships. Police personnel will also be conducting further security audits across temples soon. Incidents of thefts and vandalism have been reported under Patamata, Vuyyur and Ibrahimpatnam police station limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/police-temple-committees-mull-ways-to-guard-places-of-worship/articleshow/80122544.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: CID begins probe into Ramateertham temple incident||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Crime Investigation Department (CID) on Tuesday began probe into the desecration of the idol of the presiding deity at Sri Kodanda Rama Swamy temple at Ramateertham of Nellimarla mandal in Vizianagaram district. Unidentified miscreants had damaged the idol on December 28 last year. The state government on Monday ordered a CID probe into the incident. A team of CID officials led by CID additional director-general PV Sunil Kumar visited Sri Kodanda Rama Swamy temple on Tuesday as part of the probe. He said the CID will investigate the case in a fair and transparent manner. “The culprits have full knowledge of the temple and the surrounding areas. The hacksaw blade used in cutting the head of the idol was recovered from a pond near near Ramateerdham,” he said. Sunil Kumar said he suspected that the vandalisation was to tarnish the image of the government and to create rift between two groups. It is not an incident of burglary. Ornaments and other idols are intact, he said. “We are seeking the support of everyone, including the locals and some others to identify the culprits,” he said adding that CID DIG Hari Krishna and additional superintendent of police Srinivasa Rao will investigate the case. Meanwhile, Vizianagaram police said that prohibitory orders under Section 30 of the Police Act are in force in and around Ramateerdham. The police said that no form of protests or meetings are allowed. Those violating the orders will be prosecuted. The provisions of Covid-19 and Disaster Management Act are also invoked, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cid-begins-probe-into-ramateertham-temple-incident/articleshow/80122574.cms||Nalla.Babu
January 6, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Devotees to perform homam on their own||Visakhapatnam: The Simhachalam temple management will this year not conduct the Maha Homam on the day of removal of Appanna Deeksha (Ayyappa and Bhavani deeksha) for devotees in keeping with Covid-19 safety protocol. Instead, the management will allow devotees who wore the Appana Mala to perform the Homam on their own at the Tholi Paavancha (foothill) of the temple on January 8. Sanaboyina Raju Swamy, Guru Swami of Sri Chandana Perumal Peetham, Simhachalam said every year thousands of devotees throng to the temple on the day the Appana Mala is removed to take part in the Maha Homam amid Vedic hymns chanted by temple priests. “This time, it has been suggested that we do not allow devotees to come to the hilltop for the Homam due to Covid-19 restrictions. Accordingly, we are preparing for the Homam at the foothill this year. Nearly 2,000 devotees are expected to take part in the Homam,” Raju Swamy said. An Appanna Deeksha devotee said, “The temple management should not continue this every year. We agreed to do this for this year due to Covid-19 but we don’t want this to continue as we like to participate in the Homam on the temple premises, not outside the shrine.” Temple assistant executive officer Tula Ramudu confirmed, “Yes, this year the Homam will be held at the Tholi Pavancha due to Covid-19. The devotees have to cooperate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/devotees-to-perform-homam-on-their-own/articleshow/80122584.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
January 6, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara: Infant’s body found under heap of sand||Vadodara: An infant’s body was found under a heap of sand at the construction site of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) on Ajwa Road on Tuesday morning. The construction labourers found the body when they started picking up sand on the third floor of the building. The site supervisor informed police about it and the body was sent for post-mortem to SSG Hospital. “The labourers said that there was nothing at the spot when the sand was unloaded on the previous evening. It was during the night that somebody hid the body since nobody stays there,” said inspector V P Chauhan of Bapod police station. Preliminary examination revealed that the infant was premature and died at the time of delivery or within hours of being delivered. Cops took the help of dog squad and forensic experts to find who hid the body under the sand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/infants-body-found-under-heap-of-sand/articleshow/80121653.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Parents protest outside school||Visakhapatnam: Several parents of students studying at Timpany School staged a protest demonstration outside the school on Tuesday demanding the school management to collect only tuition fee in accordance with the government order. S Hemanth Kumar, one of the parents at the protest, said that the state government has issued an order asking schools to collect only the tuition fee during the pandemic. “But the school (Timpany School) has been collecting fees under other heads. They have stopped online classes for children who couldn’t pay the whole fee,” he added. Upon hearing of the demonstration, district education officer B Lingeswara Reddy rushed to the school and discussed the issue with the school management. Parents submitted a representation to police officials visiting the school.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/parents-protest-outside-school/articleshow/80122614.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to raise its concerns before dry run on January 8||MUMBAI: As part of a countrywide vaccine dry run, Maharashtra will have a dry run across the state on January 8. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said Maharashtra is geared up for the vaccination drive, which can begin once stocks are available for the state. However, the state will seek clarification from the Centre on the use of the two approved vaccines during a meeting with the Union health ministry scheduled for January 7. "There are some clarifications we will seek from the Centre about the approved vaccines as they have been cleared for use citing an emergency situation. We will raise our concerns with the Union health ministry," Tope said. There have already been two countrywide dry runs. Maha to raise UK flights, free vaccine with CentreThe first nationwide was held on December 27 and 28, and on January 2 the second one was done on a wider scale. The January 2 dry run, which was held in four districts of Maharashtra—Pune, Jalna, Nandurbar and Nagpur—brought to light internet glitches at several sites. “Minor issues experienced in using the Co-Win application have been streamlined based on feedback we had received from various states,” said Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan. “Maharashtra will join the nationwide dry run on January 8. It will be conducted in every district of the state. The drill will be helpful for the state to see whether the system developed for mass vaccination is working properly or not,” Tope said. Tope said two other issues-—quarantining of passengers from Europe, Middle East and South Africa and giving vaccines free to people who cannot afford to pay—will be raised at the meeting with the Union health ministry. “Two doses will cost Rs 500 as every person needs to take two, and for some people, at Rs 500 it may not be affordable. However, I am of the opinion that the Centre should bear the cost of purchasing vaccines and supplying them to Maharashtra. As the Centre has already stopped supply of masks, ventilators and RT-PCR kits, the Maharashtra government is procuring these items by spending from the state exchequer. The state cannot ignore its duty when help from the Centre is not coming,” Tope said. He also expressed concerns over the possibility of the resumption of flights between India and the UK, where a new strain of coronavirus has emerged. “Resumption of these flights is a matter of concern for us. We have traced 95% of passengers who landed in Mumbai between November 25 and December 21. Tracing is on for the rest. If more passengers start coming, we will have to increase screening and testing facilities,” he said. “I think the Centre will inform the state in the next 10 days about the large-scale availability of dosages. The data of nearly 7.5 lakh health workers in Maharashtra is already uploaded on the Co-Win application. And we are going to use only hospitals to vaccinate people in the first phase as capacity is more than sufficient and in case of a reaction, things will be handled well,” Tope said. Dr D Patil, state immunisation officer, said they are expecting the number of healthcare staff beneficiaries to reach 8 lakh as some private health institutions were still uploading their data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-to-raise-its-concerns-before-dry-run-on-january-8/articleshow/80125293.cms||Bhavika Jain
January 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Most doctors say they'd prefer Covishield jab over Covaxin||MUMBAI: With the Drugs Controller General of India granting emergency-use approval to two vaccines on January 3, the debate among medical professionals now is which one would they take, if given a choice. Most doctors, including KEM Hospital dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh, said that Covishield, developed by Oxford-AstraZeneca and manufactured by Serum Institute of India, would be their preferred vaccine since Covaxin's efficacy data is not available yet. Incidentally, KEM was one of the sites where the Oxford vaccine Covishield trial was conducted. "The reason is simple. The vaccination of participants, even with the second dose, is over in Covishield and people are in the observational stage. Whereas Covaxin participants are still getting the vaccine," said Dr Deshmukh. "Covaxin may be a better vaccine than Covishield afterall and preferred even as it's an inactivated one, but we wouldn't know anything till the efficacy, immunogenicity and safety data is all out." Covaxin is being developed by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Covaxin's approval has kicked up a strong reaction from the country's scientific and medical fraternity who have questioned the go-ahead in the absence of efficacy data from phase III clinical trial that is still underway.The phase III trial that was started in November is supposed to recruit 25,800 participants across 25 centres of which 24,000 have been recruited. ICMR head Dr Balram Bhargava on Tuesday said that the restricted-use approval was granted looking at the data on animal studies and safety data of phase I and II trials conducted with 375 and 380 participants, respectively. He also said that more than 24,000 participants have been given the first dose, and over 5,000 the second dose with no adverse effects. Interestingly, Covishield's complete immunogenicity (ability to generate an immune response) data on 1,600 Indian participants enrolled for the phase II/III clinical trial too is not yet complete as data for only 400 has been evaluated. Dr Deshmukh, however, said there was the UK trial data to fall back on. Intensivist Dr Rahul Pandit, also a member of the state task force, said that the government has clearly spelt out that Covishield was the primary vaccine and most likely will be rolled out first. "The drug controller has granted it a restricted emergency use in clinical trial mode approval, meaning those receiving it need to give consent and will be followed up." On Tuesday, when VK Paul, chairman of National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 and a member NITI Aayog, was asked which vaccine would be preferred during a press meet in Delhi, he only said, "I will take the vaccine which the ministry of health will specify for me." Incidentally, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria had said that the Bharat Biotech vaccine could be used as a backup, a statement that was opposed by the company's chairman Dr Krishna Ella who said that Covaxin was "one of the vaccines and not a backup". Interestingly, even as the vaccine war rages on, state and civic officials are clueless about what may arrive in the next 10 days. State immunisation officer Dr D Patil said that the Centre has not communicated the specific vaccine type yet. Suresh Kakani, BMC's additional municipal commissioner, said they have been told only one vaccine brand would be supplied by the Centre at one given point since two doses would have to be administered 28-30 days apart.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-most-doctors-say-theyd-prefer-covishield-jab-over-covaxin/articleshow/80125296.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 6, 2021||India||Day later, Bharat Bio & SII take shot at peace||HYDERABAD: Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech — India’s top vaccine makers — seemed to have ironed out their differences on Tuesday, a day after they had an open spat over the quality of the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech and the one brought to India and manufactured by SII. On Tuesday, a joint statement issued by SII CEO Adar Poonawala and Bharat Biotech founder and chairman Krishna Ella said both companies jointly pledged to work to develop, manufacture and supply Covid vaccines for India and provide global access as well. “Now that two Covid-19 vaccines have been issued EUA (emergency use authorisation) in India, the focus is on manufacturing, supply and distribution, such that populations that need it most receive high quality, safe and efficacious vaccines,” the statement said. The war of words had broken out after Poonawala claimed in a TV interview on Sunday that there were only three vaccines with proven efficacy — Pfizer, Moderna and Astra-Zeneca-Oxford. According to him, the rest were “safe, like water”. The comments came on a day the Drug Controller General of India gave emergency use approval to the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine being manufactured by SII, and Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech and ICMR-NIV. On Monday, Ella said Covaxin was definitely not water. He had questioned the Astra-Zeneca-Oxford vaccine and had alleged that volunteers of those trials were administered paracetamol to suppress adverse reactions, while trials conducted by Bharat Biotech were “200% honest and ethical”. But the two appeared to bury the hatchet on Tuesday. “The more important task in front of us is saving the lives and livelihoods of populations in India and the world,” the joint statement said. The public spat took place even as several world leaders, including tech tycoon and philanthropist Bill Gates, lauded India’s leadership in vaccine manufacturing. “It’s great to see India’s leadership in scientific innovation and vaccine manufacturing capability as the world works to end the pandemic,” Gates tweeted on Monday, tagged the PMO. WHO DG Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus also tweeted that India “continues to take decisive action & demonstrate its resolve to end #COVID19 pandemic”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/day-later-bharat-bio-sii-take-shot-at-peace/articleshow/80125297.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
January 6, 2021||India||Protection only after 2 weeks of second dose: AIIMS director||NEW DELHI: Getting immunised against Covid will be a voluntary exercise and it is important that both doses of the vaccine be administered to an individual for developing better immune response against the disease, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria has said. Protective levels of antibodies generally develop two weeks after receiving the second dose, he said. The senior pulmonologist also stressed that the vaccine introduced in India will be as effective as any developed by other countries. On whether a person with an active Covid infection can be vaccinated, Guleria said a person with active and symptomatic infection may increase the risk of spreading the virus to others at the vaccination site and thus, infected individuals should defer vaccination for at least 14 days after the symptoms are resolved. He said individuals who have one or more co-morbidities should take the vaccine because they fall in the high-risk category and should protect themselves. He added that their medications will not interfere with vaccine efficacy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/protection-only-after-2-weeks-of-second-dose-aiims-director/articleshow/80125306.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Surat||Hit-and-run: Luxury car driver arrested in Surat||SURAT: A 41-year-old driver of a luxury car was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly killing a bicycle rider and ramming into three other vehicles near Bhatar crossroad on Monday night. The accused Lavkush Tiwari, who was driving the car had knocked down cyclist Nirmal Yadav who died on the spot. Tiwari, a resident of Pandesara, was going to pick up his employer at Surat airport through Sachin-Magdalla road on Monday evening. Instead of taking a turn towards Dumas road, he continued driving straight and got on to the flyover at ONGC crossroad. Realising it was a wrong route, Tiwari tried to take reverse on the flyover bridge and hit another car coming from behind. It was a minor accident, but fearing an argument, Tiwari escaped at high speed, said police. The driver of the other car chased Tiwari on bike of another commuter. Noticing this, Tiwari drove faster and hit an autorickshaw driver Amul Kande and later knocked down a moped rider Darshan Vatani near Bhatar crossroad. He also hit a cement pole and Yadav who was riding a cycle at the same time died on the spot||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/hit-and-run-luxury-car-driver-arrested/articleshow/80120948.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Mumbai||Covid rule violation: Arbaaz Khan, Sohail and son Nirvaan quarantined at Bandra hotel post-FIR||MUMBAI: A day after an FIR was filed against them, BMC said actors Arbaaz Khan, his brother Sohail Khan and the latter’s son Nirvaan have been shifted to a 5-star hotel in Bandra to complete their remaining mandatory 14-day quarantine. They had arrived in the city on December 25, 2020 from the UAE. Meanwhile, it has emerged that another international flyer escaped a hotel quarantine at Dadar on December 26, but the authorities are unaware of this person’s whereabouts. BMC and the collector’s office blamed each other for the lapse and no police complaint was filed. Flyer fled from Dadar hotel, no details to traceBMC has said actors Arbaaz Khan, his brother Sohail Khan and the latter's son Nirvaan have been shifted to a five-star hotel in Bandra to complete their 14-day quarantine. The Khans had returned to the city from the UAE and told officials at the airport they would isolate themselves at a five-star hotel in Bandra. Instead, they went home. BMC learnt of this on Monday, January 4, and filed a police complaint against the three for flouting the mandatory hotel quarantine rule for international flyers. After the case was filed, civic officials forced the trio to check into a hotel for the remaining period of their 14-day quarantine. Since December 22, those who land in the city from Europe, the Gulf and South Africa have to spend seven days in a hotel or an institutional quarantine and seven more in home isolation. The rule was introduced following the outbreak of the UK strain. A BMC official said, "One needs to complete 14 days of quarantine after returning from the countries mentioned. Khans arrived on December 25 and their 14-day period will end on January 9. According to protocol, we will test them on Wednesday or Thursday and discharge them from hotel quarantine if they test negative. They don't have any symptoms." In the second incident, in the early hours of December 26, five passengers who landed from one of the countries had selected a Dadar hotel to quarantine themselves in and were taken there by a bus arranged by the BMC. While four entered the hotel, one slipped away unnoticed. The other four were not related to the one who escaped. Parag Masurkar, deputy municipal commissioner of BMC who supervises international passengers' quarantine process said, "Since the passenger escaped without reporting at the hotel quarantine facility, we don't have any details. Check with the collector's office about it." The deputy collector posted at the airport said BMC would have the case details. Mumbai suburban district collector Milind Borikar said, "We handle international flyers at the airport. The quarantine process is handled by the BMC."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/khans-isolate-in-a-bandra-5-star-post-fir/articleshow/80125314.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 6, 2021||India||Vax on bicycle: UP cold-chain handler in hot water||VARANASI: District health officials swung into action on Tuesday after visuals went viral on social media showing ‘vaccine’ reaching an inoculation centre on bicycle during the statewide dry run. Chief medical officer Dr V B Singh has sought an explanation from the cold chain operator for the ‘lapse’ as the centre in question — Government Women Hospital, Chaukaghat — was not scheduled for the supply of vaccines as it already had adequate doses in storage. Just before the start of the dry run at GWH, a man reached there with four cold-chain boxes on a bicycle, but the security personnel stopped him from entering the hospital. When he revealed that he had brought dummy vaccine boxes from Chaukaghat CHC, the designated storage centre for Covid vaccine with three ice lined refrigerators (ILR), the health officials swung into action. The statewide dry run was held at GWH, CHC Shivpur, Heritage hospital in urban areas, and PHC Hathi Bazar, CHC Misirpur and PHC Pindra in rural belt. The CMO and additional CMO Dr Sanjay Rai reached GWH at 10am to monitor the dry run conducted under supervision of hospital superintendent Dr Mini Srivastava. Officials said a 12-member team consisting of doctors, paramedical and sanitary staff was deployed at each of the six centres. The drill was conducted till 3 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vax-on-bicycle-up-cold-chain-handler-in-hot-water/articleshow/80125321.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Bengaluru||Cabinet expansion in 3-4 days, BSY tells hopefuls||Bengaluru: BS Yediyurappa reportedly told ministerial aspirants on Tuesday that cabinet expansion would take place in three to four days, asking them to stick around in Bengaluru. He sought to ease concerns among hopefuls, who are perturbed by national BJP general secretary Arun Singh’s indication that the cabinet exercise is not on the party high command’s list of priorities. A number of legislators have been waiting for months to learn whether they will get a cabinet berth. Yediyurappa has made at least three trips to Delhi in the past few months to get clarity on the issue, but to no avail. They thought that Singh, who is also BJP’s Karnataka in-charge, would deliver good news during the state party unit’s executive committee meet in Shivamogga last week. But while responding to media’s queries on the topic, he said: “It seems you (media) are in a hurry. We are not.” Party functionaries said that there might be a development during Union home minister Amit Shah’s planned visit to Karnataka on January 16. The delays have particularly upset MTB Nagaraj, R Shankar and N Munirathna, who, along with others, quit the Congress-JD(S) coalition in 2019 and handed BJP a crucial advantage. Nagaraj and Shankar, who have been waiting to become ministers after being elected to the legislative council three months ago, have had a heated argument with Yediyurappa on two to three occasions, according to BJP insiders. “It’s true that they are frustrated. But they have no option but to wait. Yeddyurappa is also finding it difficult of late to face them,” said a senior BJP MLA. On Tuesday, Yediyurappa reportedly told senior MLA and ministerial hopeful Umesh Katti that the cabinet expansion would happen in three to four days and asked him not to leave Bengaluru. The two had a quick word at a hotel, where the chief minister held meetings to address BJP MLAs’ grievances. “When Katti sought the CM’s signature on a letter, the latter told him: “You don’t need to come to me for signature anymore. You are becoming a minister’,” said a legislator. Shankar, who was also present at the hotel, claimed that Yediyurappa told him that the cabinet exercise would be carried out in two to three days. “But until the party top brass gives the green signal, Yeddyurappa cannot do anything. He is trying to pacify upset MLAs,” another legislator said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cabinet-expansion-in-3-4-days-bsy-tells-hopefuls/articleshow/80124110.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Mumbai||Ex-girlfriend's engagement trigger for Malad shootout||MUMBAI: Preliminary probe into the murder-suicide in Malad late Monday indicates the 26-year-old accused, Rahul Yadav, shot dead his former girlfriend before ending his life as he couldn't accept the fact that she had spurned him and got engaged to someone else. Police said Yadav and Nidhi Mishra, 22, were college sweethearts and had been in a relationship for four years before she got engaged to another man on November 30. For the past month, Yadav was in Allahabad with his family, but he suddenly came down to Mumbai alone on Monday. Police believe the murder was premeditated as he had carried a pistol along. The pistol and two cartridges were found at the crime scene. Yadav has a criminal history and has been booked in cases of assault and extortion in the past. He was currently handling a construction site in Kandivali for a builder. Mishra had graduated last year. Two months ago, she joined a private company as a human resources executive. "I did not want her to work and had found a match for her. But the wedding was scheduled in May 2021 and she convinced me to let her work till then. I have lost my purpose to live," Mishra's father told TOI. Her family said they had never heard of Yadav before and she was happy with the match they had selected. "Not once did she object to the engagement and she was in fact quite happy with the match as she was acquainted with her fiance. We had a small party at home for her birthday on December 14 and her fiance had also come over. Last weekend, the two even travelled to Shirdi," her father said. The family suspects Yadav abducted her before shooting her. "We have found evidence of Yadav picking her up from her office on Monday evening on his motorcycle. The two ordered a vada pav and dosa from a food stall before going to the back road in Malad where they got into an argument. Yadav shot her in the back of the head before shooting himself in the temple. Another couple spotted them collapse on the ground and went to check on them before dialling the police control room," said an officer. Mishra's colleagues had seen Yadav come to pick her up in the past. But she had told them he had a criminal record and that she had no intention of marrying him. "Nidhi's mother kept calling her when she did not return home from office. The third time she called, a policeman answered and said there had been an accident. We had already shopped for her wedding and booked train tickets to our hometown. Now, everything is over," Mishra's aunt sobbed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ex-girlfriends-engagement-trigger-for-malad-shootout/articleshow/80125339.cms||Nitasha Natu
January 6, 2021||Indore||Two from Telangana held with Rs 70 crore ecstasy in MP drug bust||INDORE: Indore police on Tuesday made the largest seizure of party drug MDMA or ecstasy in the country — 70kg, worth Rs 70 crore. Five persons, including two from Telangana, have been arrested. The drugs were manufactured in a factory in Telangana and were being shipped to South Africa when Indore police intercepted the consignment on the outskirts of the city. “The seized MDMA’s estimated value is Rs 70 crore in the international market, but the price may go much higher, depending on the buyer. This is the largest seizure of synthetic drugs in the country,” ADGP Yogesh Deshmukh told reporters on Tuesday evening. Among those arrested are Ved Prakash Vyas, a resident of Hyderabad’s Jalvayu Vihar who owns a pharma factory where the drug was allegedly manufactured, and his driver Mangi Venkatesh, a resident of Rangareddy. They had driven down to Indore with the consignment and were handing it over to Indore resident Dinesh Agrawal, his son Akshay alias Chiku (30) and nephew Chiman Agrawal of Mandsaur when the cops moved in. Police seized over Rs 13 lakh in cash and eight mobile phones from the suspects, plus two SUVs. It was some Hyderabad residents who tipped off Indore police, said officers. In touch with Telangana police: MP copsA team of 50 cops staked out the rendezvous and nabbed the smugglers when the drugs exchanged hands, Deshmukh said. Vyas worked as a medical representative in 1984-85 and has lived in Ujjain, Dewas and Mandsaur in MP, where he came in contact with Agrawal, a resident of Indore.  “Vyas started the factory Ariston Pharma Novatech in 2013. A clandestine lab might be existing there to manufacture MDMA. We are in touch with Telangana police,” the ADGP said. “We believe the drug was being shipped to South Africa. There are international transit routes via Mumbai, Delhi and north-eastern states,” he said. According to police, the suspects said they had smuggled drugs in private vehicles, public transport and trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/two-from-telangana-held-with-rs-70-crore-ecstasy-in-mp-drug-bust/articleshow/80125341.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Two from Telangana held with Rs 70 crore ecstasy in MP drug bust||INDORE: Indore police on Tuesday made the largest seizure of party drug MDMA or ecstasy in the country — 70kg, worth Rs 70 crore. Five persons, including two from Telangana, have been arrested. The drugs were manufactured in a factory in Telangana and were being shipped to South Africa when Indore police intercepted the consignment on the outskirts of the city. “The seized MDMA’s estimated value is Rs 70 crore in the international market, but the price may go much higher, depending on the buyer. This is the largest seizure of synthetic drugs in the country,” ADGP Yogesh Deshmukh told reporters on Tuesday evening. Among those arrested are Ved Prakash Vyas, a resident of Hyderabad’s Jalvayu Vihar who owns a pharma factory where the drug was allegedly manufactured, and his driver Mangi Venkatesh, a resident of Rangareddy. They had driven down to Indore with the consignment and were handing it over to Indore resident Dinesh Agrawal, his son Akshay alias Chiku (30) and nephew Chiman Agrawal of Mandsaur when the cops moved in. Police seized over Rs 13 lakh in cash and eight mobile phones from the suspects, plus two SUVs. It was some Hyderabad residents who tipped off Indore police, said officers. In touch with Telangana police: MP copsA team of 50 cops staked out the rendezvous and nabbed the smugglers when the drugs exchanged hands, Deshmukh said. Vyas worked as a medical representative in 1984-85 and has lived in Ujjain, Dewas and Mandsaur in MP, where he came in contact with Agrawal, a resident of Indore.  “Vyas started the factory Ariston Pharma Novatech in 2013. A clandestine lab might be existing there to manufacture MDMA. We are in touch with Telangana police,” the ADGP said. “We believe the drug was being shipped to South Africa. There are international transit routes via Mumbai, Delhi and north-eastern states,” he said. According to police, the suspects said they had smuggled drugs in private vehicles, public transport and trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-from-telangana-held-with-rs-70-crore-ecstasy-in-mp-drug-bust/articleshow/80125320.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad crematorium roof collapse: NSA against engineer, contractor||GHAZIABAD: UP CM Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday directed officials to impose the National Security Act (NSA) against the contractor who built the Ghaziabad crematorium shelter that collapsed on Sunday and claimed 24 lives and also the junior engineer of Muradnagar municipality who failed to carry out an inspection of the project. The loss caused to the public exchequer due to the collapse will be recovered from the contractor and the civic officials who had awarded the work contract. The contractor, Ajay Tyagi, would also be blacklisted. Ghaziabad tragedy: DM in a spot over inactionThe junior engineer of the civic body, Chandra Pal, senior executive officer Niharika Chauhan and supervisor Ashish have already been arrested. Tyagi was picked up from Muzaffarnagar late on Monday night. All four have been booked under IPC sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 409 (criminal breach of trust by a public servant), among other charges. Sources said a notice had also been issued to the Ghaziabad district magistrate, asking why no action was taken by him after Adityanath had in September issued specific instructions that all projects that are worth over Rs 50 lakh be reviewed. Ajay Shankar Pandey, the district magistrate, told TOI he had no knowledge of any such notice. The district magistrate constituted a three-member panel of technical experts on Tuesday to probe the quality of materials used to build the crematorium shelter and other reasons that might have led to the collapse. “The panel will will have to submit a report in 48 hours,” said Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/ghaziabad-crematorium-roof-collapse-nsa-against-engineer-contractor/articleshow/80125347.cms||---
January 6, 2021||India||No irregularity in approval to Covaxin: ICMR||NEW DELHI: In an urgent situation like the Covid pandemic, the drug regulator has the authority to give approval for restricted use to a vaccine based on its safety and immunogenicity data from phase 1 and 2 studies while phase 3 clinical trial is under way, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) chief Balram Bhargava said on Tuesday. He underlined existing provisions in the new drugs and clinical trials rules in support of the approval granted for Covaxin, which has been questioned by some activists and experts. The rules make it clear “efficacy data” — an issue raised by critics — in not a factor in grant of emergency use though this does not mean the concern is not evaluated. “The immunogenicity data generated through phase 2 clinical trial serves as a surrogate for efficacy. The Clinical Trial Rules, 2019 provide for considering phase 2 results to guide approval,” Bhargava said. Bharat Biotech’s Krishna Ella had on Monday said the efficacy data was being evaluated for phase 3 trials where the data management was being done by a third party and that grant of EUA was not a violation of rules. The drug regulator has accorded emergency use authorisation to Covaxin in “clinical trial mode” which means “consent of participants has to be taken, there will be no placebo and there will be a closer follow-up”, Bhargava said. He said the rules clearly stated if remarkable efficacy was observed with a defined dose in the phase 2 trial for the unmet medical needs of serious and life threatening diseases, it may be considered for grant of marketing approval. Allaying concerns, Bhargava said animal studies showed the vaccine prevented SARSCoV-2 pneumonia in monkeys and elicited good immunogenicity in mice. Watch Drug Controller request manufacturers to provide SOPs and protocol for a clinical trial mode: DG ICMR||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-irregularity-in-approval-to-covaxin-icmr/articleshow/80125344.cms||---
January 6, 2021||India||Some doctors say they would prefer Covishield jabs||MUMBAI: The debate among medical professionals now is which one of the two vaccines granted emergency-use approval would they take, if given a choice. Several doctors, including KEM Hospital dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh, said Covishield, developed by Oxford-AstraZeneca and manufactured by Serum Institute of India, would be their preferred vaccine since Covaxin’s efficacy data is not available yet. Incidentally, KEM was one of the sites where Covishield’s trial was conducted. “The reason is simple. We have to see Covaxin’s efficacy data and that trial is still on,” he explained. Interestingly, Covishield’s complete immunogenicity (ability to generate an immune response) data on 1,600 Indian participants enrolled for the phase 2/3 trial too is not yet complete as data for only 400 has been evaluated. Dr Deshmukh, however, said there was the UK trial data to fall back on. Intensivist Dr Rahul Pandit, also a member of the Maharashtra task force, said the government has clearly spelt out that Covishield was the primary vaccine and most likely will be rolled out first. “The drug controller has granted it a restricted emergency use in clinical trial mode approval, meaning those receiving it need to give consent and will be followed up.” On Tuesday, when VK Paul, chairman of National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 and a member of Niti Aayog, was asked during a press meet in Delhi about which vaccine would be preferred, he only said: “I will take the vaccine which the ministry of health will specify for me.” Incidentally, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria had said the Bharat Biotech vaccine could be used as a backup, a statement that was opposed by the company’s chairman Dr Krishna Ella who said Covaxin was “one of the vaccines and not a backup”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/some-doctors-say-they-would-prefer-covishield-jabs/articleshow/80125369.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 6, 2021||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad roof collapse: Contractor bought new SIM to evade cops, but old one gave away location||GHAZIABAD: As news of the collapse flashed on his TV screen and the toll kept mounting, Ajay Tyagi was busy calling up friends. One of them arrived with his car in minutes and knocked on the back door. Tyagi, the contractor who had built the crematorium shelter whose roof collapsed on Sunday and killed 24 people, fled his Raj Nagar house in his friend’s car. He did not lock the door or the main gate and left his car outside — a possible attempt to mislead the neighbours, police believe. Information pieced together after talking to the cops has revealed that Tyagi’s friend dropped him at the Ghaziabad bus stand on Sunday evening. From there, he took a bus to Hapur. The contractor spent a few hours in Hapur and then paid a truck driver to drop him to Meerut. From there, Tyagi took another bus to Muzaffarnagar, where he has a number of friends and relatives. All this while, he hadn’t switched on his phone even once to avoid being detected. As the police landed in his Ghaziabad house on Monday morning and found it empty, Tyagi bought a new SIM card and a phone in Muzaffarnagar and used them to make calls. He, however, came under the police scanner when he switched on his old phone. The cops in Ghaziabad alerted their counterparts in Muzaffarnagar, and Tyagi was arrested around 11.30pm on Monday. The police believe Tyagi was planning to come to Delhi and take a train from there to a faraway place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/ghaziabad-accused-buys-new-sim-old-one-lands-him-in-net/articleshow/80125367.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
January 6, 2021||Aurangabad||No ad telecast of articles claiming special powers: High court||AURANGABAD: Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court on Tuesday declared as illegal the propagation for sale by advertisement as well as the telecast of advertisement of articles that have the name of any god or 'baba' attached, like the 'Hanuman Chalisa Yantra', as well as articles claiming special or supernatural powers bringing wealth, prosperity, progress in business and career, recovery from illness and in marriage matters. "Such propagation, advertisement falls under Section 3 of the Maharashtra Prevention and Eradication of Human Sacrifice and other Inhuman, Evil and Aghori Practices and Black Magic Act of 2013," the bench ruled, allowing a writ petition by Rajendra Ambhore (45), a teacher from Aurangabad. The bench said, "The state government is hereby directed to see that the telecast of such advertisements on TV channels is stopped immediately in coordination with the authority created by the central government under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995. If such authority is not in place, the central government needs to appoint such authority within one month from today and if such authority is not appointed within this period, the state government is entitled to use the provisions of the Act of 2013 for stopping the telecast of such advertisement." Secretary to the Information and Broadcasting Ministry, the state chief secretary, DGP and senior police officers were named respondents along with celebrity singers Anuradha Paudwal and Anup Jalota, actors Manoj Kumar, Mukesh Khanna, Shivaji Satam and Ronit Roy, five Hindi TV channels, the Advertising Standards Council of India and the Indian Broadcasting Foundation. Indore-based Telemart Shopping Network Pvt Ltd had argued that the ads neither fell within the ambit of the Black Magic Act nor under the Television Networks Act. The HC, however, referred to Article 51-A (h) of the Constitution which deals with fundamental duties like developing scientific temper, humanism and the spirit of inquiry and reform, and said, "The aforesaid fundamental duty viz. to develop the scientific temper, humanism and the spirit of inquiry and reform needs to be read into the Black Magic Act." It also dealt in detail with other provisions of the Act to declare propagation for sale and telecast of such advertisements as illegal. The bench directed the state to appoint vigilance officers for registering crimes by giving reports against those making such advertisements and selling such articles. It directed the state and the central governments to create cells in Mumbai to see that no such advertisements are telecast on TV channels. TV channels showing such advertisements will also be liable for action, the HC said and sought a report from the respondent authorities within a month on compliance of its directives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/telecasting-advertisement-of-articles-claiming-special-powers-illegal/articleshow/80125377.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 6, 2021||India||No curbs on Covid vaccine exports, says govt; companies call shots ‘global public goods’||NEW DELHI: The government on Tuesday clarified there was no export ban on the approved vaccines with both Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech, the producers of Covishield and Covaxin, respectively issuing a joint statement saying vaccines are global public goods and they would stand by their commitment to supply vaccines globally. “The Union government has not banned the export of any of the Covid-19 vaccines. This should be absolutely clear. When I say Union government, I mean ministry of health and family welfare, ministry of commerce, the department for promotion of industry and internal trade, directorate general of foreign trade. These are the departments which can ban the export of vaccines in any hypothetical situation. They have not taken any action regarding this. So, this is my earnest request to media friends that we should be on guard when such misinformation is spread,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. The comments came amid speculations that SII has been barred from exporting vaccines to other countries. SII CEO Adar Poonawalla too clarified that there was no ban on the exports of vaccines. “Vaccines are a global public health good and they have the power to save lives and accelerate the return to economic normalcy at the earliest,” the statement by SII and Bharat Biotech said. “We are fully aware of the importance of the vaccines for people and countries alike, we hereby communicate our joint pledge to provide global access for our Covid-19 vaccines,” it added. Brazil dials India on vaccine importsIndia’s vaccine diplomacy push might be impacted by confusing signals on the export of vaccines. On Monday, the Jair Bolsonaro government in Brazil dialled the Indian government after the chief of the Serum Institute, Adar Poonawala, was quoted as saying that the Indian government would be imposing export restrictions for Covid-19 vaccines. Brazil has one of the highest outbreaks of Covid in the world, along with the US, Russia and India. According to media reports, Brazil’s private hospitals and clinics have signed purchase agreements with both Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech for vaccines, to supplement their own, which are inadequate. According to Reuters, the scramble by Brazil’s government and private sector underscored how Latin America’s largest nation, once an example of mass immunisation success in the developing world, has fallen behind peers in the race to inoculate against the coronavirus. Plans by Brazil’s Fiocruz Institute to import Astra Zeneca’s vaccine in bulk, filling and finishing doses locally, would only have 1 million doses ready by the second week of February, the head of the government-funded biomedical centre told Reuters last week. Amid rising criticism of its slow response and a death toll approaching 200,000, second only to the US, Brazil is now rushing to import finished doses, playing catch up to neighbouring Chile and Argentina where inoculations are underway. However, Poonawala told Reuters on Sunday that he expected India’s government to restrict the export of Covid vaccines Myanmar looks to India with hope, ‘inks contract’As the government green lighted two vaccines, other countries are hoping to get the jabs from India soon. Myanmar’s state councillor Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, in her New Year’s address, said they had started the process to get the vaccines from India. “I think what the people wish to know is regarding the vaccination programme for Covid-19 and when this programme would start. The purchase contract for buying the first batch of the vaccines from India has already been signed. As soon as the authorities concerned in India have issued permission to use this vaccine, we have made arrangements for the import of these vaccines into Myanmar. In accordance with this programme, we will be vaccinating the first priority group, which comprises medical professionals and medical personnel in February,” she said. India has promised vaccines to Bangladesh as a “priority” partner, Nepal and other neighbouring countries. The government will allow exports after India’s own demands are met. Vaccine candidates by AstraZeneca and Bharat Biotech have been approved for emergency use . (with inputs from agencies)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-curbs-on-vax-exports-says-govt-cos-call-shots-global-public-goods/articleshow/80125378.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Mumbai||Two LPG delivery boys rent 12 cars, sell them in Rajasthan||MUMBAI: Powai police arrested two gas cylinder delivery boys from Navi Mumbai for allegedly selling 12 rental cars in Rajasthan on forged documents. Jagdish Bisnoi (23) and Mahendra Godara (19)-both school dropouts-hit upon the idea after they hired a vehicle from Zoomcar to travel to their hometown in Rajasthan in March after the lockdown was imposed, said the police. Based on a complaint by Zoomcar field executive Dhiraj Maurya on November 3, zonal DCP Maheshwar Reddy supervised a team of senior inspector Vijay Dalvi, inspector Dilip Dhamunse, and sub-inspectors Yash Palwe and Vinod Lad, that arrested the duo from Powai when they arrived to rent a car on December 27. Six cars stolen from Borivli, Chembur, Powai, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh were recovered from them. "The duo would destroy the GPS chip in the hired car, use the car for personal work till the lockdown restriction on travel was eased at state borders and then sell it," said an officer. "They were caught because as per the company norms, the client has to take a selfie with the vehicle to get an OTP to open the vehicle door." Another police officer said, "The duo would befriend strangers, ask them to help them send money to their hometown using an e-wallet and offer Rs 1,000 for their assistance. The money was in fact being transferred to the car rental company. The accused would even manage to get their victims' SIM and Aadhaar card details and use it to book vehicles."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/two-lpg-delivery-boys-rent-12-cars-sell-them-in-rajasthan/articleshow/80125382.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
January 6, 2021||Bengaluru||With Karnataka governor nod, cow slaughter ban kicks in||BENGALURU: The controversial cow protection law came into force on Tuesday after governor Vajubhai Vala gave his assent to the state government’s ordinance. The law bans slaughter of all types of cattle, except buffaloes older than 13 years. People convicted for violating the ban can face rigorous imprisonment of three to seven years and a steep fine. Slaughterhouses, however, will continue to operate and beef consumption is not prohibited. The Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020, was passed in the assembly during the winter session, but it stalled in the legislative council. This forced the BS Yediyurappa cabinet to push the law through an ordinance, which received the governor’s nod after some reported hesitation. “Normally, the Raj Bhavan is quick in giving assent to bills. On this occasion, it took some time,” said a senior BJP functionary. Another BJP functionary said that internal politics and difference of opinion on the issue was the main reason for the delay. While a large section of BJP members wants a stringent law to protect cows, some suggested lighter curbs and punishment. BJP-governed Goa reportedly mounted pressure as it depends heavily on Karnataka for the supply of beef, the staple food of more than 30 per cent of Goans. “The governor had sought some clarifications and he gave the assent after we cleared his doubts. There is no pressure from anyone,” said law and parliamentary affairs minister JC Madhuswamy. The ordinance, he said, could not be promulgated sooner as the legislature session didn’t formally end. After three days of business during the winter session, assembly and council proceedings were adjourned sine die on December 9. The council reconvened on December 15, but was again adjourned sine die. The session was finally prorogued on January 2. “This delayed the governor’s assent,” Madhuswamy added. Another reason for the delay, according to an official in the Raj Bhavan, was the absence of a full-time secretary to the governor. The Raj Bhavan has not been able to find a replacement for VR Ramesh, who resigned in September 2019. “Decisions are taking time without a full-time secretary and a proper think tank. There is an urgent need for a secretary there,” said BJP MLC Lahar Singh Siroya, echoing the concerns of many other BJP functionaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-karnataka-governor-nod-cow-slaughter-ban-kicks-in/articleshow/80125383.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
January 6, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: AIIMS restarts elective surgeries after 10 months||NEW DELHI: After nearly 10 months, AIIMS has resumed non-emergency surgeries. It has also allowed pre-booking of appointments for OPD consultation directly from the counter or online. Walk-in isn’t allowed as yet. Routine OPDs and nonemergency surgeries were suspended at AIIMS in Marchend, when India went into a lockdown due to a surge in Covid-19 cases. Emergency services were shifted to main AIIMS and the trauma centre was turned into a dedicated facility for Covid-19 patients. Dr D K Sharma, medical superintendent of AIIMS, said resumption of routine OPD and non-emergency surgeries is being done in a graded manner as the trauma centre is still designated for Covid-19. Prebook slot for OPD consultation at AIIMSSome of the beds in the main hospital have been earmarked for trauma patients while others are being used to admit emergency cases involving non-Covid problems,” he said. Dr Sharma added that one can pre-book appointments for OPD consultation. “If the doctor feels admission is required, it can be done subject to the availability of beds,” the AIIMS medical superintendent said. Till last month, admission to the hospital was possible only for emergency and semi-emergency needs. Last year, in August, a 38-yearold woman from Kanpur had filed a petition in the Delhi High Court over delay in surgery by the institute. She suffered from a large fibroid in the uterus and anaemia. AIIMS had replied to the court that critical surgeries were never stopped even during the lockdown. Lok Nayak hospital, the largest hospital run by Delhi government, was turned into the Covid facility in April. After nine months, Lok Nayak hospital has also resumed OPD services for non-Covid patients since Monday. Sources said more than 50 patients have already visited the hospital. Admission for non-Covid problems hasn’t been started yet, said a source. Delhi government has also decided to reduce the number of beds reserved for Covid patients in seven of its hospitals from 4,696 to 2,140 as part of the de-escalation process, including reduction of Covid beds from 2,010 to 1,000 in Lok Nayak and from 1,500 to 500 in GTB, health minister Satyendar Jain said recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-aiims-restarts-elective-surgeries-after-10-months/articleshow/80125393.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
January 6, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: No extension of night curfew yet||The Maharashtra government has not issued a notification to extend the night curfew that was imposed from December 22 to January 5 to ensure that public spaces were not crowded during Christmas and New Year celebrations. "We have not issued a notification to extend the order as of now," said Kishore Raje Nimbalkar, relief & rehabilitation secretary. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said the CM will review the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-no-extension-of-night-curfew-yet/articleshow/80125396.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Delhi||Rain lashes Delhi-NCR for 4th day in a row, hailstorm in Gurugram||NEW DELHI: Sporadic rain lashed Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) for the fourth consecutive day on Wednesday. "Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of south, southwest, northwest, east, northeast, Central, New Delhi, Manesar, Gurugram, Panipat, Farukhnagar, Nuh, Sohana, Faridabad," India Meteorological Department (IMD) tweeted at 8.36am. Heavy rains, #hailstorm lash Gurugram; visuals from Kherki Daula#GurrugramRains https://t.co/bEuDbACXeJ— TOI Gurgaon (@TOIGurgaon) 1609899992000Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station, had received 4.7mm rainfall between 8.30am on Monday and 8.30am on Tuesday. Hail precipitation would occur over and adjoining areas of South Delhi (Ayanagar), Gurugram during next one hour. https://t.co/qHmLYg2WMA— India Meteorological Department (@Indiametdept) 1609902399000Stations like Jafarpur, Najafgarh and Ayanagar recorded 22, 17, 8.9mm rainfall, respectively. Rains lash Delhi-NCR on Wednesday morning; visuals from #Noida sector-137#DelhiRains #NoidaRains https://t.co/KrF7w4VkMm— TOI Noida (@TOINoida) 1609900723000Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “Several parts of Delhi received very light to light rain on Tuesday. Very light rain is again forecast for Wednesday. Partly cloudy sky is predicted.” On Tuesday, the minimum temperature was recorded at 13.2 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperature remained at 20.8 degrees Celsius. Met officials said the maximum and minimum temperatures would be around 22 and 12 degrees Celsius, respectively, on Wednesday. Watch Delhi-NCR wakes up to sound of hailstorm and rain||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rain-lashes-delhi-ncr-for-4th-day-in-a-row-hailstorm-strikes-gurugram/articleshow/80125400.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Goa||Locals write to central panel over rail project||Panaji: Residents of Arrosim, Cansaulim, Velsao and Pale, under the banner of Village Action Group against Double Tracking (Vacad), have written to the central empowered committee (CEC) about the proposed railway line double-tracking and how it would affect their villages, livelihoods, sustenance and homes. “As doubling of the Hospet-Vasco railway track is a contiguous project that goes into forest, non-forest areas and traverses state boundaries in line with the MoEFCC, we request that all piecemeal work on this project be stopped. We hope the CEC will deliberate upon this so that we can protect our natural and built-up heritage that is unique to Goa,” their letter to the CEC states. The existing tracks that run through these villages are flanked by old houses, schools, hospitals, religious places and community halls within 100m on either side. “Attempts to push through with the double track, with no proper ground or feasibility study, or adherence to established guidelines, is surprising and worrisome,” said one of the signatories and Velsao resident, Max de Souza. Pointing out that express trains do not stop at intermediate stations, they said this proved that the work is not being undertaken ‘in interest of the public’. On the contrary, they claimed, there has been a systematic increase in the movement of coal rakes, from 176 in September to 208 rakes in November, despite chief minister Pramod Sawant stating that coal transportation will be reduced by 50% within a year. Many concerns were raised during a site inspection by the state environment minister and rail authorities on October 20, 2020. Chief among these was that the land acquisition plan was based on a 1968 survey plan and did not reflect newer structures erected over the past 52 years. They also pointed out that the plan does not capture land contours and environmentally sensitive water bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/locals-write-to-central-panel-over-rail-project/articleshow/80123317.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Ranchi||BJP planned attack for 2 days: JMM||Ranchi: Hours after BJP leader Babulal Marandi denied the involvement of his party loyalists and members in Monday evening’s mob attack on the convoy of chief minister Hemant Soren at Kishoreganj area here, ruling JMM on Tuesday accused Marandi of misleading the public and the police investigation. Talking to TOI, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said, “There is enough evidence to establish that BJP workers, loyalists and leaders were behind yesterday’s incident. These people were planning the incident for two days.” He further said, "Babulal ji is misleading the police and the public over the issue. The facts will come out very soon as the police are carrying out an investigation.” Stating that the JMM camp is observing BJP’s posturing over the issue closely, Bhattacharya added, “If they are politicizing the issue, we will answer them politically as well.” Bhattacharya added. Meanwhile, lawmakers from the ruling Mahagatbandhan dispensation of JMM, Congress and RJD rallied behind Soren on social media. JMM’s official Twitter handle also floated the hashtag #GundapartyBJP. State agriculture minister and Congress leader Badal Patralekh tweeted, “There is no place for mobsters in a democracy. I condemn the attack on CM Hemant Soren and urge the police to arrest the culprits as soon as possible.” Patralekh’s sentiments were echoed by water resources minister Mithilesh Thakur. Retweeting a video of the incident which was posted by BJP’s state unit, Thakur wrote: “Don't stoop so low that you become ashamed of yourself.” JMM’s Giridih legislator Sudivya Kumar posted a photograph of JMM karyakartas burning an effigy of Marandi to condemn the attack on Soren’s convoy. Labour minister Satyanand Bhogta (RJD) also condemned the attack. Soren, however, remained silent on the episode and went about his business as usual. After meeting people from various walks of life at his Kanke Road residence, Soren met Amrit Lugun, a native of Jharkhand and the Indian ambassador to Greece, at the CMO in Project Building. He took to Twitter to extend his greetings to West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on her birthday and condoled the demise of Sahibganj BJP MLA Anant Ojha’s mother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bjp-planned-attack-for-2-days-jmm/articleshow/80121530.cms||Dhritiman Ray
January 6, 2021||Ranchi||Panel formed to probe attack on CM’s convoy||Ranchi: The state government on Tuesday set up a two-member committee to probe the attack on chief minister Hemant Soren's convoy Monday even as Soren stressed that the culprits would not be spared. A statement issued by the chief minister's office said the committee will comprise senior IAS and IPS officers. The committee has been directed to submit its report as soon as possible. The Ranchi deputy commissioner, Chhavi Ranjan, and SSP Surendra Kumar Jha have also been issued show-cause notices in connection with the attack, the statement added. Meanwhile, the SSP said, “A case has been registered against 65 named persons in connection with the Kishoreganj attack at Sukkhdeonagar police station. We have detained 40 of them out of which 28 would be forwarded to jail. The investigation in the case is still going on.” In another development, the Rims medical board which conducted an autopsy on the beheaded woman, whose body was found at Ormanjhi, said the woman was not sexually assaulted. The chief minister, while interacting with journalists at the Project Building late in the evening, said: “I got to know about the incident after reaching home. I was told that a few people were lying in wait for me and resorted to nuisance after their plan failed. If this has happened, the administration will take action and the culprits will not be spared.” Asked whether it was planned by a political party, Soren said: “Ranchi is a small city and almost everyone knows each other by face. People also know about the allegiance of each other to a party. But the law is above the party lines.” When asked about the progress in the investigation in the Ormanjhi case, Soren said: “It is the effort of the police which is in the news.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/panel-formed-to-probe-attack-on-cms-convoy/articleshow/80121795.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 6, 2021||Ranchi||J’khand’s police strength poorest in country, but personnel on VIP duty double the sanctioned no.||Ranchi: Jharkhand has the poorest strength of civil police in the country with one policeman for a population of 458.39 people while several other smaller states and Union territories like Sikkim, Manipur, Nagaland and Andaman Nicobar have one policeman for every 100 people. The dismal strength of the constabulary does not impact VIP security in the state. According to the data released by the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D) for the status of the police department in the country in the year 2020, Jharkhand is facing the challenge of acute manpower shortage in the department. As against a sanctioned strength of 82,277 personnel, the department is functioning with a strength of only 64,938 personnel. All wings of the department, including District Armed Reserve Police, State Armed Police and State IRB are facing the manpower crunch and a few of them are operating at almost half the strength. There were no regular recruitments in the 2019-20 financial year. As against a sanctioned strength of 2,520 positions in the intelligence department, the actual strength is only 1,683 personnel while in the CID, out of a sanctioned strength of 581, there are only 447 personnel. ADG CID Anil Paltta has recently written a letter to the headquarters requesting posting of at least 40 inspectors from the batch recruited in 2018. Despite the manpower crunch, there has been no dearth of policemen on VIP duty during 2019-20. The BPR&D, which released its annual report on January 1, 2021, has listed the figures till January 1, 2020. In 2019, there were 1,351 persons, including ministers, MPs, MLAs, judges and bureaucrats and a few private persons identified as VIPs and entitled for personal security. Though the sanctioned posts of police personnel for security duty was only 742, the state home department facilitated the deployment of 1,891 police personnel for VIP duty. Realising the mismatch of available police strength and the number of personnel engaged on VIP duty, state director general of police M V Rao on April 1, ordered the withdrawal of bodyguards from private persons. The action was taken to mobilize policemen in Covid duty back then. The department, however, remained tightlipped if the order could be enforced. Rao did not respond to repeated phone calls while police spokesperson Saket Kumar Singh said he cannot make a comment immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jkhands-police-strength-poorest-in-country-but-personnel-on-vip-duty-double-the-sanctioned-no-/articleshow/80121510.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
January 6, 2021||Ranchi||CIMFR director chosen as fellow of Indian Academy of Sciences||Sindri: In recognition to his pioneering work in the field of strategic sectors of mining and coal science, Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research (CIMFR), Dhanbad, director Dr Pradeep Kumar Singh has been chosen as a fellow of the prestigious Indian Academy of Sciences, Bengaluru. Dr Singh is the first scientist/academician working in the area of mining technology field to become a fellow of the academy, a CIMFR statement said. The Indian Academy of Sciences, the prestigious science academy of the country, was founded by Sir C V Raman in 1934 and registered as a society on 27 April 1934 with the main objective of promoting the progress and upholding the cause of science. Dr Singh has made notable contributions in explosive science and blasting technologies, encompassing the fields of optimal use of explosive energy in rock fragmentation, explosive energy partitioning, blast vibration, wall-control, fragmentation control, blast design in mines and tunnels, pre-split and cast blast designs in coal mining operations besides correlating structural damages caused due to blast vibrations, to solve practical problems in the mining industry. He has published 240 scientific papers, authored 13 books and four booklets, filed 14 patents and has written 13 S&T reports. He is credited with initiating the national mission project on methanol economy, surface coal gasification and hydrogen economy for cleaner energy production and established oxy-blown pressurized fluidized bed gasification (PFBG) pilot plant for conversion of 1.5 TPD of coal to syngas. Dr Singh is a recipient of the prestigious National Mineral Award 2007, the Raman Research Fellowship 2005 and the CSIR Technology Award for the year 2017, 2018 and 2019. He is also the Fellow of German Academy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cimfr-director-chosen-as-fellow-of-indian-academy-of-sciences/articleshow/80121864.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 6, 2021||Ranchi||DC reviews airport work in Bokaro||Bokaro: Bokaro deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh said on Tuesday that the construction work of the airport here should be carried out on a war-footing. He also stressed on the need for having a better coordination between the authorities of the Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL), Airports Authority of India (AAI), forest department, police and the local administration. Singh said this during a review meeting of the airport expansion project held on Tuesday. The DC said, “The work will be completed soon so that the residents can avail domestic flight services from Bokaro.” The AAI has set a target of completing the expansion work at the Bokaro airport by March this year but is facing hurdles in constructing the boundary wall of the airport owing to encroachments. Cattle also graze at the site, leading to further impediments for construction workers. The DC suggested that security personnel be deployed at the site to facilitate the construction of the boundary wall. “This will help in restricting entry of people inside the airport premises,” he said, directing city DSP Gyan Ranjan to beef up patrolling in the area. Singh also told the AAI officer for Bokaro airport, Priyanka Singh, that the latter should report instances of encroachment to the sub-divisional officer of Chas, so that action can be taken to remove the encroachments. Finally, the DC said there was an order to cut only those trees that have a circular diameter of more than 7 inches, while the other trees will have to be replanted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dc-reviews-airport-work-in-bokaro/articleshow/80121824.cms||Divy Khare
January 6, 2021||Kolkata||Truck kills 5 picnickers in Murshidabad||BEHRAMPORE: Five picnickers from two families were killed and 12 others injured when a truck ploughed into their stationary vehicle in Rejionagar on NH-34 in Murshidabad on Tuesday morning, reports Sukumar Mahato. The group from Ranaghat had hired a mini-truck for a picnic in Lalbagh. They had stopped at a tea stall at Bhangasanko on the highway when the speeding truck rammed their vehicle. The deceased have been identified as Soma Das Malakar (38), her son Surya (14), sister-in-law Ila (44), and Shilpi (26) and Moon Mondal (35). While four of them died on the spot, Moon succumbed to her injuries at Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital. Five among the 12 injured are also critical. Those who witnessed the accident blamed the speeding truck and morning fog. “The truck ran into the vehicle in top gear and then sped away,” said one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/truck-kills-5-picnickers-in-murshidabad/articleshow/80124460.cms||Sukumar Mahato
January 6, 2021||Kolkata||CBI seeks nod to question Bengal cops in ongoing probes||KOLKATA: The CBI on Tuesday sought the state government’s permission to question three IPS officers in connection with its ongoing probe into coal and cattle smuggling in Bengal. The three IPS officers and three inspector-rank officers — who were posted in different districts where the smuggling rackets were active — are likely to be questioned about the steps taken by police to curb the illegal trade. An official who was posted as Hooghly superintendent of police has been asked to appear before Special Crime Branch officials at Nizam Palace on January 8. The official, now posted in the same district, is likely to be questioned on the coal smuggling cases. Two more IPS officers who were earlier posted in Murshidabad are likely to be questioned on January 12 in connection with the CBI’s probe into cattle smuggling. One of the IPS officers is now posted in IB and the other at Asansol. According to CBI sources, the investigators are likely to question two more IPS officers who are not in service any more. Two inspector-rank officers earlier posted in Bankura and Purulia are also likely to be questioned on Jan 6 and Jan 11. According to the CBI sources, these officials might have crucial information on the smuggling rackets that will help the agency fill in the gaps. The CBI had earlier sought the state government’s permission when it questioned former Kolkata police commissioner Rajiv Kumar. It also sent a letter to the DGP when it wanted to quiz Arnab Ghosh. While Enamul Haque was conniving with a section of BSF and Customs officials to smuggle cattle into Bangladesh through Murshidabad, it might not have escaped the cops. “There were instances when locals were threatened by Haque’s musclemen when they protested. That might have come to the knowledge of the cops,” said a CBI officer. Meanwhile, the Income Tax department on Tuesday conducted searches across Kolkata on the premises of a few businessmen allegedly close to Anup Maji alias Lala. According to sources, the department raided at least 30 premises of the businessman and his associates. Earlier, in November last year, the IT department had conducted searches on the premises of Maji. Later, Maji appeared before the IT department and his statement was recorded. The CBI is conducting investigation based on the primary findings of the IT department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cbi-seeks-nod-to-question-state-cops-in-ongoing-probes/articleshow/80124401.cms||Rohit Khanna
January 6, 2021||Kolkata||Guarding Indo-Bangla border is a major challenge, says BSF IG||KOLKATA: Guarding the nearly 913.3km international border between India and Bangladesh — from the estuarine point in the Sunderbans to Malda — is one of the toughest tasks in the world, BSF IG (South Bengal Frontier) Ashwini Kumar Singh said here on Tuesday. Nearly 313km of this border is riverine, where fencing is not a possibility. This renders the stretch porous and easily accessible to criminal gangs, from human traffickers to drug runners and even fake Indian currency notes (FICN) smugglers. For that matter, even the fenced border is not without its problems. The fence is located 150 yards within Indian territory and farmers have to be allowed across till the international border (IB). On Monday, Indian farmer Mamun Sk from Baishnabnagar in Malda was nabbed while returning from his fields with FICN of face value Rs 1,48,000. Mamun had collected the fake currency from his Bangladeshi contact, Nayan Sk, at the IB. “Despite challenges posed by Covid-19, troops of the BSF’s South Bengal Frontier performed a commendable task in 2020. Cattle smuggling was less compared to the past two years owing to enhanced vigilance while more bottles of phensedyl were seized. More ganja, gold and silver were also seized from smugglers. Thanks to coordinated efforts, fewer attempts were made to smuggle Yaba tablets into Bangladesh from India as compared to 2019,” Singh said. The number of illegal Bangladeshi immigrants nabbed by the troops of South Bengal Frontier also went up to 3,060 in 2020 from 2,175 in 2019. The number of Indians apprehended for criminal activities along the border was 702. The BSF rounded up 37 others, including African nationals and transgender persons, without valid documents and differently abled people who had no idea how they got there. “We have not spared BSF personnel suspected of conniving with border criminals either. In 2020, the South Bengal Frontier charged 35 personnel with connivance. Of them, one was dismissed from service and seven received severe punishment. Of the remaining, the roles of 17 personnel are being probed,” the IG added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/guarding-indo-bangla-border-is-a-major-challenge-says-bsf-ig/articleshow/80124474.cms||Jayanta Gupta
January 6, 2021||Kolkata||Laxmi Ratan Shukla quits politics and Bengal cabinet, stays on as MLA||HOWRAH: Minister of state for youth services and sports and former Bengal skipper Laxmi Ratan Shukla quit all forms of politics on Tuesday, saying he wanted to concentrate more on sports, but did not resign as the Howrah (North) MLA. He wrote a letter to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, apprising her of his decision. She responded, saying “there is nothing wrong when a sportsperson wants to return to sports,” and sent a recommendation to governor Jagdeep Dhankhar to “relieve” Shukla from the state cabinet. The party later replaced Shukla with Bhaskar Bhattacharya as its Howrah president. In writing to Banerjee and not the governor, Shukla chose to steer clear of the path taken by his former cabinet colleague, Suvendu Adhikari. BJP, however, indicated that the party was ready to embrace the former all-rounder. Banerjee stressed that there was “no room for any misunderstanding” over Shukla’s decision, adding, “Anyone can do this. Laxmi bhalo chhele (Laxmi is a good person). He has resigned. In his letter, he did not write about resigning as a minister. He wrote he wanted to quit all forms of politics for sports. He wants to spend more time in sports. He wants to continue as an MLA but wants to be relieved from everything else.... I want him to spend time in sports... he has our best wishes.” “I took the right decision at the right time, due to personal reasons,” Shukla told TOI. Reported informal conversations with close aides, however, indicate that something like this was long brewing. He reportedly said he didn’t even get a single file to sign in the last four-and-a-half years as a minister; never got any administrative role; and that his recommendations as the party’s Howrah president went unheeded for the past six months. Shukla reportedly told close aides that he was elected by people for five years and he wanted to respect the people’s mandate. Shukla’s resignation — which coincided with state forest minister Rajib Banerjee skipping Tuesday’s cabinet meeting, the fourth cabinet meeting in which he remained absent — threatened to bring to the fore rumblings within the Howrah district Trinamool Congress. In spite of what Banerjee, the party chief, said, senior minister and Howrah (South) MLA Arup Ray minced no words. “This is like a soldier deserting the battlefield,” the party heavyweight said, adding, “This is not the right time (for resigning). I met him at Pilkhana a few days back, and we spoke. He did mention he wanted to return to sports, but this isn’t the time.” Domjur MLA and minister for forest affairs, Rajib Banerjee, said he hadn’t spoken to Shukla in a while. “I will speak to him. The reasons (for his quitting) can only be explained by him.” Shukla was made the party’s Howrah president replacing Ray, as the Trinamool tried to placate Banerjee. Three days after taking the party’s charge in Howrah, Shukla had spoken to both Ray and Banerjee and sent a fresh panel of district leaders, which was reportedly “ignored”, sources said. Bally MLA Vaishali Dalmiya, however, was outspoken. “Laxmi is like a brother to me. In politics, we work for people, but we also have self-respect. This is being attacked. There are some negative-minded people. These people held some posts sometime, but their only work now is to ridicule, insult and stop party MLAs from working. This must stop. These people must be got rid of, like termites, or they will weaken the party,” she said. Former Howrah mayor Rathin Chakraborty, a doctor who entered politics, refused to see this incident in isolation. “It is our failure that we are unable to accommodate talents into politics,” he said. Sensing the discomfiture, BJP waded into the Shukla-resignation episode from multiple fronts. “A senior cricketer resigned today; wickets are falling every day,” BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said. The party’s spokesperson, Shamik Bhattacharya, said: “Cricketers like Shukla are always welcome (to join BJP). People are leaving Trinamool Congress for it has outlived its ideology. It was a party born out of opposition to CPM. A decade on, it is no more relevant.” Shukla had joined Trinamool in February 2016 and was pitched against BJP heavyweight Roopa Ganguly in Howrah (North), which has a substantial non-Bengali-speaking people. A lateral entrant to politics, Shukla was never allowed a toehold in the party’s Howrah leadership. Ray loyalists held on to the reins, a shackle which some leaders are trying to break away from. Incidentally, North Howrah is also seeing substantial BJP consolidation led by the Rai couple — Umesh, and his wife Gita. (With inputs by Sukumar Mahato in Behrampore)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/laxmi-quits-politics-and-state-cabinet-stays-on-as-mla/articleshow/80124512.cms||Rupak Banerjee
January 6, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee queues up at camp to collect health card in person||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday walked to Jai Hind Bhawan on Harish Mukherjee Road and stood in a queue at a ‘Duare Sarkar’ camp to collect her Swasthya Sathi card. She was among the 5,439 people who turned up at the 16 ‘Duare Sarkar’ camps across Kolkata since morning. Around 1.7 crore have visited these camps till Tuesday, and over 15 lakh of them have applied for the Rs 5-lakh family-floater health insurance cards. On Monday, Banerjee had said: “I have a personal health insurance of Rs 3 lakh. This was done by my brother a decade-and-a-half ago. It has never been used but I renew it every year. I wanted to get a Swasthya Sathi card like everyone. I wanted to be among the 10 crore people in Bengal who will avail this scheme.” “I will keep this as a memento. It will be my homage to all people and personnel who have worked to make this a success,” she had added. Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay had said: “The CM will show solidarity with people and the exercise being undertaken state-wide.” The third phase of the governance-at-your-doorstep camps drew 4.6 lakh people on Tuesday. The CM, after taking the stairs to the first-floor camp, saw people wearing masks incorrectly. Chief secretary Bandyopadhyay, Kolkata police commissioner Anuj Sharma and KMC BoA chairperson Firhad Hakim by her side, Banerjee repeatedly urged people to wear masks properly and not leave their noses uncovered. She then stood in a queue behind three women who had come to collect their Swasthya Sathi cards. In her turn, she gave fingerprints and was handed over the card by Bengal health secretary Narayan Swarup Nigam. According to daily data released by the state government, this scheme has led to massive interest in Murshidabad, North and South 24 Parganas, and Hooghly. In Murshidabad, over 17 lakh have turned up at these camps, over 15 lakh in South 24 Parganas, over 14 lakh in North 24 Parganas and over 10 lakh in Hooghly. In other districts, the turnout has been less than 10 lakh. In Kolkata, over 3 lakh people have turned up at the camps held till Tuesday. The health insurance scheme covers all pre-existing diseases and imposes no cap on family size; parents of both spouses are included. The premium is borne by the state. Swasthya Sathi cards are issued in the name of the female head of family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/didi-queues-up-at-camp-to-collect-health-card-in-person/articleshow/80124311.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Kolkata||Day after rally ‘miss’, Sovan Chatterjee back in action||KOLKATA: A day after former mayor and BJP’s newly appointed Kolkata zone observer Sovan Chatterjee skipped Monday’s rally, he was active again on Tuesday following intervention of a few senior Bengal leaders. Chatterjee held back-to-back meetings with several office-bearers of the Kolkata zone to chart out the next course of action. In the afternoon, Chatterjee met workers from his home turf Behala and South 24 Parganas area. Two more leaders of the Kolkata zone, Debjit Sarkar and Shankudeb Panda, also met Chatterjee to finalise programmes over the next fortnight. Diamond Harbour MLA Deepak Mandal and TMC’s South 24 Parganas zilla parishad member Abu Taher Khan also called on Chatterjee at his south Kolkata residence. Chatterjee skipped the Monday rally after his friend Baisakhi Banerjee cited illness for not attending it. Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya was taken aback after the duo skipped the much-hyped rally. “Chatterjee was back in action on Tuesday and met Kolkata zone office-bearers. He has also sent bio data of a few leaders willing to join BJP,” a senior leader said. “Both of us were quite unwell. We came home around 3am on Saturday. Sovan complained of cold and mild fever. I told Kolkata zone workers that it will not be possible for me to attend the rally. Sovan is still unwell,” Banerjee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/day-after-rally-miss-sovan-back-in-action/articleshow/80124413.cms||Rohit Khanna
January 6, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal to regularise all colonies on central, private land||KOLKATA: The state cabinet on Tuesday approved a proposal to regularise all refugee colonies set up on land owned by the Centre and private agencies across Bengal in the past four decades. The objective is to ensure that these settlers get land pattas and can avail of various licences and facilities extended by the state government, which has already regularised colonies on its land. “The cabinet has decided to recognise all refugee colonies. We have already regularised 94 and given away related documents to the owners. We are looking at refugees from Kakdwip and Namkhana to Darjeeling. At least 119 are under process and plot by plot are being handed over to the owners,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said after the meeting. The state government has already given pattas (long-term settlement rights on government land) to 3.5 lakh families since it came to power in 2011. In Bengal, there are 94 refugee colonies on state land and 237 such colonies on central government and private land, where some 1.5 lakh families, who had crossed over from Bangladesh 40-50 years ago, reside. The state regularised the 94 colonies on its own land last fiscal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-to-regularise-all-colonies-on-central-pvt-land/articleshow/80124363.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Fatalities rise, but all 8 with UK strain are asymptomatic||MUMBAI: Two days after reporting a significant drop in Covid-19 deaths, the state and the city reported an increase in fatalities on Tuesday. The state reported 64 deaths, more than double the deaths reported on Monday (29), and while Mumbai reported nine deaths, it was thrice the number reported for the last two days (3). Also, the state reported 3,160 fresh cases, taking the total cases to 19,50,171. The total fatalities in the state stand at 49,759. Mumbai reported 539 new cases, taking its total caseload to 2,95,525; the city's fatalities stood at 11,147. Dr Pradeep Awate, the state's epidemiologist, said the eight patients found positive with the UK variant were all doing well. "All are asymptomatic, and two of them have been discharged already," he said, adding that the strain was said to be 70% more transmissible but not so virulent. In Mumbai, all five patients who have been found positive with the strain are currently at Seven Hills Hospital in Marol. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said two of them have tested negative once, but they will continue to remain under observation. "We will wait for two consecutive negative reports before taking a decision on discharging them," he said. On whether the contacts of these positive patients too would be checked for the presence of the UK variant, Awate said, "We may test the contacts of the index cases if needed." For the first time in over nine months, Kalyan-Dombivli, the second worst affected suburb in Mumbai Metropolitan Region, on Tuesday did not report a single coronavirus-related death. Kalyan-Dombivli has seen 1,110 deaths so far. There were 61 fresh cases and 2 deaths from within NMMC areas. PCMC areas reported 61 cases and 3 deaths. Thane city reported 109 cases and 2 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-fatalities-rise-but-all-8-with-uk-strain-are-asymptomatic/articleshow/80125405.cms||Bhavika Jain
January 6, 2021||Lucknow||800 ‘cured’ with cow products: Kamdhenu dept||NEW DELHI: The Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog (RKA) chairman Vallabhbhai Kathiria on Tuesday claimed that 800 Covid-19 patients have been cured using ‘panchgavya’ (dervived from cow products urine, milk, ghee, curd and dung) granules and other ayurvedic medication in clinical trials during June-October period. “We will send our report to the Ayush ministry and get it published in a scientific journal,” said Kathiria while addressing a press conference on the RKA’s plan to conduct firstever national examination on “gau vigyan” (cow science) next month. He said the trials were conducted on 200 patients each in Rajkot and Baroda (Gujarat), Varanasi (UP) and Kalyan (Maharashtra) in coordination with state governments and some NGOs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/800-cured-with-cow-products-kamdhenu-dept/articleshow/80125402.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Bengaluru||After Yatnal row, Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa offers funds to MLAs||BENGALURU: A day after a bitter spat between chief minister BS Yediyurappa and senior BJP legislator Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, the government attempted damage control, promising additional allocation for MLAs’ constituency funds. Ministers and senior party members also rallied behind Yediyurappa on Tuesday, rejecting Yatnal’s criticism of his leadership. “Yediyurappa has assured MLAs that he will try to allocate additional Rs 25 crore for their constituency development fund in the 2021-22 state budget,” said deputy chief minister Govind Karjol. Yediyurappa and senior cabinet members met BJP MLAs on Monday and Tuesday to address their growing complaints about lack of funds for development works. At a meeting on Monday, Yatnal accused Yediyurappa of not distributing funds uniformly and alleged meddling in government affairs by the chief minister’s family members. BJP MLAs are also upset about the reported inaccessibility of ministers, and the government has now decided that cabinet members will be available in their chambers in Bengaluru on Wednesdays and Thursdays to address legislators and citizens’ issues. A five-member ministerial team, besides BDA chairman SR Vishwanath, issued a statement defending Yediyurappa and countering Yatnal’s accusations. “We admit that there was an ugly incident during the meeting between the chief minister and MLAs from the Mumbai-Karnataka region, but it was restricted to one MLA and it should not be given much importance. Overall, the meeting was fruitful,” said deputy chief minister Laxman Savadi. He added that of the 118 BJP MLAs, 117 had praised Yediyurappa’s handling of the floods and coronavirus pandemic. MP Renukacharya, the CM’s political secretary and former minister, responded to Yatnal’s allegations that Yediyurappa’s younger son BY Vijayendra, was running the show. “What is wrong if a son helps his father in day-to-day administration?” he asked. Housing minister V Somanna said that Yatnal’s “verbal attack on the team captain” was unacceptable. “The party state president, Nalin Kumar Kateel, has already sent a report to the central leadership. We are sure that disciplinary action will be taken against him (Yatnal),” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/after-yatnal-row-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-offers-funds-to-mlas/articleshow/80125429.cms||---
January 6, 2021||India||Arbaaz, Sohail shifted to hotel for quarantine||MUMBAI: A day after a police case was filed against them, BMC said actors Arbaaz Khan, his brother Sohail Khan and the latter’s son Nirvaan have been shifted to a hotel to complete their remaining mandatory 14-day quarantine period for Covid-19. They had arrived in the city on December 25. Meanwhile, it has emerged that another international passenger had escaped from a hotel quarantine at Dadar on December 26. BMC and the collector’s office blamed each other for the lapse. No police complaint was filed. The Khans had returned from the UAE and told officials at the airport that they would isolate themselves in a hotel at Bandra. Instead, they had driven home. BMC learnt of this on January 4 and filed a police complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/arbaaz-sohail-shifted-to-hotel-for-quarantine/articleshow/80125435.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 6, 2021||India||‘Law & order concern’ stalls bail for comic||INDORE: A sessions court on Tuesday denied bail to stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui who is booked for hurting religious feelings by making derogatory comments against Hindu god and goddess. The court of first additional sessions Judge Yatindra Kumar Guru accepted the police argument that it might create a law-and-order situation if he gets bail. Police expressed suspicion that the show might have been part of a “planned programme” in the backdrop of recent violence in Ujjain and Indore districts. “Some time ago, a law-and-order situation had arisen due to comments and actions made by a particular community. In such a situation, Munawar Faruqui made insulting comments on a particular religion, culture in the name of a comedy show, which seems to be a pre-planned programme,” the court said in its order, quoting police arguments. If bail is granted, it will affect investigation, police said. Tukoganj police had arrested Munawar and four others on January 1 on a complaint of Aklavya Gaud, founder of Hind Rakshak Manch and son of BJP MLA Malini Gaud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/law-order-concern-stalls-bail-for-comic/articleshow/80125443.cms||Antriksh Singh
January 6, 2021||India||Cops nab thief in burqa after ‘sole searching’||MUMBAI: A TikTok star with over nine lakh followers was arrested on January 2 for stealing cash and gold amounting to Rs 4.9 lakh from a model-actor’s flat in Andheri (West) on December 19. The accused, Abhimanyu Gupta (28), convinced the victim, Khusbhoo Agarwal, to allow him to stay at her flat till he rented his own and was living there for 12 days. Gupta befriended Agarwal on Instagram a few years ago. “I allowed Gupta to stay in my house. I was out of India from December 18 to 22 on work assignments when the theft occurred. I noticed the theft only on January 1. Gupta had asked me not to lodge a complaint claiming that the cops will harass my friends,” said Agarwal in her police complaint. Gupta is a habitual offender and has been arrested many times since 2011, police said. He became a suspect after the Oshiwara police studied the building’s CCTV footage and noticed that the black leather shoes worn by the burqa-clad thief as well the latter’s body movements matched those of Gupta’s. Police recovered the stolen goods that were hidden under his bike seat. Gupta, who regularly uploads videos on popular video-sharing applications on the social media, confessed to the crime. He said he needed the money and had planned to burgle his friend’s flat, who is mostly away on work. “Gupta was last arrested by the Juhu police in May 2018 for break-in and robbery of gold ornaments and a mobile collectively worth Rs 4.8 lakh from an elderly couple’s house in January 2018. He was held at various police stations in Mumbai and Navi Mumbai since 2011 for similar offences,” said senior inspector Dayanand Bangar of Oshiwara police station, who led the investigation team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cops-nab-thief-in-burqa-after-sole-searching/articleshow/80125450.cms||V Narayan
January 6, 2021||Nagpur||Rapid response teams to monitor possible bird flu cases in Nagpur||NAGPUR: Following directives from the animal husbandry department (disease investigation section), the district deputy commissioner Manjusha Pundlik here said rapid response teams will be formed at district and taluka level from Wednesday to keep track of avian casualties. The move comes in response to the department as well as the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) sounding high alert about avian flu. Bhopal-based National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases has reportedly found samples positive for A(H5N8) strain of bird flu. The positive samples were of dead birds found in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. The lab is also receiving samples from Himachal Pradesh where the first suspected bird flu casualties were reported. RRTs will comprise a doctor and a livestock supervisor and would survey and collect samples from dead birds found anywhere. The deputy commissioner said the samples would be sent to Bhopal’s lab for RTPCR test. “The RRT teams would take note of any unusual mortality in birds either domestic, poultry or wild. As part of our preparedness, the teams would start surveys from tomorrow at district and taluka levels,” she said. Pundlik said so far Nagpur district is safe and no case of bird mortality has been reported. “If any sample is found positive, the area from where it was collected will be sealed. We are also procuring 400 to 500 PPE kits for handling samples,” she said. Instructions have been issued to keep a tight vigil along water bodies, where a lot of migratory birds arrive during this time of the year. Pundlik appealed to citizens to report any unusual mortality to nearest vet to prevent outbreak. MoEFCC has asked all chief wildlife wardens too take necessary measures to prevent transmission of disease, if any, in other animals/birds and human beings. Affected birds display symptoms such as tremors, diarrhoea, head tilt and paralysis. The virus is transmitted between poultry and recently from poultry to wild birds, it said. A weekly report on important sites within and outside the protected areas which are being visited by migratory birds this year, number and species of arriving, approximate period of arrival, any changes in migratory pattern, etc need to be noted and forwarded to the MoEFCC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rapid-response-teams-to-monitor-possible-bird-flu-cases-in-dist/articleshow/80122581.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 6, 2021||Surat||Four minor boys addicted to liquid adhesive for intoxication rescued||Surat: Four street urchins addicted to liquid adhesive for intoxication were rescued from Soni Faliya by a coordinator of Friends for Women and Children (FFWC), an initiative of CID (crime). Piyush Shah, the coordinator, saw the four children aged between eight and 15 years smelling some liquid. When Shah stopped them, they threw away the bottles and started running. They were, however, nabbed with the help of some locals and taken to the police station. “Initially, they were reluctant in disclosing, but later admitted that they regularly smell adhesives for intoxication,” Shah said. It was learnt that of the four children, the eight-year-old and nine-year-old are siblings and are orphans, while the 14-year-old does not live with his parents as he used to be beaten up. They beg and make a living. The eldest, a 15-year-old is employed by a horse cart owner to take children coming to Gandhi Baug on rides. “The children were using the liquid adhesive that has chloroform. When it comes in contact with air, the chloroform starts evaporating and they smell it for intoxication," Shah added. The four kids were later sent to children’s home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/four-minor-boys-addicted-to-liquid-adhesive-for-intoxication-rescued/articleshow/80121000.cms||---
January 6, 2021||India||Poll-cash case: Four cops face probe in MP||NEW DELHI: The Madhya Pradesh chief secretary informed the Election Commission (EC) on Tuesday that a preliminary inquiry had been registered by the state’s economic offences wing (EOW) according to a direction given by the poll panel last month seeking action against three IPS officers and one state police officer for their alleged role in unaccounted flow of cash during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The EC had asked for a case to be lodged against — Sushovan Banerjee (IPS: 1989 batch), Sanjay Mane (IPS: 1989 batch), V Madhu Kumar (IPS: 1991 batch) and Arun Mishra (MP police) — based on a report from the Central Board of Direct Taxes||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/poll-cash-case-four-cops-face-probe-in-mp/articleshow/80125454.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu CM declares public holiday for Thaipoosam||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Tuesday announced a public holiday for Thaipoosam festival on January 28. In a statement, the chief minister said he had received representations from the public when he toured several districts, seeking a public holiday for Thaipoosam festival as it is done in countries like Sri Lanka and Mauritius. “Considering the requests, I have ordered that a public holiday be declared for Thaipoosam on January 28 and that the festival be included in the list of public holidays in the coming years,” Palaniswami said. Thaipoosam is a festival celebrated in honour of Tamil deity Murugan in Tamil Nadu. The festival is celebrated in Kerala too and in countries like Sri Lanka, Singapore, Malaysia, Mauritius and Indonesia, the CM said. Soon after the announcement, BJP state president L Murugan tweeted thanking the chief minister for accepting the request of his party to declare a public holiday. In a statement, Naam Tamilar Katchi leader Seeman thanked the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-cm-declares-public-holiday-for-thaipoosam/articleshow/80125459.cms||---
January 6, 2021||India||Govt to start surveys of domestic staff and migrants by March||NEW DELHI: The government is expected to launch the All India Migrant Workers Survey and the All India Domestic Workers Survey by the first week of March this year. Senior labour ministry officials told TOI that the framework of the surveys — its sample size and questionnaire — has been completed and the labour bureau will spend the next month training investigators who will conduct the field surveys. While the migrant workers’ survey will provide authentic estimates of the number of migrant workers in the country apart from assessing the issues they face, the survey of domestic workers, who constitute roughly 4% of India’s working population, is the first of-its-kind exercise that will identify concerns faced by them and help the government frame policies to improve their conditions. Times ViewAccording to the 2016 Economic Survey, the migrant workforce in India is over 10 crore. They are important contributors to the national economy. Yet, sadly, they are also invisible and denied the benefits of a welfare state. This is a much-delayed, much-needed census that will help the government frame suitable policies for them.In order to get comprehensive and robust information about migrant and domestic workers, the sample size of the household-cum establishment survey has been fixed at approximately 1.25 lakh. Questions will also be available in nine regional languages, and feedback will be captured on digital hand-held devices with preloaded questionnaires. “We are looking at total digitalisation of data. The aim is to get robust data that can shape future employment policies,” said D P S Negi, chief labour commissioner and DG Labour Bureau. He also said the bureau aims to publish their findings by October 2021. The Labour Bureau, Negi said, is also in the process of finalising the All India Surveys of Professional Bodies and Transport workers and is expected to launch them shortly after the migrant and domestic workers survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-to-start-surveys-of-domestic-staff-and-migrants-by-march/articleshow/80125464.cms||Swati Mathur
January 6, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu bags two MoUs in electronics||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu is set to start 2021on a positive note on the industrial investments front by signing two major MoUs, among others, in the electronics manufacturing segment in January. The state is expected to formalize agreements with Taiwan-based Pegatron and Tata Electronics around Pongal festival to facilitate establishing units to manufacture Apple products, multiple sources said. The Taiwan-based Pegatron is the second largest manufacturer of Apple products and has chosen Mahindra City as the site for its proposed plant in India. It is likely to invest around Rs1,200 crore in the first phase to employ about 14,000 people. A subsequent phase will see the company doubling its investment and employment potential, sources with leading international property advisories said. Yet another MoU will be signed by the government with Tata Electronics, which will make components for Apple products. It is investing Rs5,000 crore and will employ 18,000 people in the first phase. The company too has lined up higher investments and employment opportunities in subsequent phases. It has already broken ground and started construction work at GMR SEZ near Hosur in Krishnagiri district. The MoU will formalize the investment plans and tune it in line with the state government's investment incentives. When contacted by TOI, state government officials declined to comment. "Nothing has been finalized yet and companies are generally in talks with more than one state," an official said. In the case of Pegatron, the Taiwan company's board had recently cleared the investment plan for a new plant in India to make iPhones. It was in talks with both Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. Foxconn, Pegatron and Wistron are the three leading makers of phones for Apple. While Foxconn is already located near Chennai in Tamil Nadu, Wistron opted for Karnataka. Wistron's Karnataka operations recently witnessed a labour strife that resulted in arson and large-scale damage to property, even though the company said the manufacturing equipment remained safe. The development seems to have convinced Pegatron to settle for a site in Tamil Nadu and it opted for Mahindra World City, a multi-product SEZ about 40 km south off Chennai on the GST Road. Both Pegatron and Tata Electronics are opting for the Government of India's production-linked incentives to drive exports. In September, Tamil Nadu government unveiled its ambitious Electronic Hardware Manufacturing Policy seeking to transform the state into a globally competitive Electronics Design and Manufacturing (ESDM) destination. The policy sought to increase Tamil Nadu's electronics industry output to $100 billion by 2025 and to contribute 25% of total electronic exports to the world from India by that time. In order to promote electronic manufacturing clusters, Tamil Nadu has categorised the districts into Class A, B and C for administering state-level incentives. To cater to the workforce needs of the industry, the state has plans to train one lakh youngsters on skilled and semi-skilled streams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-bags-two-mous-in-electronics/articleshow/80125476.cms||D Govardan
January 6, 2021||India||Cooperated closely with India during LAC stand-off: Outgoing US envoy||NEW DELHI: The US has cooperated with India closely during the continuing stand-off between India and China in Ladakh, outgoing US ambassador Kenneth Juster confirmed on Tuesday. Addressing a gathering with a farewell policy address, he said, “I believe no country has as strong and robust a defense and counterterrorism relationship with India as does the US. Simply put, no other country does as much to contribute to the security of Indians and India. Our close coordination has been important as India confronts, perhaps on a sustained basis, aggressive Chinese activity on its border.” Questioned on details of the cooperation, he said it was for the Indian government to expand on that. “I think it’s clear that we have been very supportive. We both share a vision of the Indo Pacific region and principles behind it. That is an inclusive vision that provides opportunities for all countries to grow and prosper, but also wants to avoid incursions of any type, intimidations, predatory financing and when there is a situation that is indicative along those lines, we’ve cooperated to try to resist that.” Questioned on the possibility of CAATSA sanctions on India, Juster said, “CAATSA was never meant as a way to hurt friends and allies. It was meant for one specific country, and there are many variables involved.” In his speech Juster asserted that the Indian military would find no better ally than the US, but India needed to go beyond looking at defence procurement “about selecting the lowest bidder, but also about recognising quality and value over the entire lifecycle, and ensuring strategic interoperability across services — and perhaps with other friendly forces. “I fully expect the new administration to continue where we leave off, with the choice of how quickly and how far to move on bilateral defence cooperation largely up to the Indian government.” On trade front, Juster rued that despite their best efforts, India and US could not manage to get a trade deal done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cooperated-closely-with-india-during-lac-stand-off-outgoing-us-envoy/articleshow/80125488.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Business||49 Indian steel, iron items to be preferred for public works||NEW DELHI: The government has put in place a new mechanism to offer preference to 49 domestically manufactured iron and steel products in public contracts, including tubes, pipes, railway tracks, wires, tables and household items, tanks, containers, railway coaches and rolling stock. The move is part of the Centre’s efforts to boost domestic production, for which it had put in place public procurement norms a few years ago. Since then, the programme has moved from the ‘Make in India’ campaign to ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ with steel being among the sectors that have come into special focus. Steel is seen as a key input for a host of sectors, ranging from construction to building ships and railway lines & coaches. In fact, the steel ministry, which has issued the order, had earlier pushed railways to buy domestically manufactured rails at a time when the public transporter was citing the lack of capacity in the country and was arguing for imports. The latest order will extend to centrally sponsored schemes, and even local bodies executing public contracts will have to follow this if the procurement value exceeds Rs 5 lakh. The government has specified minimum domestic value addition, ranging between 20% and 50%, for various steel products. Besides, the ministry has armed itself with powers to restrict import of iron and steel from countries that do not allow Indian companies to participate in procurement due to restrictive conditions. In case such instances are proven, then it can “restrict or exclude” bidders from that country from the eligibility norms. A supplier or bidder shall be considered to be from a country if the entity is incorporated in that country, or majority shareholding or effective control of the entity is from that country. It will face restrictions even if over 50% of the value of the item being supplied has been added in that country that restricts Indian steel companies’ access, the new order said. For long, Indian companies have complained of getting a harsh treatment in government contracts in China, as well as some Asean countries and the latest clause, first inserted by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade, is seen to be a counter-offensive. While the government cannot restrict imports due to its commitments at WTO, it had not offered to bind itself by signing the public procurement agreement at the multilateral body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/49-indian-steel-iron-items-to-be-preferred-for-public-works/articleshow/80125534.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Chennai||Water bodies sacred, they should not be encroached upon, says Madras HC||CHENNAI: Water bodies should be treated as sacred places and preserved as without them human beings cannot survive, the Madras high court said on Tuesday. “Water bodies are lifeline for all animal species. There has to be zero tolerance on any kind of encroachment or endangerment of any water body,” said the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy. Hearing a public interest writ petition to remove encroachments on a water body in the Nilgiris, the bench said the state must take serious steps to remove encroachments on both public land and water bodies. The court then directed the Nilgiris collector to file a detailed action-taken report in four weeks and ensure that the “last inch of encroachment “on the water body in Ithalar Village is removed. According to the petitioner K Ramesh Kumar, Ithalar is a tiny village in the hills of the Nilgiris with around 150 houses. The residents of the village are small tea growers. In 1980, considering the water shortage in the village, then village panchayat with the approval of the district administration developed two acres of government land in Arehalla into a water body, the petitioner said. While the water body remained the only source of water for the entire village for the past three decades, owners of the land adjacent to the water body encroached upon it, he said. Now, they have constructed walls protecting their encroachment and have started extracting huge quantities of water for their use leading to water shortage in the village, he said. Pointing out that the issue was brought to the knowledge of the authorities in 2013, the petitioner said authorities failed to take any action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/water-bodies-sacred-they-should-not-be-encroached-upon-says-madras-hc/articleshow/80125538.cms||Sureshkumar
January 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Women from Patna reach protest sites at Haryana-Delhi borders||CHANDIGARH: Women from Bihar also arrived at protest sites at Haryana-New Delhi borders on Saturday and Sunday. Ten women farmers headed by activist Lalita Singh from Patna district and those linked to NGOs active in rural Bihar joined the agitating farmers at Singhu border. “We thought if old women can join them in the march, why can’t we?’’ said Lalita Singh. Saying that many of them cannot stay for long, she said they would visit dharna sites again in the second week of the month. Lalita and her team visited Singhu borders on Saturday and Sunday and left for Patna on Monday. Also, Sarvkhap Mahila Khap Mahapanchayat intends to start regular stay at Tikri borders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/women-from-patna-reach-protest-sites-at-haryana-delhi-borders/articleshow/80125543.cms||Manvir Saini
January 6, 2021||India||Digital Divide, Educator Development –the challenges that await attention in 2021||MUMBAI: The year 2020 has revolutionised the education sector across the globe. The pandemic shook the educators and student community alike, the unemployment rate stood at 27% in India- re-establishing the importance of skill development. The Indian education system is finally ready for its digital revival. Today, as the nation prepares to step into the ‘New Beginning’ of 2021, the ecosystem needs to step up to help overcome the enlisted challenges that await the education sector. Lack of Learner PerspectiveCovid-19 has played a crucial role in highlighting the digital divide in India. It is being feared that the lockdown will lead to an increase in dropout rates amongst students residing in the rural and semi-urban areas. Despite the rise in wireless users in recent years, semi-urban and predominantly rural India are miles apart in their online presence (27 subscribers to 100 people in rural areas, according to 75th National Sample Survey of India). This adds to the existing challenges of unbalanced access to basic education infrastructure in the form of teachers, classrooms, study material and the teaching pedagogies. Educated employment is another major problem faced by India which the National Education Policy 2020 (NEP) aims to address by focusing on skill development, entrepreneurship, critical thinking, problem-solving and industry-relevant knowledge. This problem arose as we have neglected developing career aspirations and restricted itself to assess the memory power of the students. NEP empowers educational institutions to act as the bridge between students who are potential employees and corporates, the potential employers. Lack of teaching resourcesAs stated in a Niti Aayog report released earlier this year, a single teacher may handle 100+ students in rural areas as a result of the shortage of trained teachers. The state of Jharkhand faces a teacher shortage of ~40% as also other states like Rajasthan, Odisha and Madhya Pradesh. The deficit of trained teachers is another issue according to the 2015-16 Education Ministry data which revealed that 1.1 million of the 6.6 million teachers employed at the elementary level were untrained. The pandemic highlighted some of the deep-rooted problems such as lack of exposure to necessary teaching tools, engaging learning strategies and industry-relevant curriculum that teachers across India face as they struggle to broaden the learning horizons of their pupils. And if that was not all, COVID-19 has further disrupted the teacher-learner way of interaction, from the four walls of a classroom to fit a 13-inch screen. These challenges need a multi-stakeholder approach to be addressed efficiently and effectively. Digital platform players have a key role to enable transformation across 4 areas: Building Digital Twins & Leveraging AI: Building experiential learning platforms that help increase the learner engagement that bears similarity to the physical platforms is the need of the hour. It will help create a familiar atmosphere for the learner as well as enable educators to maintain the necessary decorum (For Eg. multi-lingual virtual classroom platforms). This also includes building applications that offer alternate models for lab learning and vocational trades. The learning platforms can also be backed by AI for hyper-personalisation of learning. This will help in the overall transformation of learner engagement and experience- making learning more relevant, engaging and precise. Though investments are being made on the infrastructure for the same, emphasis needs to be laid on improving the accessibility, scale, standardisation and affordability. These platforms have an important role to play in reducing dropout rates amongst the under-privileged students residing across the country. Aggregating Partner Ecosystem: Digital Technologies should act as a point of confluence bringing numerous stakeholders in the field of education, enacting different roles like infra providers, content providers, career guides, etc. These firms are playing a key role in offering an end-to-end service, ensuring that issues are addressed holistically with technology as an enabler. For. eg. One of the solutions for the digital divide could be the availability of low-cost education devices capable of working in a network-less scenario. Language is a major barrier when it comes to imparting quality education in rural areas. Enable Educator Transformation through Educational Leadership: It's time for the head educators to take the lead, comprehend the nuances of a digital school and step ahead as digital leaders. This is a change management program and will prepare heads of institutions to lead this change. We should then focus on transforming the educators- this would typically include innovation in the teaching space to promote effective learning outcomes. A comprehensive program should help the teachers and instructors reskill and learn new skills for the digital education. Policymakers can collaborate with deep tech platform providers to explore new forms of teaching, learning, and assessment to drive 21st century skills. User experience with Service Delivery Integration: A unified, end learner experience is the result of the composition of educators, infrastructure, hardware and software services. It simultaneously results in the integration of various teaching-learning elements. This would require tech support to plug-in multiple pedagogical elements like games, assessments, hands-on components, seamlessly in one learning path. Typically, this also includes, providing industry-relevant certification courses. These courses play a key role in skill-development and should be leveraged as career guidance tools. The pandemic has fueled the spark of digital platform ideas in India. The industry has the potential to rise on a global scale. Digital Platform players have a pivotal role to play in strengthening the Digital India Mission and go beyond. But this will only be possible if the obstacles in the education sector are transformed into opportunities and platform players act as a catalyst for social change in the Indian education scenario by bridging the digital divide. (The writer is the global head of TCS iON )||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/digital-divide-educator-development-the-challenges-that-await-attention-in-2021/articleshow/80125546.cms||Venguswamy Ramaswamy
January 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Centre selects Punjab tableau for Republic Day parade||CHANDIGARH: The ministry of defence (MoD) has selected Punjab’s tableau themed on the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur for the 72nd Republic Day parade in New Delhi. Since 2017, Punjab’s tableaux have been selected consecutively for the Republic Day parade. Gurkirat Kirpal Singh, secretary, department of information and public relations, confirmed that the Punjab government’s tableau has been approved by the experts’ committee. Chandigarh tableau ideas rejectedHowever, MoD has rejected the three themes - peace, beauty and bliss; blend of natural beauty and health and cycle tracks - submitted by the Union Territory of Chandigarh. The ninth master of Sikhs, Guru Tegh Bahadur, is remembered for sacrificing his life for the freedom of practicing own religion and beliefs without fear. In October last year, the central government constituted a 70-member committee headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to commemorate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur. Besides former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh is also one of the members of this committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/centre-selects-punjab-tableau-for-republic-day-parade/articleshow/80125579.cms||Sanjeev Verma
January 6, 2021||Lucknow||MBBS & BDS interns get 60% hike in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: Bringing smiles on the face medical and dental interns in Uttar Pradesh, the state medical education department revised their stipend here on Tuesday. Now, interns working in the state medical colleges will get Rs 12,000 per month against their previous stipend of Rs 7,500 – an increment of 60%. The order, being described as Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s New Year gift to the interns, became effective immediately. However, any kind of arrear against the revised amount will not be payable. Additional chief secretary medical education, Dr Rajneesh Dube, who issued the order, stated that the allowance had been revised after a gap of 10 years. ‘Raj MBBS & BDS students get lowest stipend’Interns slog a lot during their rigorous training stint in the medical institutes. Their hard work is a crucial link to quality patient care in the state. Recognising their effort, the CM and medical education minister approved the increment,” Dr Dube said. Meanwhile, BJP leaders took pride in the government’s decision. “MBBS and BDS students of Congressruled Rajasthan get the lowest internship stipend as compared to other states of the country. In Rajasthan, only Rs 7,000 is given monthly since 2017,” said a party spokesperson. A leader from the Avadh Prant unit of BJP added that “medical and dental interns in Rajasthan had launched a month-long agitation on social media demanding an increase in their stipend. However, their demand has not been met so far.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mbbs-bds-interns-get-60-hike-in-uttar-pradesh/articleshow/80125595.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Teething troubles for airport train services||BENGALURU: Suburban train services to and from Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) which were rolled out by South Western Railway on Monday have already run into its first problem - delay in trains. On Monday, 06269 Cantonment-KIA halt which left at 5:55pm from Cantonment and was supposed to reach KIA halt at 6:50 pm, arrived only at 7:12 pm. Another train 06280 KIA halt-KSR Bengaluru City was also delayed the same evening. "There was a signalling failure at Byappanahalli Route Relay Interlocking (signal controlling system) on Monday. Bunching up of trains were reported which led to detention. We have asked concerned branch officers to keep these trains on top priority and 100% punctuality will be ensured from now on, " SWR chief public relations officer E Vijaya said. Devanahalli line is a single track and not yet electrified, " said another official, "Doddajala is yet to be upgraded into a crossing station so some delays are anticipated but we are working hard to ensure punctuality of trains to avoid any inconvenience. But airport passengers should be better prepared for some delays like road traffic. We are also planning to operate non-stop express trains on the airport route." Rajkumar Dugar of Citizens for Citizens, an NGO said, "Apart from teething problems, there is also a mistake in the timetable. Trains 06269 and 06280 have a timing clash between Yelahanka and Devanahalli. Changes should be made in the timetable to ensure no timing clash to avoid any delays” he added. Airport trains service info not available on rly siteMany passengers complained that timings and other details of airport train services are not available on the National Train Enquiry System (NTES) run by Indian railways. The station code for halt station is KIAD (Kempegowda International Airport Devanahalli). “We are unable to track airport trains on a real time basis through enquiry.indianrail.gov.in/ntes since it is not showing the KIA halt station” said Anoop C, a passenger. A senior SWR official blamed the new services' non-existence in the official site on technical glitches and assured that it would be fixed in a day's time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-teething-troubles-for-airport-train-services/articleshow/80125619.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
January 6, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram has 154 buses, needs 600 more by end of 2022||GURUGRAM: The city needs 600 more Gurugaman buses by the end of next year in addition to the 154 currently operational, according to the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority’s (GMDA) comprehensive mobility plan. In all, the city needs a fleet of 2,850 buses by 2041, which means that it needs to add around 2,700 buses in the next 20 years. If Gurugaman’s fleet is increased by 600 buses soon, it will be able to meet the city’s demand till 2022. Thereafter, Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited (GMCBL) — the agency in charge of the city bus service — will need to add another 800 buses in Phase 2 for the period 2022-2026, 600 in Phase 3 for the years 2026-2031 and 700 buses in Phase 4 (2031-2041). “The bus fleet mix proposed shall comprise of 60% standard buses and 40% mid-size buses of the total fleet for efficient operation within the city. All these will be urban buses with low floors,” states the mobility plan. It further adds that over time, all buses should be air-conditioned in order to wean away those commuting via cars and two-wheelers to buses. As of now, none of the buses in the city are air-conditioned, which is also a major reason behind people not using the bus service. Besides, sources within GMDA said “improper route planning” is another reason for low ridership in city buses. There is a need for additional eight bus terminals cum depots, each with a capacity of 250 buses. Gurgaon has only one bus terminal cum depot at present, which can be redeveloped, the plan states. “Limited city bus services are offered by Haryana Roadways and GMCBL, which are inadequate for the city,” states the plan, a copy of which was accessed by TOI. GMCBL chief Anju Choudhary could not be approached for a comment. Increasing the number of buses which is required as per the mobility plan, however, will be a challenge for GMCBL for several reasons. One of them is financial troubles. The city bus service, which was launched by the chief minister in 2018, hasn’t been generating enough revenue to sustain itself. Moreover, ridership on the existing routes has been below par, especially after the pandemic, which is why a few GMCBL buses are now plying in Faridabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/gurgaon-has-154-buses-needs-600-more-by-end-of-2022/articleshow/80124473.cms||Shubhra Pant
January 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Suspension of term of Apna Ghar case convict detrimental for society: HC||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court dismissed the appeal of Jaswanti Devi, one of the convicts in the infamous Rohtak ‘Apna Ghar’ sexual exploitation case, who had sought suspension of her sentence till pendency of her appeal against her conviction, observing that doing so would be to the "detriment of the society at large". Turning down the appeal, the HC in its detailed order released last week observed, “The material on record shocks the conscience of any law-abiding citizen … the manner in which the first appellant (Jaswanti) has conducted herself with the inmates of the institute ‘Apna Ghar’ and the way she allowed male members of her family to abuse the women and minor children, who were inmates of institute, for a long time, resulting in death of some of them and causing serious injuries to others and also ruining the life of many of them.” The division bench,comprising Justice S N Satyanarayana and Justice Archana Puri, was of the view that considering her prayer for suspension of sentence and enlarging her to join the mainstream of society pending disposal of appeal would be nothing short of committing grave judicial error which is to the detriment of the society at large. The bench also observed, “The said relief will have to be considered on the merits of each case. The prayer of the applicant/1st appellant (Jaswanti) cannot be granted by merely looking at certain guidelines issued in other petitions filed for the relief of enlarging the liberty of the applicant/appellants during the pendency of the appeal.” Jaswanti was convicted by special CBI court, Panchkula in April 2018 for the offences punishable under IPC sections pertaining to rape, Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2000, Sections 4 & 5 of Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956, and Section 120-B read with Section 374 of the IPC ,and was awarded sentence commencing from life imprisonment to rigorous imprisonment of various periods for each of the offences. Her appeal against this sentence is pending before the HC. Charges against her include sexually abusing several persons. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/suspension-of-term-of-apna-ghar-case-convict-detrimental-for-society-hc/articleshow/80123384.cms||Ajay Sura
January 6, 2021||Chandigarh||SC: Place Multani case chargesheet on record||Mohali: The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Punjab government to place on record the chargesheet filed in the fresh FIR lodged against former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in the 1991 disappearance and murder of a junior engineer Balwant Singh Multani. However, Punjab state counsel Gopal Subramanium pleaded for time to place the charges and additional documents on record and that the matter should be listed for hearing in February. A bench of Justice Ashok Bhushan, Justice R Subhash Reddy and Justice M R Shah, which is hearing Saini’s plea seeking to quash the fresh FIR lodged in the case in May 2020, said, “Let him do within two weeks. List the case in the second week of February 2021. It has been informed by the counsel for the state that matter is fixed by the magistrate on January 22, 2021, for the appearance of the petitioner. In view of the fact that we are hearing this matter, it shall be appropriate for the magistrate to postpone the date by the end of February 2021.” On December 3, 2020, the Supreme Court had granted anticipatory bail to Saini in a fresh case lodged in the 1991 disappearance and murder of Multani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sc-place-multani-case-chargesheet-on-record/articleshow/80123390.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
January 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Cyber crime cell busts inter-state fraudsters, arrests 6||Chandigarh: Punjab Police’s cyber crime cell on Tuesday arrested six hackers from Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh for hacking the Facebook account of chief minister Amarinder Singh’s chief principal secretary Suresh Kumar. Those arrested have been identified as Narendra Singh, Gulaab Singh, Bhaag Singh and Raman, all residents of Rajasthan, and Dinesh and Rahul from Madhya Pradesh. One accused is still at large. The accused were also operating in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. The police have seized various ATM cards, cash, mobile sim cards and a point of sale (POS) machine from the accused. Director-cum-ADGP bureau of investigation Arpit Shukla said the accused had created a fake Facebook account on the name of chief principal secretary ‘Suresh Nangia’ and were defrauding people by asking for money pretending to be him. Shukla said the arrest of six cyber criminals would help in resolving similar cases related to Facebook hacking, OLX and bank frauds. A case has been registered under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and under the Information Technology Act at police station state cyber crime. Investigations revealed that Dinesh and Rahul are nephews of Madan Lal who supplied his (Madan Lal) identity proofs to open a bank account in his name to usurp the fraudulently obtained money. The cyber criminals of MP, Haryana, UP, Delhi and Rajasthan are intrinsically linked with each other and operate across different states, added Shukla. He said the connivance of some bank employees in the entire racket can also not be ruled out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cyber-crime-cell-busts-inter-state-fraudsters-arrests-6/articleshow/80123418.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Ludhiana||Punjabi singer arrested for song ‘glorifying’ violence||PATIALA: Punjabi singer and lyricist Pawandeep, also known as Shree Brar, was arrested by CIA staff of Patiala from Mohali on Tuesday for allegedly glorifying violence in his song. The singer has come out with provocative lyrics, promoting violence and anti-social acts to the extent of glorifying lawlessness in his song ‘Jaan’ launched around a month ago, police officials said. Brar, who hails from Silwala Khurd village of Hanumangarh district in Rajasthan, had also got much publicity for his recent song ‘Kisaan Anthem’ sung in favour of agitating farmers at Delhi borders. A case was registered against him under Police Incitement to Disaffection Act, 1922, and IPC at Civil Lines Police Station Patiala on January 3. Patiala SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said the singer had launched ‘Jann’ on YouTube with provocative lyrics promoting violence and anti-social acts to the extent of even providing shelter to criminals and gangsters and encouraging jailbreaks. “The song was aimed at misleading the common man and the youth as well as inciting them to commit heinous crimes... it promotes total lawlessness in society where law takes a back seat and gangsters and anti-social elements come forward with their activities detrimental to society at large,” he said. “No one will be allowed to promote violence and gang culture and stringent action will be taken as per law against all those who encourage lawlessness and criminal activities in the society,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjabi-singer-arrested-for-song-glorifying-violence/articleshow/80123429.cms||Bharat Khanna
January 6, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram air stays satisfactory, rain expected today||GURUGRAM: For the second consecutive day, the city’s air quality remained in the ‘satisfactory’ category owing to moderate rain and strong winds in the city. On Tuesday, the air quality index (AQI) was recorded at 83 (satisfactory). Track the pollution level in your cityAccording to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) official, the AQI is expected to remain in the ‘satisfactory’ to ‘moderate’ category on Wednesday under the influence of western disturbance, thereafter slight deterioration might witness during the morning hours with dense fog condition which will impact heavy pollutants from dispersal. Till Tuesday morning, Gurugram received 12 mm of rainfall, while it was 17 mm in Farrukhnagar, 15 mm in Wazirabad, 14 mm in Pataudi, 12 mm in Sohna and 11 mm in Manesar. According to the IMD official, the wet spell is likely to ease on Wednesday with isolated light rain in some parts of the region. Furthermore, there will be severe cold conditions from January 7 onwards with dense to very dense fog conditions. Delhi received rain for the third consecutive day on Tuesday. Several parts of the national capital received light rain. India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted very light rain for Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/gurgaon-air-stays-satisfactory-rain-expected-today/articleshow/80124482.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Slow start for airport train services; SWR may tweak timings after two weeks||BENGALURU: Only 124 passengers took the airport train services on Day 1 of its operations on Monday. South Western Railway (SWR) is hoping that ridership will pick up in the days ahead. In fact, many passengers who didn’t get a chance to travel on the first day took a joy ride on Tuesday. SWR is yet to compile ridership numbers of Tuesday’s train services. A single eight-car DEMU train can carry up to 1708 passengers. According to SWR records, ridership of ten trains (five pairs) to and fro newly built KIA halt station had only a combined ridership of 124 passengers on Monday. The fares to the halt station are as low as Rs 10 for passenger trains and Rs 30 for express trains. However, SWR is yet to operate express trains on this route. This means a passenger can occupy an entire coach for just Rs 10, which is literally less than the price of a cup of tea. In fact, season tickets will be even cheaper. BIAL, which operates the airport, is also running free shuttle services between the halt station and terminal, which is around 3.5Km. Statistics show 06269 Bengaluru Cantonment-KIA halt train, which leaves Cantonment at 5:55pm and reaches KIA halt at 6:50pm, recorded the highest ridership of 42 passengers on Monday. It is followed by the inaugural train 06285 KSR Bengaluru City-KIA halt with 34 passengers. This is mainly because many passengers particularly rail fans and other officials boarded the train for the maiden run. Among trains which witnessed low ridership include 06284 KIA halt-Cantonment (10 passengers), 06287 Yelahanka-KIA halt (10 passengers), 06286 KIA halt- KSR Bengaluru City (9), 06288 KIA-Yelahanka (6), 06280 KIA halt-KSR Bengaluru City (6), 06283 KSR Bengaluru City-KIA halt (3), 06270 KIA halt- Yeshwantpur and 06279 Yesvantpur - KIA halt trains had two passengers each). SWR chief public relations officer E Vijaya said they have already released two posters in English and Kannada on train timings to and from KIA halt. “We are hoping that the halt station is patronised well. We are also planning to introduce non-stop services too. We are yet to issue season tickets” she said. Suburban train services offer a cheaper and faster transport option mainly for around 26,000 airport employees and passengers. While cab fares vary between Rs 800-Rs 1200, BMTC tickets cost between Rs 230 and Rs 300 per ticket. Devesh Agarwal, past president, Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Commerce, said: “For every 1 million passengers, 1,000 employees are required at the airport. While the average penetration rate for passengers to use public transport is 18% - 20%, it is around 75% among employees and most of this is being met by contracted bus services. The target audience for this train service should be the airport employees not the passengers. Passengers are unlikely to use these services if it is not reliable”. Senior divisional commercial manager (Bengaluru division) AN Krishna Reddy said: “We have given enough publicity about the timings of trains through various medium but the patronage is less in the first two days. We are now running trains in the morning and evening since most flights from KIA are during that time. We will review the ridership after 15 days and tweak the timings based on the patronage”. The station is developed at a cost of Rs 4 crore and is fully funded by BIAL. While SWR will operate and maintain this station and ensure safety of passengers, BIAL will operate food and beverage outlets at the station for a period of two years. CRS inspection on Yelahanka - Makalidurga double line electrified sectionCommissioner of Railway Safety, Southern Circle is likely to inspect Yelahanka-Makalidurga double line electrified section on Thursday and Friday. Once this section gets commissioned as a double line electrified section, it will reduce congestion mainly between Yelahanka and Doddaballapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-slow-start-for-airport-train-services-swr-may-tweak-timings-after-two-weeks/articleshow/80125650.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
January 6, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram: 200-acre urban forest to come up on land cleared of encroachments||GURUGRAM: The city is about to get new green lungs as the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), along with the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), has drawn a plan to develop an urban forest spanning over 200 acres in the city. The urban forest will be enclosed by three roads — MG Road, Gurugram- Faridabad road and Sunset Boulevard road. It will come up on government land near these roads, most of which has been recently cleared of encroachments, including the Marble market in the Aravalis near MG Road. Talking about the project, Subhash Yadav, additional CEO of GMDA, said they have proposed several different components in the project, the primary one being plantation of trees, mostly of indigenous species. “We will have a separate section for soil and water conservation in the forest so that water can be harvested and reused for horticultural purposes,” said Yadav. It will have a nature trail which can be used for walking and jogging, he added. The urban forest will also have a convention centre and a knowledge centre. “It is important that we have someone to guide and educate people visiting the place about the various species of trees and other features of the forest,” said Yadav. The proposal for the project was tabled in a recent GMDA meeting and has been approved by the authority. “We have already prepared a proposal for the proposed urban forest and will be now sending it to the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change seeking contribution to funds,” Yadav told TOI. “While the entire project is expected to cost around Rs 15 crore, we are seeking help from the Centre for just plantation and soil and water conservation components, which will cost around Rs 2 crore,” the additional CEO said. He added that for such projects, the central government funds around 80% of the cost. The rest of the plantation cost will be borne by GMDA, while the remaining Rs 13 crore is expected to be provided through corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds. GMDA is in talks with some private organisations for the execution of the project. As of now, Gurugram does not have an urban forest. The only place that comes close is the Aravali Biodiversity Park, which is facing an uncertain future given the proposed construction of a road through the park. In the absence of other green areas in the city, the proposed urban forest will not only provide a public place for residents, but also help increase Gurugram’s green cover. The city’s per capita green cover, according to GMDA’s own estimates, is 7 sqm, whereas it should ideally be 9 sqm. Some within GMDA have, however, disputed the authority’s green cover estimates, and said the figure is likely to further come down in the coming years owing to new infrastructure projects and felling of trees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/200-acre-urban-forest-to-come-up-on-land-cleared-of-encroachments/articleshow/80124485.cms||Shubhra Pant
January 6, 2021||Gurgaon||Tractor rallies may hit two e-ways unaffected so far||REWARI/GURUGRAM: Tractor rallies planned on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal and Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal expressways on Thursday are set to disrupt traffic movement in the region. The two roads were largely unaffected by the farmers’ protests till now. With the Delhi-Jaipur highway already blocked, heavy congestion is being seen on most alternative routes, like Pataudi Road. Protests at Masani in Dharuhera, Sangwari and Jaisinghpur Khera on the Delhi-Jaipur highway have resulted in diversions at Kotkasim and Kasola Chowk via Nangal Chaudhry. Commuters are having to cover an extra 85-100 km to reach their destinations. Heavy vehicles travelling from Bawal towards Gurgaon have been diverted from Jhajjar-Rohtak bypass road (NH-352). On Monday night, those travelling towards Dharuhera from Delhi and Gurgaon faced a lot of inconvenience as police placed barricades and stopped traffic at Kapriwas border. Rohtas Yadav, a Manesar resident who was returning home on Tuesday after a vacation in Jaipur, said he could reach Haryaya only after walking for about 2km. He said Delhi-bound vehicles that are coming from Jaipur have been diverted at about six places. “Our bus dropped us about 2km ahead of Behror. We walked to Rewari and took a cab that brought us through Narnaul, Mahendergarh, Charkhi Dadri and Jhajjar before reaching Gurgaon,” he said. Gurgaon Police spokesperson Subhash Boken said: “We have enhanced security at the borders and issued an advisory to all officers to take precautionary measures.” He added that more than 2,000 police personnel have been deployed in sensitive areas. Asked about the rally, Yogendra Yadav, who is spearheading the protest at Jaisinghpur Khera since December 13, said: “Earlier, we had decided to hold a tractor rally on KMP on January 6. But due to rain forecast, we postponed it for Thursday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/tractor-rallies-may-hit-2-e-ways-unaffected-so-far/articleshow/80124487.cms||Shahnawaz Alam
January 6, 2021||Gurgaon||Two more of gang that came to Gurugram to steal SUV held||GURUGRAM: A day after two criminals were arrested after an hour-long cross-fire with policemen in Bhondsi, the crime branch nabbed two more of the same gang from Rohtak-Hisar bypass. Five pistols, four automatic guns, 20 rounds of bullets, 6 additional magazines, 4 mobile phones and one master key (used for stealing vehicles) recovered from their possession. Five criminals from Rajasthan had come to Gurugram to rob a SUV to use it for a murder in Punjab. The criminals had opened fire on the police team when they were asked to stop. The two accused held on Tuesday have been identified as Amit Godara alias Shyam from Rajasthan and Bhagwan Singh Haryana. One more accused Rahul is still at large. The criminals are members of Dalpreet alias Baba gang, which is active in Punjab and Rajasthan. “Dalpreet is lodged in Ropad jail in Punjab. Rahul was in touch with the Dalpreet and carried out criminal activities on the direction of gangster,” said ACP (crime) Preet Pal Sangwan. The gang also hired criminals from other states for carrying out criminal activities. The gang members had killed a person in Yamuna Nagar on December 27 and snatched his Swift car. Later they used that car to loot a bank in Hansi on December 31. A month ago, they had snatched a Baleno from a person in Bhatinda in Punjab. With that stolen Baleno they had looted rs 13.50 lakh from a cash collection agent in Shri Ganganagar in Rajasthan. They had also robbed a jewellery shop in Bikaner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/2-more-of-gang-that-came-to-gurgaon-to-steal-suv-held/articleshow/80124490.cms||Bagish Jha
January 6, 2021||World||Polls close in Georgia vote, US Senate in balance||ATLANTA: Polls closed Tuesday evening in a pair of critical election runoffs in Georgia, whose outcome will decide who controls the US Senate and shape the early course of Joe Biden's presidency. The hard-fought races have brought the international spotlight onto this southern state, nine weeks after the most tumultuous US election in two decades. Democrats need both their candidates, Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock, to prevail in order to snatch the Senate from the Republicans. Outgoing President Donald Trump's party needs either Kelly Loeffler or David Perdue to hold their seat to preserve its majority. US media declared both races too close to call following the close of polls at 7:00 pm (0000 GMT), and Georgia officials have said results may not be known until Wednesday or later. " Georgia -- The nation is looking to you to lead us forward," tweeted President-elect Biden, who like Trump visited the Peach State to rally supporters on the eve of the vote. "The power is in your hands," wrote the 78-year-old Democrat. Georgia was voting during a week of high political tensions in the United States, with Trump desperately scheming to reverse his election loss. On Wednesday, Vice President Mike Pence is to preside over a joint session of Congress to certify the Electoral College vote that confirmed Biden as the winner of the White House. Trump, who refuses to concede, is planning to address a rally called in protest at the certification, and he urged Pence to "reject fraudulently chosen electors" -- a move the vice president has no legal authority to make. Hundreds of Trump supporters wearing red "Make America Great Again" caps were already gathered in downtown Washington Tuesday amid a heavy police presence as shop owners, fearing unrest, boarded up windows. Biden beat Trump in Georgia by nearly 12,000 votes in November, but the runoff odds are not in Democrats' favor: Republicans have won all eight statewide runoffs since 1992. Democrats led the early voting in Georgia and nationwide in November, and the expectation is that they did so again in the runoffs, in which a record three million-plus people voted early amid the coronavirus pandemic. Voting figures show Republicans more than Democrats tend to prefer casting ballots in person on election day. With the election on a knife edge, Robert Lowe, a 74-year-old retired improv comedian, called it "the most important election in my lifetime," after casting his ballot at an Atlanta church for the Democrats. If Republicans retain control of the Senate there will be "continued obstruction" in Washington, Lowe told AFP. Republicans hold 50 seats in the 100-seat Senate and a victory in just one of the runoff races would give them a majority and the ability to thwart Biden's agenda. Ossoff, 33 and a documentary producer, is running against Perdue, a 71-year-old business executive who was elected to the Senate in 2014. Warnock, a 51-year-old Black pastor, is taking on Loeffler, 50, a businesswoman appointed to the Senate in December 2019. Trump's rally came a day after The Washington Post published a recording of a phone call in which the 74-year-old president pressured Georgia officials to reverse the certified vote of November's election and hand him victory in the state. On the tape, Trump is heard telling Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger he wants to "find 11,780 votes" -- one more than Biden's margin of victory. Certification of the Electoral College vote is usually just a formality but dozens of House Republicans and 12 Senate Republicans loyal to Trump have said they will raise objections on Wednesday. The move is doomed to fail, as they are far short of the votes needed to block final validation of the vote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/polls-close-in-georgia-vote-us-senate-in-balance/articleshow/80125660.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Issue of 300 black spots flagged with NHAI||Chandigarh: Punjab transport minister Razia Sultana on Tuesday asked the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the state public works department to rectify all 300 black spots by March 31 to check road accidents. During a Punjab State Road Safety Council meeting, the NHAI informed that 391 black spots were identified on national highways in Punjab, of which 91 had been rectified. A black spot is a road corridor of about 500 metres on which five road accidents involving fatalities and grievous injuries, or 10 road fatalities, had been reported during the last three years. Reviewing road safety measures and action taken by stakeholders on implementation of road safety laws, it was also decided to purchase fluorescent reflectors to be put on the nearly 50,000 stray cattle in teh state, besides conducting crash investigation of all major road accidents across the state. As many as 502 road accidents with stray animals were reported in Punjab between 2015 and 2018 in which 370 people lost their lives, 157 were seriously injured, and 59 got minor injuries. The problem becomes more serious due to fog from December to February. The council will incur an expenditure of nearly Rs 25 lakh for the purchase of reflectors. To bring down fatalities in the state from 14 per day to at least the national average of seven per day, it was decided to conduct crash investigation of all major road accidents to ascertain the reasons for accidents, including due to engineering fault, lack of enforcement or vehicle fault. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/issue-of-300-black-spots-flagged-with-nhai/articleshow/80123678.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Gurgaon||Protest at Hisar plaza on January 9: Kisan Sabha||HISAR: Kisan Sabha activists in Hisar on Tuesday announced a protest at the Chaudharywas toll plaza at 11am on Saturday. The announcement came after a meeting of local functionaries of Kisan Sabha at the same venue. It has been over 12 days since farm unions in Haryana ceased the functioning of toll collecton points in the state. Krishan Gavar, president of Balsamand tehsil of Kisan Sabha, said the decision for holding the protest on Saturday was unanimous and a campaign would be launched in surrounding villages from January 6 for gathering support for the protest. Meanwhile, a chain hunger strike by activists to demand the withdrawal of the three contentious agriculture laws which has led to protests across the country, entered its sixth at Ramayana toll plaza in HIsar. CITU state general secretary Sukhbir Singh Prabhat also spoke at Chaudharywas on Saturday. He said it seemed the government’s intentions towards the main demands of farmers were still not right. “There is a democratically elected government in our country, but today it has come under pressure from big corporate houses and this is hurting democracy,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/protest-at-hisar-plaza-on-january-9-kisan-sabha/articleshow/80125707.cms||KUMAR MUKESH
January 6, 2021||Lucknow||UP's Purvanchal expressway to open for light vehicles in March||LUCKNOW: The Purvanchal expressway, which will be India’s longest, will open for light vehicles by March 31 this year. The deadline was set by the Project Monitoring Group (PMG) headed by chief secretary RK Tiwari during a review meeting on Tuesday. The Project Monitoring Group also fixed the timeline for other expressway projects, including the 594-km-long Ganga expressway, for which land acquisition will be completed by June. Seven bridges on 340-km-long expressway are 90% completeAccording to Tiwari, the main carriage way of the 340-km-long Purvanchal expressway, which will connect Lucknow with Ghazipur, will become fully operational by October 31 this year. He asked the officials of the UP Expressway and Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) to ensure that public utilities and petrol pumps are constructed within the stipulated timeline. UPEIDA is constructing seven bridges on the expressway and 90% of this work has been completed. Similarly, the 22 flyovers on the expressway are 75% complete. The expressway is touted as one of the most ambitious projects of the Yogi government which wants to fast-track economic activity in east UP ahead of 2022 assembly elections. The 296-km-long Bundelkhand expressway, which will connect Chitrakoot with Etawah, will be ready by December 2022. UPEIDA has been asked to get one side of the expressway operational by February 28 next year. The Bundelkhand expressway is another big ticket project which will bolster development of the socio-economically poor region of UP. At present, 32% of the work of this expressway has been completed. The 91-km-long Gorakhpur link expressway, which will connect Gorakhpur with Azamgarh on Purvanchal expressway, is projected to be completed by December 2022, the PMG was informed. The main carriageway, though, would be built by April 2022. The PMG was also told that UPEIDA has started the land acquisition exercise for the Ganga expressway, which will connect Meerut with Prayagraj. The chief secretary directed the officials to fix district-wise and month-wise land acquisition targets. The expressway is proposed to cover 12 districts including Hapur, Bulandshahr, Amroha, Sambhal, Badaun, Shahjahanpur, Hardoi, Unnao, Rae Bareli and Pratapgarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ups-purvanchal-expressway-to-open-for-light-vehicles-in-march/articleshow/80125704.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Noida||If dangerous, buildings to be razed, constructed afresh||LUCKNOW/GHAZIABAD: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed divisional commissioners and district magistrates to inspect all government buildings and old structures in their areas in the aftermath of the shelter roof collapse in Muradnagar that killed 24 people. If the condition of any building, especially schools and hospitals, is found unsatisfactory during the review, it would be demolished and constructed afresh. “While old buildings would be razed, students would be shifted to other primary schools in the area so that their classes are not disturbed,” an official said. Adityanath, he added, has also asked officials to ensure that the schools that are constructed afresh are equipped with infrastructure for smart classes. “The CM has said the safety of citizens is of paramount importance for the government and no stone will be left unturned to ensure it,” the official added. The divisional commissioners and district magistrates will have to set up technical committees in their areas. These committees will inspect buildings of schools, degree colleges and hospitals in both government and private sectors. Ghaziabad DM Ajay Shankar Pandey has formed a three-member committee of technical experts to oversee the condition of buildings. In Ghaziabad, mayor Asha Sharma has written to the municipal commissioner and directed him to get the projects undertaken by contractor Ajay Tyagi in the past five years verified. Tyagi had built the shelter whose roof collapsed on Sunday. Tyagi, who had registered himself with the Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation 10 years ago, would secure contracts in the name of three firms floated by him —Mahi Constructions and Builders, Krishna Associates and M/s Ajay Tyagi Constructions. The mayor has also directed officials to randomly verify other projects too. “The contractor, Ajay Tyagi, and his three firms have been working with the Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation for the past 10 years so. In the wake of the roof collapse that claimed so many lives, it is only imperative that a verification of all his works be done” said mayor Sharma. “I have written to the municipal commissioner to get his projects verified by a technical team,” she added. Tyagi is faced with allegations that he had used substandard material to build the crematorium shelter. All three firms of Tyagi have been blacklisted. “While his firms have been blacklisted, we are in the process of reviewing the work done by him in the past five years by our technical team,” a GMC official said. The chief minister has already issued directives that the loss to the state exchequer because of the roof collapse be recovered from contractor Tyagi and officials of the Muradnagar municipality who had awarded the work contract. The GMC had last year compiled a list of 102 buildings that are unsafe and dangerous. A total of 64 of them are in the city zone. At 31, Mohan Nagar has the highest number of such buildings, followed by 17 in Vijay Nagar, 13 in Vasundhara and three in Kavi Nagar. “We had earlier issued notices to residents of these buildings to vacate the houses. In the wake of the Muradnagar roof collapse, we intend to expedite the process and get these houses vacated as early as possible,” said the GMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/if-dangerous-buildings-to-be-razed-constructed-afresh/articleshow/80123888.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Lucknow||Ghaziabad tragedy: NSA against accused||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday directed imposition of National Security Act (NSA) against the engineer and contractor of Muradnagar crematorium, where 25 people died on Sunday after the roof caved in. The CM said, losses to the public exchequer due to poor construction quality would be recovered from the contractor and engineers involved in the project. He also ordered blacklisting of the contractor, Ajay Tyagi, who was arrested late Monday. The Ghaziabad district magistrate has been slapped with a notice, seeking an explanation why he failed to act on chief minister’s directive in September to review projects for quality control. On Monday, the CM had set up an inquiry to determine role of the district administration and senior divisional officials in the tragedy. DM sets up panel to probe reasonsIn Ghaziabad, district magistrate Pandey constituted a three-member panel of technical experts on Tuesday to probe the quality of materials used to build the crematorium shelter and other reasons that might have led to the collapse. “The panel will have in it Chedi Lal, the project director of Uttar Pradesh Rajkiya Nirman Nigam, Ghaziabad Development Authority chief engineer VN Singh and Mohammed Moinuddin, the chief engineer of Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation. They will have to submit a report in 48 hours,” said district magistrate Pandey. The DM said the technical committee would also carry out an inspection of all buildings and structures that were being constructed by the Muradnagar municipality. “This is to find out if substandard material had been used to construct the buildings. The panel will recommend the demolition of all such structures that have been constructed in violation of building norms,” he added. Yogi had expressed dissatisfaction with the working of task force set up in each district for monitoring projects that are worth more than Rs 50 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ghaziabad-tragedy-nsa-against-accused/articleshow/80125746.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Business||Data raises hopes of economic recovery in H2: Finance ministry||NEW DELHI: The sustained improvement in high frequency indicators ignites optimism of better performance in the second half of the year, a finance ministry report said on Tuesday. It reiterated India has been experiencing a V-shaped recovery since June when the gradual easing of lockdown restrictions was initiated. The finance ministry’s monthly economic review for December said the impending vaccination is set to spur momentum in economic activity globally. “The effective management of Covid-19 spread despite the festive season and onset of winter season, combined with sustained improvement in high frequency indicators and V-shaped recovery along with easing of lockdown restrictions distinguish Indian economy as one riding against the Covid-wave,” according to the report prepared by the department of economic affairs. The report said that the agricultural sector remains the bright spot of the Indian economy, with healthy year-on-year growth of 2.9% in rabi sowing, accelerating tractor sales, and reservoirs’ live storage at 122% of decadal average. This, along with rise in minimum support prices accompanied by record procurement, and accelerated wage employment generation through MGNREGS, bodes well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/data-raises-hopes-of-eco-recovery-in-h2-finance-ministry/articleshow/80125749.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: EOW SIT to probe ‘use of black money’ in polls||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh EOW on Tuesday set up a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the contents of the CBDT report on alleged use of unaccounted cash in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and charges against the police officers it named. The team will work under the supervision of ADG Rajeev Tondon and SP Rajesh Mishra. It will be headed by inspector S D Nair while inspectors Manish Rai, Pankaj Gautam and Manisha Dubey will be the other members. The decision came on a day chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains and additional chief secretary (home) Rajesh Rajora apprised the Election Commission on action initiated by EOW. Bains informed that the state probe agency has already registered a preliminary enquiry and sought two weeks’ time to update the EC on follow-up action, said officials. The EC gave two months to the chief secretary and ACS-home to submit a fresh report on compliance of its recommendation to file criminal cases against those named in the CBDT report, including three IPS officers and a police officer of the state cadre. “EC is adamant on registration of criminal cases against the four police officers,” said an officer at the secretariat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-eow-sit-to-probe-use-of-black-money-in-polls/articleshow/80125761.cms||P Naveen
January 6, 2021||Business||Bajaj Finance fined for harassing borrowers||MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has fined Bajaj Finance Rs 2.5 crore for harassment and intimidation of customers by recovery agents during debt collection. The penalty comes at a time when law enforcement authorities are cracking down on app-based lenders for harassing borrowers, which had led to suicide in a couple of cases. Bajaj Finance is the largest NBFC in the consumer finance segment and has been categorised as systemically important. The RBI had also issued a direction to the company to ensure compliance with its fair practices code — which bars strong-arm tactics by recovery agents — in letter and spirit. The banking regulator said that there were also repeat complaints about recovery and collection methods adopted by Bajaj Finance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bajaj-finance-fined-for-harassing-borrowers/articleshow/80125768.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Lucknow||Identify, raze buildings endangering lives: Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Days after the roof of a shelter at a crematorium in Ghaziabad’s Muradnagar collapsed, claiming at least 25 lives, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday directed all divisional commissioners and district magistrates to inspect government buildings in their respective areas and identify the old and weak structures. The CM said if the condition of buildings, especially schools and hospitals, was found unsatisfactory during review, it should be demolished and immediate arrangements should be made for the construction of new ones. “While old buildings are razed and replaced with new ones, students should be shifted to other primary schools of the area so that their education is not disturbed,” he added. According to a government spokesman, the chief minister has asked officials to ensure that new school buildings constructed after razing the dilapidated ones should be equipped with smart classes and modern facilities. “The chief minister has said that the safety of citizens is of paramount importance for the government and no stone will be left unturned to ensure it,” the spokesman added. Divisional commissioners and district magistrates have been asked to conduct surveys, and a technical committee, headed by the respective DM, should take the work forward. The committees have been asked to inspect basic and secondary schools, degree colleges and hospitals in both government and private sectors. The committee will then inspect all public buildings, including those located in government residential colonies, to check whether they are safe and to assess any risk of collapse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/identify-raze-buildings-endangering-lives-yogi-adityanath/articleshow/80125767.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: Row over vaccine trial on gas victims||BHOPAL: Activist Rachna Dhingra, who works with survivors of the Bhopal gas tragedy, has accused Peoples’ Medical College of subjecting gas victims to Covaxin trials without obtaining their “informed consent”, as the law stipulates. The hospital denies the allegation and says consent has been taken from every participant in the trial. Medical education minister Vishwas Sarang tagged a video of a TV news report on the controversy and tweeted: “Our scientists have devised a vaccine against Covid-19. Members of the tukde-tukde gang are opposing it. Politics over Covid vaccine is neither good for them, nor for the country.” Dhingra alleged that a van is going around the colonies of poor gas victims in Gareeb Nagar and Shankar Nagar. “They are told that they will be injected to prevent Coronavirus, and get Rs 750 for it, which is a hefty amount for them. This is how they have mobilised people for the vaccine trial. None of them were given copies of the consent letter, which is a must. Why? Because they are hiding something,” she said. Dhingra alleged that volunteers, who developed adverse impact after vaccination, were not examined by the doctors conducting trials, and that they were driven away when they went to Peoples’ Medical College. “They are not cheating gas victims alone, but the entire world by not collecting data on adverse impact,” she said. TOI spoke to Chhotu Das, a resident of Shankar Nagar, who volunteered for the trial, and was given the first shot on December 6. “A van had come around, announcing that Corona vaccine will be given, along with Rs 750. So, we went. Later, when I had a problem, they told me that I have Coronavirus, gave me some medicines and asked me to remain in isolation for 10 days. I was supposed to be vaccinated again on January 3 but they said I won’t be given the shot now,” he said. Vice-chancellor of Peoples’ University, Rajesh Kapoor, denied the charges. “The allegations are misleading. We have taken consent from every volunteer who came to participate in the trials. The due processes are defined — volunteers are counselled and then informed consent is taken. This consent is a confidential document, as per norms,” he said. On the allegation of denial of treatment, Kapoor said: “We will provide free treatment for any ailment that a volunteer suffers. So far, no severe side effect has been reported. Allegations like these are not only misleading but also discouraging for our health workers who work 16 hours a day.” The money given to vaccine volunteers is not a lure, Kapoor said. “We are giving them Rs 750 as a token amount to compensate for their daily earning, according to Government of India norms. We are giving this amount by cheque, and not cash. You should also consider why controversy is being created after 40 days of trial at Bhopal and two days after government approved the vaccine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-row-over-vaccine-trial-on-gas-victims/articleshow/80125783.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Noida||In ‘abduction’ of girl, mom, SC asks DCP to appear before Allahabad HC||NOIDA: The DCP of Noida and the investigating officer in a case of alleged abduction have appeared before the Allahabad high court on the orders of the Supreme Court. The apex court had directed the officers to appear before the HC and apprise it of the steps taken as part of the investigation. It has also quashed summons by the HC to the police commissioner of the district. The case pertains to July 3, when Anju Devi, who lived with her husband Awadhesh Sharma in Noida’s Barola area, left the house along with her nine-year-old daughter. A probe had found that Anju did not share a cordial relationship with her husband and was in touch with at least two persons over the phone — Devanand and Yogesh. Awadhesh has lodged a complaint of abduction against one of them. According to Awadhesh, despite lodging an FIR in the case and making multiple rounds of the office of the police commissioner, he did not get any satisfactory response. “The police told me that my wife and daughter had left on their own. Despite handing them CCTV footage from Barola area, they have not been able to find them,” he said. Awadhesh had approached the high court on September 2. The high court had asked the Noida police commissioner to appear before it in person on January 5 and file his personal affidavit on why the detainees — Devanand and Yogesh — were not being produced before the court despite repeated orders by it. However, the police commissioner approached the Supreme Court, arguing that the high court should not have made any observations against him without affording him any opportunity of hearing. The bench of justices UU Lalit, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat modified the high court directive, saying that the Noida DCP and the investigating officer would have to appear before the high court on January 5 and inform it about the steps taken by them. Sudhir Singh, SHO, Sector 49 police station, said that the cops had lodged an FIR in the case and it was being probed. Kartikeya Bhargava, the advocate representing the police commissioner, said that in keeping with the SC order, the DCP and investigating officer had appeared before the high court on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/in-abduction-of-girl-mom-sc-asks-dcp-to-appear-before-hc/articleshow/80124106.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Business||RBI’s Rs 350 crore subsidy to add 10 lakh card machines||MUMBAI: In a big boost for digital payments, the RBI has announced a fund that will subsidise deployment of card-acceptance devices and QR codes in tier-3 to tier-6 towns and in the northeast. The Payments Infrastructure Development Fund (PIDF), which currently stands at Rs 345 crore, will go up further with contributions from banks yet to come in. The RBI has contributed Rs 250 crore to the fund, payment networks will pump in Rs 100 crore and banks will give Re 1 for every debit card and Rs 3 for every credit card they have issued. The PIDF has a validity of three years and will target to increase the number of card swipe (point of sales, or PoS) machines by 10 lakh and the number of shops accepting QR code-based payments by 20 lakh. Priority will be given to merchants providing essential services like transport, hospitality, government payments, fuel pumps, PDS shops, healthcare and kirana stores. The RBI will subsidise 30% to 50% of the cost of a card swipe machine and between 50% and 75% of the cost of acquiring a merchant for QR code acceptance. In addition to the one-time charges, the card networks (Visa, Mastercard and RuPay) will pay 1 paisa for every transaction, while card-issuing banks will pay 1 paisa for debit card and 2 paise for every credit card transaction. This will ensure that the burden of contributing to the fund will fall equally on banks that have issued a large number of cards and those that have maximum card usage. “All schemes in the past have been targeted toward banks. Fintech and nonbanks are playing a very important role, so this is a very welcome move. There are close to nine million merchants who are not accepting digital payments and who can now join the bandwagon,” said Pine Labs president and COO Nitish Asthana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbis-350cr-subsidy-to-add-10l-card-machines/articleshow/80125796.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Lucknow||Surveillance a must to weaken Covid-19 chain: Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday instructed officials to continue vigilance in view of the new strain of the novel coronavirus. He said that the work of contact tracing should be carried out effectively and surveillance system should be kept active. The medical testing should also be carried out with full capacity, he added. “Care should be taken at every level to break the chain of Covid-19 infection,” the CM told in the daily Covid-19 review with Team-11. He emphasized that people should be regularly made aware about Covid prevention and public address system and other publicity mediums should be used for this. The CM has also instructed that Covid-19 help desks should be set up in all government offices, business establishments and MSME units. Expressing satisfaction over the use of E–Sanjivani app by over 3.50 lakh people in the state, the CM has instructed to provide the benefit of online consultation through this app to maximum people. The chief minister also said that the E–Sanjivani app should be widely publicised. Meanwhile, ACS, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said that 771 cases took Uttar Pradesh’s Covid-19 tally to 5,89,611. Of the total, 5,68,892 have recovered while 8,433 have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/surveillance-a-must-to-weaken-covid-19-chain-uttar-pradesh-cm-yogi-adityanath/articleshow/80125808.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Noida||More staff at Noida Sector 18 market to curb surface parking||NOIDA: The Noida Authority is planning to depute more than 100 personnel in the Sector 18 market to keep surface parking in check. It will also provide tools and resources to the additional manpower to maintain tighter vigil in the area, officials said. The authority has been able to make 40% of the entire market area free of surface parking and has installed no-parking signs at the spots where parking has been phased out. At a meeting to decide the future course of action, an officer said: “We will have to make arrangements to pick and drop visitors coming to the market to the multi-level parking complex. Having an adequate number of e-rickshaws on standby will be important before we implement the system.” To enforce the system, the officials will set aside an annual budget of up to Rs 60 lakh. Meanwhile, plans are afoot to provide 30 e-rickshaws and six towing cranes on a permanent basis. Moreover, the strength of the staff could be increased to nearly 150 from the present 106 in the coming weeks. President of the Sector 18 market owners’ association, SK Jain said, “Since no-parking is being implemented in phases, motorists who do not follow the new rules regularly get confused. Also, the multi-level parking complex is too far from certain parts of the market. Our business has taken a toll since residents are going to other markets.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/more-staff-at-sector-18-market-to-curb-surface-parking/articleshow/80124112.cms||Shalabh
January 6, 2021||Ghaziabad||Pump owner gets three years in jail for selling spurious fuel||GHAZIABAD: A special CBI court on Tuesday sentenced an Agra-based petrol pump owner to three years in jail for selling spurious fuel even after his licence was revoked. CBI’s special judicial magistrate Shivank Singh handed down the sentence to Karan Veer Singh after convicting him for cheating, criminal conspiracy and under the Essential Commodities Act. A fine of Rs 12,000 was also imposed on him. In April 2006, a joint team of CBI and Indian Oil Corporation raided Singh’s petrol pump located in Gandhi Nagar in Agra, following a complaint. Adulterated fuel was found to be sold there. The licence of the petrol pump was revoked in September that year. However, even after that, Singh continued selling spurious fuel and over 36,000 litres of petrol and diesel were found to sold between April 2006 and July 2007, according to CBI. In 2007, the joint team again raided the pump and found Singh and another person, named Manoj Goyal, continuing with the illegal business. Subsequently, the CBI filed an FIR against the duo and some unknown officials of IOC. In 2009, the CBI submitted a chargesheet against both of them, while formal charges were framed in 2011. Goyal, who is out on bail, did not appear in the court on Tuesday. As a result, the court ordered the issuance of a non-bailable warrant against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/pump-owner-gets-3-years-in-jail-for-selling-spurious-fuel/articleshow/80124120.cms||Aditya Dev
January 6, 2021||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Man sentenced to 20 years in jail for raping minor||GHAZIABAD: A man was on Tuesday sentenced to 20 years rigourous imprisonment for raping a 16-year-old girl after forcibly taking her to a hotel in Dasna nearly five years ago. The girl, who used to work in a biscuit factory, had taken the convict’s auto-rickshaw on the day of the crime to go to her workplace. Special judge (POCSO Act) Mahendra Srivastava handed down the sentence to Aslam, an auto rickshaw driver, after holding him guilty of the charges of rape under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and kidnapping under sections 363 and 366 of IPC. A fine of Rs 85,000 was also imposed on the convict, half of which will be given to the survivor. The girl had boarded Aslam’s auto-rickshaw around 6.30am on April 15, 2016, to go to the factory where she worked. However, instead of taking her to the factory, he took her to a hotel in Dasna and raped her. He had also threatened to kill her parents if she raised an alarm or narrated her ordeal to anyone. “An FIR against Aslam was registered on April 16, 2016, at the Kavi Nagar police station by the girl’s father. In his FIR, the complainant accused Aslam of raping her daughter after kidnapping and taking her to a hotel a day earlier,” special public prosecutor (POCSO Act) Utkarsh Vats said. “The girl had told her family members about her ordeal after coming back home in the night.” Based on the complaint, an FIR was registered against the accused under IPC sections 376 (rape), 363 and 366, and under sections 3 and 4 of the POCSO Act, Vats added. A total of six witnesses were examined by the prosecution during the trial. Under Section 4 of the POCSO Act, the accused was sentenced to 20 years rigorous imprisonment and fined Rs 50,000. He also got a five-year jail term and fined Rs 10,000 under IPC Section 363. The judge also handed down seven years rigorous imprisonment to the convict and imposed a fine of Rs 25,000 under IPC Section 366. All the sentences will run concurrently. Since his arrest, Aslam has been lodged in Dasna Jail, and the time spent in the prison will be adjusted with the final punishment. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/man-sentenced-to-20-years-in-jail-for-raping-minor/articleshow/80124115.cms||Aditya Dev
January 6, 2021||Business||boAt eyes make-in-India push with $100 million from Warburg Pincus||BENGALURU: Consumer brand boAt, which sells earphones, speakers and wearables, has received an investment of $100 million from private equity major Warburg Pincus. The company has been valued at around $300 million post this investment, a person aware of the matter said. boAt, which competes with Chinese and other foriegn brands in the category, will use the new capital to build on its current growth momentum, and to move the majority of its manufacturing from China to India. boAt founders Aman Gupta and Sameer Mehta told TOI that the company is looking to tap into the proposed profit-linked-incentive (PLI) scheme of the government for smart wearable makers to produce Made-in-India products. “The PLI scheme will create a level playing field for Indian manufacturers and players over a period of time with the Chinese. We have taken some baby steps. Over the next two-three quarters you will see some products coming out of India, but the idea is to get to about 50-60% of our manufacturing done in India through a combination of outsourcing and in-house manufacturing,” said Mehta. Gupta added that even though there may not be an immediate pricing advantage, the government’s support for local manufacturing will eventually make it economical. The virus outbreak and the border tensions between India and China impacted boAt's imports. If the manufacturing plan fructifies, it would be the second such consumer brand after eyewear seller Lenskart to do so. TOI reported about Lenskart's plans in August. boAt clocked revenue of around Rs 700 crore in the year ended March 2020 and is expected to do around Rs 1,000 crore this fiscal. Started as an online-foused brand on Amazon India, boAt will also build its own platform for a wider direct-to-consumer (D2C) play and expand in the offline channel. It generates about 20% sales from the offline channel. “We are growing on all fronts. D2C is an important channel for us and we will be seriously looking at it,” Gupta added. Fireside Ventures, a venture capital fund that invested around $3 million in boAt in its early days, has sold part of its stake to Warburg in this round. Kanwaljit Singh, founder and managing partner at Fireside, confirmed the sale. “From the beginning, boAt had occupied this specific slot which was good value with a high quality product. It’s not a cheap product but sharply priced. They were also clear about building a brand and not just selling products at a price,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/boat-eyes-local-manufacturing-warburg-invests-100mn/articleshow/80125820.cms||Digbijay Mishra
January 6, 2021||Ghaziabad||First vaccine dry run completed in Noida, Ghaziabad; health workers upbeat||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: Shweta Rai, a 35-year-old healthcare worker from Child PGI, became the first person to be dummy administered a vaccine shot in Noida on Tuesday. “The dry run for Covid vaccine is being done for the first time in India as its a new disease. But, it is like any other inoculation process,” said Rai, after the process. Six centres in Noida and Ghaziabad each conducted a dry run on Tuesday to find out the best way to administer the vaccine and plug loopholes in logistics and planning if any. Rai was dummy vaccinated by a vaccinator from District Hospital after her registration and verification were completed. “In the last 10 months, we have seen many ups and downs during treatments. I have done the same and expect others to follow,” said Rai. Rekha Rajan, a staff nurse and ICU in-charge at Yashoda hospital in Ghaziabad, had mixed feelings about the upcoming vaccine rollout. “I am concerned about its side effects, but at the same time thinking about its benefits. It will save my family from the infection. This, outweighs the apprehension related to the side-effects.” Pooja Garg, an ANM who has undergone vaccination training, was upbeat. “We have undergone training multiple times in the past month and are ready for the actual vaccination drive.” In GB Nagar, the drill began at 10am with the dummy vaccine brought in police custody to Child PGI from neighbouring District Hospital ILR (ice land refrigerator) in cold chain boxes. Meanwhile, at Yashoda hospital, the drill started at 10am and went on till 12.30pm. Some network issues and multiple dummy lists led to delays in a couple of centres in GB Nagar where registration and verification took some time, but overall the process went smooth in both districts. While district magistrates and CMOs visited the centres to survey potential glitches, the HCWs were upbeat for having already undergone training for the process. “The process is similar to a voting system — registration, verification, vaccination and observation. Around 25 HCWs were vaccinated in each booth at six sites across the district,” said Suhas LY, GB Nagar DM. CMO GB Nagar Dr Deepak Ohri said 10 ambulances with 10 emergency medicine teams have been set up as an emergency response to anaphylaxis (reaction to exposure to an allergen/vaccine).Also, emergency wards are kept on standby at government and private hospitals for treatment to reactions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/first-vaccine-dry-run-completed-in-noida-gzb-health-workers-upbeat/articleshow/80129084.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
January 6, 2021||Noida||First vaccine dry run completed in Noida, Ghaziabad; health workers upbeat||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: Shweta Rai, a 35-year-old healthcare worker from Child PGI, became the first person to be dummy administered a vaccine shot in Noida on Tuesday. “The dry run for Covid vaccine is being done for the first time in India as its a new disease. But, it is like any other inoculation process,” said Rai, after the process. Six centres in Noida and Ghaziabad each conducted a dry run on Tuesday to find out the best way to administer the vaccine and plug loopholes in logistics and planning if any. Rai was dummy vaccinated by a vaccinator from District Hospital after her registration and verification were completed. “In the last 10 months, we have seen many ups and downs during treatments. I have done the same and expect others to follow,” said Rai. Rekha Rajan, a staff nurse and ICU in-charge at Yashoda hospital in Ghaziabad, had mixed feelings about the upcoming vaccine rollout. “I am concerned about its side effects, but at the same time thinking about its benefits. It will save my family from the infection. This, outweighs the apprehension related to the side-effects.” Pooja Garg, an ANM who has undergone vaccination training, was upbeat. “We have undergone training multiple times in the past month and are ready for the actual vaccination drive.” In GB Nagar, the drill began at 10am with the dummy vaccine brought in police custody to Child PGI from neighbouring District Hospital ILR (ice land refrigerator) in cold chain boxes. Meanwhile, at Yashoda hospital, the drill started at 10am and went on till 12.30pm. Some network issues and multiple dummy lists led to delays in a couple of centres in GB Nagar where registration and verification took some time, but overall the process went smooth in both districts. While district magistrates and CMOs visited the centres to survey potential glitches, the HCWs were upbeat for having already undergone training for the process. “The process is similar to a voting system — registration, verification, vaccination and observation. Around 25 HCWs were vaccinated in each booth at six sites across the district,” said Suhas LY, GB Nagar DM. CMO GB Nagar Dr Deepak Ohri said 10 ambulances with 10 emergency medicine teams have been set up as an emergency response to anaphylaxis (reaction to exposure to an allergen/vaccine).Also, emergency wards are kept on standby at government and private hospitals for treatment to reactions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/first-vaccine-dry-run-completed-in-noida-gzb-health-workers-upbeat/articleshow/80124126.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
January 6, 2021||Bhopal||More birds drop dead in MP||INDORE/BHOPAL: The H5N8 avian influenza seems to be spreading in Madhya Pradesh. Crows were found dead in Astha, about 80 kilometres from Bhopal, on Tuesday. In Indore, a dozen heron and pigeons have dropped dead. A statewide alert on the outbreak was declared on Monday. Farmers of the prized kadaknath chicken have shifted the black birds to isolation units. So far, around 500 crows have died in Indore, Mandsaur, Khargone, and Dewas districts. In Mandsaur, chicken shops have been ordered shut in 1km radius of areas where over 100 crows have died due to H5N8 in the past few days. “In a week or so, around 190 birds have been found dead — 160 crows and two heron — in Indore. Samples of the crows came positive for H5N8. Reports are awaited in the death of a dozen crows in Kasrawad of Khargone and 10 heron in Khandwa,” joint director, veterinary department (Indore ) Dr GS Dabar told TOI. H5N8 Influenza has not infected poultry, Dabar said. Special care is being taken for kadaknath. “It’s a local breed of chicken and already has good immunity. Since we are taking all precautions, we are keeping them in isolation and giving them a mixture of vitamins A, C and D, plus turmeric, to boost their immunity,” said IS Tomar, head of Jhabua Krishi Vigyan Kendra, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/more-birds-drop-dead-in-mp/articleshow/80125830.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Indore||More birds drop dead in MP||INDORE/BHOPAL: The H5N8 avian influenza seems to be spreading in Madhya Pradesh. Crows were found dead in Astha, about 80 kilometres from Bhopal, on Tuesday. In Indore, a dozen heron and pigeons have dropped dead. A statewide alert on the outbreak was declared on Monday. Farmers of the prized kadaknath chicken have shifted the black birds to isolation units. So far, around 500 crows have died in Indore, Mandsaur, Khargone, and Dewas districts. In Mandsaur, chicken shops have been ordered shut in 1km radius of areas where over 100 crows have died due to H5N8 in the past few days. “In a week or so, around 190 birds have been found dead — 160 crows and two heron — in Indore. Samples of the crows came positive for H5N8. Reports are awaited in the death of a dozen crows in Kasrawad of Khargone and 10 heron in Khandwa,” joint director, veterinary department (Indore ) Dr GS Dabar told TOI. H5N8 Influenza has not infected poultry, Dabar said. Special care is being taken for kadaknath. “It’s a local breed of chicken and already has good immunity. Since we are taking all precautions, we are keeping them in isolation and giving them a mixture of vitamins A, C and D, plus turmeric, to boost their immunity,” said IS Tomar, head of Jhabua Krishi Vigyan Kendra, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/more-birds-drop-dead-in-mp/articleshow/80125831.cms||---
January 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Lockdown spike in calls flagging infidelity||AHMEDABAD: A 47-year-old woman from Vejalpur frantically called Abhayam 181 women helpline in July. “Her husband, a land broker, had invested in a spa a few years back. While the business failed to take off, he got romantically involved with his woman partner, much younger to him. He used to insist that his meetings were all business but when meetings continued even after the lockdown, the wife got suspicious,” said a counsellor with the helpline. A sneak peek into the husband's chat history blew the lid off the romance prompting the wife to follow him one night in a bid to catch the cheating hubby red-handed. “She called the Abhayam team to seek police assistance if required,” said the counsellor. She added the couple is under counselling trying to pick up threads of the tattered relationship. Year 2020 witnessed 181 woman's helpline ringing off the hook with unprecedented calls relating to extramarital affairs. In all, 4,916 called counsellors for issues related to extramarital affairs which is roughly one call every two hours. The figure was 35% higher than calls for marital issues, which accounted for 3,644 calls. Of total, 80% were made from March to December. Dr Hansal Bhachech, a citybased psychiatrist, vouched for the trend. “2020 was a defining year for relationships. Generally, people are able to keep their lives inside and outside the house separate. But due to sustained lockdown, living together for months within a house, infidelity was increasingly exposed and confronted." However, it was not just women, even men called crying infidelity by their spouse. Falguni Patel, Abhayam 181coordinator in Ahmedabad, said men called complaining extramarital relationship of wife. “As a helpline, our job is not to judge – we try to help victims after understanding the case and offer guidance or legal help if the caller is in need,” she said. It was not only extramarital affairs – the year also resulted in marital relationships getting strained. Psychiatrist Dr Ramashankar Yadav said a high-ranking government official's wife chose to live separately along with two kids after getting exhausted of constant meddling in household affairs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-lockdown-spike-in-calls-flagging-infidelity/articleshow/80125832.cms||---
