January 7, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru to witness a morning concert with classical tunes and raagas||Bengaluru-based vocalist Iman Das is all set to perform live next week, for the first time in 10 months. The vocalist will be performing at Prachi - The Morning Concert, which will be held on January 10 at 8.30 am. Flautist Pravin Godkhindi too, will be performing at the event. Iman says, "This concert is special in many ways. Firstly, it is the first live performance for me in months. Secondly, the event is being organised by a popular school in the Whitefield area, in order to bring parents and children back to school and live events. For a school to organise a classical performance means a lot, and then of course, Pravinji will also be performing at the event. Though we won't be performing together, we are associated with this event and that in itself means a lot to me." On what the audience can expect, he shares, "I will be performing morning meditative raagas, thumris, bhajans and more. It will be a great way to start the New Year and then of course, Pravinji will be playing his part." He adds, "The event will be held in an open ground and there will be social distancing and proper safety precautions taken at all points. Though the venue can accommodate 300 people, the audience will be restricted to 150."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-to-witness-a-morning-concert-with-classical-tunes-and-raagas/articleshow/80139083.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
January 7, 2021||Business||AI’s longest non-stop, San Francisco-Bengaluru, inaugural to be operated by all women pilots||NEW DELHI: An all-women cockpit crew will operate Air India’s longest nonstop — San Francisco (SFO)-Bengaluru — which starts this week. The airline has rostered four of its highly experienced women pilots to fly a Boeing 777-200 (long range or LR) for the January 9 inaugural from SFO to Bengaluru, taking the polar route enroute Bengaluru for the first direct scheduled flight between south India and the US. “Two sets of two pilots each operate our ultra long flights by turn. We have rostered an all-women cockpit crew of four pilots for the SFO-Bengaluru inaugural on January 9. Our head of flight safety, a senior woman commander, will also be on board. While it depends on weather conditions of the day, we are planning the B777 will fly over the north pole enroute Bengaluru,” said a senior AI official. The four pilots — Captains Zoya Agrawal, Thanmai Papagari, Sonwane Akanksha and Shivani Manhas — operated Delhi-SFO late on Wednesday with AI’s executive director of flight safety, Captain Nivedita Bhasin, on board. These pilots will operate the SFO-Bengaluru inaugural on January 9. Bengaluru-SFO shortest flight distance is over 14,000 km, about 1,000 km more than Delhi-SFO. Very often airlines take longer routes to get tail winds and avoid headwinds. The AI flight, for instance, took the Pacific route from Delhi to SFO. The inaugural to Bengaluru will take the Atlantic route over North Pole — getting tail winds on both sectors. AI’s Delhi-SFO is very often around the world trip for this reason as it circumnavigates the globe on the way out and back. The longer Pacific route means flying a distance of 16,234 km from Delhi to SFO but due to tail winds all the way, both flight time and fuel burn are less than what that will be on the shorter Atlantic route. United will start operating a direct flight on Bengaluru-SFO from May 6, 2021. United says that this route will be the longest operated by any US carrier, and the third longest in the world. The Singapore-New York (JFK) route operated by Singapore airlines is the world's longest direct flight with a distance of about 16,700 km. Divestment-bound AI is starting two new twice-weekly nonstops — SFO-Bengaluru and Hyderabad-Chicago. Tweaking operations as per current demand, AI will operate a B777 200LR on Delhi-SFO-Bengaluru-SFO-Delhi twice a week. And, a B777 300 (extended range) will operate Delhi-Chicago-Hyderabad-Chicago-Delhi with same frequency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ais-longest-non-stop-san-francisco-bengaluru-inaugural-to-be-operated-by-all-women-pilots/articleshow/80140771.cms||Saurabh Sinha
January 7, 2021||Bengaluru||IMA depositors claim Rs 2,695cr, but attached property worth only Rs 475cr||BENGALURU: The competent authority tasked with refunding investment to victims of the I Monetary Advisory (IMA) Ponzi scheme is in a spot. While it has received claims amounting to Rs 2,695 crore, properties attached so far are worth only about Rs 475 crore. The authority received 66,383 claims online before it was closed on January 3. The yawning gap between value of such properties and the amount demanded by investors has prompted it to go all out to ensure justice for the gullible. “We are exploring multiple options in order to narrow the gap as well as augment resources so that we can redistribute the proceeds to all eligible investors,” said Harsh Gupta, special officer and competent authority for the case. When the scam was busted on June 10, 2019 — after IMA founder Mansoor Ali Khan claimed in his video message that former minister R Roshan Baig took Rs 400 crore from him and refused to return it and that he was not in position to pay back investors — it’s size was estimated to be Rs 4,500 crore. Gupta, however, said subsequent auditing revealed many investors had taken back their money earlier and the amount owed to claimants was 40% less than the estimation. “Still, it is a huge sum. It will take more hard work to recover it through all possible means,” said an official. While the primary means is to auction the confiscated properties, the authorities want to look for more IMA properties to attach. Gupta said it would depend on the outcome of the ongoing CBI investigation as there would be a possibility of mopping up more money if the agency finds fresh assets to be confiscated. The possibility of attachment of properties belonging to biggies such as Baig, who have been arraigned in the case, can’t be ruled out. Gupta said the auditing agency found IMA had paid income tax to the tune of Rs 160 crore when no tax was due as the firm never made any profit. “We can ask the Centre to return it to us. We have already requested the state government to take it up with the Centre,” he added. Investigators have found that many investors had taken dividends from the firm even when it had not made any profit. The amount is around Rs 500 crore and the authority is planning to take this money back from such investors. “We hope all these steps work and the investors get their money back at the earliest,” said Shivajinagar MLA Rizwan Arshad. Most of the investors belong to his constituency. While attaching and auctioning the properties is a prolonged legal process, Gupta said the authority has set May as the target to start refunding people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ima-depositors-claim-rs-2695cr-but-attached-property-worth-only-rs-475cr/articleshow/80140784.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
January 7, 2021||Goa||Bright scores wonder goal for East Bengal, FC Goa fight back for a point||Forget the end-result. Just enjoy that sensational goal from Bright Enobakhare. Having received the ball from Jacques Maghoma, the Nigerian striker started his run in the 80th minute. First, he outmuscled Princeton Rebello, then avoided a challenge from Aibanbha Dohling, sidestepped Ivan Gonalez, left Saviour Gama for dead and with goalkeeper Mohammad Nawaz also going the wrong way, calmly slotted the ball inside the nets. It was a goal that had class written all over it, perhaps expected from someone whom Wolves coach Nuno Espirito Santo – now with the team in the Premier League – called a “special player.” The Nigerian, just 22, had made 26 appearances in all competitions when Wolves lifted the Championship title in 2017-18. This goal against FC Goa at the Tilak Maidan in Vasco on Wednesday, was truly special. That the goal came when East Bengal were already handicapped by a red card to Daniel Fox in the 55th minute should have made this extra special. It didn’t. Just 32 seconds later, Devendra Murgaonkar headed home the equaliser to save Goa the blushes as the teams finished 1-1. Goa will kick themselves for letting 10-man East Bengal off the hook. Looking for a hat-trick of wins for the first time this season, the League champions lacked the cutting edge upfront, while Robbie Fowler’s side continued with their revival, having now remained unbeaten for four games in a row. Goa had the advantage all through. East Bengal started without two of their best foreign players – Anthony Pilkington (injured) and Jacques Maghoma (bench) – while regulars like Bikash Jairu and Mohammad Rafique were also missing from the starting 11. For all of Goa’s 62 % ball possession, they didn’t create enough chances. East Bengal goalkeeper Debjit Majumdar did make eight saves. But except for an early close-range header from James Donachie, the goalkeeper wasn’t put to the test. Two long rangers from Gama and one from captain Edu Bedia wasn’t menacing enough. Despite a defensive approach with five at the back, East Bengal threatened in the first half. It was Aaron Amadi-Holloway who headed wide from inside the danger zone and then Fox looked in disbelief as his header of Raju Gaikwad’s trademark throw-in missed the target. Goa looked brighter after the change of ends with Jorge Ortiz a constant threat. Then referee A Rowan flashed a straight red card at Fox, the East Bengal captain, who dragged his foot on Alexander Romario in the 55th minute. Understandably, the red-and-golds protested the red card, irked how Gama had earlier escaped punishment for a studs-up challenge on Ankit Mukherjee. Bright provided East Bengal with the lead in the 80th minute when he came up with that magical goal. But less than a minute later, an unmarked Devendra timed his jump to perfection and headed Gama’s measured cross past the goalkeeper. You could never really tell what both teams felt at the final whistle. Did they pick up a point, or drop two?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bright-scores-wonder-goal-for-east-bengal-fc-goa-fight-back-for-a-point/articleshow/80140342.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
January 7, 2021||India||In India's draft science policy: One subscription, lateral entry, NRI-talks||NEW DELHI: The Union ministry of science and technology unveiled its draft policy on Wednesday, with a focus on inclusiveness, transparency and greater collaboration. The draft policy will now be up for discussion till January 25. The last Science, Technology and Innovation Policy (STIP) had been drafted in 2013. This one, STIP 2020, was finalised after 300 consultations with 43,000 stakeholders over six months, whittled down from nearly one lakh ideas. The new policy proposes to make 25% lateral recruitment — professionals, experts — mandatory in all scientific ministries. “We mean environment, earth sciences, forests, biotechnology, atomic energy ministries and so on,” DST secretary prof Ashutosh Sharma said. “We need scientific brains to take ahead the policies formed by the government. The need of the hour is to have such lateral entries.” How public-funded research and development projects are moving ahead will now be updated online on the Indian Science and Technology archive of research site. The funding space will be expanded, allowing foreign MNCs in. “These will be partnerships and collaborations with domestic private and public sector entities to work on projects aligned to national needs and priorities,” policy head Dr Akhilesh Gupta said. “Each department and ministry in the central and state governments will earmark a budget for this.” These collaborations will also engage the diaspora. “Fellowships, internships and research opportunities in India will be expanded and widely promoted across different ministries to attract the diaspora … An engagement portal will be created for this,” Gupta said. The site will be called Pravasi Bharatiya Academic and Scientific Sampark. A highlight of the policy is the ‘One Nation, One Subscription’ plan — a centrally negotiated payment system for access to journal articles by scholars across India. The country spends an average Rs 1,700 crore a year on journal subscriptions. Finally, the policy places great emphasis on inclusiveness. Age cutoffs, for instance, will no longer be consider biological age but “academic age”, or experience. “Dual recruitment policy will be encouraged in governing bodies, so that couples do not have face the challenge of choosing between a spouse’s career and their lives,” the policy said. This will cover partners of scientists from the LGBTQIA community. “Provisions will be in place to protect their rights, and promote representation and retention. We want to institutionalise equity of treatment. An India-centric equity and inclusion charter is being developed to address discrimination in the sector based on gender, caste, geography, language, disability and other exclusions and inequalities,” Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-indias-draft-science-policy-one-subscription-lateral-entry-nri-talks/articleshow/80141058.cms||Rohan Dua
January 7, 2021||India||Vehicles owned by disabled to be exempt from toll charges||NEW DELHI: Now all vehicles owned by the “divyangjan” (persons with disabilities) will be allowed for free ride across NH network. Such persons will need to get a “zero transaction” or free FASTag for their vehicles from the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). The road transport and highways ministry has notified this provision to exempt such vehicles from paying toll charges in the NH Fee Rules. This will bring huge relief to a large number of persons with disabilities (PwDs). Till now only the vehicles especially designed for the use by such persons were exempted from paying toll tax in India. This was limited to only for the vehicles modified for the use by a PwD and such vehicles were defined as “invalid carriage” in the Central Motor Vehicle Act. As per the 2011 Census, nearly 2.7 core people in India had disability. But only a very small percentage of them drive a vehicle. “The NHAI will process the requests of only those persons who have got a certificate as specified by the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities. Only the vehicles with the zero transaction tag will be exempted from paying the toll charge on NH,” said an official. The government has made the provision of the “zero transaction FASTag” for different exempted categories of vehicles attached to persons such as MPs, judges of High Courts and Supreme Courts, MLAs in their home state, chief secretaries, secretaries in the Central government and vehicles deployed for essential services to ensure that no unauthorised person avails the exemption. The rampant practice of forged exemption results in revenue loss for projects and NHAI, which collect toll charges to recover the investment in the construction, widening and maintenance of NHs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vehicles-owned-by-disabled-to-be-exempt-from-toll-charges/articleshow/80142886.cms||Dipak K Dash
January 7, 2021||India||Farm talks likely to have positive result: Govt to SC||NEW DELHI: Optimistic about a positive outcome from ongoing negotiations with protesting farm unions, the Centre told the Supreme Court on Wednesday it would be inadvisable to commence hearing on petitions challenging the contentious farm laws as that could lead to hardening of positions and derail discussions. The Centre’s response was articulated by attorney general K K Venugopal and solicitor general Tushar Mehta immediately after a three-judge bench headed by CJI S A Bobde said, “We want to take up hearing of the pending petitions as there appears to have been no improvement in the situation at all.” The bench’s proposal to begin the hearing from January 10 was politely opposed by Mehta, who said a “healthy discussion” was going on between the government and the farmers. “When the negotiations are ongoing, it would be inadvisable to commence hearing, which would require the government to file affidavits responding to the petitions," he said. Spelling out positions could mean taking a formal view on the unions’ demands, including the call for repeal of the farm laws, he added. Venugopal elaborated on the Centre’s reservation against starting the hearing at this time while indicating that negotiations may bear fruit. "There are chances of the parties coming to some conclusion. So, filing an affidavit by the Centre will close that (window of positive outcome)," he added. The bench of CJI Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian understood the predicament the government would find itself in if hearings were started on the pending petitions. The CJI said, "We will always encourage talks for a negotiated settlement. We will adjourn the hearing on Monday if the AG informs us on that day that the talks are proceeding." Before the winter break, the CJI-led bench had tried to break the ice between the Centre and the protesting farmers, who are firm on repeal of the laws and have been camping on the Delhi border for more than 40 days, by suggesting a negotiation committee comprising representatives from government, protesting farmers and independent experts. It had given liberty to the government to even seek urgent hearing on this issue during the winter break if the need arose. On December 17, the SC asked the Union government to consider deferring implementation of the farm laws as a step towards resumption of dialogue with farm unions, while observing that farmers had a constitutional right to protest but they could not impede citizens’ right to free movement. The court's suggestion to defer implementation of the farm laws was met with "it is not possible" response from the AG and the SG. With no farmers union represented before the SC, the CJI-led bench could do little on December 17 to push for a negotiated settlement. But if the negotiations do not fructify, then the SC will have to take up hearing and decide the validity of the farm laws. Importantly, during the last hearing, the bench had said it would not interfere with the protest. "Indeed the right to protest is part of a fundamental right and can, as a matter of fact, be exercised subject to public order. There can certainly be no impediment in the exercise of such rights as long as it is non-violent and does not result in damage to the life and properties of other citizens and is in accordance with law. We are of the view at this stage that the farmers’ protest should be allowed to continue without impediment and without any breach of peace either by the protesters or the police," the bench had said. Watch Farm Laws stir, day 43: Farmers' plan to take out tractor rally||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farm-talks-likely-to-have-positive-result-govt-to-sc/articleshow/80142947.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 7, 2021||Bengaluru||Women pilots to fly inaugural Air India’s SFO-Bengaluru service||NEW DELHI: An all-women cockpit crew will operate the January 9 inaugural of Air India’s longest nonstop — San Francisco (SFO)-Bengaluru — which starts plying this week. The airline has rostered four of its highly-experienced women pilots — Captains Zoya Agrawal, Thanmai Papagari, Sonwane Akanksha and Shivani Manhas — to fly a Boeing 777-200 (long-range or LR) for the inaugural via the polar route — en route Bengaluru — for the first direct scheduled flight between south India and the US. “Two sets of two pilots each operate our ultra-long flights by turn. Besides the four pilots, our head of flight safety, a senior woman commander, will also be on board. While it depends on weather conditions of the day, we are planning the B777 will fly over the north pole en route Bengaluru,” said a senior AI official. The four operated the Delhi-SFO late Wednesday with AI’s executive director of flight safety, Captain Nivedita Bhasin, on board. The Bengaluru-SFO shortest flight distance is over 14,000 km, about 1,000 km more than Delhi-SFO. Very often airlines take longer routes to get tailwinds and avoid headwinds. The AI flight, for instance, took the Pacific route from Delhi to SFO. The inaugural to Bengaluru will take the Atlantic route over North Pole — getting tailwinds on both sectors.  AI’s Delhi-SFO is very often around the world as it circumnavigates the globe on the way out and back. The longer Pacific route means flying a distance of 16,234km from Delhi to SFO but due to tailwinds all the way, both flight time and fuel burn are less than what that will be on the shorter Atlantic route. United Airlines will start operating a direct flight on Bengaluru-SFO from May 6, 2021. United stated that this route will be the longest-operated by any US carrier, and the third-longest in the world. Divestment-bound AI is starting two new twice-weekly nonstops — SFO-Bengaluru and Hyderabad-Chicago. Tweaking operations as per current demand, AI will operate a B777 200LR on Delhi-SFO-Bengaluru-SFO-Delhi twice a week. And, a B777 300 (extended range) will operate Delhi-Chicago-Hyderabad-Chicago-Delhi with the same frequency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/women-pilots-to-fly-inaugural-ais-sfo-bengaluru-service/articleshow/80142970.cms||Saurabh Sinha
January 7, 2021||India||75m Indians above 60 suffer from chronic disease: Survey||NEW DELHI: About 75 million people above 60 in India suffer from some chronic disease, shows the first part (2017-18) of the world’s largest study on the aged — the Longitudinal Aging Study in India (LASI) — released by the health ministry on Wednesday. While 27% of elderly have multi-morbidities, around 40% have one or another disability and 20% have issues related to mental health, said the report that aims to provide a base for national and state-level programmes and policies for the elderly population. The LASI, Wave 1, covered a baseline sample of 72,250 individuals aged 45 and above and their spouses. This included 31,464 people aged 60 and above and 6,749 aged 75 and above from all states and Union territories, excluding Sikkim. "It is India’s first and the world’s largest-ever survey that provides a longitudinal database for designing policies and programmes for the older population in broad domains of social, health, and economic well-being," health minister Harsh Vardhan said. "In the 2011 census, the 60+ accounted for 8.6% of India’s population, accounting for 103 million elderly people. Growing at around 3% annually, the number of elderly-age population will rise to 319 million in 2050." The survey used bio-markers based on direct health examinations to estimate the prevalence of chronic health conditions, including hypertension, visual impairment, overweight or obesity or under-nutrition and chronic respiratory diseases. Around three-quarters of those 60 and above who were diagnosed with chronic conditions have been treated for hypertension (77%), chronic heart diseases (74%), diabetes mellitus (83%), chronic lung diseases (72%) and cancer (75%). More than half the elderly have been treated for stroke (58%) and bone or joint diseases (56%) whereas the treatment rate for neurological and psychiatric diseases is 41%. The treatment rate for all chronic health conditions is higher among the elderly in urban areas. The overall hospitalisation rate was 7% for adults aged 45 and above. In the 12 months prior to the survey, the hospitalisation rate increased from 6% among adults in the 45-59 age group to 8% among those 60 and above and 9% among 70 and above. The survey also showed that about one-fifth of those 60 and above, who are officially retired, are currently receiving pension and an additional 3% are expected to receive it. A large proportion (78%) are neither receiving nor expected to receive pension. More than half of people aged 60 and above (54%) with 10 or more years of schooling, and who are officially retired, are receiving pension. In comparison, just 4% of those with no schooling get pension. Social security coverage is significantly higher in smaller states and UTs where people are mostly engaged in full-time jobs and in public sector units. North, east and central Indian states have almost negligible social security coverage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/75m-indians-above-60-suffer-from-chronic-disease-survey/articleshow/80143113.cms||Sushmi Dey
January 7, 2021||Business||Currency in circulation up by Rs 5 lakh crore in 2020||NEW DELHI: Currency in circulation (CIC) went up by a record Rs 5 lakh crore in 2020 as Indians joined the global dash for cash in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. With gross domestic product (GDP) expected to shrink by 7.5% in FY21, the currency-to-GDP ratio could cross 15%. According to data released by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), currency in circulation grew by Rs 5,01,405 crore between January 1, 2019, and January 1, 2020. Overall, it has gone up to Rs 27,70,315 crore, up 22% from the previous year. This is the sharpest increase to date, if the post-demonetisation surge due to banknote replacement is excluded. While currency in circulation shrunk nearly 20% in FY17 due to demonetisation, it jumped 37% the following year when fresh notes were issued. The average growth for the last decade was 12.6% and for the last 50 years 13.8%. According to a paper published by the RBI, in the last 50 years there were only four occasions when currency growth was higher than 17% for three-four consecutive years. On three occasions, ie, during 1987-90, 1993-96 and 2005-09, higher currency demand was caused by relatively high nominal GDP growth. The recent surge is despite GDP shrinking. In 2020, it was uncertainty brought about by the pandemic that drove people to hoard more cash over fears of medical or financial emergency. While currency in circulation does rise with the increase in GDP, a recent paper published by RBI staff said the high growth in currency during the last three years was despite low nominal GDP growth. As Covid-19 cases in India rose last year, deposit growth slowed and year-on-year growth in currency with the public accelerated from 11.3% as on February 28, 2020, to 14.5% by end-March 2020 and to 21% in June 2020. News reports this week said that 35% of all US dollars in circulation were printed in the last 10 months — money created as an outcome of central bank easing. According to the RBI, this is a global phenomenon. In its August annual report, the RBI pointed out that the increase in currency in circulation was particularly sharp in Brazil, Chile, India, Russia and Turkey, as well as in advanced economies such as the US, Spain, Italy, Germany and France, where the use of cash is less. “The rise in currency in circulation in these countries occurred concomitantly with liquidity injecting measures undertaken by their central banks. They were also impacted by the Covid-19 build-up of precautionary balance,” the RBI had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/currency-in-circulation-up-by-5-lakh-crore-in-2020/articleshow/80143242.cms||Mayur Shetty
January 7, 2021||India||Designer ramps up focus on trans people||While she’s still trying to get the hang of walking in her brand new pair of six-inch stilettos or adjusting her bodice, Swapnil Shinde, reborn at age 39 as Saisha Shinde, appears ready to upstage all the fashionistas that she has been dressing for the past two decades. Transgender visibility in the country reached new heights after Shinde—a fashion designer known for dressing Bollywood actors such as Deepika Padukone, Katrina Kaif, Kareena Kapoor and Sunny Leone—came out to the world on Tuesday with a new name and a new face as a transwoman, becoming one of the first to break grounds with her trans identity in India’s pop culture sphere. With a picture of her freshly minted porcelain skin with perfectly arched brows and a delicate glance, a far cry from the heavy stubble and pompadour haircut that previously defined the Wadala-based designer, she shared a long note on social media where she spoke of her struggles with gender identity that led to “loneliness, aches and pressures” since childhood. “All through school and college, while the boys outside tormented me because I was different, the internal pain was far worse. I felt suffocated living a reality that I knew wasn’t mine, yet one that I had to stage every day because of societal expectations and norms. It was only in my early 20s at NIFT where I found the courage to accept my truth; I truly bloomed,” Shinde wrote, adding she spent the next few years “believing that I was attracted to men because I was gay, but it was only six years ago that I finally accepted to myself, and today that I accept to you. I’m not a gay man. I am a Transwoman.” However, shedding apprehensions and transitioning to her dreams of an appearance to match her identity as a woman was “never black and white”, she underlines. “I’d been toying with the idea for about six years but because of the profession I’m in and the adulation that Swapnil Shinde has always got, many of my friends in the industry out of concern for me felt that I could live my life as a man, and behind closed doors, dress up as a woman to avoid trolling,” says Shinde who has the pandemic-induced isolation to thank for driving her to be her authentic self. “One morning after a chat with my therapist I decided to go with my decision to live as a woman in full swing,” she gushes. The shot at finding her authentic self was important for Shinde, not just to break barriers for herself but for others in the transgender community for whom coming out publicly remains a struggle, even as the scenario looks more upbeat for gay men. “If someone like me who is privileged is battling so much, I don’t know what people who don’t must be going through. And that was one of the main reasons for me to come out the way I have. When browsing social media, there’s no one from India that I found who I could look up to with a successful, happy life with a great set of friends,” says Shinde who sees herself engaging with the LGBTQ community about issues impacting the transgender community. “Just like being gay is as good as normal now, I want to be more involved in making people comfortable with the idea of a transgender person being normal too and not a caricaturish image.” Even as Shinde guards her privacy when it comes to the question of sex reassignment surgery, she admits that “40 percent of my transition is done and as soon as the coronavirus is sorted I will get to the next step of surgeries.” While Shinde has received an overwhelming outpouring of praise and applause from friends in the industry such as actors Parineeti Chopra, Aditi Rao Hydari and Shruti Hassan to stylist Anahita Adajania Shroff and model Diandra Soare, the support of her mother who helped her choose the name ‘Saisha’ which means ‘meaningful life’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/designer-ramps-up-focus-on-trans-people/articleshow/80143272.cms||Mohua Das
January 7, 2021||Vijayawada||AP: Amid temple row, Chandrababu Naidu turns to Hindutva||aHYDERABAD: TDP chief and former Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu, while addressing the party’s executive committee on Tuesday at Mangaligiri, alleged that chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy was encouraging conversions to Christianity in the state. The allegation has come from the main opposition party at a time when there have been scores of incidents in AP where idols of deities have been damaged. While the opposition is attacking the YSRCP government on the issue, the government has accused opposition leaders of being behind the desecrations. Jagan called the desecrations ‘new-age crime’ and said only opposition would gain from such tactics.  “Violating the Constitution, Christian pastors were given Rs 5,000 honorarium per month. Churches have become epicenters of vote bank politics,” Naidu said on Tuesday. “Christmas celebrations are being held in a police station. A deputy chief minister wished Merry Christmas in Lord Venkateswara temple. Are Christians the only people having religious sentiments? Don’t Hindus and Muslims have similar sentiments?" He demanded a judicial probe and CBI enquiry into idols being damaged at Ramateerdham temple at Vizianagaram recently. YSRC MLA Ambati Rambabu said, “Chandrababu Naidu is using religion to widen his vote bank. He is behaving like a saviour of the Hindu religion, but in reality, he has no respect towards any religion other than his caste. During his rule he had demolished 40 temples overnight.” Political analyst and MLC Professor M Nageshwar said TDP is making a desperate attempt to hijack BJP’s Hindutva agenda in Andhra Pradesh. BJP alleged that Naidu is a political opportunist. The saffron party’s AP president Somu Verraju told TOI, “Naidu has no fixed ideology. He will speak and act as per his needs. It is Naidu who mentioned building churches for Christians in his manifesto. When Narendra Modi was Gujarat chief minister, Naidu said he would have him arrested if he came to Hyderabad. Naidu loves power. He has distributed freebies during Christmas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/amid-temple-row-naidu-turns-to-hindutva/articleshow/80145084.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 7, 2021||Visakhapatnam||AP: Amid temple row, Chandrababu Naidu turns to Hindutva||aHYDERABAD: TDP chief and former Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu, while addressing the party’s executive committee on Tuesday at Mangaligiri, alleged that chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy was encouraging conversions to Christianity in the state. The allegation has come from the main opposition party at a time when there have been scores of incidents in AP where idols of deities have been damaged. While the opposition is attacking the YSRCP government on the issue, the government has accused opposition leaders of being behind the desecrations. Jagan called the desecrations ‘new-age crime’ and said only opposition would gain from such tactics.  “Violating the Constitution, Christian pastors were given Rs 5,000 honorarium per month. Churches have become epicenters of vote bank politics,” Naidu said on Tuesday. “Christmas celebrations are being held in a police station. A deputy chief minister wished Merry Christmas in Lord Venkateswara temple. Are Christians the only people having religious sentiments? Don’t Hindus and Muslims have similar sentiments?" He demanded a judicial probe and CBI enquiry into idols being damaged at Ramateerdham temple at Vizianagaram recently. YSRC MLA Ambati Rambabu said, “Chandrababu Naidu is using religion to widen his vote bank. He is behaving like a saviour of the Hindu religion, but in reality, he has no respect towards any religion other than his caste. During his rule he had demolished 40 temples overnight.” Political analyst and MLC Professor M Nageshwar said TDP is making a desperate attempt to hijack BJP’s Hindutva agenda in Andhra Pradesh. BJP alleged that Naidu is a political opportunist. The saffron party’s AP president Somu Verraju told TOI, “Naidu has no fixed ideology. He will speak and act as per his needs. It is Naidu who mentioned building churches for Christians in his manifesto. When Narendra Modi was Gujarat chief minister, Naidu said he would have him arrested if he came to Hyderabad. Naidu loves power. He has distributed freebies during Christmas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/amid-temple-row-naidu-turns-to-hindutva/articleshow/80143318.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 7, 2021||Amaravati||AP: Amid temple row, Chandrababu Naidu turns to Hindutva||aHYDERABAD: TDP chief and former Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu, while addressing the party’s executive committee on Tuesday at Mangaligiri, alleged that chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy was encouraging conversions to Christianity in the state. The allegation has come from the main opposition party at a time when there have been scores of incidents in AP where idols of deities have been damaged. While the opposition is attacking the YSRCP government on the issue, the government has accused opposition leaders of being behind the desecrations. Jagan called the desecrations ‘new-age crime’ and said only opposition would gain from such tactics.  “Violating the Constitution, Christian pastors were given Rs 5,000 honorarium per month. Churches have become epicenters of vote bank politics,” Naidu said on Tuesday. “Christmas celebrations are being held in a police station. A deputy chief minister wished Merry Christmas in Lord Venkateswara temple. Are Christians the only people having religious sentiments? Don’t Hindus and Muslims have similar sentiments?" He demanded a judicial probe and CBI enquiry into idols being damaged at Ramateerdham temple at Vizianagaram recently. YSRC MLA Ambati Rambabu said, “Chandrababu Naidu is using religion to widen his vote bank. He is behaving like a saviour of the Hindu religion, but in reality, he has no respect towards any religion other than his caste. During his rule he had demolished 40 temples overnight.” Political analyst and MLC Professor M Nageshwar said TDP is making a desperate attempt to hijack BJP’s Hindutva agenda in Andhra Pradesh. BJP alleged that Naidu is a political opportunist. The saffron party’s AP president Somu Verraju told TOI, “Naidu has no fixed ideology. He will speak and act as per his needs. It is Naidu who mentioned building churches for Christians in his manifesto. When Narendra Modi was Gujarat chief minister, Naidu said he would have him arrested if he came to Hyderabad. Naidu loves power. He has distributed freebies during Christmas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/amid-temple-row-naidu-turns-to-hindutva/articleshow/80145083.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 7, 2021||Business||Privacy fears over WhatsApp terms of service||NEW DELHI: WhatsApp has updated its terms of services and privacy policy, making it mandatory for users to share their data with its parent company, Facebook. Before this update, users could choose not to share their WhatsApp information with Facebook. The move, according to digital rights activists, will dilute users' privacy and maximise data collection. India is one of WhatsApp's biggest markets with over 400 million users. Cybersecurity expert Jiten Jain told TOI that while WhatsApp has given its users a "take it or leave it" option, the updated terms and conditions clearly indicate that it is the "end of so-called privacy on the platform". According to Jain, the updated terms state that WhatsApp will share data with "businesses", and, therefore, by extension, with government and law enforcement agencies. "That data available with and shared by WhatsApp will start resembling Facebook. Facebook shares data with governments on request. It seems like WhatsApp will start doing the same," he said, adding that in the absence of a privacy law, Indian users will have no recourse if their WhatsApp data is shared with the government and its agencies. Technology lawyer Mishi Choudhary also said that Facebook would get "forced consent" from users by asking them to just click "Agree" or lose their service. Developing nations like the UK and France had forbidden Facebook from sharing data beyond WhatsApp in 2018, Choudhary said. She added that the "constant dithering and incoherent approach of our legislators around the Data Protection Law has left Indians unprotected". The instant messaging app started informing users in India of the updated terms of services through an in-app pop-up notification. Users were given an option to accept the updates by clicking on the "Agree" tab that appeared with the notification. According to the pop-up, users will have to accept the terms or lose access to the app from February 8, 2021. "By tapping agree, you accept the new terms and privacy policy... You'll need to accept these updates to continue using WhatsApp. You can also visit the Help Centre if you would prefer to delete your account and would like more information," the notification read. The Help Centre provided a clearer picture of the changes incorporated by the instant messaging app. "Your account registration information (such as your phone number), transaction data, service-related information, information on how you interact with others (including businesses) when using our Services, mobile device information, your IP address" will be shared with Facebook, according to a FAQ section carrying details of the data-sharing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/privacy-fears-over-whatsapp-terms-of-service/articleshow/80143298.cms||Anam Ajmal
January 7, 2021||World||1 person shot as Trump backers storm Capitol||WASHINGTON: One person has been shot at the US Capitol as dozens of supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the building and violently clashed with police. Thats according to a person familiar with the matter who spoke to The Associated Press on Wednesday on condition of anonymity amid a chaotic situation. The exact circumstances surrounding the shooting were unclear. The person said the victim had been taken to a hospital. Their condition was not known. The shooting came as dozens of Trump supporters breached security perimeters and entered the US Capitol as Congress was meeting, expected to vote and affirm Joe Bidens presidential win. Trump has riled up his supporters by falsely claiming widespread voter fraud to explain his loss. President Trump is encouraging supporters occupying the US Capitol to “remain peaceful,” but he is not calling for them to disperse. As he faced growing pressure from allies to condemn the violence Wednesday afternoon, Trump tweeted, “No violence!” adding: “Remember, WE are the Party of Law & Order – respect the Law and our great men and women in Blue.” But Trump did not ask supporters to vacate the area as the unrest continued. I am asking for everyone at the U.S. Capitol to remain peaceful. No violence! Remember, WE are the Party of Law & O… https://t.co/XWZnbZWwze— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 1609964006000Trump had appeared earlier at a rally and had urged his supporters to march to the Capitol — at one point even suggesting he would join them. He is upset that he lost the presidential election to Democrat Joe Biden and has falsely claimed voter fraud to explain it away. Watch US elections: Donald Trump supporters storm US Capitol||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/1-person-shot-as-trump-backers-storm-capitol/articleshow/80143440.cms||---
January 7, 2021||World||John Ossoff wins runoff, giving Democrats control of Senate||GEORGIA: Democrat Jon Ossoff has won his Senate runoff election. His victory makes him the youngest US senator and gives Democrats control the Senate for the opening of Democrat Joe Biden's presidency. Ossoff, 33, defeated 71-year-old Republican David Perdue, who held the seat for the past six years and had the strong support of outgoing President Donald Trump. Democrat Raphael Warnock won one of Georgia's two Senate runoffs Wednesday, becoming the first Black senator in his state's history and putting the Senate majority within the party's reach. A pastor who spent the past 15 years leading the Atlanta church where Martin Luther King Jr. preached, Warnock defeated Republican incumbent Kelly Loeffler. It was a stinging rebuke of outgoing President Donald Trump, who made one of his final trips in office to Georgia to rally his loyal base behind the state's Republican candidates. In an emotional address early Wednesday, he vowed to work for all Georgians whether they voted for him or not, citing his personal experience with the American dream. His mother, he said, used to pick ``somebody else's cotton'' as a teenager. ``The other day, because this is America, the 82-year-old hands that used to pick somebody else's cotton picked her youngest son to be a United States senator,'' he said. ``Tonight, we proved with hope, hard work and the people by our side, anything is possible.'' His victory marks a ``reversal of the old southern strategy that sought to divide people,'' Warnock told ABC's ``Good Morning America.'' The focus now shifts to the other race between Republican David Perdue and Democrat Jon Ossoff. Ossoff held a small lead as of early Wednesday afternoon, though it was too early to call the race. Under Georgia law, a trailing candidate may request a recount when the margin of an election is less than or equal to 0.5 percentage points. If Ossoff wins, Democrats will have complete control of Congress, strengthening President-elect Joe Biden's standing as he prepares to take office on Jan. 20. A Democratic sweep would also make it more difficult for Republicans to block Biden's ambitious progressive agenda, along with his Cabinet picks and judicial nominations. This week's elections mark the formal finale to the turbulent 2020 election season more than two months after the rest of the nation finished voting. The unusually high stakes transformed Georgia, once a solidly Republican state, into one of the nation's premier battlegrounds for the final days of Trump's presidency _ and likely beyond. Warnock's victory is a symbol of a striking shift in Georgia's politics as the swelling number of diverse, college-educated voters flex their power in the heart of the Deep South. It follows Biden's victory in November, when he became the first Democratic presidential candidate to carry the state since 1992. The Associated Press declared Warnock the winner after an analysis of outstanding votes showed there was no way for Loeffler to catch up. Warnock's edge is likely to grow as more ballots are counted, many of which were in Democratic-leaning areas. Loeffler refused to concede in a brief message to supporters shortly after midnight. ``We've got some work to do here. This is a game of inches. We're going to win this election,'' insisted Loeffler, a 50-year-old former businesswoman who was appointed to the Senate less than a year ago by the state's governor. Loeffler, who remains a Georgia senator until the results of Tuesday's election are finalized, returned to Washington on Wednesday morning to join a small group of senators planning to challenge Congress' vote to certify Biden's victory. Georgia's other runoff election pitted Perdue, a 71-year-old former business executive who held his Senate seat until his term expired on Sunday, against Ossoff, a former congressional aide and journalist. At just 33 years old, Ossoff would be the Senate's youngest member. ``This campaign has been about health and jobs and justice for the people of this state _ for all the people of this state,'' Ossoff said in a speech broadcast on social media Wednesday morning. ``Whether you were for me, or against me, I'll be for you in the U.S. Senate. I will serve all the people of the state.'' Trump's false claims of voter fraud cast a dark shadow over the runoff elections, which were held only because no candidate hit the 50% threshold in the general election. He raised the prospect of voter fraud as votes were being cast and likened the Republicans who run Georgia's election system to ``chickens with their heads cut off'' during a Wednesday rally in Washington. Gabriel Sterling, a top official with the Georgia secretary of state's office and a Republican, said there was ``no evidence of any irregularities.`` ``The biggest thing we've seen is from the president's fertile mind of finding fraud where none exists,`` he said. Both contests tested whether the political coalition that fueled Biden's November victory was an anti-Trump anomaly or part of a new electoral landscape. To win in Tuesday's elections and in the future Democrats needed strong African American support. AP VoteCast, a survey of more than 3,700 voters in Tuesday's contests, found that Black voters made up roughly 30% of the electorate, and almost all of them _ 94% _ backed Ossoff and Warnock. The Democrats also relied on the backing of younger voters, people earning less than $50,000 annually and newcomers to the state. The Republican coalition backing Loeffler and Perdue was the mirror opposite: white, older, wealthier and longtime Georgia residents. The coalition closely resembles the one that narrowly handed Georgia's Electoral College votes to Biden in November, making him the first Democratic presidential candidate to win the state in almost three decades. Trump's claims about voter fraud in the 2020 election, while meritless, resonated with Republican voters in Georgia. About 7 in 10 agreed with his false assertion that Biden was not the legitimately elected president, AP VoteCast found. Election officials across the country, including the Republican governors in Arizona and Georgia, as well as Trump's former attorney general, William Barr, have confirmed that there was no widespread fraud in the November election. Nearly all the legal challenges from Trump and his allies have been dismissed by judges, including two tossed by the Supreme Court, where three Trump-nominated justices preside. Even with Trump's claims, voters in both parties were drawn to the polls because of the high stakes. AP VoteCast found that 6 in 10 Georgia voters say Senate party control was the most important factor in their vote. Turnout exceeded both sides' expectations. Ultimately, more people cast ballots in the runoffs than voted in Georgia's 2016 presidential election. Former President Barack Obama, the nation's first Black president, issued a statement praising the election of Georgia's first African American senator and his ability to improve divisions in Washington. `` Georgia's first Black senator will make the (Senate) chamber more reflective of our country as a whole and open the door for a Congress that can forego gridlock for gridlock's sake to focus instead on the many crises facing our nation,'' Obama said. On the ground in Georgia, meanwhile, many in the state's large African American community were ecstatic when they awoke to news of Warnock's win on Wednesday. Tracey Bailey, a 58-year-old assistant community manager at an apartment complex in downtown Atlanta, said she jumped for joy. ``It's going to be great for Georgia, and it's going to be great for our Black community as a whole,'' she said. ``I think he's going to be a fair guy for the people, and that's for all people.''||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/john-ossoff-wins-runoff-giving-democrats-control-of-senate/articleshow/80143466.cms||---
January 7, 2021||India||Donations to NCP up five-fold to 59 crore||BSP had ‘zero’ donations over Rs 20k in 2019-20, NCP sees five-fold rise in receipts. Of the two national parties whose contribution reports for 2019-20 were placed in public domain by the Election Commission on Tuesday, the BSP has yet again declared ‘nil’ donations in excess of Rs 20,000, while donations to NCP soared to Rs 59.9 crore, almost five times the Rs 12 crore it received in 2018-19. Among regional parties whose annual contributions for 2019-20 were uploaded on the EC website, AIADMK put its donations above Rs 20,000 at Rs 52.1 crore. JD(U) declared donations in excess of Rs 20,000 at Rs 6 crore of which Rs 1.25 crore (20%) came from Samaj Electoral Trust, which also donated Rs 1.5 crore to Rashtriya Lok Dal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/donations-to-ncp-up-five-fold-to-59-crore/articleshow/80143555.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Covid restrictions brazenly flouted in containment zones, reality check finds||LUCKNOW: Orders of health and administrative officers for strict implementation of Covid safety protocols in micro containment zones are not being followed at several places in the city, a TOI reality check revealed. Following complaints of laxity, directions to ensure containment zone regulations have been issued to check the second wave of Covid-19. Times ViewIf authorities want the mass Covid-19 vaccination drive to give quick results, they will have to ensure strict adherence to safety protocols, including enforcement of containment zones, required to check the transmission rate. The vaccine will help in building immunity in people, but the recipients can still act as carriers of the virus and infect those who have not been immunised.According to the protocol, a sticker is pasted outside a house where a person is found to be infected. The said house along with two adjoining ones are a micro containment zone. People in this zone are not allowed to move out for 14 days. Barricading of an area is done if three or more cases are found at a house or zone. TOI visited seven areas in different localities which were declared micro containment zones on December 31. The areas included an apartment block near Chitwapur Road in Hussainganj, a house near Sanskrit Pathshala in Sadar, a house in Vrindavan Colony on Rae Bareli Road and Krishna Vihar Colony near SGPGIMS, besides Rahul Vihar Colony, Jai Vihar Colony and Sector 18 in Indiranagar. Nowhere was a sticker or restriction on movement found. At a few places, residents were not aware that their neighbours had tested positive. In Jai Vihar Colony, no barricading was done despite detection of three cases from a house. Residents of these areas said that the administration should ensure that essential supplies reach the affected people so that they do not need to go out and neighbours can also take necessary precautions. Chief medical officer Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar said it was the duty of district administration to strictly implement containment zone policy. District magistrate Abhishek Prakash said, “Barricading is being done in a phase-wise manner by LMC in coordination with police and health department. We appeal to residents of containment zones to follow protocols.” The city at present has 2,418 active cases. Nearly 50% of these including elderly citizens, those with comorbidities and serious cases, are in hospital. The decline in transmission rate would lead to a drop in serious cases||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-restrictions-brazenly-flouted-in-containment-zones-reality-check-finds/articleshow/80142124.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
January 7, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata Police wants to make music with sax and dugi||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Police orchestra, which has 18 members who practise diligently for six hours every day, will soon be playing the dugi and the khol along with western instruments, like the saxophone. In a bid to add earthy tunes to its repertoire, the band has decided to play local instruments, orders for which have been placed. The orchestra has added several feathers to its cap since constable Prasanth Tamang shot to fame by winning Indian Idol. Its performances at the IPL and the FIFA World Cup were of special mention, so are its annual performances at the police tent every Dol Yatra. “It was our eagerness to perform specific folk songs and Rabindrasangeet on days like Dol Yatra and Nababarsha that first led us to experiment with khols a couple of years back. Even as we performed the western songs, requests to play folk songs increased. When we performed, we initially depended on the handsonic and octapad to replicate the sounds of dugi and khol. But we realized that you need to physically use these instruments to bring out their original essence. For the past few years, we brought tabla to rehearsals from our own homes before the department agreed to procure the instruments. Now, for the first time, we are buying the dugi and the khol. For the orchestra that has already bought tumba and mandolin, this is a step which we think will help us modernize,” said a sergeant. Pandit Tanmoy Bose has welcomed Kolkata Police’s move to include khol and dugi. “Khol is traditionally an instrument used primarily during kirtan performances. We have traditionally associated police bands with band compositions and film songs. I laud the attempt to introduce khol into the orchestra. This only means some compositions will be incorporated that will need the sound exclusively produced by this folk instrument,” Bose said. “I had introduced a traditional sreekhol player, Harekrishna, for a Bengali reality show. It feels so good to see the popularity of sreekhol in Bengali reality shows today. Including the khol in the police band will make people notice this instrument further,” Bose added. Maslandapur-based sreekhol player Mona Das, who has played in Bose’s rhythm ensemble called ‘Taaltantra’, said, “I have been playing the instrument for 40 years. This is a big impetus for players like us. Kolkata Police’s gesture will give more exposure to a folk art instrument.” According to Bose, dugi (duggi/dukkar) is a dying instrument. “In the shehnai recitals of Benaras, the dukkar players used to provide the accompaniment. It is an Indian drum with a kettledrum shape that is played by the fingers. I welcome the effort of the police band to revive a dying instrument.” The city police headquarters say these instruments will give the orchestra — which is housed at the Bodyguard Lines — a distinct identity from the band of Kolkata Police that has its own history since 1858.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-police-wants-to-make-music-with-sax-and-dugi/articleshow/80140216.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 7, 2021||Allahabad||Allahabad University to hold CRET on Jan 17||PRAYAGRAJ: Allahabad University (AU) will conduct its Combined Research Entrance Test (CRET)-2020 on January 17. The entrance exam will be conducted at 14 centres in offline mode in Prayagraj between 11am and 1.30pm under strict observation of Covid-19 prevention guidelines as issued by the government, informed Prashant Agarwal, director of admission-2020 of AU. Candidates will be able to download their admit cards for appearing in entrance exam from the officials website of AU from January 8, he shared. All aspirants would undergo mandatory thermal scanning before getting in to examination halls and would also need to wear facemask and observe all other guidelines for appearing in admission test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-to-hold-cret-on-jan-17/articleshow/80139436.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Patna||HAM(S) to contest Bengal election, Delhi civic polls: Manjhi||PATNA: Former Bihar CM and HAM (S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi on Wednesday said his party is ready to contest the assembly election in West Bengal and civic election in Delhi. He expressed confidence that his party would do better in both elections. Talking to the media persons after the HAM(S)’s national executive body meeting on Wednesday Manjhi said his party would hold a public meeting in West Bengal within a month and identify seats to contest. Manjhi, who recently recovered from Covid-19, said his party was focusing on strengthening party organisation in Bihar, West Bengal, Delhi and Jharkhand. It has set a target to enrol one lakh primary members and ten thousand life members in Bihar. He said the party has demanded that the Centre introduce reservations in the judiciary where he alleged that Dalits don't get fair treatment and most verdicts go against them. The party chief lamented that reservation quantum was gradually going down in government jobs while demanding that quota should be introduced in the private sector. The former CM expressed hope that 131 MPs belong to SC/ST and about 1,000 MLAs of different parties across the country would favour the demand of reservation in the judiciary his party has made. Manjhi urged PM Narendra Modi to intervene in the ongoing farmers’ agitation and take the lead in ending the standoff. Manjhi also demanded the expansion of Bihar cabinet and said at least one more representative of his party should be inducted in the cabinet and that his party should also be considered during nomination to the legislative council. He was confident that cabinet expansion might take place after January 14. The party’s national secretary-general and state minister Santosh Kumar Suman, spokesperson Danish Rizwan, MLAs Anil Kumar, Jyoti Devi and Prafull Manjhi were also present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hams-to-contest-bengal-election-delhi-civic-polls-manjhi/articleshow/80139561.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 7, 2021||Patna||Transport dept to ban diesel-run autorickshaws from Feb 1||PATNA: Thousands of autorickshaws running on diesel will go off the road under municipal area in Patna from January 31 midnight, as per the announcement made by the state government in 2019 to check air pollution in the city. The state transport department has geared up to implement the ban on diesel-powered autorickshaws in the city. The ban will also be implemented in adjoining areas like Danapur, Khagaul and Phulwarisharif from March 31 onwards. According to transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, only 25% of the autorickshaws were running on diesel and petrol in Patna as the remaining ones had been retrofitted with CNG fuel kits. The state government has provided Rs20,000 subsidy for diesel vehicles to get CNG and battery-operated autorickshaws. For replacement, Rs40,000 or 40% of the cost is provided by the state government. Bihar State Auto Chalak Sangh (BSAS), on the other hand, said only 2,022 out of the 8,000 autos running on petrol have converted to eco-friendly fuel. There are 17,500 diesel-powered autos. BSAS general secretary Raj Kumar Jha said CNG kit for the diesel autos has not even reached the market. “Due to the lockdown in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, we faced financial crisis. Many of the auto drivers cannot even afford the CNG-run autos as it costs Rs1.5 lakh to 2 lakh. We cannot sell our autos because we do not have permit, which has not been issued after 2014. Even if we sell our autos to scrap dealers, we will not get more than Rs20,000. Many auto drivers will become unemployed because of the unplanned ban on diesel and petrol autos,” Jha said. He said their representatives had met transport minister Sheela Kumari, secretary and commissioner and requested them to frame a scrap policy for diesel and other outdated autos. The BSAS representatives also requested the minister to increase the amount of subsidy up to Rs60,000. The BSAS members and auto drivers have also threatened to go strike if their demands were not fulfilled. Transport secretary Agarwal told this newspaper on Wednesday that there is no CNG kit for diesel autos. They either have to replace the auto with CNG autos or e-rickshaws, for which the subsidy is being given by the government. “The ban will be strictly imposed with the help of traffic cops. The decision on ban on petrol and diesel autorickshaws was ordered to improve the deteriorating air quality of Patna as several autos mixed kerosene with fuel, which badly impacts the air,” he said. Talking about the measures to ban the diesel and petrol autos, Agarwal said such vehicles will be checked by the traffic cops at all intersections to ensure the compliance of the order. “We have two mobile pollution vans, which will also check the autos on several routes. The autorickshaws still running on petrol and diesel have time for conversion and replacement,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/transport-dept-to-ban-diesel-run-autorickshaws-from-feb-1/articleshow/80139943.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 7, 2021||Patna||Muz man found hanging, father files murder case||PATNA: A 25-year-old engineering graduate was found hanging with his hands tied at his residence in Muzaffarpur on Tuesday night. His father has lodged a murder case against a neighbour and his son. The incident took place at village Shahbazpur Raghopur in ward number 8 under Ahiyapur police station area of Muzaffarpur. Ahiyapur police SHO Mukesh Kumar on Wednesday said the man was identified as Ashutosh Anand. “He was preparing for the Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE) and lived with his family,” he said. He said Ashutosh’s father Dayashankar Prasad Shah is a government schoolteacher. “The father has lodged an FIR alleging that his neighbour and others killed Ashutosh and then hanged his body,” he said. The SHO said Dayashankar alleged that the neighbour killed Ashutosh in order to take revenge following a dispute between both sides two days back. “The neighbour had commented that it was not possible for Dayashankar to build a three-storey house with his monthly salary. That comment led to heated exchange of words from both sides,” he said. Kumar said Ashutosh’s father had left the residence at around 2pm. Their maid was the last person to leave the house at around 3pm. “The incident took place after that. Ashutosh was found hanging with a nylon rope from a rod in asbestos roof on top floor of the house. All doors were locked from inside. His hands were tied behind with tight knot on one wrist and a loose on another. There was no external visible injury mark on the body to say that he had resisted anyone,” he said. The SHO said the postmortem was conducted by a medical board on Wednesday and the entire process was videorecorded for future investigation. “The viscera of the deceased has been preserved for sending it to forensic laboratory in Muzaffarpur. Trachea and lungs have also been preserved and would be sent to Patna to ascertain if it was a murder case,” Kumar said. He said forensic and fingerprint experts were also called. “At present no one has been arrested. Action would be taken only after the postmortem and initial forensic reports are received and it turns out to be a case of murder,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/muz-man-found-hanging-father-files-murder-case/articleshow/80139494.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 7, 2021||Patna||Bihar speaker meets LS counterpart in Delhi||PATNA: Bihar Vidhan Sabha speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha on Wednesday called on Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla at the latter’s residence in New Delhi. During the meeting, Sinha presented a shawl, a memento and the diary of Bihar Vidhan Sabha to Birla. Sinha also extended New Year’s greetings to Birla on behalf of all citizens of Bihar. Speaking on the occasion, the Lok Sabha speaker said Bihar has a glorious history and it has been the place of Lord Buddha, Lord Mahavira, Chanakya and Chandragupta. “Bihar gave the first democracy to the world and the state has always shown a new path to the country,” Birla said. Birla hoped that the Bihar assembly would have a very positive atmosphere under the leadership of Sinha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-speaker-meets-ls-counterpart-in-delhi/articleshow/80140724.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 7, 2021||Kanpur||City has a warm day, temperature rises to 28.2C||Kanpur: For the past two days, the city witnessed a rise in day temperature, much above then normal value. Wednesday turned out to be a much warm day, taking denizens by surprise. In 48 hours, day temperature rose from 21.6 degree Celsius to an abnormal high of 28.2 degrees on Wednesday. This was a whopping 8.2 degrees more than the normal value. Bright sunshine made it difficult to sit under the sun. On Tuesday, the day temperature recorded was at 26.8 degrees Celsius while on January 1, the day temperature recorded was 18.4 degrees Celsius which shot by over 10 degree in five days. Also the minimum temperature, which had slipped a record low of 2.8 degree, rose upto 15 degrees Celsius on Tuesday. However, the minimum temperature dropped on Wednesday and was recorded at 11 degrees Celsius, however, it was still four degrees above the normal value. Met department stated that cloud cover will prevail in the city but there were no chances of rain. Rains and cloud cover, led to an increase in the minimum temperature, as per the Met department. The change in the wind direction caused the increase in the day temperature. While the wind slowed down on Wednesday in comparison to Tuesday, wind direction changed from North East to North West on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/city-has-a-warm-day-temperature-rises-to-28-2c/articleshow/80139781.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Business||Sensex ends 10-day rally after new high||Mumbai: Early projections in the US indicating wins for Democrats in the Georgia senate run-off elections, that will have implications for President-elect Joe Biden’s policies, pulled down some of the US futures indices on Wednesday. As a result, the sensex closed 264 points lower at 48,174 points, snapping a 10-day winning run. However, in early trade, the sensex scaled a new life high at 48,617 points.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-ends-10-day-rally-after-new-high/articleshow/80142257.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Lucknow||56 lakh examinees register for UP Board Class 10 & 12 exams||LUCKNOW: After three extensions due to Covid-19 pandemic, a total of 56 lakh examinees have finally registered themselves for UP Board high school and intermediate examinations. The last date for registration of candidates was January 5. Conducted by the Uttar Pradesh Secondary Education Board, UP Board examinations for academic session 2020-21 are expected to be held in April-May. In the 2019-20 academic session, 56,10,819 candidates had registered for the board examinations – 30,24,480 for class 10 and 25,86,339 for class 12. This year, 56,03,813 candidates – 29,94,312 for class 10 and 26,09,501 for class 12 – have registered for the examinations which is a dip of 7,000 applications. The candidates include 31,47,793 boys and 24,56,020 girls. The examinations have been delayed by at least two months due to coronavirus lockdown which hampered teaching and learning. According to sources, UP Board of Secondary Education is waiting for the panchayat election schedule before announcing the dates for examination. Earlier, UP Board had set September as the deadline for registrations which was extended to mid-October in view of the coronavirus pandemic. In the interest of students, January 5 was fixed as the last date for registration. Sources said extension of deadlines was announced due to low number of registrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/56-lakh-examinees-register-for-up-board-class-10-12-exams/articleshow/80142329.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Dakshineswar Metro by end of February, December date for Sealdah||KOLKATA: Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi, who also recently took over charge of Eastern Railway (ER), assured of major progress in the city’s ongoing Metro projects over the next two years. While services till Dakshineswar on the north-south line are expected to start by the end of February, after some more trials, the Sealdah station of the East-West corridor will be thrown open by the end of 2021, Joshi said. “If all goes as planned, the overhead stretch of the Joka-BBD Bag Metro corridor should be commissioned in the next two years. We also hope to run services between New Garia and Ruby crossing on the New Garia-Airport line by the end of 2022. There are some issues with the station at the airport that we are working on. An oil pipeline has to be temporarily shifted to complete the Noapara-Airport link,” Joshi said. The GM also said that work is in progress to introduce a mobile-based ticketing system for the Metro. This would reduce queues at counters and commuters may not have to purchase smartcards either. Joshi also spoke on the recent achievements of ER and railway projects in Bengal. According to him, 153km of electrification of tracks took place in the state in 2019-20. Special attention has been paid to passenger amenities at several stations and infrastructure in important sections. While executive lounges have been provided at stations, a lot of stress is being laid on cleanliness and generation of solar power. “A total of 298 Shramik Special trains ran to many locations in Bengal, carrying nearly 3.9 lakh people home. To combat Covid, extensive sanitization and disinfection work is underway. Para-medical staff have been specially trained and passengers are being thermally scanned and checked for masks and sanitizers at various stations,” Joshi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dakshineswar-metro-by-end-of-feb-dec-date-for-sealdah/articleshow/80140202.cms||Jayanta Gupta
January 7, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: One UK returnee leaves ID Hospital||KOLKATA: One of the UK returnees admitted at ID Hospital was discharged on Wednesday after the patient’s swab samples tested negative to the UK strain on genome sequencing. Five other Covid-positive flyers are still admitted at the dedicated ward for UK-strain suspected patients. They will remain in the hospital till their genome analysis report negates the UK mutant. “We have discharged one of the flyers on getting his genome sequencing report that confirmed that the patient was not infected with the UK strain. Genome analysis reports of the rest of the patients admitted in our dedicated ward are awaited,” said Anima Haldar, principal at ID Hospital. The patient, however, has been advised strict home quarantine for about seven days. According to sources, the man from Kolkata had flown back to the city from UK on December 22. He had tested negative to RT-PCR immediately after arrival. But, according the protocol of surveillance on the UK strain, state health officials had been keeping a close watch on all flyers from UK who returned to the state in the past month. In another round of the test, the Kolkata resident tested positive and was immediately brought to ID Hospital on January 1, the first to be admitted to the dedicated isolation ward for suspected UK-strain positive patients. His swab samples were sent to National Institute of Biomedical Genomics at Kalyani for genome analysis. “Right from beginning, the patient had no other symptom apart from mild fever. Therefore, he did not require any specialized treatment,” said a source at the hospital. The five others admitted at the hospital are also stable with none having any significant symptom. So far, only one flyer from UK has tested positive to the UK strain in the state. The 38-year-old Behala resident, who is the son of a senior health department official, is currently admitted at Medical College Hospital in a single isolation cabin. Though stable and asymptomatic, the patient will undergo a Covid test in about a week. If he tests negative, he will be discharged. Apart from the five at ID Hospital, a suspected UK mutant-infected flyer, a British actor, is admitted at Medica Hospital. His genome sequencing report, too, is awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/1-uk-returnee-leaves-id-hosp/articleshow/80140256.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 7, 2021||Business||SBI raises $600 million at record low of 1.8% abroad||MUMBAI: SBI raised $600 million in international markets by issuing 5.5-year bonds at a record low rate of 1.8%. The issuance comes close on the heels of Exim Bank selling 10-year bonds at 2.25% earlier this week. The country’s largest bank rushed to take advantage of the liquidity in global markets, which has resulted in nearly $40-50 billion being raised by issuers in the first two days of 2021, bankers said. SBI had set out to raise $500 million but given the interest, which resulted in an order book of over $2 billion, the bank decided to raise its offering. The bonds were issued by the bank’s London branch. To save time on issuance, the lender chose the ‘Regulation S’ (RegS) route of the US securities exchange commission (SEC), which allows dollar bonds to be issued without an SEC filing as long as it is not sold to American investors. SBI will use the bonds’ proceeds to meet dollar requirements of Indian clients overseas. Bankers said that SBI, which is rated on a par with the sovereign, bond issue sets a benchmark for Indian financial institutions and corporates. The yield on the bond is lower than the return on some SBI bonds, which are trading in the secondary market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-raises-600mn-at-record-low-of-1-8-abroad/articleshow/80142318.cms||Mayur Shetty
January 7, 2021||Patna||3 more Rajdhani spl trains through Gaya||PATNA: Railways will run three additional Rajdhani Express special trains between Bhubaneswar and New Delhi via Koderma -Gaya-Pt Deendayal Upadhaya Junction from January 9, 10 and 11 this month to clear passengers’ rush on this particular route. These special trains will continue to run till further orders from the Railway Board, New Delhi. According to East Central Railway (ECR) chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, the Bhubaneswar-New Delhi Rajdhani weekly special (02855/02856) will run via Sabalpur City-Rourkela en route to Kodarma-Gaya-Pt Deendayal Upadhaya Junction-Kanpur every Saturday from January 9 and every Sunday from New Delhi end. Similarly Bhubaneswar-New Delhi Rajdhani Express biweekly special (02825/02826) will run from January 10 via Kodarma- Gaya-Pt Deendayal Upadahaya Junction-Kanpur every Wednesday and Sunday and on its return journey every Monday and Friday. Likewise, Bhubaneswar-New Delhi Rajdhani Express special (02823/02824) will run four days in a week from January 11 on every Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday and will leave New Delhi every Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday via Pt Deendayal Upadhaya Junction-Gaya-Kodarma , the CPRO said . Railways will also run Sabalpur-Jammu Tawi special train (08309/08310) four days in a week from January 11 via Patratu-Tori -Latehar-Barwadih-Daltonganj-Garwah Road-Chopan-Chunar . It will leave Sabalpur every Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. On its return journey, it will leave Jammu Tawi every Thursday, Friday, Sunday and Tuesday, he said. Correction centre:Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar inaugurated Aadhaar card correction centre on his office campus at Khagaul on Tuesday. The centre will function from 10.30am to 4.30pm the DRM’s office premises at least for a week, he said, adding that the centre will function at a week or more to fulfil the needs of employees and their family members. Meanwhile, two fake examinees of the Railway Recruitment Board (RRB) were held at two different centres in Patna on Tuesday. The centre superintendents of these centres had lodged an FIR against them following which Patna police sent them to jail , CPRO said .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-more-rajdhani-spl-trains-through-gaya/articleshow/80139671.cms||Kumod Verma
January 7, 2021||Varanasi||DDU Gorakhpur Univ to holdResearch Entrance Test online||Gorakhpur: DDU Gorakhpur University is soon going to become the first in the country to give candidates the opportunity to appear in a research entrance examination while sitting at their home. The candidates who have applied for Research Entrance Test (RET) 2020-21 would be allowed to appear in the exam online, while sitting at home, said DDU Gorakhpur University vice-chancellor Prof Rajesh Singh. Only the IITs and NIITs had held regular examinations in online mode during Covid-19 pandemic, and now DDU will conduct the RET examination on January 10 allowing candidates to appear online from home. The university has completed all necessary preparations for the online examination. About 5,000 candidates have registered to appear in the exam. Artificial intelligence will be used along with human processing to ensure free and fair exam. Candidates appearing in the exam have to send their scanned photo ID, RET registration number on the university’s mail id dduguret20202021@gmail.com, the VC said. All the candidates would be able to appear in the exam after verification of documents. While appearing in the exam, special care has to be taken by the candidates that their face is clearly visible on camera, Prof Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ddu-gorakhpur-univ-to-holdresearch-entrance-test-online/articleshow/80138250.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 7, 2021||Patna||Patna accounts for 139 of 408 new Covid cases||PATNA: Bihar reported 408 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to 2,55,097. Besides, five deaths were registered after which the toll reached 1,420. However, with 2,49,520 recoveries, there are 4,155 active cases in the state. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) reported three deaths, including those of a 71-year-old man from Ashok Nagar, a 72-year-old from Ashiana Nagar and an 80-year-old from Saran. AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, told TOI that 17 patients were admitted to the hospital and three discharged on Wednesday. Of the 408 new cases, 139 were from Patna, taking the district’s tally to 49,881. Fresh Covid-19 cases were also reported from other districts like Aurangabad (55), Begusarai (23), Saran (19), Nalanda (13), Nawada (13), Bhojpur (12) and Madhubani (11). Meanwhile, health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that 424 people had recovered from corona in 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery rate to 97.81%. During the same period, 95,243 samples were tested in Bihar. 37 UK returnees yet to be identified: The state has received the names of six additional passengers with travel history from the United Kingdom, taking the total number of such people to 252. Of these, 37 are yet to be traced while 153 have tested negative for Covid-19. Among the six new names, four are from Patna and one each from Samastipur and Madhubani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-accounts-for-139-of-408-new-covid-cases/articleshow/80139860.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 7, 2021||Patna||Bhojpur stands 11th among 38 districts||ARA: Bhojpur district had made good progress in the Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali Abhiyan and reached the 11th position among the 38 districts of Bihar, said DPRO in charge, Rashmi Choudhary, on Wednesday. Thanking the officials and departments concerned for their coordination and hard work, Rashmi told mediapersons that altogether 519 public water storage structures had been freed from encroachments and 800 water bodies renovated. “As many as 1,200 recharging structures have been built alongside public wells, hand pumps and tube wells to increase the groundwater level. Besides, 22 check dams have been built, 265 new water storage sources created and 200 structures constructed on rooftops for rainwater harvesting,” Rashmi said, adding that farmers were performing organic farming on 7,300 acres of land and drip irrigation on 274 acres. As part of the Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali Abhiyan, over 4,50,000 seeds have been planted in Bhojpur and 23 government buildings equipped with solar energy. Meanwhile, Bhojpur district magistrate Roshan Kushwaha congratulated the officials concerned and encouraged them to keep up the good work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhojpur-stands-11th-among-38-districts/articleshow/80139646.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||AAP leader sends legal notice to DyCM||Ahmedabad: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state vice president Bhemabhai Chaudhary has sent a legal notice to deputy CM Nitin Patel, seeking an apology for his remarks on the farmer’s agitation. In his notice, Chaudhary has referred to alleged statements made by Patel in a recent meeting, comparing agitating farmers with ‘tukde tukde’ gang and ‘khalistanis’. “Your (Patel’s) statement has caused irreparable damage to the respect and image of farmers, as well as to me,” said Chaudhary, who added that he has sent the notice in his personal capacity as a farmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/aap-leader-sends-legal-notice-to-dycm/articleshow/80142943.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Remote sensing technology to identify polluting brick kilns||PATNA: The Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) would use remote sensing technology through satellite for real-time monitoring of brick kilns still using traditional methods and flouting the mandatory environmental regulations resulting in emission of harmful gases. According to the BSPCB’s clean air action plan, brick kilns are one of the major contributors to air pollution, besides vehicular emission, domestic burning and dust from construction site. Otherwise, there is no way to check the air pollution caused by any old brick kiln and its impact. The board would sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the UNDP and a UK-based university for remote sensing technology to track down such brick kilns, which have not been converted to the less polluting zigzag setting design. BSPCB chairman Ashok Ghosh said the technology will help them figure out how many brick kilns were still using the traditional method and those converted to cleaner technology. “Conversion of brick kiln into zigzag setting is the main focus of the board. With satellite imagery, we will be able to speed up towards cleaner technology and cut down one of the major sources of pollution in the state,” he said. “The BSPCB had held several meetings with the UNDP and the MoU is likely to be signed between January 10 and 12,” Ghosh said. As per the data provided by the BSPCB, there are around 6,500 brick kilns in Bihar, out of which only 3,000 has adopted the cleaner technology design. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had issued a directive in June 2017, mandating brick kilns across India to convert to the less polluting zigzag setting design. As per the clean action plan, 14% of air pollution is caused by brick kilns while 22% by domestic burning. Transportation causes 19% pollution, dust 15%, industry 14%, waste burning 11% and diesel generator sets 5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/remote-sensing-technology-to-identify-polluting-brick-kilns/articleshow/80139792.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 7, 2021||Kolkata||Don’t fall prey to fake Covid vaccine apps, say Kolkata cops||KOLKATA: Co-WIN app — the government-run app for Covid-19 vaccine distribution — is not available for download on any platform since its launch is awaited. Yet, in the past few days, at least three similarly named apps have surfaced and each have been downloaded by anxious Indians across the country. Now, following a nationwide scare, the police have warned people not to fall prey to such fake apps. Cops said that adequate public awareness will be initiated by the government once the app becomes functional. “We request everyone to keep an eye on the website www.cowin.gov.in for regular updates. Using unsolicited apps can risk falling prey to cyber crime,” explained an officer. The warning, said sources, is to pre-empt any monetary losses in the eagerness to get oneself registered for the vaccination. “The self-registration link on the Co-WIN website is meant for the general population wherein an individual can register himself or herself by providing basic demographic details, like name, date of birth, permanent and current address and details of co-morbidities, if any,” the Union health ministry document stated. An individual interested to register herself/himself will be required to provide a photo identity as well, which can either be uploaded on the Co-WIN system (in PDF, JPG or PNG file format) or can be pulled from the existing DigiLocker account of the individual. In case an individual chooses to provide Aadhaar as photo ID, the Co-WIN system will perform an Aadhaar authentication. Individuals can select the method of authentication from biometric, OTP and demographic authentication. “Once the process begins and you find deviation from these rules, you might have doubts that you are being conned,” said the officer. The messages circulating on social media have direct links for the download and the developer cannot be verified nor are the ratings available, cops said. The cyber police cell said key information, especially financial-related, may be stolen through such malicious apps. “The police will want to take action in each case. But there has to be a complaint. The police want to reiterate that one needs to check every aspect before downloading such apps,” said a joint CP at Lalbazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dont-fall-prey-to-fake-cov-vaccine-apps-say-cops/articleshow/80140227.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 7, 2021||Patna||Vocational education in schools comes a cropper||PATNA: If the number of students appearing in the +2 (Intermediate) examination this year is any indication, vocational education has flopped in Bihar. Only about 500 boys and girls would be taking the examination from all over the state, Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) sources said. They said the number of examinees in vocational stream has been declining year after year ever since it was introduced in the late 1980s on the recommendation of the National Policy on Education (NPE),1986. Till a decade back, more than 10,000 students used to appear in the Intermediate examination with vocational stream. But, now their number has virtually reduced to naught, sources said. BSEB examination controller Sanjeev Suman told this newspaper that several factors were responsible for the declining interest of students in vocational courses. Lack of competent teachers and infrastructural facilities proved to be great deterrents for the aspirants. Moreover, lack of job potential and career advancement opportunities after finishing vocational courses were quite discouraging for the youths, he said. Suman further pointed out that instructors for different trades (courses) in +2 schools were appointed by the state government in the 1990s, but most of them have either retired or are engaged in teaching general students admitted in secondary schools. No fresh appointment of teachers for vocational courses has been made thereafter, he said. Former chairman of the erstwhile Bihar State Intermediate Education Council, Nageshwar Prasad Sharma, pointed out that in view of the futility of vocational courses, he had cancelled the +2 examination in vocational stream in 2002 itself, but the apex court intervened in the matter and asked the council to hold the examination at least for one more year. He, however, wondered as to how the BSEB is still conducting the examination when there are only a handful of students pursuing vocational courses in some schools. Council’s former member Satyadeo Narain Sharma observed that at a time when the government is all for promoting skill development programmes all over the country, there is no reason vocational courses in Bihar schools be allowed to die a premature death. The state government must take necessary steps for improving the quality of vocational education in schools by appointing sufficient number of teachers and providing the basic infrastructure for workshop, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vocational-education-in-schools-comes-a-cropper/articleshow/80139986.cms||B K Mishra
January 7, 2021||Varanasi||Governor gifts 2 e-rickshaws to Central Jail for ferrying of elderly and frail inmates||VARANASI: On the third day of her stay in Varanasi, governor Anandiben Patel gifted two e-rickshaws to the Central Jail for ferrying the elderly and and physically weak prisoners for their health checkups. She also asked the agriculture institutes to ensure that agricultural technologies being developed in labs are reaching to the fields. Soon as she reached the Central Jail on Wednesday morning, Patel offered floral tributes to the memorial of freedom fighter Chandrashekhar Azad and learned about other freedom fighters who were lodged in this jail during the freedom struggle. While taking stock of the jail campus, the governor noticed many elderly and frail prisoners. She enquired about how they were taken outside the jail for health checkups. When the jail authorities informed her that they are they are made to walk for the purpose, Patel announced to gift two e-rickshaws for internal transporation of such prisoners. She said the cost of operation of these vehicles would be borne by the Governor House. She also viewed the functioning of cowsheds, vegetable farms and their produces, furniture manufacturing and weaving workshops run by prisoners trained inside the jail. Later, the governor reached Mahatma Gandhi Kashi Vidyapeeth’s faculty of agriculture science and technology at the university’s Bhairo Talab campus to inaugurate it. She was welcomed by MGKV vice chancellor Prof TN Singh. While addressing the students on this occasion, she called upon the students to lead the process of mobilising farmers for the formation of farm produce organisations (FPOs). She said that the district already has 10 registered FPOs but there is a need to increase the number of such organisations to improve the income of farmers. “This faculty currently has 176 students. They all should focus on taking the agriculture technologies and advances in research to the fields. The students who have come from agrarian backgrounds should encourage their family members to adopt those technologies and advancements in farming, thereby setting an example before the farmers of their villages,” said Patel during her address. “As this university is named after Mahatma Gandhi, it should work towards realising his dreams of rural development. This can be achieved by motivarting farmers to adopt new techniques and shift to organic farming in view of the rising demand of organic produce and the hazards of chemical farming,” said the governor, further asking the students to make farmers aware about easy techniques of composting, better water-saving methods of irrigation. Highlighting the initiatives and schemes of the government in the farm sector, she also mentioned that a large number of women has also been coming forward in the field of dairy farming. She appealed to the youths to keep the waterbodies like Bhairo Talab clean.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/guv-gifts-2-e-rickshaws-to-central-jail-for-ferrying-of-elderly-and-frail-inmates/articleshow/80139703.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Business||Sebi for 100% stake in SEs, depositories||MUMBAI: Markets regulator Sebi on Wednesday proposed radical changes to ownership of entities like stocks exchanges (SEs) and depositories, collectively called Market Infrastructure Institutions (MIIs). The changes could allow 100% holding for a single, domestic entity in a new SE, depository and other MIIs. Currently, a 15% holding limit is set for institutions and 5% for individuals. Sebi also proposed to allow a single foreign entity to hold up to 49% in an MII in India. Under current rules, an institutional foreign entity can hold up to 15%, while the total foreign holding could go up to 49%. The proposed rule also allows up to 25% holding by a single individual after the 10th year of setting up an MII, compared to 5% now. Under the proposed rules, holdings by institutions should be brought down to about 26% within 10 years. For individuals, this limit is set at 25%. Sebi published these proposals in a discussion paper and requested the public to send in their comments by February 4. The proposed new rules also allows for acquisition of stakes in existing SEs and other MIIs, while any merger & acquisition in such an entity should be with prior Sebi nod, the paper said. According to J Sagar Associates partner Anand Lakra, the proposal permits any person to start a business of an SE or a depository with 100% ownership or even acquire 100% of an existing SE or a depository. “This is a welcome proposal — it encourages competition in duopolistic markets by lowering the entry barriers.” But while the discussion paper mentioned about holding structure in SEs, it does not mention the same in a commodities exchange. Second, the paper also mentions that if an entity acquires 25% or more in an MII, then it will have to go for an open offer. The question that market players are asking is how the entity will go for an open offer if the MII is an unlisted one. A “curious proposal is the requirement to comply with the Takeover Regulations even for unlisted entities. Given the obvious differences between listed and unlisted companies, it would do well for Sebi to provide clarity on this,” Lakra said. The reasons behind the move by Sebi were twofold. For one, it believes that the Indian securities market has witnessed dominance in trading and depository space, “raising concerns on possibility of excessive concentration and institutional tardiness in quickly responding to the changing market dynamics, which may have an adverse bearing on efficiency in trading, record-keeping, supervision and risk management practices”. Currently there are just two exchanges — NSE and BSE — which together account for nearly all of the stock and derivatives trading. In the depository space too there is duopoly, of NSDL and CDSL. Second, the emergence of new technologies such as distributed ledger, artificial intelligence and machine learning have brought in several tech-driven entities in the trading space. These entities, armed with these disruptive tech, are challenging the traditional stock exchanges and depositories. The new proposals, if made into rules, “could forge a competitive landscape in the MII space by facilitating new players, who may like to challenge other MIIs in their already established domain”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-for-100-stake-in-ses-depositories/articleshow/80142222.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Allahabad||‘PFI activists’ plea: HC seeks Centre, UP reply||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has directed the Central and state governments to file their respective replies in response to a habeas corpus writ petition seeking quashing of proceedings against two alleged Popular Front of India (PFI) activists and their cab driver, apprehended by the Mathura police while they were on their way to meet the family of the Hathras gang rape victim. Subsequently, they were remanded in judicial custody by the chief judicial magistrate (CJM), Mathura and sent to jail. Hearing the petition filed by Atiq-Ur-Rehman and two others, a division bench comprising Justice Surya Prakash Kesarwani and Justice Shamim Ahmed fixed January 27 as the next date for hearing of the matter. The petition was filed on behalf of student activist Atiq-Ur-Rehman, activist Masud and their cab driver Alam, all seeking their release from jail. Besides, they also sought quashing of the remand order of the CJM, Mathura by which they were sent to judicial remand, stating that the same is unlawful and the magistrate has no jurisdiction to issue remand order in this case in the light of a latest judgment of the Supreme Court. They further prayed for a direction to be released on bail and quashing of the FIR. It was contended that the two petitioners, being concerned social activists, were going to meet the bereaved family of the Hathras gang rape victim and offer them consolation. The third one, Alam, being a taxi/cab driver, was ferrying them to the said destination. However, they were all detained on October 5, 2020, in Mathura, while they were on their way. Appearing for the petitioners, their counsel had contended that the petitioners are unfortunate victims and scapegoats of the high-handedness of the police authorities. “None of them are members of PFI. They have committed no offence, which is clear from a bare perusal of the sections slapped on them and the allegations in the FIR, which are completely false and bogus, and no case as against them is made out,” the petitioners’ counsel further contended. According to the case file, the petitioners were apprehended on October 5, 2020, and later an FIR was registered against them on October 7, 2020, by the Mathura police invoking preventive powers under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), 1967. Thereafter, they were produced in the court of CJM, Mathura on October 7 and were remanded to judicial custody for 14 days. Subsequently, the CJM, Mathura vide his order dated November 4, 2020, handed them over to the police custody. An interim relief was sought for enlarging the petitioners on bail during the pendency of the instant proceedings. The petitioners have also sought permission to interact with their lawyers and family members through regular interviews via video conferencing. They also urged that the district judge, Mathura, be directed to visit the Mathura district jail to inquire into the human rights violations in the jail premises, if any, and submit a report before the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-seeks-centre-state-replies-on-plea-of-two-pfi-activists-driver/articleshow/80139452.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
January 7, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Villagers carry man’s body to bank, demand funeral money from account||PATNA: A 60-year-old bachelor with no living relatives dies at his home in a village in rural Patna. His neighbours find the body, search his house for money to cremate him, but find no money or valuables except for a passbook that showed he had Rs 1 lakh in his bank account. What the villagers of Singriyawan did next is what they thought was the best solution — ask the bank to release cash from Mahesh Yadav’s account for his funeral. So they carried the dead body decorated with flowers to the bank and demanded that the manager release money for the funeral. According to Shahjahanpur police station SHO Amrendra Kumar, the villagers wanted the bank to disburse at least Rs 20,000 from Mahesh’s account, which had Rs 1.18 lakh. “Mahesh was unmarried. His brother had died several years ago. There was no one in his family. Mahesh lived in a hut built on someone else’s land,” the SHO told TOI on Wednesday. He quoted Mahesh’s neighbours as saying that if a man's money can't be used for his funeral than what good is that money. The SHO said Mahesh was a daily wager and earned around Rs 100 to Rs 200. He lived in Singriyawan all his life and died in sleep early on Tuesday. “The villagers came to know about his death around 5 am on Tuesday. By 6 am, they called the bank manager for money before reaching with the body at the branch around 9.30 pm,” he said. The body lay inside Canara Bank’s Singriyawan branch disrupting work as the standoff continued for nearly three hours, which ended only after branch manager Sanjeev Kumar handed them Rs 10,000 from the CSR fund and Singriyawan mukhiya gave Rs 5,000 more from his pocket. The manager said he was bound by rules and could not take out money from Mahesh’s account. “We have been asking him (Mahesh) for the last two years to complete his KYC formalities and mention the name of his nominee. However, he didn’t comply fearing someone might take away all the money from his account," Sanjeev said. The manager also said due to the non-completion of KYC, Mahesh got barred from making any withdrawals for the past eight months as banks had instructions to stop transactions from such accounts. “We had never seen any such situation till now in our banking service,” he said, adding, as per the law if no legal heir turns up in a decade then the money lying in his account will be reversed to the Reserve Bank of India. The SHO said the matter was raised at the general manager’s level for a solution and it was only after that the branch released money from its CSR fund. Singriyawan panchayat sarpanch Aananti Devi told this newspapers that she knew Mahesh and that he was of humble nature, who always helped others. “Due to his good nature, everyone in the village, especially his neighbours, used to help him with food and other things. I had also seen him on several occasion. However he was keeping ill for the last few days,” she said. She said on Tuesday his neighbour, who checked-in on him, saw no movement inside Mahesh’s hut. “They looked inside to found him dead. He used to work for anyone who offered him some work. He had gathered a good amount of money,” she added. Watch Bihar: Villagers carry man’s body to bank, demand funeral money from his account||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rs-1l-in-bank-but-no-money-to-hold-mans-funeral/articleshow/80139523.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 7, 2021||Varanasi||Hamid Ashraf gang busted; two arrested for selling railway e-ticket software||Gorakhpur: Two members of the Hamid Ashraf gang which had been involved in selling railway e-ticket software ‘Redmirchi/ANMS’, were arrested on Monday evening from Harraiya area of the district. The arrested men were identified as Jameerul Hasan aka Lalla (50), resident of Kaptanganj in Basti and father of the gang leader Hamid Ashraf; and Yogendra Vishwakarma (29) of Bhadohi district, informed Basti SP Hemraj Meena. The items recovered included a hatchback without number, a laptop, six mobile phones, three fake Aadhaar cards, an authentic Aadhhar card, a driving licence, a PAN card, a debit card, bonds of ICICI Bank of around Rs 60 lakh in the name of wife and daughters of Jameerul Hasan, bonds of Rs 30 lakh in 18 bank accounts, 15 pass books, cheque books and land registry documents. To recall, a case under Sections 419, 420, 467, 468, 471 of IPC and 43, 65, 66, 66C, 70 of IT Act was registered at Haraiya police station of Basti on December 8, 2019 for selling Redmirchi /ANMS software. During investigation, it was found that the leader of the gang was Hamid Ashraf, a resident of Kaptanganj, Basti. The gang used to sell the e-ticket software online in several parts of the country, and purchased properties in the name of relatives. The family members of Hamid were also part of his gang. Hamid shared the money earned through this illegal trade with father Jameerul and uncle Wasim Ansari. Yogendra is one of the key members of the gang. The gang opened a company, KYR Broadband PR Ltd, through which they carried out illegal sales of the software. The software was sold through online super seller and panel agents to ticket agents and the money was transferred to the bank account of Gold Media Company which is under the name of Yogendra Vishwakarma. it was then transferred to Hamid’s bank account, and the money was given in cash to Jameerul and Wasim by Yogendra. The gang made Rs 30-50 lakh per month. Through this money, Jameerul bought several properties in Basti and Mumbai in the name of family members and relatives, the SP said. Jameerul purchased a 7,000-square-feet land of Rs 2 crore in Ahmednagar, Mumbai, a flat of Rs 1 crore in Thane, a land in Basti of Rs 25 lakh, another land near Basti toll plaza of Rs 25 lakh, HMD Mall of Rs 3 crore in Kaptanganj, a property of Rs 1.25 lakh, and shops in Kaptanganj of Rs 2 crore, land worth Rs 25 lakh in Ramwapur Kala, a grocery mart of Rs 50 lakh in Kaptanganj, land of Rs 1 crore at Bankata Mishra area and a chicken farm house of Rs 10 lakh in Basti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/hamid-ashraf-gang-busted-two-arrested-for-selling-railway-e-ticket-software/articleshow/80138239.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 7, 2021||Varanasi||ERTS full rollout in June-endto decongest jam-prone routes||Varanasi: The e-rickshaw transport system (ERTS), included in Comprehensive Mobility Plan (CMP) in July 2019, on pathways of Varuna Corridor project is all set to be ready in next six months. One lane on trans-Varuna bank is ready for commuting while the other lane in cis-Varuna would be completed by June-end. Varanasi Development Authority vice chairman Rahul Pandey told TOI, “As per the decision taken in July 2019, the work on developing ERTS on the pathways of Varuna corridor had been started for providing connectivity to Shastri (Varuna), Chowkaghat, Nakkhighat and Puranapul bridges. We have completed the strengthening of the lane on trans-Varuna bank and work on the other will be over by June-end.” The proposal for Metro Rail in Varanasi was not found feasible and no decision could be taken on its alternatives like light Metro and ropeways proposed in the detailed project report of Rail India Technical and Economic Service (RITES). Officials led by divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal had taken the decision for developing ERTS to connect the roads linked with four bridges on river Varuna to reduce traffic load on crowded Nadesar-Kutchehri, Chowkaghat-Pandeypur, Chowkaghat-police lines, GT Road-Ashok Vihar-Pahadia and GT Road-Ashapur-Sarnath routes. The e-rickshaws made entry in the city in May 2016. So far, around 7,500 e-rickshaws have been registered in the district, said regional transport officer Harishankar Singh. Work on Comprehensive Mobility Plan had started in 2015 when then chief minister Akhilesh Yadav announced Metro Rail project for Varanasi. In initial DPR of Metro project, RITES proposed two corridors with project estimated cost of Rs 17,702 crores. The DPR was approved by the government on June 8, 2016 and forwarded to the Union ministry of urban development on August 29, 2016. On coming to power, Yogi Adityanath government RITES was asked to present a feasibility report of Metro rail. On June 20, 2018 VDA did not find the Metro rail project feasible, and discarded it in June 2019. In August 2020, RITES proposed a light Metro corridor from BHEL (Tarna) and BHU (Lanka) and submitted DPR of Rs 7,000 crore on developing a CMP for the city. As an alternative to Metro rail, a ropeway has also been proposed between Cantt railway station and Godowlia in a pilot project and has been forwarded to the government. Pandey said the agency has been asked to conduct more studies on how ropeway can be introduced in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/erts-full-rollout-in-june-endto-decongest-jam-prone-routes/articleshow/80138259.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
January 7, 2021||Varanasi||Varanasi to soon have its own ‘twin towers’||Revised Varanasi: The integrated commissioner complex (ICC) will come up in ‘twin towers’ at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s parliamentary constituency with an investment of Rs 171 crore on revenue model with the help of private investors. While one tower will accommodate only government offices, the other will be totally commercial and generate revenue for the maintenance of the former. The complex will comprise two buildings. While a 17-storey complex will accommodate 44 government offices of commissioner headquarters, the other will solely be a commercial complex of 16-storey. These twin towers will come up on a 3-acre land available on the campus of the commissioner office without disturbing the existing structures. Talking to TOI on Monday, divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal said, “Following the state cabinet’s nod to set up ICCs in Gorakhpur and Varanasi as a pilot project, a government order was issued which was received here 10 days ago. After this, the basic exercise of site selection, tentative expenditure on constructing ICC building and arranging budget on revenue model instead of depending on the state government for funds, were conducted.” “In the coming two-three days tenders will be floated for the appointment of a transactional advisor for this project on public-private partnership model and also an architect,” said Agrawal. He added, “The three-acre vacant land available on the commissioner office compound has been identified for this project in which two towers of 17 and 16 storeys have been proposed with a huge parking facility. Tentative cost of the project has been estimated as of Rs 171 crore by the divisional level committee.” Providing details of the basic idea for the proposed buildings, Varanasi Development Authority vice-chairman Rahul Pandey said, “One tower will comprise only government offices of ICC while the second tower will be totally commercial, which will generate revenue for the maintenance and recurring expenses on the building housing government offices.” Agrawal said, “The 17-storey building will house state-of-the-art offices of 44 government departments at the commissionery level. Currently, offices of 12-13 department are running in their own buildings while others are being operated at rental accommodation where their maintenance is also very poor. Only the regional sports office will not come to ICC as RSO’s office can run in stadium.” For better coordination between different government offices associated with the divisional commissioner and also to avoid inconvenience for people visiting from neighbouring districts of the division, the ICC was sanctioned for the PM’s parliamentary constituency and Gorakhpur, the home turf of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, in the pilot project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/varanasi-to-soon-have-its-own-twin-towers/articleshow/80138223.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
January 7, 2021||Allahabad||Diversion plan fails to avert traffic jam on Phaphamau route||Prayagraj: Traffic police’s diversion plan failed to bring order to the chaos as commuters were stuck for hours in a massive snarl between Phaphamau Bazaar Road and Shantipuram Crossing and, adjoining streets on the Lucknow-Prayagraj highway on Wednesday. On Sunday, traffic movement was restricted on Basna Bridge after a portion of soil caved in near the approach road of the bridge due to a damaged pipeline. The police came up with a diversion plan for the vehicles passing through Beli Kachar Road. However, the road is one of the busiest ones and the volume of traffic is quite high, the diversions failed to avoid a jam between Shantipuram Crossing and Phaphamau Bazaar Road. Commuters caught in the jam blamed the traffic police authorities for not chalking out an effective diversion plan. They said the snarls caused a lot of inconvenience to those commuting daily to health centres, primary schools and blocks. Sadhana, a government employee, said, “We were stuck in the jam for around an hour. The jam was due to mismanagement on the part of traffic police, who failed to implement the diversion plan effectively.” Kunal, another commuter, said “While I was returning from Nawabganj to Prayagraj, I saw the police diverting the traffic towards Shivgarh to avoid rush. However, it failed to avoid a jam.” A senior traffic police official said that the movement of two-wheelers and light four-wheelers was being diverted through Beli Kachar Road since Tuesday. “An adequate number of traffic policemen and Home Guards have also been deployed to avoid a chaos-like situation.” Meanwhile, senior police officials including IG (Prayagraj zone) KP Singh inspected the Phaphamau route on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/diversion-plan-fails-to-avert-traffic-jam-on-phaphamau-route/articleshow/80139399.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Allahabad||PIL for extension of interim orders during lockdown closed||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court on Tuesday closed the suo moto PIL registered by it for extension of limitation and interim orders during lockdown, saying that “now courts are physically working in the state of Uttar Pradesh, thus there is no reason to keep this matter pending”. Earlier, this suo moto PIL was registered by the court for extension of limitation and interim orders expiring during the period of lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic. A detailed order was initially passed and interim orders were extended from time to time with certain modification. The last order was for extension of interim orders and caveat. Looking to the physical working of the courts in the state of Uttar Pradesh, a division bench comprising Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and Justice Rohit Ranjan Agarwal disposed of the PIL, observing, “We find that now the courts are physically working in the state of Uttar Pradesh, thus there is no reason to keep this matter pending and for that to pass further order in reference to the interim orders and for the caveats. Rather the matter is now closed due to the reasons given above and is reiterated that looking to the physical working of the courts in the state of Uttar Pradesh, there is no need to continue this public interest litigation to extend currency period of limitation or interim order.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/pil-for-extension-of-interim-orders-during-lockdown-closed/articleshow/80139404.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
January 7, 2021||Patna||DM to get rid of traffic snarls, encroachments||CHHAPRA: After joining as the new district magistrate (DM) of Saran on Wednesday, Dr Nilesh Ram Chandra Deore said his priorities would be to solve problems like traffic snarls, poor drainage system and encroachments. He would also ensure that vending zones are built for street hawkers and Covid-19 safety protocols followed in schools and elsewhere. Talking to mediapersons, the new DM pointed out that he would put health services back on track, focus on the ‘Saat Nischay 2.0’ and develop Ambika Bhawani and Harihar Kshetra as tourist centres of the state. Earlier, Deore, an IAS officer of 2011 batch, has served as the DM of Madhubani, West Champaran (Bettiah) and Banka as well as the SDM of Barh subdivision. During his tenure as the commissioner of the Gaya Municipal Corporation, he was felicitated by chief minister Nitish Kumar for his commendable work for the pilgrims at the Pitrapaksha Mela. He also came to the rescue of the needy by getting essential items delivered to their houses during the Covid lockdown in 2020. Deore had studied MBBS at Terna Medical College and Hospital in Navi Mumbai, but opted for administrative services. His father is a college principal in Nashik and younger brother a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dm-to-get-rid-of-traffic-snarls-encroachments/articleshow/80139664.cms||H K Verma
January 7, 2021||Patna||Vaccination process may roll out this month: Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar visited Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) on Wednesday to inspect the arrangements made to store Covid-19 vaccines at the state-level vaccine store on its campus. He said Bihar was prepared for the vaccination programme and will begin the process by administering the shots first to healthcare workers soon after receiving the vaccines from the Centre. He said the vaccines developed in India will be used for immunization. However, when asked about the date when vaccination will begin, Nitish replied, “The date has not been declared, but I believe it will be rolled out in a month. Several of us even know the date, but will not be proper to tell you. What if the date changes by a day or two? But I am sure it will begin this month.” Nitish also avoided saying whether it will begin after January 14. He said over 1.5 crore syringes had been arranged and sent to different districts for the use in Covid-19 vaccination. Discussing the distribution of vaccine, Nitish said it will be brought to NMCH vaccine store and then sent to ten regional stores. Nitish was accompanied by health minister Mangal Pandey, mayor Sita Sahu, principal secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit and senior officials. Nitish could be seen asking the officials about the quantity of vaccine which will be administered to each person. As per the information shared by the state health department, the vaccine store at NMCH has five walk-in coolers and three walk-in fridges which can store vaccines at the temperature required. Each walk-in cooler has the capacity to store 15 lakh vials and a walk-in fridge can store five lakh vials. The vaccines from the NMCH storage are to be transferred to ten regional stores through refrigerated vans or cold boxes. Each of these refrigerated vans will have a fridge tag to maintain the temperature. From regional storages, vaccines are sent to district stores in a cold box by insulated vans. At district levels, these vaccines are stored in line refrigerator and deep freezer and at block level these are stored in ice line. Next dry run tomorrow: State health department principal secretary Praytaya Amrit on Wednesday said another dry run for Covid-19 vaccine will be done on Friday in all the districts of Bihar, as per the Centre’s instruction. The first dry run was conducted at three different sites each in Patna, Jamui and West Champaran districts on January 2. State health department special secretary Manoj Kumar said three different session sites will be selected in all the districts and these will be a district hospital/medical college and hospital, a private health facility and an outreach centre like a government school or a community centre. Manoj further said they were ready for the first and second phases of the immunization process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vaccination-process-may-roll-out-this-month-cm/articleshow/80139820.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 7, 2021||Patna||Youth held for girl’s rape in Muzaffarpur||PATNA: A 22-year-old youth was arrested on Wednesday for his involvement in the alleged gang rape of a minor girl in Muzaffarpur two days back. Police said the victim is aged around 16 year and studies in Class X. The incident took place under Sakra police station area in the district on December 4. Police said the matter was reported to the police on Tuesday night following which the prime accused was arrested. An FIR was lodged against five youths in connection with the incident on the victim’s complaint with Women’s police station. Police said two of the accused have been named while rest three are unknown. Sakra SHO Ramnath Prasad said the arrested person has been identified as Mohammad Izhar from Misraulia village. “He would be forwarded to jail after production before a judicial magistrate on Thursday,” he said. Prasad said another accused, who is the victim’s classmate and a minor, too, had managed to escape and raids were on to nab him. Prasad said the victim’s medical examination was conducted on Wednesday and her statement before judicial magistrate would be recorded on Thursday. The SHO said both the prime accused also knew the victim. A police officer privy to the investigation in the case said the victim alleged that she was going to attend her coaching classes on December 4 when the incident took place. “It was around 4pm when they forcibly took her away to an abandoned house and raped her. The victim told the police that she knew her classmate and Izhar but didn’t know the other three,” the officer said. Police said further investigation was going on and the victim’s medical report was awaited. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/youth-held-for-girls-rape-in-muzaffarpur/articleshow/80139587.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 7, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Bhakta Charan Das ready to meet all challenges facing Congress||PATNA: Newly appointed state Congress incharge, Bhakta Charan Das, said on Wednesday that he would focus on strengthening the party from the grassroots to the provincial level and sort out various political challenges. Das, who has replaced Shaktisinh Gohil at a time when the Congress performed poorly in the assembly polls and is being criticized by its ally RJD, is likely to visit Patna by January 11 or 12. He told TOI over the phone from Manipur, “I will stay there for a week and interact with the party leaders.” Asked about the challenges ahead, Das replied, “I am a man of the field. Let me come to Bihar first so that I can meet the challenges. All members of the party have to be strongly motivated.” Das, who hails from Odisha and is also the in-charge of Mizoram and Manipur, claimed that he would have no problem working in Bihar. “It is my favourite place of struggle and achievement. I have slept in different villages of Bihar in 1981-1982 during the land struggle movement. I have also stayed in Patna for over a year and worked with Nitish Kumar, Lalu Prasad and other leaders,” he added. ‘No legislator leaving party’: Congress Legislative Party leader Ajit Sharma on Wednesday said action would be taken against former MLA Bharat Singh for spreading rumours that 11 legislators were planning to leave the party. “He has no authority to give any statement on behalf of the Congress. When he was an MLA, he had changed parties seven to eight times. He is saying baseless things only to be in the limelight. I will ask the party high command to expel him,” Sharma said adding that not a single legislator was going anywhere.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/das-ready-to-meet-all-challenges-facing-cong/articleshow/80139613.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 7, 2021||Meerut||UP woman sells jewellery to build transgender home||MEERUT: “This was the least I could do,” said Ranjana Agarwal, 50, who sold all her jewellery to purchase a piece of land where she plans to build a shelter home for the transgender community, the first in Uttar Pradesh. “During my five years of research, I came to know about problems that the community faces every day. Nobody rents out their home to them, and they don’t even land a job easily," said Agarwal, a social activist who got close to Rs 2 lakh for her jewellery. With it, she purchased a 50 square yard-plot on the outskirts of Bulandshahr’s Khurja town. The foundation-laying ceremony was held on Wednesday morning. Once built, it will be able to accommodate at least 20 people of the community, Agarwal said. “I live in a rented accommodation along with my husband, two sons and in-laws. But when I came close to these people and got to know about their problems, I pledged to get them a place to live first. My house can wait,” says Agarwal, who is secretary of Mahila Kalyan Chetna Samiti, an NGO. It will be UP’s first shelter home dedicated to transgenders. The country’s first such home was started in December last year in Vadodara, Gujarat. Agarwal believes it is a small step in the right direction. “I know it will be a small dwelling. But I have taken this step to remind the government about its duties towards this community,” she said. “We got offers of help from many other social activists who are ready to donate for the noble cause.” Nagendra Pal Singh, social welfare officer, told TOI, “It is a great initiative. Several people of the trangender community will get shelter. We will also provide whatever help is needed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-woman-sells-jewellery-to-build-1st-shelter-home-for-transgenders-in-up/articleshow/80139432.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 7, 2021||Mumbai||BARC ex-CEO played ‘vital role’ in TRP scam: Court||MUMBAI: In its reasons for declining the bail plea of former CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), Partho Dasgupta, the court observed that he had played a “vital role” in the TRP manipulation scam. “The material available on record shows the involvement of the accused in the alleged crime and he played a vital role in the commission of offence,” said additional chief metropolitan magistrate Sudhir Bhajipale. The court’s reasoned order was released on Wednesday, two days after it rejected the bail plea. Dasgupta, arrested in December, was BARC CEO from June 2013 to November 2019. The court, in its order, said that material produced by the investigating officer “shows that the accused manipulated TRP for particular TV channels by using his office as CEO of BARC...it appears that the investigation is at a crucial stage for further investigation. The accused was the most influential person who worked as CEO of BARC”. The court added that other persons are “yet to be interrogated”, hence Dasgupta’s custody is required to keep him away from the wanted accused. The court also said that though other accused were out on bail, they had “played a different role” and hence the principle of parity as pleaded by Dasgupta’s lawyer was not applicable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/barc-ex-ceo-played-vital-role-in-trp-scam-court/articleshow/80141638.cms||Swati Deshpande
January 7, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand BJP chief Bansidhar Bhagat’s comments on leader of opposition spark row; CM apologises for colleague’s remarks, Bhagat retracts statement||Dehradun: A day after Uttarakhand BJP chief Bansidhar Bhagat mocked leader of opposition Indira Hridayesh as an ‘old woman’ and questioned why any BJP functionary would go on her “doobta jahaj” (sinking ship), the issue created a furore in political circles, with the Congress on Wednesday carrying out statewide protests against Bhagat’s remarks and burning his effigies. Meanwhile, Bhagat, who had made the remarks while addressing party functionaries at Bhimtal on Tuesday, took to Twitter to explain his stance. “Senior Congress leader and leader of opposition Indira Hridayesh is a respected politician of the state. Since we belong to the same electoral area, some political wrangling between us is natural. However, I had no intention of causing personal harm to her. If she is hurt because of anything, I respectfully withdraw my statement,” Bhagat tweeted. Late night on Tuesday, after the controversy had erupted, CM Trivendra Rawat had also taken to Twitter to apologise to Hridayesh. “Respected sister Indira Hridayesh, I am deeply sad today. Women are much respected and revered for us. I personally apologise to you and all those who are unhappy like me. I will talk to you personally and apologise again,” the CM had tweeted. Meanwhile, Hridayesh when contacted, said that in her long political career spanning five decades, she had “never seen such a derogatory act as the one committed by Bhagat”. “I do not expect any apology from a person who has no respect for women. It is up to the BJP leadership to consider whether such a person deserves to hold a key position in the party,” she added. Meanwhile, Bhagat’s cavalcade was forcefully stopped in Ranikhet on Wednesday by Congress workers and black flags were waived at him. Congress state chief Pritam Singh also met DGP Ashok Kumar and asked him to register an FIR against Bhagat for showing “disrespect towards a woman”. Party members also burnt effigies of the state BJP chief. Bhagat’s remarks had come in the backdrop of Hridayesh’s recent statement in which she had claimed that some BJP MLAs were in touch with her leading to speculations of some of them switching over to Congress before the polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-bjp-chief-bansidhar-bhagats-comments-on-leader-of-opposition-spark-row-cm-apologises-for-colleagues-remarks-bhagat-retracts-statement/articleshow/80139446.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 7, 2021||Meerut||UP govt to come up with ‘bridge course’ for students who dropped out during pandemic||MEERUT: With the schools shut since March 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Uttar Pradesh government is planning to come up with a nine-month long bridge course to help those students who dropped out and to come at par with others who continued online classes. The task of formulating the course has been given to four different firms. “Instructions have been given to form a curriculum for drop out students as per their age. This will ensure that the drop out students come at par with the others,” Vijay Kiran Anand, director general, education, UP, said. Anand further said that the programme is being made for students up to Class VIII. “Earlier, a curriculum for drop out students used to be six months, but now it has been extended to nine months." Every year, school dropout students are identified in the state and efforts are made to bring them back to schools. With the schools still shut, efforts are being made to design a curriculum to help the children who could not even attend classes online due to the lack of mobile phones. Moreover, to ensure that no student misses education, the state education department has fixed a target of identification of 5 lakh out-of-school students under the 'Sharda' [School har din aaye] initiative. The authorities have asked all the districts to focus more on the 7-14 years age group as the 5-6 years age group has been identified. The identification of older children who are out-of-school remains pending. The 'Sharda' programme includes identification of out-of-school students, their registration, assessment, enrolment in class on the basis of age, training according to the class they are admitted in and retention in school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-govt-to-come-up-with-bridge-course-forstudents-who-dropped-out-during-pandemic/articleshow/80139441.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 7, 2021||Nagpur||Vax dry run at 4 places in Amravati dist on Firday||Amravati: The district administration is geared up to conduct the coronavirus vaccination drive dry run on Friday, said collector Shailesh Naval here on Thursday. In Amravati Municipal Corporation area, the campaign will be run at nursing school campus in the district general hospital and PDMC Hospital, while in rural belt, it will be conducted at Teosa rural hospital and Anjangaon Bari primary health centre. Accordingly, 25 persons will be registered and checked at each of these centres. Naval said each centre will have a medical officer, a vaccination officer and four other persons. “They all have been asked to report at 8.15am at their respective centre,” he said. The collector visited nursing school campus on Thursday evening and inspected the arrangements there. “This is a dress rehearsal for actual vaccination. The dry run is being conducted to ensure accuracy in actual implementation,” he said. In the first phase, only health care workers will be vaccinated. Vaccination will be done by only government and health machinery. No other organization will be doing it, said the collector and urged people not to fall prey to any misleading propaganda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vax-dry-run-at-4-places-in-amravati-dist-on-firday/articleshow/80156907.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Varanasi||Prisoner escapes from Ballia jail, untraceable||VARANASI: A prisoner, Bechu Ram, exposed the security of Ballia district jail by escaping after cutting the grills of a ventilator and then scaling the boundary wall of the jail on Tuesday. He was in jail on charges of murder and theft. The incident came to light when he was found missing in Tuesday’s counting parade. After searching for him in the premises, the jail superintendent lodged an FIR with Kotwali police in the evening. SP Ballia Vipin Tada said on Wednesday evening, “A case has been registered and five teams have been formed to arrest Bechu.” He added, “During initial investigation, it has come to light that Bechu, a native of Bansdih area, was lodged at the district jail since June 5, 2018, on charges of murder and theft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/prisoner-escapes-from-ballia-jail-untraceable/articleshow/80139712.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Kolhapur||Two more cellphones found in Kalamba jail||KOLHAPUR: Two illegal cellphones, a SIM card and chargers were found inside the Kalamba jail premises in Kolhapur on Wednesday — making it the fourth such incident in just the past two months. Jail superintendent Chandramani Indurkar told the media that the cellphones, the SIM card and two chargers were found during a search operation. The jail officials said they noticed the suspicious movements of five jail inmates on CCTVs. The CCTV footage showed that the five used two separate cellphones and the same SIM card. Investigation by the jail administration found that the cellphones were kept in a plastic milk bag and the bag was kept in the water tank of the wash room. The cellphones were found after recording the statements of the inmates. Juna Rajwada police station has registered an offence against the five inmates — Vikas Ramawatar Khandelwal, Shukraraj Pandurang Ghatge, Akshay Ashok Giri, Yuwraj Mohanrao Mahadik and Abhiman Vitthal Mane. All five are in the jail and are facing trial in cases registered under the Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act. Earlier, on December 22, 2020, two cellphones, chargers and marijuana were found inside the jail. Three days later, two more cellphones and four batteries were found while a mobile and a charger were found on December 31, 2020. In November 2020, three parcels were thrown from outside the jail. The parcels contained cricket balls stuffed with marijuana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-more-cellphones-found-in-kalamba-jail/articleshow/80138570.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Kolhapur||105 river-polluting units likelyto face temporary closure||KOLHAPUR: Around 105 establishments, mostly industries of various types, are likely to face temporary closure for polluting the Panchaganga river. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in a meeting in Mumbai on Tuesday, had directed that establishments polluting the Panchaganga river be sealed and be reopened only after all measures are undertaken to treat the effluent generated by them. According to the details accessed from the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) regional office, there are over 3,300 establishments located along the banks of the Panchaganga that generate effluent. Of these, officials said, as many as 105 establishments — including textile mills, dairies, pharmaceutical units, core manufacturing industries — discharge untreated effluent directly or indirectly into the Panchaganga river. The dyeing units from textile town of Ichalkaranji are also among these. As per the CM’s directions, the MPCB and Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) have to set up a panel to investigate the pollution causing agents, take appropriate action and monitor the measures undertaken by each establishment to treat the effluents. Subhash More, the executive engineer of MIDC, said, “Soon, officers will be appointed to the panel. Currently, there are several establishments causing pollution directly or indirectly. We will inspect each of these establishments and suggest what can be done to treat effluents within the premises. Also, we will take direct action against such establishments which, time and again, have flouted the pollution-related norms.” Experts want the MPCB and MIDC to take action at the earliest. Environmental expert Uday Gaikwad, who attended the meeting with Thackeray via video conferencing, said, “The action will spur other establishments to set up treatment plants and those already with the facilities to run them properly. Often, the facilities are kept idle. The authorities must carry out surprise visits and if the treatment facilities are shut without any reason, the establishments must be sealed.” District collector Daulat Desai has proposed a mitigation plan of Rs 220 crore to tackle pollution. “All necessary measures should be adopted through administration and no financial assistance should be provided to private establishments,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/105-river-polluting-units-likelyto-face-temporary-closure/articleshow/80138580.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Murder case vehicle produced in court||MUMBAI: A tempo which is considered to be evidence in the December 2015 double murder of artist Hema Upadhyay and her lawyer, H Bhambhani, was produced before the Dindoshi court on Tuesday. The police produced the “missing” vehicle, which was allegedly used to dispose of the bodies. The trial court in its order said the tempo was “muddemal property” and cannot be kept in the court. “Since the case is of Kandivali police station, it would be improper to keep the tempo there considering that it is evidence. Therefore, the tempo be kept in secured condition,” said the court, also barring it from being kept at any police station where the investigating officer is posted. Special public prosecutor Vaibhav Bagade said the investigating officer was now posted at Malad police station. The court said the tempo be secured at any independent police station in Dindoshi. The court posted the case for examination of a witness related to the tempo next on January 8. While handing over the tempo to Ramadhar Rajbhar by an October 2016 order, the court had directed him to execute an indemnity bond of Rs 5 lakh and placed conditions that he would not transfer, encumber or create third-party interest over the vehicle and produce it before the court or the police station whenever it was required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/murder-case-vehicle-produced-in-court/articleshow/80143480.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Aurangabad||Action against 24 priests for illegal entry in Tuljapur temple||AURANGABAD: Government officials in Osmanabad district have invoked action against 24 priests associated with the famous Tuljapur temple, located around 260 km from Aurangabad city, for entering into the sanctum sanctorum of the shrine during a period other than the allotted shifts during the Covid-19 pandemic. Of these, eight priests have been banned from carrying out temple services for next three months, whereas 16 have been served show-cause notices. An unsatisfactory response to the notice would draw a ban on entering the temple for a fixed period. Tuljapur tehsildar Saudagar Tandale, who is ex-officio chief manager of the shrine, on Wednesday said the priests facing action had violated the lockdown norms at different times — from after Navratri till last week. “Only two priests are allowed inside the sanctum sanctorum of the temple during a shift of eight hours since the Covid outbreak of Covid-19. The priests perform the daily rituals. However, the priests in question entered into prohibited area despite being off-duty. The motive was to offer poojas and perform other rituals on behalf of devotees,” Tandale said. He said the shrine has around 3,500 registered priests and some of them are appointed by the temple trust on shift-basis for the daily rituals. “The CCTV footage as well as submissions by the security guards have confirmed the illegal presence of eight priests inside the shrine and, therefore, action has been taken against them after following the due process. A similar process will be followed in case of remaining priests who are served with show-cause notices,” Tandale added. The priests trying to enter the sanctum sanctorum in illegally have been responsible for crowding inside the temple, which violates Covid prevention norms. “Each priest seeking such entry carries a group of at least 10 to 20 devotees. While he performs the pooja and other ritual on behalf of the devotees, the visitors throw caution to wind,” Tandale said. Considered a major shrine in Maharashtra, the Tuljabhavani temple in Tuljapur currently witnesses average daily footfall of over 12,000 devotees despite no entry into the sanctum sanctorum till date. Usually, the number of visitors to the temple peaks during Navratri — nearly seven lakh devotees generally come to the temple then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/action-against-24-priests-for-illegal-entry-in-tuljapur-temple/articleshow/80138593.cms||Prasad Joshi
January 7, 2021||Bareilly||Budaun gang-rape case: Two aides of priest arrested||BAREILLY: A 50-year-old anganwadi worker from a village in Badaun was allegedly gang-raped by a priest and his two aides in a temple. Brutalised, her ribs broken, her leg fractured, she died a slow, painful death. Around 5pm on Sunday, the woman had left to offer prayers at a temple nearby. “At midnight, three men came in a car — the priest, Satyanarayan, his aide Vedram and one who was driving, Jaspal. They said she had a bad fall at the temple and left. My mother was dying, bleeding all over, no clothes on her,” her son said. “She was bleeding profusely out of her private parts,” her husband said. “She died moments later.” The next morning, they went to the local police station to file a complaint. “They turned us away twice … It was only when we called 112, around 2-3pm, that police came,” her son said. SHO Raghvendra Pratap Singh had dismissed it as an accident. So, for 40 hours after she died, the body was not sent for an autopsy. “We have suspended the SHO for negligence,” Badaun SSP Sankalp Sharma told TOI. By the time the investigation began, Satyanarayan was gone. Till Monday morning, the priest, in his 40s, was in his village. In a video, shot that day, he says, “I’ve been living at the temple for the past six to seven years … She had fallen into a dry well. I heard her cries, got people to help and took her to a hospital. Later, we took her home. She was alive then.” He has gone missing since, and police have announced a Rs 50,000 reward for leads. His two aides, however, have been arrested. They told police that a private hospital in Chandausi they took her to didn’t take her in because no family member was around, a claim police are trying to verify. All three have been booked for gang rape and murder. CMO Yashpal Singh on Wednesday said the postmortem report seems to confirm she had been raped: “The examination found minor injuries and tears in her private parts, ribs broken, leg fractured … There was a lot of bleeding, after which she went into shock.” The mother of five was the sole earning member of the family. “We met the family, told them we are with them,” Badaun DM Kumar Prashant said. “We will present a case under the National Security Act against the accused. We will take this to a fasttrack court.” The family has been promised compensation under various schemes. “They were running short of food, so we’ve asked the local officials to arrange provisions.” On Wednesday, Prashant and ADG Bareilly Zone Avinash Chandra visited the family and the temple where she was allegedly raped and attacked. “This case is our topmost priority,” Chandra said. On Wednesday evening, CM Yogi Adityanath spoke to him. “The CM has asked ADG Bareilly Zone to file a report on the case. The UP STF has been asked to help investigate the case,” a statement from the CM’s office said. The National Commission for Women has, meanwhile, taken cognizance of media reports and sought a detailed action taken report in the matter from police. On social media, politicians across the spectrum sought justice for the victim — Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, BSP chief Mayawati and Shiv Sena’s Priyanka Chaturvedi. By Wednesday night, the case was trending on Twitter, with over 29,000 tweets at the time of filing this report. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault) Watch Badaun rape case: Two accused arrested, SHO suspended for negligence||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/badaun-anganwadi-worker-raped-and-killed-sho-suspended-for-negligence/articleshow/80138615.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 7, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Illegal tree cutting at Gautala sanctuary||AURANGABAD: Several old indigenous trees in the Gautala-Autramghat wildlife sanctuary have been allegedly cut by some wrongdoers in connivance with the local forest department officials in the Patnadevi area of the city. The Crime and Corruption Control Association (CCCA) has registered a complaint in connection with the incident, following which the office of divisional forest officer (DFO) Vijay Satpute has ordered a probe. Notably, Kannad-level authorities were asked to look into matter earlier, but Satpute has constituted a five-member committee to inquire into the alleged tree-cutting. Satpute on Wednesday said that the inquiry panel has all five gazetted officers. “The panel is expected to visit the site concerned, carry out an inspection and record submissions of local forest staffers involved. The panel has been asked to submit the report by January 8,” he said, adding that impartial probe would be carried out in the matter. In its complaint, the CCCA has alleged that several trees, including Tamarind, Dhawda, Umbar and Kala Chichola were axed down using an electric cutter in a broad daylight in presence of forest officials on December 26 last year. Environmentalist Milind Giridhari said that the forest department must deal with the incident of tree cutting with iron hand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/illegal-tree-cutting-at-gautala-sanctuary/articleshow/80138603.cms||Prasad Joshi
January 7, 2021||Lucknow||Legal rights aid to empower women||Lucknow: The theme for the third phase of the ongoing Mission Shakti programme will be based on women empowerment and respect. The department of women and child welfare and nutrition will work jointly on this. Women and young girls will be made aware of their legal rights and also be provided with legal assistance during the programme. A government spokesperson said that they will be made aware of laws like anti-child marriage law, PCPNDT Act, harassment of women at workplace, anti-dowry laws and domestic violence. They will be provided with counselling under these laws. “Women and girls living in homes under the women and child development department will be given training to make them independent and help them get jobs. Under this, 100 women and girls in the age group of 18 years to 35 years will be identified in each district. Based on their interest, education and skill, the department will help find them jobs. In each district, the district probation officer and district officer will run these programmes till February 15,” said the spokesperson. On National Girl Child Day on January 24, the government will felicitate gender champions and meritorious girl students. Programmes will be held at district level to felicitate and give cash awards to such gender champions and students. The top 10 girl students of class 10 and class 12 of state boards in each district will be awarded Rs 5,000 while the topper will get Rs 20,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/legal-rights-aid-to-empower-women/articleshow/80142362.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 7, 2021||Lucknow||UP on high alert for bird flu; action plan ready if any case is reported||LUCKNOW: With at least four states reporting cases of bird flu, UP has been put on high alert and districts have been given strict instructions to start culling infected birds even if a single case is reported. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has issued directions to the animal husbandry department to formulate a plan of action for controlling the spread of the disease, especially as neighbouring states like Madhya Pradesh and Haryana, along with Kerala and Rajasthan, have already reported several cases and have taken up culling of birds. “So far the infection has not been noticed in UP but we have increased vigil and asked officials to be on high alert so that we do not allow the virus to spread, as and when it is reported in the state. The directorate has already sent a letter to all chief veterinary officers to remain alert to the threat while another letter with further directions will be sent by agriculture produce commissioner Alok Sinha on Thursday,” said Bhuvnesh Kumar, principal secretary (animal husbandry). Kumar said that directions have been issued to implement controlling measures as soon as even one case of bird flu is reported, which implies culling. He said that it was imperative to avoid the spread of the virus to humans, which would complicate the already sensitive Covid-19 situation. “We will maintain strict watch over all water bodies where migratory birds are coming. The flu has been noticed in migratory birds and not poultry. However, to ensure that all bases are covered, we are taking special care to monitor poultry farms as well. The department collects samples from birds on a regular basis to check for any kind of disease but now we will intensify the checking,” Kumar said, adding that there should be no panic about consumption of poultry as the government was taking all necessary precautions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-on-high-alert-for-bird-flu-action-plan-ready-if-any-case-is-reported/articleshow/80142043.cms||Neha Lalchandani
January 7, 2021||Lucknow||‘PFI activists’ plea: HC seeks Centre, UP reply||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has directed the central and UP governments to file their respective replies in response to a habeas corpus writ petition seeking quashing of proceedings against two alleged Popular Front of India (PFI) activists and their cab driver, apprehended by the Mathura police while they were on their way to meet the family of the Hathras gang rape victim. Subsequently, they were remanded in judicial custody by the chief judicial magistrate (CJM), Mathura and sent to jail. Hearing the petition filed by Atiq-Ur-Rehman and two others, a division bench comprising Justice Surya Prakash Kesarwani and Justice Shamim Ahmed fixed January 27 as the next date for hearing of the matter. The petition was filed on behalf of student activists Atiq-Ur-Rehman, Masud and their cab driver Alam, all seeking their release from jail. Besides, they also sought quashing of the remand order of the CJM, Mathura by which they were sent to judicial remand, stating that the same is unlawful and the magistrate has no jurisdiction to issue remand order in this case in the light of a latest judgment of the Supreme Court. They further prayed for a direction to be released on bail and quashing of the FIR. It was contended that the two petitioners, being concerned social activists, were going to meet the bereaved family of the Hathras gang rape victim and offer them consolation. The third one, Alam, being a taxi/cab driver, was ferrying them to the said destination. However, they were all detained on October 5, 2020, in Mathura, while they were on their way. Appearing for the petitioners, their counsel had contended that the petitioners are unfortunate victims and scapegoats of the high-handedness of the police authorities. “None of them are members of PFI. They have committed no offence, which is clear from a bare perusal of the sections slapped on them and the allegations in the FIR, which are completely false and bogus, and no case as against them is made out,” the petitioners’ counsel further contended. According to the case file, the petitioners were apprehended on October 5, 2020, and later an FIR was registered against them on October 7, 2020, by the Mathura police invoking preventive powers under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), 1967. Thereafter, they were produced in the court of CJM, Mathura on October 7 and were remanded to judicial custody for 14 days. Subsequently, the CJM, Mathura vide his order dated November 4, 2020, handed them over to the police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pfi-activists-plea-hc-seeks-centre-up-reply/articleshow/80142381.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
January 7, 2021||Kanpur||Jhansi crosses 97% Covid recovery rate||JHANSI: With only five positive cases reported out of 3000 tests conducted in the district on Wednesday, Jhansi has achieved 97.01% Covid-19 recovery rate which is almost one percent above the state and the national recovery rate.  As per medical bulletin released by district magistrate Jhansi Andra Vamsi , the number of total positive cases reported here so far are 10201, of which 8181 have been discharged till now, including 11 on Wednesday itself.  At present, the active positive cases in the district are 131. Of these, 20 are symptomatic-- 2 severe, 10 moderate and 8 mild in nature while the rest are asymptomatic.  The total number of Covid-19 related deaths in the district is 174 having a case fatality rate (CFR) of 1.7. At present, 1715 patients are in home isolation in the district.  The DM said at present there are 27 containment zones in the district. The number of containment zones have come down from a maximum of 581 while 554 zones have been de-notified so far, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/jhansi-crosses-97-covid-recovery-rate/articleshow/80139989.cms||Arindam Ghosh
January 7, 2021||Lucknow||Deaddiction prog: UP to rope in NGOs||Lucknow: Excise and prohibition minister Ram Naresh Agnihotri on Wednesday announced that a state wide deaddiction programme will be carried out by his department. In a meeting of the prohibition department on Wednesday, the minister said efforts are being made to get people treated at deaddiction centres and then have them merged with mainstream society. “Social and non-government organisations must participate in these deaddiction programmes. The department should hold exhibitions, seminars and cultural programmes to create awareness about deaddiction and encourage people to take help through deaddiction programmes. Addiction not only ruins a person but also society,” Agnihotri said. The minister directed officials to coordinate with other departments for implementation of the awareness campaign. He said different means should be used to make people aware of the ill effects of excessive consumption of liquor. Agnihotri said that for proper implementation of the programme, a master trainer must be appointed in each district and they should be given three days’ training on drug abuse. The master trainer will have to train 10 more persons. Well known, respected persons in each village, NCC and NSS volunteers, police, yuvak and mahila mangal dal members, journalists, jail staff, teachers, social workers, ASHA and anganwadi workers will be asked to help in the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/deaddiction-prog-up-to-rope-in-ngos/articleshow/80142354.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Goa||Immediate transfer, posting of several bureaucrats announced||Panaji: Several senior and junior scale officers of the Goa civil service were transferred and posted with immediate effect on Tuesday. IAS officer Vandana Rao has been transferred and posted as chief executive officer of Goa Investment Promotion and Facilitation. Harish Adconkar has been appointed as managing director of Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC) with additional charge as director of official language. Meanwhile, Srinet Kotwale, who held the post earlier, has been asked to report to the personnel department. Parag Nagarsekar, state land acquisition officer of the Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) has been given additional charge as secretary of Goa Konkani Academy. Arvind Bugde, director of handicrafts, textile and coir has also been given additional charge as managing director of Goa SC OBC Finance Development Corporation. Santosh Kundaikar, chief officer, Mormugao Municipal Council has been transferred and posted as state land acquisition officer, Mopa airport. Sandhya Kamat, director of tribal welfare has been appointed as chief officer of Margao Muncipal Council. Siddhi Haldankar, additional director (I) Panchayats is the new director of panchayats. Umakant Korkankar will replace her as additional director (I) Panchayats. Treveni Velip, chief executive officer of zilla panchayat, South Goa, has been transferred and appointed director of tribal welfare. Sanjeev Gadkar, has been appointed as chief officer of zilla panchayats South Goa. Vasudev Shetye has been given the post of additional secretary, protocol, while Upasana Mazgaonkar has been appointed director of provedoria. Meena Naik Goltekar is the new project director of District Rural Development Agency, North, while Devidas Gaonkar, joint director of chief executive officer, has been transferred and posted as project director, DRDA, South. Among those awaiting posting, Irene Sequeira has been posted as secretary of Goa Rehabilitation Board, Aisha Vaigankar has been appointed as joint chief executive officer of chief electoral officer and Meghana Shetgaonkar has been appointed as joint secretary of personnel department with additional charge of secretary, Goa Staff Selection Commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/immediate-transfer-posting-of-several-bureaucrats-announced/articleshow/80141691.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Goa||Six accused in Margao jeweller’s murder case produced in court||COLVA: All the six accused charged for the murder of Margao jeweller, Swapnil Walke, were produced before the Margao sessions judge (FTC) on Wednesday for trial and were remanded in Colvale central jail. A large posse of policemen armed with stun guns escorted the accused to the court in handcuffs. Their presence was subsequently recorded by judge Cholu Gawas. They will now be produced before the court on January 15 for further proceedings. Walke was stabbed and shot at by Omkar Patil, Mustafa Shaikh and Evander Rodrigues on September 2 last year at Krishni Jewellers, Margao. Three months later, on December 1, a 1,200-page chargesheet was filed and 111 witnesses were named in support of the prosecution to commence trial. Patil, Shaikh and Rodrigues were named in the chargesheet for murder, robbery by using deadly weapons, possession of arms and destruction of evidence. The chargesheet further stated that the accused failed to commit the robbery due the resistance put up by the victim. Another three accused, Shani Kumar, Rahul Kumar and Kundan Kumar from Begusarai, Bihar, have been charged under the Arms Act for the illegal supply of arms. The chargesheet stated that the first three accused hatched a criminal conspiracy to eliminate Walke, who owned Krishni Jewellers, by procuring illegal country-made pistols of 7.65 calibre bores from Kundan with the assistance of Rahul and Shani. In its objection to Patil’s bail application, the crime branch had stated that on June 30, 2020, Rodrigues had booked two airlines tickets for his accomplices Patil and Shaikh to Delhi. From Delhi, Shaikh flew to Bihar and procured the guns. He and Patil then had firing practices with the guns. Walke’s postmortem examination revealed that he had suffered 21 brutal injuries, including entry and exit gunshot wounds, nine stab wounds and 11 abrasions and bruises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/six-accused-in-margao-jewellers-murder-case-produced-in-court/articleshow/80141733.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Pune||Fewer patients on ventilator in PMC limits hints at dip in critical cases||Pune: Less than 50 Covid-19 patients have been on ventilator support in the Pune civic limits over the past couple of days, indicating a drop in critical cases in areas under the corporation in the first few days of the new year.Sanjeev Wavare, a senior official of the Pune Municipal Corporation, said, “There has been a sizeable drop in the number of critical Covid-19 patients. It has been reflected in the reduced number of patients on ventilators.”He said such low demand for beds with ventilator support was recorded for the first time since April 2020.According to the PMC officials, the demand for ventilator-supported beds peaked during the first and second phase of the outbreak. Maximum number of patients needed ventilators in June, July, August and September. The number started falling from October and continued to drop in November, December and the first week of January.During the four months after April, on an average 350 ventilator-supported beds were needed in the municipal limits every day. The demand reduced to 200 in the next two months. It went down to 100 per day in November and December. The number went below 50 in the last couple of days.“Non-availability of ventilators was a major concern last year during the treatment of Covid-19 patients. A number of citizens lost their lives because of its unavailability,” said a senior officer of the PMC.The PMC officials said currently some ventilator-supported beds were being used to treat critical patients suffering from non-Covid-19 ailments and during planned surgeries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fewer-patients-on-ventilator-in-pmc-limits-hints-at-dip-in-critical-cases/articleshow/80141706.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Kanpur||Family welfare ministry issues booklet on Covid-19||Kanpur: Ministry of family welfare has released a booklet to clear doubts of people regarding Covid-19 related vaccination. The booklet answers significant questions regarding the vaccination. The ministry has stated in the booklet that high risk groups have been identified on the basis of priority for vaccination. They have been divided into three groups. In the first group front line and healthcare workers will be vaccinated, in the second group, people of 50 plus age while those having any disease have been kept in the third group. The ministry has claimed in the booklet that Indigenous Covid vaccine will be as effective as the vaccine developed by other countries at various stages of vaccine testing to ensure safety and efficacy. Vaccination would be done only after getting a green signal from the regulatory body. The health and family welfare department has made it clear that for Covid vaccination, eligible beneficiaries have to get themselves registered. Thereafter they would get a message from the health department regarding date and time on their mobile phones. For registration, people have to show their photo identification document. The photo identification documents include Aadhar card, driving license, voter I-card, PAN card, passport, job card, pension document, MNREGA card, Smart card issued by the health ministry, official certificate issued by MP, MLA and MLCs, pass books issued by the banks/post offices, I-card issued by the central or the state government offices, public limited companies are photo ID documents. No person will be vaccinated without registration. Photo ID is essential for registration and verification to ensure that an interested person is being vaccinated. The booklet states that after registration, the beneficiary would get a SMS stating date, time and place for vaccination and after administration of the vaccine the beneficiary would get a QR code based certificate. After vaccination, the beneficiary would be advised to stay at the center for half-an-hour to assess side effects, if any. The health and family welfare ministry has advised to take a second dose of the vaccine within 28 days as two vaccinations are mandatory. The booklet states that after the second dose of vaccine, the security level of antibody develops after two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/family-welfare-ministry-issues-booklet-on-covid-19/articleshow/80139831.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
January 7, 2021||Varanasi||BCI: No admissions in law courses beyond sanctioned seats||Prayagraj: The Bar Council of India (BCI) has instructed all universities and colleges, including Allahabad University (AU), running law courses not to admit students under supernumerary quota over and above the total seats sanctioned by it. The BCI has said that institutions should admit students to fill approved seats and clarified that additional seats cannot be created for quota in law courses. The letter sent by Srimanto Sen, secretary of BCI, the apex decision making body approving various courses in law, says it does not approve supernumerary quota for law degree courses. As a result, in the new academic session, admissions will be done only for sanctioned seats under the general rule. Besides, the BCI has imposed a ban on allowing seats under any kind of supernumerary quota. But, in addition to AU, Allahabad Degree College (ADC) and Chaudhary Mahadev Prasad PG College (CMP) have increased 25% seats under the economically weaker section (EWS). In the constituent colleges, admissions were done on 5% seats under supernumerary quota under the provision for wards of faculty members and employees. This quota was implemented only in the respective colleges and was not transferable. As a result the ward of an employee at CMP degree college can take admission only in that institution and not at AU or any other college. “Last year too, we had done admissions according to sanctioned number of seats and supernumerary seats (5%) were also accommodated within it. When some objections were raised on the campus, we had sought a clarification from the BCI which has now endorsed our decision,” said AU registrar Prof NK Shukla. ADC principal Atul Kumar Singh, however, said there are some fresh concerns and ambiguity after receiving the letter. “We will write a letter to BCI asking for directions on how to complete the admission process,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bci-no-admissions-in-law-courses-beyond-sanctioned-seats/articleshow/80139442.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Lucknow||Organise camps to meet Svanidhi target: Chief secy||Lucknow: Chief Secretary RK Tiwari on Wednesday directed banks to hold special camps next week in all branches for giving loans under the PM Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) Scheme to vendors. In a review meeting with urban development department officials and bankers, the CS said that banks should aim at meeting the targets set for the state under the scheme. He also asked the urban development department to appoint nodal officers in all 17 municipal corporations for coordination with banks. Principal secretary (urban development) Deepak Kumar said, “Against the target of 8 lakh applications, 7,52,049 online applications have been received and out of these 4,15,868 have been approved. Loans have also been disbursed to 3,42,903 applicants.” “UP tops among states in loan distribution. In Varanasi, 27,570 applications were approved and loan was disbursed in 22,519 cases,” he added. In Lucknow 22,440 applications were approved and loan already disbursed to 19,522, Agra approved 23,129 requests and disbursed loans to 19,326. In Kanpur, 13,419 applications were approved and loans disbursed to 11,751, while 13,952 requests were approved in Prayagraj and disbursed in 11,525 cases. UP’s six cities, including Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur, Prayagraj, Ghaziabad and Agra, are among the top 10 of the country with a million plus population, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/organise-camps-to-meet-svanidhi-target-chief-secy/articleshow/80142342.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Vadodara||2 PU students receive full scholarship||Vadodara: Two international students of city-based Parul University (PU) have received full scholarship to pursue postgraduate studies in France. With the support of PU’s study abroad desk, the applied science students – Hobitiana Elvinah Randrianaivo and Lucien Ratsimamitaka - have been awarded the scholarship by University of Paris-Saclay, a Saint-Aubin-based university, one of the top public universities in France. Hobitiana and Lucien, both from Madagascar, will pursue masters of science studies in France with full financial aid.“We believe the obligation and responsibility to educate is something that all the higher educational stakeholders collectively owe to the students ,” said PU president Dr Devanshu J Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/2-pu-students-receive-full-scholarship/articleshow/80139542.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Polls to 12 Vidhan Parishad seats on January 28 amid curbs||LUCKNOW: The Election Commission of India on Wednesday announced the poll schedule for the 12 UP legislative council seats which would fall vacant on January 31. The Election Commission will issue the notification for filing of nominations on January 11 and candidates can file their papers by January 18. The polling, if required, would be held on January 28 amid Covid-19 curbs and the results would be declared the same day. Of the total 12 seats which are falling vacant includes the seat of council chairman Ramesh Yadav whose tenure is coming to an end on January 31. Six legislators of SP, two of BSP and three of BJP will also retire this month. Prominent MLCs whose term is ending this month are leader of opposition and SP leader Ahmad Hasan, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma and UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh. Given the strength of UP assembly, every candidate will need 35 votes. BJP, which has 310 MLAs and support of nine MLAs of its ally, Apna Dal, is likely to field 11 candidates. The Samajwadi Party, which has 49 MLAs, can easily win one seat. The Mayawati-led BSP is unlikely to field a candidate. During Rajya Sabha elections in October last year, the BJP did not field an additional candidate, a move which paved the way for the unopposed election of BSP candidate and party national coordinator, Ramji Gautam, to the upper house of parliament. Gautam’s election was preceded by a dramatic turn of events when the SP decided to support an independent candidate, Prakash Bajaj, to offset the BJP move. As many as five BSP MLAs had reportedly hobnobbed with the SP leadership inviting the ire of BSP chief Mayawati who suspended them from the party. Mayawati had then said that she would choose to support the BJP in Vidhan Parishad elections to ensure SP’s defeat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/polls-to-12-vidhan-parishad-seats-on-jan-28-amid-curbs/articleshow/80142372.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra drops written consent forms before priority shots||PUNE: A pre-vaccination consent form that had generated some controversy after the 2010 swine flu outbreak in the state will be done away with for Covid-19, officials have said. State immunisation officer (SIO) Dileep Patil on Wednesday said there will not be any clause this year that seeks consent from healthcare workers appearing for priority inoculation. Many believe it was a consent clause — with vivid descriptions of side-effects from one swine flu vaccine — that had caused scores of frontline medical staff to reject the shot that was imported specifically for them. Only 2,055 of 34,300 state government medical staff, involved in treating H1N1 patients, ended up opting for the shot made by French pharma firm Sanofi Pasteur. “Unlike priority vaccination against swine flu, healthcare workers in Maharashtra this year won’t have to sign any consent form before Covid inoculation. So far, there has been no instruction regarding written consent from the Union government,” Patil told TOI. The Union government has also created the Co-Win centralised platform for registration of healthcare workers, who have been asked to submit details such as their Aadhaar numbers, to local government bodies. These bodies, which include municipal corporations, will then upload the data onto the Co-Win app. “When a healthcare worker submits her/his details to the local government body for registration on Co-Win, that step itself is now being considered as consent for vaccination. Be it swine flu or Covid-19, vaccination has always been voluntary. Our primary objective is to protect healthcare staff who risk the most exposure,” Patil said. Public health experts have been calling for the removal of language and forms that can potentially cause vaccine hesitancy. “Signing a consent form with vivid details of rarely reported side effects can make people nervous and unwilling. We have seen how such a form held back healthcare workers from a vaccine that was imported for them during the swine flu pandemic,” said Sanjay Patil, former vice-president of the Indian Medical Association’s state chapter. Only two cases of minor vaccine side-effects — mainly giddiness — were reported among healthcare staff who went on to receive the swine flu vaccine in 2010. “But that clause, which sought signed consent, made many healthcare workers reluctant. There were fears early on that such a written consent would be introduced for Covid too. It’s a good decision that there won’t be any,” Patil said. Unlike swine flu, Covid has severely impacted the frontline healthcare force. Vaccination drives will have to cover thousands of patient-facing doctors, nurses and paramedical staff. So far, details of over 7.5 lakh healthcare workers from Maharashtra have been uploaded on Co-Win for priority vaccination. But there are an estimated 12 lakh such staff across public and private medical units in the state. Similar gaps have been reported from around the world. In fact, vaccine hesitancy was on the WHO’s list of ‘10 threats to global health in 2019’. The world body estimates that 1.5 million deaths can be avoided each year if global coverage of vaccinations is improved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-drops-written-consent-forms-before-priority-shots/articleshow/80141697.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 7, 2021||Lucknow||ATS arrests Myanmar native living in UP on fake papers for 19 years||LUCKNOW: Acting on intelligence inputs from the central and international agencies, Uttar Pradesh anti-terror squad (UPATS) arrested one Azizul Haq from Sant Kabir Nagar on Wednesday. The ATS sleuths claim that Haq was a Rohingya from Myanmar and was living on forged Indian documents in the east UP district for the past 19 years. The agency conducted simultaneous raids at Hyderabad, Mumbai and multiple locations across five districts of Uttar Pradesh. ADG, law and order, Prashant Kumar, said that ATS if other persons like Haq of Myanmar were staying in UP on fake identities, they would be nabbed soon. We are probing into terror funding angle, say policeInspector General of police, ATS, GK Goswami, who led the operation, told TOI that raids were conducted on classified inputs that Rohingyas were residing on fake documents in the state. “We are also probing the terror funding angle as a hefty amount has been transferred into Haq’s bank accounts from different places,” said the officer. The officer said that two Indian passports, an Aadhaar, three debit cards, a Pan card and a ration card of Myanmar were recovered from his possession. During the interrogation, Haq disclosed that he had reached Indian border via Bangladesh in 2001. “Haq had posed himself as an orphan to a Sant Kabir Nagar resident, Inayatullah, when they met in Mumbai. Later, Inayatullah brought Haq to his father Badre Alam in Sant Kabir Nagar. Alam got Haq’s name registered for ration card. On the basis of which Haq was able to get his Aadhaar and Passports made,” the officer said. It has also come to light that in 2017, Haq had also brought his mother Abida Khatoon, sister Fatima Khatoon, and his brother Zia-ul-Haq to India, the officer said. “Zia-ul-Haq is currently in Nashik, while his other relatives had visited India but then left for Myanmar,” said the IG ATS. Goswami also said that Haq had visited Saudi Arabia and Bangladesh in 2017. “We will take Haq in custody remand and try to enquire more about his sources of wealth and reasons for staying in India,” he said. Sources privy to the probe disclosed that Rs 15 lakh was transferred into the five bank accounts of Haq on different dates. “Amounts ranging from Rs 40,000 to Rs 70,000 has been deposited into his account,” said the sources. The ATS would also be questioning his brother Zia-ul-Haq, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ats-arrests-myanmar-native-living-in-up-on-fake-papers-for-19-years/articleshow/80142569.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
January 7, 2021||Dehradun||CM returns to Doon after recovering from Covid; sanctions several roads||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, who was recently discharged from AIIMS Delhi after recovering from Covid-19, returned to Dehradun on Wednesday. He also spent a few days in isolation at his New Delhi residence. On Wednesday, he approved several new roads and also gave nod to repairing of many roads in different constituencies of Uttarakhand. A number of ministers, including Dhan Singh Rawat and Madan Kaushik, received him at the GTC helipad in Dehradun. Thereafter, teerth purohits (priests) recited mantras. Subsequently, he entered his official residence. “Wearing masks, proper sanitisation, and maintaining social distancing is extremely important to prevent the spread of Covid-19,” he said. Under the state plan, he approved a road from Morgad to Kafultanda in Lansdowne constituency of Pauri district. In the first phase, a budget of Rs 22.40 lakh was approved for the project. Till date, funds worth Rs 31 crore have been approved for projects in Lansdowne constituency. Also, a fund of Rs 1.42 crore was approved for the second phase of sewage treatment plant in Khatima constituency of Udham Singh Nagar district. Similarly, Rs 5.81 crore was approved for a bridge in Nanakmatta area. The CM approved Rs 4.20 crore for a road in Purola constituency in Uttarkashi district. For the repair of roads in Dehradun Cantt constituency, CM approved a fund of Rs 1.77 crore. Funds were also approved for roads falling in Piran Kaliyar and Rishikesh constituencies of Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-returns-to-doon-after-recovering-from-covid-sanctions-several-roads/articleshow/80139522.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 7, 2021||Kanpur||‘Work of new airport terminal to be completed by May’||Kanpur: Divisional commissioner Raj Shekhar visited Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi memorial airport Chakeri on Wednesday to witness the ongoing construction work of the airport terminal, aircraft taxi area, power, sewage, road and generator back up. The construction agency and the airport authorities told the commissioner that around 25 percent construction work of the new terminal of the airport had been completed and the remaining work was likely to be completed by May this year. They said parking for around 150 four wheelers would be constructed in March while civil and electrical work is likely to be completed by May. The authorities would send a report to the director general, civil aviation, and its acceptance and the NOC is expected to be obtained in June or July. The commissioning of the airport could be planned on September 21, said an airport official. The airport director informed that three planes, including Airbus A 321, could be parked at a time at the airport taxi area. Taxi area and runway connectivity work was being done and it was expected to be finished by March 21, he said. PWD officers informed the commissioner that a new four lane connectivity road from New Terminal to Prayagraj National Highway had been proposed, and its proposal was under consideration of the government. “The permission is likely to be granted perhaps in the next month and after that the road will be constructed within 4-6 months time”, said a PWS official. The district administration is working on a plan to provide additional land for setting up night landing facilities. Air Commodore Bal Murli said that after getting the budget and clearance from the government, the night landing facility would start In June this year. District magistrate Alok Tiwari, vice-chairman, Kanpur Development Authority Rakesh Singh, AOC Air Force, municipal commissioner, ED construction airport authority, director, Chakeri airport, chief engineer PWD and Kesco officials were present during the inspection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/work-of-new-airport-terminal-to-be-completed-by-may/articleshow/80139812.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Ahead of vaccine rollout, final dry run at 1,500 sites on January 11||LUCKNOW: Unlike the rest of the country, Uttar Pradesh will conduct its own final dry run at 1,500 sites across the state on January 11. This will be the third such exercise in the state. While the first dry run was held in Lucknow on January 2, the second was undertaken at more than 500 places across all 75 districts on Tuesday. Issuing directives to Team-11 and health officials, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said effective steps should be taken for seamless implementation of the vaccination programme. “The third dry run must be conducted to ensure an error-free campaign,” he said. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said the mock exercise would be conducted at all the 1,500 sites where the actual vaccination drive would take place. “As many as 9 lakh health workers will be covered in the first phase. For this, 3,000 sessions will be organized at 1,500 sites in three days,” Prasad said. Earlier, Union health and family welfare ministry had directed that a second dry run would be conducted on January 8. According to sources, UP and Haryana are the only exception. “UP has decided to go its own way. The final drill will be like a full dress rehearsal before the actual campaign. It will look into execution of programme at all levels with special attention on possible problem areas like network issues which were reported in some districts,” said an officer associated with the vaccination programme. Prasad said the actual vaccination drive would spread across four days. “The target is to cover three lakh health workers per day. The fourth day will be reserved for those who miss out on vaccination,” he said. The CM has also directed officials to speed up work for the second phase in which about 19 lakh frontline workers, including policemen, safai workers, traffic department personnel and those engaged in essential services would be covered. “The data entry task for the second phase must be completed at the earliest,” the CM said. Reiterating that awareness activities on Covid-19 prevention and surveillance should continue in full swing, the CM also took stock of the situation of pandemic in the state. He said Covid-19 prevention protocol should be followed at Mukhyamantri Aarogya Mela which would begin on January 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ahead-of-vaccine-rollout-final-dry-run-at-1500-sites-on-jan-1-1/articleshow/80142285.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 7, 2021||Meerut||Agra: As ‘Thakur’ trends on Twitter, shoe co owner shocked||AGRA/MEERUT: For three generations and 67 years, the Trilokani family in Agra has been selling shoes. But the mini empire they have set up, Thakur Footwear Company, was suddenly drawn into the eye of a storm when a Muslim seller in Bulandshahr was booked for stocking shoes that had “Thakur” written on the soles. Over the past 24 hours, the owner’s phone has not stopped ringing and the controversy over a name his family took pains to establish has shocked him. “The first shop my grandfather set up in 1954, Thakur Chappals, still stands by the Agra Fort railway station,” owner of the company, Narendra Trilokani, told TOI. For decades, they sold slippers under the “Thakur” brand name, the name written on the soles as those of all companies are. The name was not derived from the caste but was that of his grandfather, Thakur Das Trilokani. In 1980, the family-run business entered a partnership 10 years later, Narendra’s father became a proprietor. “We stopped writing ‘Thakur’ and started writing ‘TFC’ then, for Thakur Footwear Company.” There are many subsidiaries by now, run by members of the family and with variations of the Thakur name, but ownership rests with Narendra. And each shoe is made by hand. “We have been getting so many calls since Tuesday. It’s harassment and a baseless FIR,” said Narendra. “Three generations of our family have never faced such a strange ordeal.” He added that someone from the local police station had called to ask which police station area the primary store is under. Local police, however, denied making any such call. The entrepreneur family’s plight has also surprised shoe manufacturers and exporters in Agra, the hub of indigenous shoemaking. “Many shoe companies name their brands after Krishna, Ganesh. Are they insulting a religion? A name like ‘Thakur’ is common. This kind of attack is unheard of,” Puran Dawar, president of the Agra Footwear Manufacturers and Exporters Chamber, told TOI. “The complaint is a gimmick. The attack on the seller was absolutely wrong.” By Wednesday afternoon, the outrage had translated into a show of support for the Muslim shoe seller and the company — “Thakur” was trending on Twitter, with over 17,000 tweets by people questioning the basis of the proceedings. Bulandshahr Police, for the most part of Wednesday morning, kept responding to tweets with a video statement by the SP. “During investigation, it was found that (Section) 153A was not applicable and was withdrawn. Other IPC sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of peace),” SP (city, Bulandshahr) Atul Srivastava said. But Nasir, released on Tuesday after a day’s detention, has more worries at hand: “Police let me go. But what will I do with the shoes I had invested Rs 22,000 in? I have two children. How will I look after them?” Narendra’s uncle Jitendra Trilokani, also a shoe manufacturer and exporter, asked who gave the right-wing outfit the right to question what a shoe company calls itself. “People often name their businesses after their own names. And the brand name will be written on the sole. What is wrong about it? The government should take action against such disruptive elements,” he said. Ranjit Sama, a 70-year-old shoe manufacturer in Agra, could not make sense of the controversy either: “These objections mean nothing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/as-thakur-trends-on-twitter-owner-of-shoe-co-dragged-into-controversy-shocked/articleshow/80146006.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 7, 2021||Pune||MSRTC operations decline by 34%, 50 Shivshahi sleeper buses grounded||Pune: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has grounded 100% of its Shivshahi sleeper buses due to a lack of passengers. Other types of Shivshahi buses were operational, officials said. The state transport body also reported a 34% drop in its bus operations because of the pandemic in 2020. State transport officials said a complete revival would take another couple of months, depending on how the Covid-19 situation evolves. “The MSRTC fleet comprises 18,000 buses. But we had to adapt during the pandemic — we converted 900 buses to goods carriers. At present, around 12,000 buses are plying across the state,” an MSRTC official said. MSRTC officials further said they stopped all 50 Shivshahi ‘sleeper’ buses from plying as they had few to no passengers. “These buses fall under the ‘semi-luxury’ category,” an official from MSRTC’s Mumbai headquarters said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/msrtc-operations-decline-by-34-50-shivshahi-sleeper-buses-grounded/articleshow/80141734.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 7, 2021||Pune||PCB’s second initiative to identify potential super-spreaders||Pune: The Pune Cantonment Board has started a second drive of Covid-19 testing of potential super-spreaders, such as vegetable vendors, salespersons, hotel and eatery owners, and their staffers, who come in contact with many people on a daily basis.V D Gaikwad, the PCB’s resident medical officer, said a team of 10 health staffers, headed by a medical officer, was carrying out the exercise. Their target is to test about 2,500 people.In the last drive, only five individuals out of 2,000 had tested positive for the virus. “It showed that the Covid situation in the PCB limits was under control. But the threat of the virus is still there and, hence, we have launched the second drive to identify the infected persons at an early stage,” Gaikwad added.“Covid cases have not come down to nil even once in the PCB areas. We still have 16 active cases,” said Amit Kumar, the PCB’s chief executive officer. — Sandip Dighe||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcbs-second-initiative-to-identify-potential-super-spreaders/articleshow/80141732.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 7, 2021||Agra||Agra: As ‘Thakur’ trends on Twitter, shoe co owner shocked||AGRA/MEERUT: For three generations and 67 years, the Trilokani family in Agra has been selling shoes. But the mini empire they have set up, Thakur Footwear Company, was suddenly drawn into the eye of a storm when a Muslim seller in Bulandshahr was booked for stocking shoes that had “Thakur” written on the soles. Over the past 24 hours, the owner’s phone has not stopped ringing and the controversy over a name his family took pains to establish has shocked him. “The first shop my grandfather set up in 1954, Thakur Chappals, still stands by the Agra Fort railway station,” owner of the company, Narendra Trilokani, told TOI. For decades, they sold slippers under the “Thakur” brand name, the name written on the soles as those of all companies are. The name was not derived from the caste but was that of his grandfather, Thakur Das Trilokani. In 1980, the family-run business entered a partnership 10 years later, Narendra’s father became a proprietor. “We stopped writing ‘Thakur’ and started writing ‘TFC’ then, for Thakur Footwear Company.” There are many subsidiaries by now, run by members of the family and with variations of the Thakur name, but ownership rests with Narendra. And each shoe is made by hand. “We have been getting so many calls since Tuesday. It’s harassment and a baseless FIR,” said Narendra. “Three generations of our family have never faced such a strange ordeal.” He added that someone from the local police station had called to ask which police station area the primary store is under. Local police, however, denied making any such call. The entrepreneur family’s plight has also surprised shoe manufacturers and exporters in Agra, the hub of indigenous shoemaking. “Many shoe companies name their brands after Krishna, Ganesh. Are they insulting a religion? A name like ‘Thakur’ is common. This kind of attack is unheard of,” Puran Dawar, president of the Agra Footwear Manufacturers and Exporters Chamber, told TOI. “The complaint is a gimmick. The attack on the seller was absolutely wrong.” By Wednesday afternoon, the outrage had translated into a show of support for the Muslim shoe seller and the company — “Thakur” was trending on Twitter, with over 17,000 tweets by people questioning the basis of the proceedings. Bulandshahr Police, for the most part of Wednesday morning, kept responding to tweets with a video statement by the SP. “During investigation, it was found that (Section) 153A was not applicable and was withdrawn. Other IPC sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of peace),” SP (city, Bulandshahr) Atul Srivastava said. But Nasir, released on Tuesday after a day’s detention, has more worries at hand: “Police let me go. But what will I do with the shoes I had invested Rs 22,000 in? I have two children. How will I look after them?” Narendra’s uncle Jitendra Trilokani, also a shoe manufacturer and exporter, asked who gave the right-wing outfit the right to question what a shoe company calls itself. “People often name their businesses after their own names. And the brand name will be written on the sole. What is wrong about it? The government should take action against such disruptive elements,” he said. Ranjit Sama, a 70-year-old shoe manufacturer in Agra, could not make sense of the controversy either: “These objections mean nothing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/as-thakur-trends-on-twitter-owner-of-shoe-co-dragged-into-controversy-shocked/articleshow/80139559.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 7, 2021||Ludhiana||Avian flu: Dept steps up vigil, teams visit dist poultry farms||Ludhiana: In the wake of avian flu reports, the animal husbandry department has started an exercise to check bird mortalities in the district, if any. Ludhiana animal husbandry department assistant director Dr Neelam Grover said on Tuesday they got an advisory from Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (NRDDL) in Jalandhar for preparedness to prevent avian influenza and she has issued strict instructions to teams. “As part of the preparations, senior veterinary officers in each of the six tehsils, two nodal officers at district level and around 12 officers at tehsil level will visit poultry farms under their jurisdictions and send a daily report,” she said.“Since there are no wetlands and a few migratory birds in Ludhiana, we are keeping a watch only on poultry. In case of extraordinary mortality or any grave condition in birds, we will immediately get it checked and issue an alert. However, as of now nothing is traced in the district,” said the officer. The officials said teams have been visiting poultry farms, live markets and meats shops and till now no unusual death has been reported.Animal husbandry department officials said they had been anticipating bird flu as migratory birds that come in winter bring the virus with them, so they had prepared for it. They said between December 15 and 20, the department teams had collected field samples, including oropharyngeal swabs and cloacal and serum samples, mainly from poultry farms and live markets and these were sent to NRDDL, Jalandhar. The NRDDL sends them to National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, for testing. “Of the 207 samples, we took 65 from poultry farms, as many from backyard poultry and meat markets, and 12 from water bodies, parks, among others. These 12 samples comprise bird body parts and feces. These samples were sent to NRDDL, from there they would be sent to NIHSAD,” said the assistant director of the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/avian-flu-dept-steps-up-vigil-teams-visit-dist-poultry-farms/articleshow/80139545.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 7, 2021||Dehradun||After showers, waterlogging woes in Doon||Dehradun: After heavy rainfall on Wednesday morning, roads in various parts of the city witnessed waterlogging. In areas like Bhaniyawala, Subhash Road and Vasant Vihar, the commuters faced tough time travelling due to water accumulated in potholes and muck. Narendra Virmani, a commuter at Subhash Road, told TOI, “The authorities have been trying to repair the roads, but now the rains have only worsened the situation. Given the present condition of roads, driving on several roads in the city is risky.” The rains caused a problem for residents of Bhaniyawala, too, where people had to drive through muck. It was worse for those riding two wheelers. Meanwhile, the officials from the Public Works Department and Municipal Corporation when queried, said that “the roads are being repaired in some parts of the city and alternative measures are also being taken so that the least amount of inconvenience is caused to the commuters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-showers-waterlogging-woes-in-doon/articleshow/80139558.cms||---
January 7, 2021||India||SC agrees to vet validity of anti-conversion laws||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday agreed to examine the validity of ‘love jihad’ laws and ordinances passed by BJP-governed states to curb alleged conversion of girls through inter-faith marriages after PILs termed the laws “divisive, anti-secular” and importantly, breaching the fundamental right to choose a life partner of one’s choice. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian shed its initial reluctance and entertained the petitions by three lawyers and NGO ‘Citizens for Justice and Peace’ but not before suggesting that they move the high courts concerned.  The petitions have challenged the Uttarakhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2018, and the UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020. “You come straight to the Supreme Court under Article 32 as if high courts do not have power to adjudicate these issues. Whether a particular provision in the state enacted legislation/ordinance is oppressive or whether it persecutes a particular community, the high court concerned is in a better position to examine,” the bench said. It agreed to entertain the petitions after senior advocate C U Singh said state governments had disregarded the Constitution and the SC’s landmark decisions protecting personal liberty of citizens, which included the right to choose a life partner irrespective of caste, creed or religion. However, it declined Singh’s request to stay the ‘love jihad’ laws. The CJP, through its secretary Teesta Setalvad, said the Hindu religion had absorbed different sects and tribes into its fold and argued that as a corollary, other religions too had a right to absorb people from other faiths. “Sanatan Hindu faith, while not obviously proselytising, has also from the period of early India to medieval India, by co-option absorbed those from Adivasi, indigenous and subaltern faiths that were not until this co-option ‘Hindu’,” the NGO said. “Hence, as a necessary corollary of the group right of a religion to propagate, an individual must have the right to convert to any religion other than his own. Hence, the right to convert oneself to another religion is manifested in Article 25 of the Constitution. The ordinance and the Act impinge upon this right by imposing unreasonable and discriminatory restrictions on it by mandating that the administration be informed of such intention and a probe be launched in such a personal and intimate exercise of one’s right,” it added. The other set of petitioners, through Pradeep Kumar Yadav, explained their moving the SC directly and said since the contentious legislations/ordinances or preparation to pass similar laws were being done by BJP-governed states of UP, Uttarakhand, Himachal, MP and Haryana, it would have been futile to move one high court on this issue. Seeking to become a party in the pending petitions before the SC, Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind said, “The impugned ordinance attempts to regulate a personal decision of each human being by encroaching upon an individual’s choice to convert to a religion of his/her choice. Scrutiny by the state of such a personal decision is a grave assault on personal liberty of an individual and is violative of Article 21.” The impleadment application, moved through advocate Ejaz Maqbool, said the UP ordinance defined the term ‘allurement’ very broadly, to include even providing a gift to the person who was sought to be converted. “This means if a person belonging to one religion, say Islam, gifts a non-Muslim a book concerning the teachings of Islam and the said non-Muslim person who received the book, after reading it decides to convert to Islam, the said conversion could be said to have taken place by ‘allurement’ since it occurred after a gift was given to the convert,” the Jamiat’s application said. Appearing for CJP, Singh went into the merits of the issue and said the Himachal Pradesh HC had in 2006 quashed a similar law that intended to subject inter-faith couples to seek approval of the state for getting married and proving that conversion, if any, was voluntary and not for the purpose of marriage. However, the Himachal government re-enacted the law in 2019 in complete disregard of the HC decision, he said. Singh said the laws had emboldened rampaging mobs to barge into ceremonies and disrupt inter-faith marriages, which was incomprehensible in a civilised society. The laws also put the onus on the couple to show that conversion was not for the purpose of marriage. The punishment of 10 years imprisonment prescribed by the laws was onerous, he added. The CJP said, "The Act and ordinance seem to be premised on conspiracy theories and assume that all conversions are illegally forced upon individuals who may have attained the age of majority. It mandates that a series of complicated procedures be followed before and after conversion, taking the state into confidence to ‘ensure’ that the act was an informed and voluntary decision by the individual. "These provisions in both the impugned Act and ordinance place a burden on individuals to justify their personal decisions for state approval. It is the case of the petitioners that this is a notion that is constitutionally repugnant and against a citizen’s right to freely exercise his/her freedom of choice. The provisions of the impugned ordinance and Act impinge upon an individual’s right to freedom of choice, right to life and liberty as well as right to freedom of religion."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-agrees-to-vet-validity-of-anti-conversion-laws/articleshow/80143644.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 7, 2021||Lucknow||VIKALP to push technology-enabled school education in UP||LUCKNOW: Taking technology enabled learning to the next level and to aid teachers, parents and students with simplified and localized content, the basic education department would be initiating an Open Education Resource (OER) platform on Thursday. Developed with the help of HCL Foundation, the platform VIKALP caters to the need of children up to class 8. It has notable edge over comparable options like NCERT’s DIKSHA, Swayam and Mission Prerna. The OER is already in use in several southern states including Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. Director, State Institute of Education and Training, Lalita Pradeep said: “The platform comes with a repository of 10,000 questions which will help teachers and parents make question papers and quiz to test the subject knowledge of their wards. This option is not available with other platforms.” She added that the platform had smartly married ‘flexibility’ and ‘quality control’ which makes it unique. “Any teacher from any part of the state can upload content on the platform but each video will be scrutinized for quality and content by a review and moderation committee. The flexibility also includes freedom to generate localized content,” she explained. Director, Samuday-HCL Foundation, Alok Varma saw VIKALP as a community model of learning and exchange of knowledge. “The portal will not only ease the process of teaching and learning more interesting, but also enrich the quality of knowledge dissemination,” he said. Minister of state (Independent charge) for basic education, Satish Kumar Dwivedi would be launching the portal. Dwivedi described VIKALP as an outcome of state’s commitment to introduce and encourage ‘innovative practices to improve culture of learning and improving learning outcomes’. Pradeep said in the course of time, VIKALP will be used as a platform to promote exchange of knowledge through webinars, workshops and discussions. “Users will also have the option to learn from our technical handholding exercises like how to make a video from your cell phone etc,” she said, recalling that VIKALP was a great example of those who believe in ‘IT for Change’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vikalp-to-push-technology-enabled-school-edu-in-up/articleshow/80142214.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 7, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: At 11,939, active Covid cases back to pre-July level||LUCKNOW: The number of active cases of Covid-19 infection went below 12,000 on Wednesday to reach 11,939. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad stated that with the decline, the situation has gone back to the pre-July level. “Of the total active cases, 4,668 are under home isolation,” he said, adding, “The state’s recovery rate has increased to 96.55%, while the case fatality rate was about 1.43%.” The ACS, however, insisted people to follow Covid-19 prevention protocol to keep any trouble at bay. “Though the vaccine is now available and the immunization drive will be rolled out soon, the risk of the complications, including death, is still there. No one should forget that still no specific medicine is available to treat the infection,” he said. Meanwhile, official Covid-19 bulletin revealed that 742 new cases took the state’s tally to 5,90,339 while 1,067 discharges took the total recoveries to 5,69,959. The state also recorded the death of nine persons taking the total number of deceased to 8,441. Prasad also urged people to take care of the elders in their families as the proportion of such patients was on the rise. “About three months ago, around 8% of the patients belonged to the 60 plus category, but now the proportion has risen to 10.5%,” he said, reminding that 45% of those who died because of Covid-19 deaths were above 60 years of age.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/at-11939-active-cases-back-to-pre-july-level/articleshow/80142251.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 7, 2021||Dehradun||227 Covid-19 infections surface in U’khand||Dehradun: Uttarakhand recorded 227 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday. With this, the tally of the virus reached 92,593 in Uttarakhand. Among those tested Covid-19 positive on Wednesday were two senior IFS officers posted in state headquarters. According to the health department, more than 13,500 samples were tested on Wednesday. On Wednesday, 69 Covid-19 infections were recorded in Dehradun, followed by 60 cases in Nainital, 40 in Haridwar, 13 in Udham Singh Nagar, 12 in Uttarkashi, nine in Champawat, seven in Almora, five in Chamoli, four in Rudraprayag, three each in Pauri and Tehri districts, and two in Bageshwar. Apart from new cases, five coronavirus-related deaths were also reported from the state on Wednesday, taking the toll of the virus to 1,549. Also, the number of cured cases shot up to 86,298 in the Himalyan state after 380 patients recovered from Covid-19 infection. Meanwhile, the authorities of AIIMS Rishikesh on Wednesday claimed to have treated more than 2.5 lakh patients within seven months. “Even when our OPD functioned partially in the wake of Covid-19 and we were taking only critical cases for over seven months and yet we managed to treat 2.5 lakh people in 2020,” said Dr Ravi Kant, director AIIMS Rishikesh. He added that more than 29,000 in-door patients were treated at AIIMS in 2020. “In the same time period when the world was in grip of Covid 19, AIIMS conducted 10,000 surgeries,” added Ravikat. Meanwhile, health secretary Amit Negi said that the next dry run for Covid-19 vaccination will be conducted in all the 13 districts of the state on January 8. He reviewed the preparations for the same. “The dry run will take place in 10 hospitals of each district. It will be monitored by the nodal officers elected by the office of director general (health). The districts must follow the guidelines shared by the Centre while performing the dry run,” added Negi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/227-covid-19-infections-surface-in-ukhand/articleshow/80139574.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 7, 2021||Ludhiana||12 days after accusing cop of rape, woman had withdrawn complaint||Ludhiana: Twelve days after accusing Mundian Kalan head constable Rakesh Kumar of raping her in the lockup, the 24-year-old woman had withdrawn her police complaint by filling an affidavit on December 16. In the affidavit, she had stated that she falsely accused the cop on the provocation of someone. The woman had also struck a compromise with four persons who were accused of thrashing her, tearing her clothes and capturing her video. The written documents (a copy of which is with the TOI) have reached the police, who are now investigating the case afresh. As per the documents, the woman stated in the affidavit that she wanted to withdraw the complaints against head constable Rakesh Kumar and the four who thrashed her and that she lodged the complaint against the cop after being provoked by someone. Therefore, she did not want any action. The affidavit was attested by a notary. Besides, she had struck a written compromise (panchayati rajinama) with the four against a surety of Rs 12,000. Herein, both the parties had agreed not to pursue any complaint against each other. The police had taken up the rape case after the woman along with a friend addressed a press conference on January 2 and its video went viral.When the TOI contacted the complainant woman, she refused to talk about the issue. Additional deputy commissioner of police-IV Rupinder Kaur Sra, who is investigating the case, said, “After lodging a complaint on December 4, the woman had later reached a compromise and stated that she levelled false allegations against the cop after being incited. We are looking into the documents and the affidavit. The police lodged the FIR as it was a serious matter.”SIT formedCommissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “A special investigation team (SIT), led by Rupinder Kaur Sra, ADCP Zone IV, has been formed to investigate the case.” 1 accused arrestedThe Jamalpur police on Wednesday arrested one of the four accused who had thrashed the woman after barging into her house. The four had also torn her clothes and made a video. While Mamta, 30, has been arrested, Pammi, Pooja and Bhinda are on the run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/12-days-after-accusing-cop-of-rape-woman-had-withdrawn-complaint/articleshow/80139576.cms||Payal Dhawan
January 7, 2021||Goa||751 questions to come up in four-day session||Porvorim: The Business Advisory Committee (BAC) will meet in the coming eight days to decide the agenda for the coming winter assembly session, said speaker Rajesh Patnekar on Wednesday. Patnekar said the legislature secretariat has received 751 questions of which 195 are starred questions. Patnekar also said that another assembly session will be convened by February end or in March for the state budget to be presented. “Till now the business advisory meeting has not been held and the agenda for the session has not been fixed,” Patnekar said while speaking to reporters at the assembly complex. The speaker said that the BAC will decide whether the public would be permitted to attend the assembly proceedings and if the daily assembly proceedings need to be curtailed. Patnekar said that the session would begin on January 25 with the inaugural address by governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and end on January 29. He said that there will be a one day break on January 26, Republic Day. “There will be question hour on January 27, 28 and 29. On Friday, being the last day, there will be private members business,” Patnekar further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/751-questions-to-come-up-in-four-day-session/articleshow/80141753.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 7, 2021||Ludhiana||25 test positive for Covid-19||Ludhiana: A patient from Jammu died of Covid-19 and 25 Ludhiana residents and nine outsiders tested positive here on Wednesday.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar said the district toll stood at 969 and that of outsiders at 453.Of the 25 new cases, nine were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), eight positive cases’ contacts, five from OPD, two through tracing process and one healthcare worker. The local health department officials said the district case count was 24,916 and that of outsiders 3,727.So far, 23,684 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.96% of the total cases.There are 283 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/25-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/80139565.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Kanpur||UP: Muslim girl reunited with parents after eloping, marrying Hindu youth||KANPUR: A Muslim girl from Auraiya’s Ayana area, who had eloped with a Hindu youth in October last year, was on Wednesday reunited with her parents reportedly as per her wish expressed in front of a magistrate on Tuesday. The girl, a resident of Senganpur, had allegedly eloped with Akash of neighbouring village Kulgaon on October 12 last, after which her father had lodged an FIR with Ayana police against the youth for allegedly kidnapping his daughter with an aim to marry her. According to police, the couple, who got married in Delhi at a temple in accordance with Arya Samaj rituals on October 14, on Tuesday reached Ayana police station with the marriage certificate issued by the same temple. “However, as the girl’s father had lodged a case under section 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage) on October 14 against the youth Akash, the police after apprising their parents detained the couple and produced them in court on Tuesday where she expressed her intent to be reunited with her family. Following this, she was sent with her parents on Wednesday,” Inspector Ayana Lalit Kumar informed TOI. “It is yet to be decided whether any action would be taken against the youth, and we are seeking legal opinion in this regard,” he added. Reports said the youth, who works in a private company, had initially claimed that his parents were ready to accept their relationship but the girl’s family and relatives were against it. On October 14, the youth’s family allegedly solemnised their marriage at Arya Samaj temple against the wishes of the girl’s parents. On the other hand, the youth’s family members have alleged that when the girl’s family learned of their marriage, they started threatening them with dire consequences and subsequently approached the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/muslim-girl-reunited-with-parents-after-eloping-marrying-hindu-youth/articleshow/80139984.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Pune||Special tourist services to 4 more locations||Pune: The Pune division of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) is set to start special tourist buses to Hampi and Udupi in Karnataka, Ramoji Film City in Hydrabad and Srisailam, a temple town in the Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh, by the end of January in an attempt to boost revenue. Dnyneshwar Ranavare, the divisional traffic manager at the Pune MSRTC, told TOI that the nitty gritty of the plan such as bus fares and the frequency of trips were still being finalized. “The date of initiation of special tourist bus services to all four locations across three states is yet to be finalized along with the number of trips per week and ticket fares,” another Pune division official said. — Joy Sengupta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/special-tourist-services-to-4-more-locations/articleshow/80141747.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 7, 2021||Agra||18 fresh Covid +ve cases in Agra, district tally 10,320||Agra: At least 18 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Wednesday evening, taking the district tally to 10,320. The patients included two staffers of the SN Medical College. A total of 10 people were found positive in random testing conducted by the health department. Moreover, 23 Covid patients were discharged on Wednesday. Out of the 10,320 cases reported in the district, 97% have been declared cured of the infection and discharged. The number of active Covid cases reduced from 138 on Tuesday to 134 on Wednesday. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “The sample positivity rate has reduced to 1.6%. So far, 9,948 people have recovered."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/18-fresh-covid-ve-cases-in-agra-district-tally-10320/articleshow/80139578.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Lucknow||CM Yogi Adityanath launches kisan mission, says farmers used as vote bank||LUCKNOW: In a robust counter to raging farmers’ stir against farm laws, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said, the Centre has been framing policies keeping in mind interests of farmers. Speaking at the launch of its flagship Kisan Kalyan Mission in Lucknow, Yogi blasted the Opposition for bracketing farmers as vote banks and giving short shrift to agrarian welfare programmes. “It’s the first time, farmers have been included in the agenda of political parties,” Yogi said, while kicking off the mission which would be carried out in 825 blocks in three phases till January 21. “Those who can’t digest government’s farm welfare programmes are spreading rumours and falsehoods,” he said in a swipe at the Opposition. The chief minister said, slogans like ‘Jai Jawan Jai Kisan’ remained mere rhetoric since independence and farmers did not get their due till BJP came to power. Crediting PM Narendra Modi for bringing farmers into the mainstream of development, CM Yogi Adityanath said, it was because of the BJP government that interests of farmers received attention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-launches-kisan-mission-says-farmers-used-as-vote-bank/articleshow/80142518.cms||Pankaj Shah
January 7, 2021||Bengaluru||Outside students keep off, 69% Comed-K engg seats go vacant||BENGALURU: With students from outside Karnataka staying away from professional college admissions this year due to the pandemic, as many as 69% of engineering seats vested with Comed-K have remained unfilled after counselling ended on December 31. The story wasn’t very different in 2019 when 9,782 of 16,216 seats remained unfilled. MK Panduranga Shetty, secretary, Karnataka Unaided Private Engineering Colleges’ Association, said: “The vacant Comed-K seats will be returned to colleges. Karnataka Examinations Authority can now fill up the 7,000 seats we handed to the government.” The maximum hit is taken by traditional engineering streams of civil and mechanical. Of 2,111 mechanical seats up for grabs, a whopping 89% are vacant. In civil engineering, only 184 seats of the 1,700 were taken. In many colleges, only one or two seats in these streams have been filled. Many engineering colleges withdrew their seats from Comed-K counseling and offered them for lesser fees through CET. “For Comed-K quota, aspirants from outside Karnataka form a large proportion of students. With the pandemic, parents are apprehensive about sending students. This is true even with students who have taken admission. They prefer online classes,” said BV Ravishankar, principal, BMS College of Engineering. The Karnataka Examinations Authority has announced another round of counseling for engineering.Comed-K has said it will not conduct any for this academic year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/outside-students-keep-off-69-comed-k-engg-seats-go-vacant/articleshow/80143796.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
January 7, 2021||Hubballi||Karnataka: Hulkoti in Gadag district tops national gram panchayat survey||HUBBALLI: Hulkoti gram panchayat (GP) in Gadag district has been ranked joint first in the Mission Antyodaya 2020 national survey conducted by the central rural development and panchayat raj ministry. This village of 11,794 residents is about 390km from Bengaluru and shares the top spot with Sulthanpur and Yelkurthi, both in Telangana. It’s also a model for other GPs in implementing government schemes and utilising funds effectively. Hulkoti GP, established in 1962, has brought in major changes for residents by improving infrastructure, supply of clean drinking water, upgrading health facilities, good roads and increasing literacy rate, among other things. All these helped it score 90% in the survey. These are provisional rankings of 2,26,275 gram panchayats which have uploaded the data. Nandagad and Kulagod in Belagavi district figure among the top 10. Hiralal S Janaga, executive officer, Gadag taluk panchayat, said: “Last year, Hulkoti GP was ranked 5th. The survey is conducted on 141 parameters set by the ministry. It was conducted in all 37 GPs in Gadag taluk from October to December 2020".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hulkoti-in-gadag-district-tops-national-gp-survey/articleshow/80143802.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
January 7, 2021||Lucknow||Rs 8.8 crore to kickstart centre of excellence for mobile tech||LUCKNOW: In a boost for the mobile phone manufacturing industry, the Union ministry of electronics and information technology has released its first instalment of Rs 6.6 crore for the Centre of Excellence project being developed in Noida. The CoE is scheduled to be completed by the end of 2023. Additional chief secretary, IT and electronics, Alok Kumar said that the state government has also consented to release Rs 2.2 crore as its share towards the project, being developed under the state’s Electronic Manufacturing Policy, so that the first phase of development can start. The CoE will work towards transfer of technology and provide product testing support. “Infrastructure for testing and other requirements with a fully functional testing lab which will be used by the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) will be developed at the centre. It will be equipped with a tool room and component library,” Kumar said. He added that once established, five products, including chargers, power banks and wireless power banks, LED and speakers based on lithium-ion cells will be developed and tested during the first year. Four products will be developed during the second year, including battery monitoring system for electric vehicles, solar plants and solar system battery pack, whereas, GPS navigation system, UPS system, sountimeter and ticket vending machines are proposed to be developed during the third year. “Other than services to the electronics industry, facilities for skill development in electronic system design and development will also be provided at the CoE. It will also provide standardization and testing support for in-country and global needs,” Kumar added. The project is being implemented by the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing, Noida in collaboration with the Indian Cellular and Electronics Association (ICEA) at an estimated cost of Rs 16.76 crore. Of this, the Centre’s share is Rs 8.55 crore, while the UP government and ICEA will contribute Rs 2.85 crore and Rs 5.36 crore respectively. “The project implementation period had been fixed at 36 months from December 30, 2020, and therefore, the CoE is well on course to be completed by the last week of December, 2023. The objectives of the CoE are aimed at design and development of products related to the power bank industry, mobile handset accessories and electronics applications,” the ACS said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rs-8-8cr-to-kickstart-centre-of-excellence-for-mobile-tech/articleshow/80142339.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Dehradun||Char Dham towns receive fresh snowfall; dry weather likely now||Dehradun: The Char Dham towns — Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri, and Yamunotri — received a good spell of snowfall whereas the plains and foothills received intermittent showers on Wednesday. According to the regional meteorological centre, light-to-moderate snowfall or rainfall occurred in the higher reaches of Chamoli, Uttarkashi, Rudraprayag and at a few other places.“Snowfall was recorded in places at an altitude of 2,000 metres (or above) in Uttarkashi, Rudraprayag, Pithoragarh and Chamoli districts. The foothills and plain regions received rainfall,” said Bikram Singh, director of the regional meteorological centre. Besides, Dehradun was lashed by rain and thunderstorms in the morning hours. However, the weather cleared post afternoon and locals enjoyed bright sunshine. Meanwhile, the meteorological office predicted that dry weather will prevail across the state throughout the week, starting from Thursday morning. However, dense fog is likely in the plain districts of Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/char-dham-towns-receive-fresh-snowfall-dry-weather-likely-now/articleshow/80139607.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 7, 2021||Goa||GFP seeks action against Valpoi cop||Margao: Goa Forward Party (GFP) on Wednesday demanded stern action action against Valpoi PI Sagar Ekoskar for indulging in “brutal use of force” against agitators at Shel-Melauli in Sattari who were protesting demarcation work for proposed IIT campus in the village. Addressing reporters, GFP general secretary, Mohandas Loliencar, said that Ekoskar should not only be suspended but terminated from police service. “Such police officers who commit atrocities on women and elderly should have no place in the Goa police,” he said. He also condemned politicians from the ruling party for “defending” such police officers who misbehave with people. He demanded stern action against senior officials from the civil administration present at the protest site in whose presence the police “misbehaved” with the elderly women. GFP demanded that the government take the villagers into confidence and resolve the IIT issue. “The fact that people are opposing even good projects shows a lack of trust in the government by the people. The government should try to resolve the issue by winning the people’s trust than by using brute police force against them,” he said. GFP vice-president Durgadas Kamat accused the government of trying to thrust infrastructure projects by stifling people’s voices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-seeks-action-against-valpoi-cop/articleshow/80141759.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 7, 2021||Agra||Dist admin to recover Rs 6.84 Cr environmental compensation from NHAI||Agra: For violating dust mitigation norms mandated by the national green tribunal (NGT) and causing air pollution in broadening of Agra – Mathura stretch of national highway, district administration will be recovering Rs 6.84 crore as environmental compensation from the Agra-Delhi section of the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI). Recently, the secretary of the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) had directed the district magistrate to issue a recovery certificate against NHAI for not paying penalty imposed by the board. The district magistrate was directed to deposit the amount of environmental compensation recovered from NHAI in bank account of board. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “Recovery certificate has been issued against NHAI. Rs 6.84 crore environmental compensation for 1,825 days of air pollution will be deducted from the financial account of the NHAI. Additional district magistrate (finance and revenue) has been directed to deposit the amount in UPPCB account in time-bound manner”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/dist-admin-to-recover-rs-6-84-cr-environmental-compensation-from-nhai/articleshow/80139598.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Over 11,000 candidates in fray||AURANGABAD: As many as 11,499 candidates are in the race for the gram panchayat election that is to be held across the district on January 15. The elections are to be held for 617 gram panchayats, while winners for a total of 35 local self-governing bodies have been elected unopposed. Among nine talukas from Aurangabad district, Vaijapur has a maximum of 105 gram panchayats with 337 wards followed by Sillod (83, 293), Kannd (83, 279), Paithan (80, 280), Aurangabad (77, 264), Gangapur (71, 244), Phulambri (53, 174), Soygaon (40, 133) and Khuldabad (25, 86). Aurangabad tehsildar Shankar Lad on Wednesday said Covid-19 prevention norms are being followed religiously during different phases of conduct of elections. “Health teams will be present at every polling booth to ensure all safety norms are followed,” he said. Notably, the sarpanch of every gram panchayat was elected through voters during the regime of previous government. But this system has been scrappd by the current government. Watch Aurangabad: Polls to be held for 617 gram panchayats on January 15||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/over-11000-candidates-in-fray/articleshow/80138667.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Pune||CoEP jumbo unit hit with food quality complaints||Pune: Administrators of the CoEP Covid-19 jumbo facility on Wednesday said they had tweaked the food menu for patients after complaints emerged of insects in meals and heavy use of cooking soda. Rohit Chhetry, a representative from Deepali — the agency overseeing infrastructure at the unit — said allegations of insects found in meals, which were reported on Tuesday, were actually from a month ago. “We had then replaced the catering staff after a round of firings. Pest control was also done in the serving area. I do not know why the issue has popped up again,” Chhetry said. Officials from MedBros — the agency operating the CoEP unit — said photos that were posted on social media earlier this week, alleging bad quality food, were old. There are nearly 125 Covid-19 patients currently being treated at the facility. They are likely to be discharged by January 15. Officials also said the facility stopped new admissions on December 30. Shreyansh Kapale, dean of the unit, said complaints from patients were mainly about the repetitive menu. It has also been learnt that the facility’s kitchen staff were recently involved in a heated argument with one of the patients who had complained about the quality of food. Authorities said one staffer was asked to apologise to the patient and served with a warning. “With just a few days to go before operations wrap up at the CoEP jumbo unit, we do not want any kind of misunderstanding,” Kapale said. Pune Municipal Corporation’s additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal could not be reached for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/coep-jumbo-unit-hit-with-food-quality-complaints/articleshow/80141762.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Home sales recover, drive up prices in second half of 2020||KOLKATA: Sales of homes and apartments have made a smart recovery in July-December 2020 after plummeting to historic low in the January-June period, primarily owing to the lockdown that led to zero sales in April and a few sales in May and June. The sales, driven by pent-up demand and an increased awareness on the necessity of a home in the wake of the pandemic, also led to a recovery in prices in the October-December quarter. The largest real estate consultants operating in Kolkata has recorded a 79% bookings growth in October-December 2020 compared to the same period last year. NK Realtors said it had received confirmed bookings for more than 800 units during the period, up from around 450 units in the corresponding period in 2019. In December 2020, the company recorded bookings of nearly 300 units, up from around 240 in December 2019. “For us, the October-December quarter in 2020 has been way better than the July-September quarter with sales up nearly 10%,” said Biplab Kumar, vice-president at NK Realtors. Global real estate consultants Knight Frank that released its report on the sector’s performance in the second half of 2020 on Wednesday said the third quarter sales in Kolkata market had been better than the corresponding quarter in the previous year. Against 3,041 units sold in July-September 2019, the industry recorded sales of 3,921 units in July-September 2020. In October-December period though, sales declined from 3,637 in 2019 to 2,054 in 2020. The second half was much better than the first half. According to the report, 5,975 units were sold in the second half of 2020, up from 2,937 in the first half, a jump of 103%. In units priced up to Rs 50 lakh, sales have increased from 2,019 units in the first half of 2020 to 3,286 in the second half of 2020, an increase of 63%. The resurgence in sales in the second half of 2020 compared to the first half has led to a 14% decline in inventory. “With hardly any new launches in 2020, inventory has reduced. I think the demand will remain firm this year and will lead to an upward price correction around July-September 2021,” said Nandu Belani, president of the Bengal chapter of the Confederation of Real Estate Association of India (Credai). Credai president (West Bengal) Sushil Mohta said price of real estate in pockets of Kolkata had gone up by 5% in December and expected a further price correction of 10% by March. “Post pandemic, developers were apprehensive about sales and focused on ongoing projects. This has reduced inventory and is now leading to a price correction in the market,” he said. Overall, price of residential real estate has gone up from Rs 3,095 per square feet in the first half of 2020 to Rs 3,202 in the second half. “There is a definite shift in end-user preference with home buyers looking for bigger accommodations,” said Knight Frank Kolkata branch director Swapan Dutta. At the same time, the maximum traction was in ready-to-move-in homes within Rs 50 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/home-sales-recover-drive-up-prices-in-second-half-of-2020/articleshow/80140730.cms||Subhro Niyogi
January 7, 2021||Pune||Chaos at e-ticket counter marks reopening of Pune's Shaniwarwada||PUNE: The rollout of a new paperless ticketing system by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), confusion surrounding it, as well as visitors not maintaining mask and distancing mandates, marred day one of Shaniwarwada reopening to the public. The QR code-based ticketing process proved to be a bridge too far for many visitors and some had to return without entering Shaniwarwada. The online ticketing system only accepts debit or credit cards, e-wallets, or UPI. According to the ASI, around 200 people visited the premises on Wednesday. “We don’t have the smartphones required to buy tickets to enter, and many other visitors from rural areas do not have that either. So what shall we do? We are prepared to pay in cash. There should be a facility to help us out,” said Hingoli resident Ratnakar Kamble, who visited Shaniwarwada with his family. Others with smartphones complained that the scanning process failed a number of times, thus rendering the bookings incomplete. The ASI is prepared to push ahead with the e-ticketing process, touting its benefits. However, it also added that they will start providing tokens that can be paid for with cash over the next few days. “We have rolled out this system and now a trial is going on. Over the next few days, we will keep the option that if someone is not able to buy the ticket online, s/he can buy a token. The e-ticket facility is convenient and costs less,” said a senior ASI official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/chaos-at-e-ticket-counter-marks-reopening-of-shaniwarwada/articleshow/80141758.cms||Mandar Deshpande
January 7, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Backlog pain before birth certs go online||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s health department is set to introduce online application for birth certificates from next week. According to municipal commissioner, Binod Kumar, the IT department of KMC has been developing the system for application of birth certificates and the task will be complete by early next week. “We hope to roll out the online system in another week,” Kumar told TOI. However, the health department of civic body may continue with the current drop-box system for some weeks even after the introduction of the online system, said a KMC health department official. “We want to run both the systems at the same time to judge the feedbacks from people. We will depute separate officials for responding to the applications that will be filed online and the ones that will be submitted through the drop-box system. After examining the citizens’ responses, we will consider to do away with the drop-box system,” said a KMC health department official. However, the most challenging task for the civic body’s health wing is to clear the backlog of applications. A KMC health department official conceded that thousands of applications (both birth and death) have been pending with the civic body since April last year because of the pandemic.  “Every day we receive over 200 applications for birth and death. We can hardly process 25% of these applications due to the lack of adequate manpower. Thus, the backlog count grows stronger with the passage of time,” said the official. Before the nationwide lockdown was clamped on March 23, the KMC would deliver over 100 birth and death certificates every day. According to the old system, the applicants who would submit valid papers relating to birth or death were asked to stand in a queue while the certificates would be delivered to them the same day. But problems arose under the new drop-box system when the applicants started to wait for their turn endlessly as there were a few civic officials to deal with hundreds of applications that started pouring in the drop-boxes ever since the unlock period was declared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/backlog-pain-before-birth-certs-go-online/articleshow/80140737.cms||Saikat Ray
January 7, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow records hottest January day in 14 years||LUCKNOW: As the unusually warm winter spell continued on Wednesday, the city recorded its hottest day in January in 14 years. The maximum temperature soared to 28.9 degrees Celsius, 7.6 units above normal. Earlier, it was on January 30, 2007, when mercury during the day time had spiked to 30.4 degrees Celsius. It was the second time this month that the state capital witnessed extreme weather conditions after January 1 when minimum temperature dropped to freezing levels, lowest on new year day in 70 years. Data shows that high day-time temperatures usually occur towards the January end. Experts said such extreme weather conditions in early January are yet another indication of climate change. However, Met officials said winter is not over yet. Conditions are becoming favourable for another round of cold wave (below normal minimum temperatures) by next week, they said. The high temperatures were because the flow of cold winds from snow clad mountains was restricted by the Western Disturbance. Cold would revive soon and push minimum temperature down in coming days in the plains. The Met department predicted the minimum temperature will drop further by 4-5 degrees and come to normal levels by Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/city-records-hottest-jan-day-in-14-years/articleshow/80142186.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: 2nd PU exams in May, SSLC in June; no cut in syllabus for class 1-9||BENGALURU: The examinations for the second PU course will be conducted in May second week and for SSLC in June first week. Primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar on Wednesday said the department has identified portions for the exams and these will be delivered to all schools. The department will ensure that minimum syllabus will be selected so that students will not be overloaded. In a U-turn, the government said there won’t be any cut in syllabus for Class 1 to Class 9, but a different method will be adopted to ease the burden on children. An alternative academic schedule has been finalised. According to sources, in the alternative schedule, the department has identified a main competency from each chapter the child needs to progress to the next class. The teacher will be guided to teach that competency instead of the full chapter. Resource teachers will help teachers identify the competency. Academic year may start on July 1Assessment will be carried out at the school level to test the children’s learning ability. Each grade will be given a competence, based on which they will be assessed. The Karnataka Textbook Society had cut the syllabus by 30% for all classes. However, following a controversy on content about on Tipu Sultan, Christianity and Islam, it was rolled back. Even though KTS had prepared a new syllabus, it was never released. Headmasters will be allowed to decide on the syllabus for Classes 1-9, an official said. “Most children have not had a minimum learning process this year. What are we supposed to assess? The learning outcome is already bad, it will turn worse if we do not have a definite plan to implement,” said D Sashi Kumar, secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka. Sources said the next academic year may start on July 1 instead of the usual June schedule. Meanwhile, experts slammed the government for the last-minute changes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/2nd-pu-exams-in-may-sslc-in-june-no-cut-in-syllabus-for-class-1-9/articleshow/80143808.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka 2nd PU exams 2021 in May, SSLC in June; no cut in syllabus for class 1-9||BENGALURU: The examinations for the II PU course will be conducted in May second week and for SSLC in June first week. Primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar on Wednesday said the department has identified portions for the exams and these will be delivered to all schools. The department will ensure that the minimum syllabus will be selected so that students will not be overloaded. In a U-turn, the government said there won’t be any cut in the syllabus for Class 1 to Class 9, but a different method will be adopted to ease the burden on children. An alternative academic schedule has been finalised. According to sources, in the alternative schedule, the department has identified a main competency from each chapter the child needs to progress to the next class. The teacher will be guided to teach that competency instead of the full chapter. Resource teachers will help teachers identify the competency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/2nd-pu-exams-in-may-sslc-in-june-no-cut-in-syllabus-for-class-1-9/articleshow/80145608.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Goa||Faleiro to be senior observer for Kerala polls||Panaji: Congress has appointed former state party president Luizinho Faleiro as one of the three senior observers for the Kerala state assembly elections, which are likely to be held in April-May this year. The three-member team will oversee the poll campaign in Kerala. Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot, former Karnataka deputy CM G Parameswara and Faleiro have been tasked with bringing the Congress-led United Democratic Front to power by unseating the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front in Kerala. “They will discharge their duties in close coordination with AICC general secretaries and in-charges in the respective states,” AICC general secretary K C Venugopal said. Kerala, along with Assam, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and West Bengal are heading for elections in the coming months even as the Congress finds itself in disarray. In 2013, AICC had picked Faleiro as the chairman for the Karnataka Pradesh Assembly Elections Screening Committee, following which the Congress won the Karnataka Assembly Elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/faleiro-to-be-senior-observer-for-kerala-polls/articleshow/80141777.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 7, 2021||Kolkata||Calcutta University faculty to evaluate all PG answer scripts||KOLKATA: Calcutta University (CU) has decided to evaluate the answer scripts of post-graduation students studying in various PG programmes run by the colleges from the upcoming semester. The examinations are scheduled to be held between March 8 and 26. “The decision has been taken to introduce transparency in the evaluation system since the degree is awarded by CU, which bears the hallmark of excellence in imparting quality education,” said a university source. A department head teaching PG programmes in CU confirmed that emails have been sent to officials, asking them to evaluate all PG answer scripts. “In the letter, it has been mentioned that in the case of subjects for which colleges also conduct postgraduate courses, it is necessary for uniform evaluation that the answer scripts of all students both from colleges and universities should be evaluated by faculty members of the corresponding university departments,” said the teacher. He added that the faculties have been told to convene departmental committee meeting. “PG examinations of CU are conducted by PG board of studies. The HoD of the department concerned is the chairperson of the board and members are from both university and colleges. Hence, it is sufficient to inform the chairperson only about the modalities of the examination,” said pro-VC (academic) Ashis Chatterjee. The college principals may be subsequently informed about the change. One of the college principal, however, expressed his reservation over the decision. “Though evaluation by university examiners will bring in uniformity, we have noticed multiple times that the PG students in the university get an advantage because the question papers are set by their faculty members. Now, if the scripts from colleges are being evaluated by the same faculty members who teach university students, then there is a possibility of bias,” he said. Another college head pointed out that the PG students studying at the various departments get coached in a manner when they know which topics of a subject will have to be prepared well because the teachers emphasize on them in the class. “This pattern leads the students to understand which chapters and concepts they have to prepare and which they can neglect. This advantage is missing for those studying in colleges,” she explained. Siuli Sarkar, the principal of Lady Brabourne College, said she would urge the PG departments to share the list of important chapters before examinations. “The faculty members in colleges have the same qualification and teaching experience as university teachers. Even the pay scale is identical. When the colleges were given the sanction to teach PG programmes, they were made autonomous. After the introduction of the Choice-Based Credit System, autonomy is being curbed. First, CU decided to bring parity in the syllabus and prepare question papers. Now they will evaluate the answer scripts. Where is the autonomy of colleges?” asked an agitated HoD. CU authorities, however, claim that some colleges give “advantage” to PG students by awarding them marks if the evaluation remains in their jurisdiction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cu-faculty-to-evaluate-all-pg-answer-scripts/articleshow/80140738.cms||Somdatta Basu
January 7, 2021||Pune||Pune: Daily tests jump past 10,000; infections increase to 650||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) recorded rise in Covid-19 cases and recoveries on Wednesday over the previous day. The recoveries in the region jumped by 1,130, more than double of Tuesday’s tally of 583, while new cases increased from 496 on Tuesday to 650 in the last 24 hours. With this, total recoveries and discharges in PMR stand at 3.52 lakh and 3.66 lakh, respectively. A report released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated that the rural areas reported highest recoveries (672) in the region on Wednesday, followed by the PMC limits (353) and the PCMC limits (105). Among the new cases, the PMC added 321 more patients, followed by the rural areas (178) and the PCMC limits (151). The testing of samples also jumped to 10,998 on Wednesday, reporting a rise of over 2,000 samples than Tuesday’s tally of 8,810. Over 5,400 samples were tested in the PMC limits in the last 24 hours. The region has so far tested 19.20 lakh samples, of which more than 9.4 lakh have been tested in the PMC limits, followed by 5.64 lakh in the PCMC limits and 4.15 lakh in the rural areas. The report stated that 11 more patients succumbed to the infection in PMR on Wednesday, of which six deaths were reported in the PMC limits. Two patients died in the PCMC limits, while three in the rural areas. The region’s tally of active patients slightly increased to 5,669 on Wednesday from Tuesday’s count of 5,578. These included 3,434 patients in home isolation and 2,235 admitted in various hospitals. Health officials urged the citizens on Wednesday that they should abide by the Covid-appropriate behaviour. “With the more infectious strain entering many countries in the world, people need to exercise extra caution,” a health official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-tests-jump-past-10k-infections-increase-to-650/articleshow/80141768.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 7, 2021||Kolkata||Plan to introduce UAA in Sector V||KOLKATA: The Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) is planning to introduce unit area assessment (UAA) system of property tax collection in Sector V. Under the UAA system, tax payers will have to submit an online self-assessment form and pay the tax accordingly for each quarters. “We have placed our recommendation to the West Bengal Valuation Board to introduce the UAA tax structure for Sector V. They will formally issue the notification,” said a senior NDITA official. Currently, all establishments in Sector V pay their property tax following the old system based on rental value calculation system. “There are about 1,200 holdings in Sector V, including all office complexes and IT companies,” the official added. NDITA has been collecting around Rs 60 crore or Rs 70 crore property tax in every financial year till date. “Last year we had collected about Rs 66 crore,” said the official. Once the UAA system of property tax is introduced, the amount of tax would not increase manifold. “It has been considered to see that the tax burden does not increase. There might be only a 5% to 10% of difference in the tax structure,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/plan-to-introduce-uaa-in-sector-v/articleshow/80140750.cms||Suman Chakraborti
January 7, 2021||Agra||Dalit girl, 16, raped in Firozabad, video circulated on social media||AGRA: A 28-year-old man dragged a minor girl, 16, into a field and allegedly raped her while his friend filmed the gruesome crime on a mobile phone to blackmail her later. The alleged incident took place in Narkhi area of Firozabad district. On complaint of the victim, an FIR has been registered against the two men of the same village. The main accused has been arrested. According to the father of victim, Bhuri Singh had raped his daughter when she had gone to collect fodder for cattle on December 1. His friend Anil Kumar, 25, had shot video of the crime. And both of them threatened his daughter to upload the video on social media if she told anyone about the incident. The victim said that Singh and Kumar raped her several times over the last one month by blackmailing her with the video. The girl claimed that when she refused to meet the two men earlier this month, they circulated her video on social media. Additional superintendent of police, Mukesh Chandra Mishra said, “On basis of the complaint received from the minor girl, a case has been registered against Bhuri Singh and Anil Kumar under the IPC section 376 (punishment for rape), sections of SC/ST act and information technology act. Singh has been arrested and sent to jail on court orders. The other accused will also be arrested very soon.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/dalit-girl-16-raped-in-firozabad-video-circulated-on-social-media/articleshow/80139606.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Kolkata||Cop concern: Covid cases drop in West Bengal, rise in force||KOLKATA: At a time when the city is witnessing a drop in Covid cases, Kolkata Police has been battling an unexpected rise in active cases over the last few days. The active cases, said sources in the Lalbazar welfare cell, stood at 25 on Wednesday morning though the number had dropped to 18 in the beginning of the month. Senior officers said it was too early to predict if year-end celebration duties could be responsible for this sudden rise but stated that the “increase was too marginal and too insignificant” to get worried about. However, all units have been asked to strictly follow protocols, be it during carrying out anti-crime and traffic naka checks or routine investigations. “These are stray cases being reported across the divisions that are not limited to those who were on duty in central Kolkata. We cannot possibly be completely Covid-free until the vaccination starts and these numbers are likely to remain stagnant between 20-25 over the next few weeks,” explained an officer. So far, more than 3,300 personnel have been infected and 20 personnel have lost their lives. Junior officers though said the rise in number right after the festive season has made them circumspect. “’There was no rise in cases even after Durga Puja. It is likely that the rising numbers have nothing to do with the festival, but one needs to be careful. At the police station, we have now evolved multiple ways from coming in contact with outsiders. But at the nakas — even without breath analysers — we are being forced to judge whether a person is indeed drunk. Often, we ask the motorist to talk to us to evaluate him. Even with our masks on, this is risky,” said a sergeant in central Kolkata. Between July and August, we had reported 30-50 fresh cases daily. It fell to less than 20 in early September before puja shopping and its allied arrangements pushed the figures past 25 again. The active cases ranged between 80-120 each day. “Much before Durga Puja, on October 8, we had more than 2,600 active cases. Since then, in a span of two months, we saw an addition of 600 odd cases. Most of the six fresh deaths in this time were either men with some co-morbidity or were reportedly hospitalized for a really long time after they developed allied complications,” explained an officer at Lalbazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cop-concern-cov-cases-drop-in-state-rise-in-force/articleshow/80140746.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 7, 2021||Goa||Multiple cases of injuries from broken glass bottles reported on North Goa beaches||Calangute: Multiple cases of foot injuries due to broken glass bottles were reported in the Calangute-Candolim beach belt recently. In the absence of adequate garbage bins, tourists during the Christmas and New Year celebrations have been dumping empty alcohol bottles on the beach, leading to many visitors sustaining cuts due to the exposed glass shards. Drishti Marine said that ten persons sustained injuries after stepping on broken bottles during the last week of December, when thousands of tourists were seen drinking and dumping bottles on the beach. Locals said many watersports operators and fishermen have also suffered cuts, with many other cases not reported. A 10-year-old boy was also injured at Baga on December 2. He was part of a group of ten persons who were enjoying on the beach. Thboysuffered a deep gash on his foot after stepping on a broken glass bottle. Drishti lifesaver Vinod Gaonkar disinfected the wound and bound it with gauze to arrest bleeding. Meanwhile, an ambulance was called and the boy was rushed to the hospital. In another incident on December 31, a 27-year-old Maharashtra tourist began profusely bleeding due to a cut sustained on the leg from a broken glass at Baga beach. As it was New Year’s eve, ambulances were busy, and the victim was taken to the hospital by Drishti lifesavers in their vehicle. Almost 90% of the first-aid cases related to injuries from broken glass reported during the last few days by Drishti are from Baga and Calangute beaches. A similar incident was reported from Palolem beach in South Goa on December 29, where lifesavers provided first-aid to a 9-year-old tourist from Pune. Tourism stakeholders said these incidents could been avoided if there are adequate number of garbage bins on the beach. “If tourists drink beer from a bottle on the beach, will they take the empty bottle back to his hotel? No, they will dump it on the beach or in a garbage bin if there is one in the vicinity,” John Lobo, general secretary of the Shack Owners Welfare Society (SOWS), said. He said the previous garbage contractor working under Drishti had placed more bins at short distances from each other for the convenience of tourists. “But the present contractor has removed these because cattle tend to knock the bins down in search of food. So now there are fewer bins,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/multiple-cases-of-injuries-from-broken-glass-bottles-reported-on-north-goa-beaches/articleshow/80141765.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 7, 2021||Goa||Cane ryots withdraw stir after CM assurance||Panaji/Poinguinim: After chief minister Pramod Sawant assured to fulfill their demands, the sugarcane cultivators, who were sitting on a dharna for the past few days in Sanguem, withdrew their protest on Wednesday. Kush Gaonkar, president of the Uss Utpadhak Sangarsh Samiti, thanked the government for agreeing to resolve their long-pending demands. Sanguem MLA Prasad Gaonkar said the government has promised to give the farmers a written assurance within the next three days, adding that all the discussions have been recorded. Sawant on Monday invited sugarcane farmers for a meeting to discuss and find a solution to their demands. Farmers sought a written assurance from the government that they would be compensated for their standing crop at Rs 3,600 per tonne till Sanjivani sugar factory becomes operational. On Tuesday, Sanguem deputy collector Ajay Gaude had already conveyed to the agitating farmers the message from deputy CM Chandrakant Kavlekar that their demands of Rs 3,600 per tonne as compensation for standing crops has been accepted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cane-ryots-withdraw-stir-after-cm-assurance/articleshow/80141771.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Dehradun||Over 2k women farmers from Uttarakhand to join protest in Delhi with their children||Nainital: As talks between the farmers agitating against the three new farm laws and the central government remain inconclusive, several women farmers from Uttarakhand’s Udham Singh Nagar district — which falls under the Terai region that is hailed as the ‘rice bowl’ of the state — have decided to join the ongoing protests near Delhi border (at Ghazipur) from Thursday. The women farmers said that they will even take their children – some as young as one-year-old – to the protest site and stage a sit-in until the Centre withdraws the three contentious laws. Since the start of these protests, these women have been taking care of the crops in the absence of their husbands. However, they too have now decided to join their men and demand the Centre to take back the laws. Navreet Kaur (40), whose husband is already at the Ghazipur border, said that she has made all arrangements with regards to her 10-acre field – sown with wheat and sugarcane – and will leave for Delhi on Thursday evening. Kaur said that she will also take her 10-year-old son and 12-year-old daughter to the protest site. “My husband left for Delhi last month. He has been at the border since and in his absence, I was taking care of the crops. Now, with the winter showers helping our crop, I too can join the protest,” said Kaur, who holds a MA degree in Political Science. Another woman farmer Anureet Kaur Maan (36) from Udham Singh Nagar’s Sitarganj town said that she too will take her three children – a one-and-a-half-year-old son, a four-year-old and a 10-year-old daughter — to Delhi to take part in the protest. “We do not mind sitting in the rainfall or sleeping in trollies. Thousands of farmers are already there. It is now important that our children get to see how unfair these bills are for us,” Maan said. She further said that they will not leave the protest site until their demands are met. “I know that our crops require care but if the government does not accede to our demands, our sit-in protest will continue indefinitely. Even if our crops rot in the fields, we won’t budge until our demands are met. Repealing these laws is more important than saving the produce of a season,” Maan added. When asked what they will do if police prevent them from going towards Delhi, the women farmers said that they will stage a protest at the spot where they are stopped by the cops. “We know that the government is going to take each and every step to stop us. We will try to avoid them but if we are left with no choice, we have decided to stage a sit-in protest at the spot where we are stopped,” said Navreet Kaur. Meanwhile, the farmer leaders said that they expect over two thousand women from Uttarakhand to turn up at the protests in the next few days and 20 buses have also been deployed to take these women to protest sites. “We already have thousands of farmers from Uttarakhand and we expect at least a couple thousand women to join the protest in the next few days. Therefore, we have arranged for 20 buses which will ferry the women farmers to the protest sites. Their support will be of immense help in the protest,” said Tejinder Singh Virk, president, Terai Kisan Sangathan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-2k-women-farmers-from-uttarakhand-to-join-protest-in-delhi-with-their-children/articleshow/80139619.cms||Prashant Jha
January 7, 2021||Kolkata||Accident victim in hospital gets Swasthya Sathi help||KOLKATA: The government’s latest welfare schemes — Duare Sarkar and Swasthya Sathi — have come to the rescue of a contractual Group D employee of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC), who is undergoing surgeries at a private hospital after suffering serious injuries in an accident. Three days ago, Jayanta Das, a staff member from BMC’s Ward 1, was severely injured in a road accident after his motorbike hit a car. He was admitted to a private hospital in New Town in a serious condition. On Tuesday, at the behest of BMC commissioner Debasis Ghosh, a team of officials went to the hospital under the Duare Sarkar initiative, enrolled him under the Swasthya Sathi scheme and hand-delivered his health card so that a considerable part of the treatment cost could be covered. Ghosh told TOI on Wednesday: “Tapas has had a complex surgery and another one is due. He is a needy person, but did not have a Swasthya Sathi card. So we went to the hospital, saw him at the ICU, took his biometric identification, photographs and handed over his card so that most of his treatment can be free of cost.” The BMC commissioner added, “Thanks to the two available welfare projects, the family members of Group D staff members from our corporation don’t need to worry about their treatment cost. We could have raised the money ourselves, but that would have been a donation. Duare Sarkar and Swasthya Sathi are both part of governance. While the humanitarian side of the government has been revealed, Tapas is getting the help as his rightful entitlement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/accident-victim-in-hosp-gets-swasthya-sathi-help/articleshow/80140753.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
January 7, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Sensor installation on Majerhat ROB likely this month||KOLKATA: Instrumentation of new Majerhat bridge, which will make it the safest such structure in the city, is likely to start at the end of this month. Installing the instrumentation technology or real-time advanced structural health monitoring of the four-lane cable-stayed bridge will be over by March. However, traffic movement will not be affected while the new bridge is equipped with sensors that will keep an eye on its daily maintenance. About 30 smart sensors will be fitted around the structure to check how it behaves under mobile vehicular load. The sensors are due to arrive from Germany in about a fortnight’s time. “We should commission the instrumentation by March,” said an engineer of the state public works department (PWD), the implementing agency of the reconstructed bridge. Haryana-based SP Singla has built the bridge. The company has assigned an international firm that specializes in instrumentation. A span of the lifeline, which is actually a road overbridge (ROB), fell on 4 September 2018. The chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, opened the new bridge on December 3 last year. A 260m length of the new 650m cable-stayed bridge stands over the Eastern Railway (ER) tracks. The old bridge that collapsed had weakened due to the lack of maintenance. The new bridge is set to have a superior technology installed to monitor the issues that can compromise its integrity. “The wireless sensors will measure the bridge’s overall integrity, using indicators like strain, vibration and flexibility to show whether the structure is functioning well or there are issues that need to be taken care of,” said an engineer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sensor-installation-on-majerhat-rob-likely-this-month/articleshow/80140758.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
January 7, 2021||Goa||Goa: Crime branch arrests cyber stalker, three other criminals||PANAJI/POINGUINIM: The crime branch on Wednesday arrested a cyber stalker for allegedly harassing a school teacher by making obscene video calls. It has also arrested three persons in two different cases — two in a prostitution raid and one in a murder and rape case who was wanted by the Bengaluru police. Crime branch SP Shobhit Saksena said that on December 30 last year, a school teacher complained that someone was making obscene video calls to her and sharing pornographic images that were causing her great mental trauma. A thorough investigation ensued, leading the crime branch to identify the accused as Ibrahim Ahmed Khatik, a resident of Miraj, Sangli, despite him making several attempts to disguise his identity. A team led by PSI Sarvesh Sawant was dispatched to Sangli where Khatik was consequently arrested. In another case, Saksena said the crime branch received information that Sarfaraz alias Salman, a resident of Ponda, had sent a woman for prostitution to a hotel at Arambol along with a female accused, Rehana alias Lima of Old Goa. Two teams of the crime branch and the women’s police station rushed to the hotel and rescued the victim. The two accused were also traced and arrested. The third case involved an absconding 23-year-old accused, Praveena Kumar, who was wanted by a Bengaluru police station in connection with a rape and murder. It was believed that the accused had escaped to Goa. On receiving information, three teams of the crime branch were formed to track the accused, who was found in Canacona while attempting to cross the border at Polem. Praveena was arrested from an inter-state bus heading towards Karnataka and handed over to Bengaluru police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/crime-branch-arrests-cyber-stalker-three-other-criminals/articleshow/80141775.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Goa||Drop dictatorial attitude, withdraw cops: Cong to CM||Panaji: Condemning the use of lathi-charge and tear gas against protesting villagers, particularly women from Shel-Melauli, the Congress on Wednesday urged chief minister Pramod Sawant to give up his “dictatorial attitude” and withdraw the police force from the village. Opposition leader Digamar Kamat said that the government needs to respect the sentiments of citizens instead of forcing mega projects on local residents. Describing the police action as “brutal”, Kamat said that citizens from across Goa will gather at the protest site if the “police dadagiri” continues. “It is unfortunate that the police resorted to lathi-charge and use of tear gas even on the elderly ladies who have shown courage to oppose the IIT project at Shel-Melaualim,” said Kamat. “The chief minister must immediately intervene and withdraw all the police force from the village, failing which the government will be entirely responsible for any untoward incident happening in the village.” Congress, while supporting the protesting villagers, said that the residents are fighting to protect their farms and houses. State Congress president Girish Chodankar also strongly condemned the “cowardly act”, “The BJP must stop atrocities on people of Goa, failing which the Congress will launch a statewide agitation,” Chodankar said. Kamat said that the state government must look at other locations where the government has land. He said that in the past, the Congress bowed down to pressure from people and scrapped the regional plan, special economic zones and other projects. “It is the duty of every government to respect the sentiments of the citizens. A responsible government always takes decisions going by the sentiments and demand of the people,” Kamat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/drop-dictatorial-attitude-withdraw-cops-cong-to-cm/articleshow/80141773.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 7, 2021||Pune||Pune airport to fly out 20mn Covishield doses from today||PUNE: Twenty million doses of the Covishield vaccine, manufactured by the city-based Serum Institute of India, would be despatched from the Pune airport to various centres in the country over the next three days, starting Thursday. “Initially, the vaccine transportation will happen in scheduled aircraft. This arrangement will continue for the next three days. The aircraft transporting the vaccine will be given preference over other aircraft,” an airport official who did not wish to be named told TOI. The Pune airport officials held a meeting with different stakeholders for the vaccine transportation on Wednesday. Asked about the meeting, a Serum Institute of India spokesperson said, “No comment.” City airport to fly out 20m vaccine doses from todayA senior government official who preferred anonymity said it was an internal meeting of the airport cargo officials. “The state authorities were not invited. Hence, I have no idea about the proceedings during the meeting,” he said. When contacted, director of state health services Archana Patil said none of their officials were invited to or attended the meeting. This could have been an internal meeting of the airport authorities, she said. As the vaccine transportation begins, shifting of the existing cargo hold area of the airport to a 2.5-acre area belonging to the Indian Air Force (IAF) remains in abeyance. But authorities said as the airport was not being used by the IAF because of the runway re-carpeting, vaccine transportation would not face any major issue. “There might be an issue when some special aircraft, belonging to the listed airlines or private parties, are used exclusively for vaccine transportation. Also, aircraft of the IAF can be used in the near future for the transport. In both cases, these aircraft will be given preference over regular flights,” another official seeking anonymity said. Airports Authority of India Cargo Logistics and Allied Services Company Limited (AAICLAS) will monitor the vaccine transport across 41 airports, with Pune as the centre point. “Correct protocol has to be maintained for the transport. The Pune airport is operational for 12 hours between 8am and 8pm at present and has 80 flight movements daily. If special aircraft has to be given preference, considering the limitations and the runway work, one will need more manpower and infrastructure,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/city-airport-to-fly-out-20mn-covishield-doses-from-today/articleshow/80141774.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 7, 2021||Chennai||Chennai to Puducherry on a sailboat in 13 hours||CHENNAI: A 75-year-old man was part of the nine-member team which went on two sailboats from Chennai to Puducherry two weeks ago. For a journey which takes a little over two hours by road, it took the team around 13 hours to reach the Puducherry coast as they were solely dependent on the winds. “Thirteen hours might seem long, but it is the fastest in the history of the 110-year-old Royal Madras Yacht Club,” said captain Vivek Shanbag, the expedition leader. The boats were tracked by the Indian Coast Guard and supported by Indian Navy. The oldest participant in the expedition, K Chidambaram, said the winds were in their favour this time as they were able to cover the distance in 13 hours. This time, the two teams sailed on J-80 sailboats. Chidambaram had earlier completed the same Chennai-Puducherry voyage four years ago with another team and it had taken the team more than 20 hours. The latest expedition was a practice run for the national level offshore regatta to be held on the same stretch in March. Chidambaram, a former marine engineer, took up sailing as a hobby at 45. Shanbag, an airline pilot, started sailing in his early 40s and has been sailing competitively since. His team came third in the J80 World Championship 2019 held in Spain in the mixed category and was ranked fourth at the Asian Championship 2019 held in China in the open category. “Sailing is an eco-friendly sport and we intend to popularise it in Tamil Nadu. Already, our sailors are consistently winning at various International and national events including the Asian Games,” said Shanbag. Chidambaram said Europeans have conditioned Indians to have a natural fear of the sea during their rule despite the state and the country’s rich maritime history. “There is no age limit to take up sailing. More children should come forward to take up sailing,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-to-pondy-on-a-sailboat-in-13-hours/articleshow/80140742.cms||Srikkanth D
January 7, 2021||Pune||Pune: Flexible workspaces driving office demand, says report||PUNE: Rising demand for co-working spaces has provided much-needed impetus to the commercial real estate sector in Pune, realty market research firm Knight Frank stated in its report on India market trends in the latter half of 2020. Knight Frank data showed that co-working spaces became the largest occupier of commercial real estate in Pune in the second half of 2020 due to slowing demand from IT companies, which generally lead office occupancy. Co-working spaces constituted 42% of all transactions during the period, with companies leasing 1.7 million sqft of space in the city, primarily in Kalyaninagar, Wanowrie, Hadapsar, and Phursungi, the report showed. “The data indicates despite sluggish demand for office spaces in the early quarters of 2020, areas in the east and south-east of Pune have driven growth for office spaces,” experts said. In the quarter ended December last year, office leasing grew by over 900% as against the same quarter in 2019. All the while, price corrections of 3-7% had been reported in all business districts in Pune, with an average price of Rs 753 per square metre per month, the data showed. “There has been significant demand and enquiries towards co-working spaces, or flexi spaces, as they are known,” said Paramvir Singh Paul, the Pune branch director of Knight Frank. For the ones in the business of co-working spaces, they have testified that demand for flexible workspaces has grown with offices starting to resume normal operations after the Covid spread triggered lockdowns. Kavita Chopra, co-founder of WorkTribe coworking in Kalyaninagar, said, “We had set up our venture in November 2019. Within a few months, the Covid-19 happened. Covid affected us most due to the uncertainties around our clients winding up businesses. It’s a watershed effect. But post-lockdown, we are witnessing more enquiries and conversions. It has a lot to do with the industry shaping up and also our lower pricing to get back into rhythm.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/flexible-workspaces-driving-office-demand-says-report/articleshow/80141813.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
January 7, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Sourav Ganguly decides to extend hospital stay by a day||KOLKATA: Former Team India captain and BCCI president Sourav Ganguly’s discharge from hospital was deferred by a day. Even though he was supposed to be released on Wednesday, the hospital authorities said the 48-year-old — who had been declared fit to return home by a panel of experts, including cardiac surgeon Devi Shetty, on Tuesday — wanted to stay on for another day. It had nothing to do with the former cricketer’s health, though, the hospital clarified. “Mr Ganguly will be discharged tomorrow as he wants to stay back one more day,” said a statement issued by Woodlands Hospital. Ganguly has undergone an angioplasty in his right ventricular artery and has two more blockages that require another procedure. It could be done two-three weeks later, felt the medical board formed for Ganguly’s treatment at Woodlands. “Staying on for another day was entirely his personal decision and he conveyed it to us minutes before he was supposed to be discharged. His condition remains perfectly fine and all his vital health parameters are normal. He will be discharged on Thursday,” said Woodlands CEO Rupali Basu. Ganguly was examined by Shetty on Tuesday. The surgeon conferred with a nine-member medical board at the hospital and said that Ganguly had a “minor cardiac episode” and there has been no serious damage to his heart. “Ganguly was treated early and he remains absolutely fit. Once he undergoes an angiography to remove the other clots, he can return to normal life and do whatever he wishes to. He can run a marathon, play cricket and work out just like anybody else,” said the cardiac surgeon. Hospital sources said that Ganguly and his family have been informed about the need for an angioplasty for the remaining clots and he may return for the procedure in some weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ganguly-decides-to-extend-hospital-stay-by-a-day/articleshow/80140770.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 7, 2021||Goa||Will take action against Melauli protesters: Goa CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Wednesday that action would be taken against those in Melauli who tried to take the law into their own hands, and accused protesters of attempting to murder police personnel. Unfazed by the protests, the CM said that the demarcation of land for the IIT-Goa campus will continue, and that the government would go ahead with the project. Speaking to reporters, Sawant said, “Police and deputy collector were doing their duty, and the government cannot tolerate such acts,” he said When asked if the state would file cases against the Melauli villagers, Sawant said, “Villagers are at fault and action will be taken against those who have taken the law into their own hands”. Sawant also said that the agitators would “calm down”. Earlier in the day, Sawant said that wherever there is an IIT, there is a separate police outpost in the vicinity. “We are setting up a police outpost not because of the protests, but on request of IIT,” he said. Meanwhile, the scuffle between villagers and police continued to grow after government officials started the demarcation process in the presence of a huge police force. Villagers are protesting the government’s decision to set up IIT-Goa at Melauli. After the zilla panchayat election results, health minister and Valpoi MLA Vishwajit Rane, who represents the constituency, urged Sawant to go ahead with the project. Sawant has invited the villagers for a discussion, and assured them that no injustice would be done to them and that their interests would be protected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-take-action-against-melauli-protesters-sawant/articleshow/80141801.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Puducherry||Chennai to Puducherry on a sailboat in 13 hours||CHENNAI: A 75-year-old man was part of the nine-member team which went on two sailboats from Chennai to Puducherry two weeks ago. For a journey which takes a little over two hours by road, it took the team around 13 hours to reach the Puducherry coast as they were solely dependent on the winds. “Thirteen hours might seem long, but it is the fastest in the history of the 110-year-old Royal Madras Yacht Club,” said captain Vivek Shanbag, the expedition leader. The boats were tracked by the Indian Coast Guard and supported by Indian Navy. The oldest participant in the expedition, K Chidambaram, said the winds were in their favour this time as they were able to cover the distance in 13 hours. This time, the two teams sailed on J-80 sailboats. Chidambaram had earlier completed the same Chennai-Puducherry voyage four years ago with another team and it had taken the team more than 20 hours. The latest expedition was a practice run for the national level offshore regatta to be held on the same stretch in March. Chidambaram, a former marine engineer, took up sailing as a hobby at 45. Shanbag, an airline pilot, started sailing in his early 40s and has been sailing competitively since. His team came third in the J80 World Championship 2019 held in Spain in the mixed category and was ranked fourth at the Asian Championship 2019 held in China in the open category. “Sailing is an eco-friendly sport and we intend to popularise it in Tamil Nadu. Already, our sailors are consistently winning at various International and national events including the Asian Games,” said Shanbag. Chidambaram said Europeans have conditioned Indians to have a natural fear of the sea during their rule despite the state and the country’s rich maritime history. “There is no age limit to take up sailing. More children should come forward to take up sailing,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/chennai-to-pondy-on-a-sailboat-in-13-hours/articleshow/80147373.cms||Srikkanth D
January 7, 2021||Pune||Foreign woman, Delhi agent booked for forging exit permits||PUNE: The Hadapsar police are looking for a travel agent from Delhi and a woman from Sierra Leone currently based in the national capital on the charge of facilitating forged exit permits for two women, also from the west African country, visiting the city for treatment of one of them at a hospital and overstaying. The woman patient and her caregiver, both from Sierra Leone, wanted to leave India after the former’s treatment was over. At this point, their Delhi-based woman friend told them that she knew a travel agent in the national capital, who could help them get an exit visa in lieu of some money. “The Delhi-based woman and the agent collected Rs18,000 from the two foreigners and sent them forged exit permits on WhatsApp and the email of a woman hospital manager, who got friendly with the duo during the course of treatment of one of them,” senior inspector Milind Gaikwad (prosecution and vigilance) of the Pune police’s foreigners’ registration office (FRO) said on Wednesday. An exit permit is required for a person leaving the country whose visa has expired or visa extension plea is pending consideration. Gaikwad said, “The matter came to light during the scrutiny of these permits with other documents, which the two foreigners had submitted to the High Commission of Accra and Ghana. The high commission wrote a letter to the FRO, Pune, to conduct an inquiry into the forged permits. We then launched an inquiry to identify the persons responsible for forging the documents.” He said, “The foreigner patient and her caregiver arrived in Pune on a medical visa and X-visa in March 2020. The patient got admitted to the hospital on March 11 for seeking treatment. She was discharged from the hospital on May 23. Their visas expired on May 9, but they continued to reside in Phursungi. The patient sought treatment till August 20.” The senior inspector said, “The patient later contacted her friend from Sierra Leone, currently residing in Delhi, and sought help for seeking permits for leaving India and sent the latter the required documents. Her friend then took the help of the travel agent and an online application for securing permits was filed with the FRO of the Mumbai police on August 22. The foreigners paid Rs18,000 to the suspects, but they did not receive the permits quickly. When the patient and the hospital’s manager visited the FRO, Pune, and contacted the high commission, they came to know that no fees were charged for issuing permits.” The FIR filed by constable Sachin Sahane on Tuesday said after the hospital manager contacted the agent and told him that no fees were required for procuring the exit permit, he told her that fees were required to be paid. He then sent her the forged permits showing that fees of Rs11,500 was paid. The hospital manager again confronted the agent, saying the permits were forged. The agent then held the Sierra Leone national responsible for the incident. He later sent fresh permits to the manager and repaid Rs18,000 to the foreigners.” Sub-inspector Sagar Poman from the Hadapsar police said, “An FIR under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code was registered. An agent and a foreigner have been held responsible for forging the exit permit in the FIR. We shall arrest them for identifying the source where the permits were forged.” The woman patient and her caregiver returned to Sierra Leone after they received the genuine exit permits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/foreign-woman-delhi-agent-booked-for-forging-exit-permits/articleshow/80141792.cms||Asseem Shaikh
January 7, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Sector V to get its own pedestrian plaza||KOLKATA: The Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) is planning to turn Street No. 25 in Sector V — stretching from RDB Boulevard Mall till Infinity Benchmark — into a model pedestrian street plaza. It will be a no-car zone. The plan is to turn the busy 500m stretch into a walking street with street furniture, creative landscape, public art and decorative street illumination. The authorities are on the process to select an agency for preparing a detailed project report (DPR) on the plan. Officials said the selected agency will conduct a detail survey of the area and prepare a DPR comprising the designs of modern and attractive street furniture, art installations, landscape design, signage, advertisement street lighting and others that would compliment and be suitable with the young crowd. The agency will also come up with a tentative project cost to implement the plan. NDITA officials said Street No. 25 is the most happening and vibrant stretch of Sector V as young IT professionals engage with their friends at the malls and road-side eateries. “The idea is to keep the road car free and add an attractive look like other pedestrian plazas across the world,, ” said an official. Techies said that it would be great to have such a pedestrian-only street in Sector V. “The pedestrian-only street concept is very nice as this road often becomes too congested with constant flow of traffic. There are many such pedestrian-only streets in other parts of the country and they look nice,” said Kaustav Dey, an IT professional. Earlier last year, NDITA representatives had attended a workshop on model safe roads from where the idea to have a pedestrian-only street in Sector V was conceived. Earlier, a research team had worked for several months as to how small interventions can make roads safer for people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sector-v-to-get-its-own-pedestrian-plaza/articleshow/80140780.cms||Suman Chakraborti
January 7, 2021||Pune||Pune: Stamp duty cut & cheaper loans push home sales||PUNE: The state government’s move to reduce stamp duty to 3%, easier loans and affordability together helped Pune to emerge one of the driving forces for the housing market in the country. The rise in affordability has also meant that buyers are now being able to afford larger and premium apartments, with the notable growth in the 2 or 3 BHK segments, Pune real estate reports by Knight Frank and Gera Developments stated. “The premium segment sales increased in the second half of 2020 as they made the most of the stamp duty cut, as well as low interest rates leading to easier loans. Buyers realized the need for larger apartments due to the lockdown, as large families had to work all at once in the same apartment,” said Paramvir Singh Paul, the branch head of Knight Frank in Pune. Knight Frank’s report stated that on an average salary in Pune, about 26% of it would go to finance a loan every month, the lowest in a decade, which has also led to a 2% rise in the size of the average apartment sold in Pune. Rohit Gera, the managing director of Gera Developments, said the shift towards the premium market was unmistakable. “There has been a marked rise in sales in the 800 to 1,000sqft range, as well as the 1,200 to 1,400sqft range in the second half of 2020. We think that people are looking for better projects and in better locations, given the rise in affordability,” Gera said. The report by Gera stated that big developers in Pune were increasingly cornering the market share, which would make the market difficult for smaller players to compete. It also said the city had around 11 months of inventory left, which was good.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/stamp-duty-cut-cheaper-loans-push-home-sales/articleshow/80141819.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
January 7, 2021||Goa||Vice-President to felicitate five serving, ex-legislators||Panaji: Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, who is on a 6-day visit to the state, will attend the Goa Legislator’s Day function on January 9 where five former and serving legislators, including Pratapsingh Rane, will be felicitated. The function, which will be held outdoors at the assembly complex at Porvorim, will also see three former legislators and freedom fighters being honoured for their role in building Goa. Among those who will be felicitated are former Union minister of state for external affairs Eduardo Faleiro Rohidas Naik, Chandrakant Chodankar, Anil Prabhudesai and former chief minister and Rane, speaker Rajesh Patnekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vice-president-to-felicitate-five-serving-ex-legislators/articleshow/80141818.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Pune||Bizman in net for duping retd teacher of Rs 65 lakh||Pune: The city police’s economic offences wing (EoW) on Tuesday night arrested a businessman on the charge of duping a retired teacher of Rs65 lakh on the pretext of promising higher returns since November 2014. The police have invoked charges under the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (MPID) Act against Pankaj Bhagchand Challani (46), considering that the magnitude of the economic fraud may run into crores of rupees. The police have appealed to the investors, who may have been duped by Challani, to come forward with their complaint pleas. A special court on Wednesday ordered Challani’s remand in police custody till January 12. The police are conducting searches at his bungalow in Mukundnagar and his office on the Pune-Satara road and four others places. The outcome of the searches was not known till late Wednesday night. A police team, led by inspector Swati Desai, took Challani into custody from his house after an investor registered an FIR with the Swargate police. Assistant commissioner of police (EoW) Shivaji Pawar told TOI on Wednesday, “Challani launched a number of schemes for investors, luring them to invest in schemes such as buying and selling land for higher returns. After the word of receiving good returns spread among investors, many people invested in his schemes.” Pawar said, “The investors later started making rounds of his office after not getting the promised annuals interest at the rate of 18% and 24%. The fraud came to light after a retired teacher, Richard Anchi (58) from Bhosalenagar, approached us with a complaint. We have also received complaint applications from around 35 investors, who said Challani had duped them to the tune of around Rs50 crore. The magnitude of the fraud committed by Challani may go over Rs200 crore.” Police said the FIR was registered under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and MPID Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bizman-in-net-for-duping-retd-teacher-of-rs-65-lakh/articleshow/80141821.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Chennai||Tension as MHA officials try to seal TNTJ office in Chennai||CHENNAI: Tension prevailed outside the head office of Tamil Nadu Thowheed Jamath (TNTJ) on Armenian Street on Wednesday after officials from the Custodian for Enemy Property for India (CEPI) under the ministry of home affairs (MHA) arrived to take over the building under the Enemy Property Act. Police sources said the officials arrived from the CEPI office in Mumbai and had taken local revenue authorities along with police to seal the premises. “TNTJ head office has been functioning out of the building for the past 12 years and we have been paying an annual rent of more than Rs 4 lakh to the authorities,” said Abdul Rahman, state vice-president, TNTJ. ‘Enemy property’ refers to properties and companies of those who took Pakistani nationality after Partition and also in the wake of India-Pakistan wars of 1965 and 1971. Also, properties left behind by people who went to China after the 1962 war are called ‘enemy property’. CEPI is the custodian of these properties. According to the MHA website, there are 9,406 enemy properties (9,280 belonging to Pakistani nationals and 126 of Chinese nationals) that have been declared and are vested with the Custodian of Enemy Property for India. Reports estimated that the value of these properties over Rs 1 lakh crore. There are 5,866 properties pending verification, the website stated. After the news spread, office bearers of TNTJ and several other members arrived at the premises from different parts of the city and protested, opposing sealing of the building. “We were not issued any notice from the authorities. This is our state headquarters and our Jamaath volunteers were active in all relief work during natural disasters and we do a lot of service. So we requested the officials to give us time. We are looking at a legal recourse on the issue,” said Abdul Rahman. A senior police officer said CEPI officials approached the Chennai collector saying the office was being used for several purposes other than the entitled one. However, the officials conducted inquiries and did not seal the building, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tension-as-mha-officials-attempt-to-seal-jamath-bldg/articleshow/80140761.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Chennai||Despite late rally, sale of homes in Chennai fell 49%||CHENNAI: Sales of residential apartments in Chennai fell by 49% and launch of new housing apartments dipped by 37% in Covid-hit 2020 compared to 2019, according to Knight Frank India. However, sales in the ticket size of Rs 50 lakh and above increased during the second half of 2020 with Chennai’s residential real estate demand in recovery mode with the ready-to-move-in projects seeing good traction. The property consultant’s report for July-December 2020 released on Wednesday said 8,650 new housing units were sold and work on 7,234 housing units was launched in 2020. In 2019, nearly 17,000 new apartments were sold in the city and work on more than 11,500 housing units was launched. Average prices of residential properties also fell significantly across markets during the second half of last year as developers did their best to push sales. “Prices fell the most in Chennai at 9% year-on-year, followed by Pune and NCR at 5% and 4%, respectively,” the report said. The report said construction activity came to a standstill in March and April 2020, while from May to October the realty sector witnessed challenges such as shortage of labour, high input costs and low demand. This hampered supply. On the office space front, absorptions, which had been robust in the past couple of years, plunged by 13% in 2020. However, the second half of 2020 saw record decadal half-year absorptions of 139%, which is attributed to leading MNCs opting for spaces on Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR). Srinivas Anikipatti, senior director of Knight Frank India (Tamil Nadu and Kerala), said leasing activity in the office space sector maintained its decadal annual average with 4.5 million square feet of transacted space in 2020. However, there was a 13% dip year-on-year. “It is important to note that 2019 was Chennai’s peak year in terms of demand. Leasing activity had recorded an all-time high of 5.2 million square feet in 2019,” he said in the report. The IT sector, which is the primary driver of Chennai’s office market, largely adopted a work-from-home policy during the lockdown and continues to do so for now, he added. “The record absorption in the second half of the 2020 was sparked by just nine deals including Amazon and Walmart largely on OMR,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/despite-late-rally-sale-of-homes-in-chennai-fell-49/articleshow/80140775.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Dehradun||Bhagat's tenure as state chief a controversial one for BJP||Dehradun: BJP state chief Bansidhar Bhagat has often been in the limelight for the controversial statements he has made in the past. Last year, while exhorting party leaders to improve their performance, he had said that “MLAs won’t get votes in the name of PM Narendra Modi as the Modi wave is now over and they have to depend on their own performance”. Later, he had to release a statement in which he stated that his remarks on the PM, who is a great leader, had been misinterpreted by the people of a media channel whom he had spoken to. Bhagat was also criticised for downplaying the importance of wearing a mask and was clicked performing pooja in a temple when religious places were closed during the Covid-induced lockdown. He was also seen using a gadget which he termed will save him from Covid-19, and soon after that he tested positive for the virus. A grand party that lasted for a couple of days, which was thrown by Bhagat after he shifted to his new home, also drew criticism as social distancing norms were sidelined during the event. Later, Bhagat and many others present in the function tested positive for Covid-19. Notably, his remark on former chief minister Harish Rawat becoming “too old to be in politics” was also criticised by the opposition Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bhagats-tenure-as-state-chief-a-controversial-one-for-bjp/articleshow/80139655.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 7, 2021||Jaipur||Body of 18-year-old found in Ajmer village||Ajmer: The body of an 18-year-old youth tied up with electricity wires was found in an abandoned house in Khrawa village near Beawar on Wednesday morning. The deceased was identified as Jayram Damami, 18, a resident of Chanwal village in Pali. The FSL team from Ajmer reached the spot to collect the evidence. Three days ago, a man’s body was found on Makhupura road, which still remains unidentified. Villagers told police that on Wednesday morning when they went to relieve themselves near the government school, they found the dead body. Jayram was living with his maternal grandparents in Khrawa. During investigation, police found that Jayram was seen flying kite with some youths from the village at the same spot. He didn’t return and therefore his relatives began searching for him at night. They also went to houses of his friends, but no one saw Jayram after the kite flying session. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/body-of-18-year-old-found-in-ajmer-village/articleshow/80141817.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Mumbai||Cabinet extends date for regularisation of constructions on Gunthewari land||MUMBAI: The state cabinet on Wednesday extended the date for regularisation of constructions on Gunthewari land till December 31, 2021. The previous cut-off was January 1, 2001. Gunthewari development means plots formed by unauthorisedly sub-dividing privately owned land with buildings on such plots, including excess vacant land under Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act, 1976, not vested in the state government but excluding land under encroachment. Such land is governed by Maharashtra Gunthewari Development (Regularisation, Upgradation and Control) Act, 2001. The law allows for regularisation of construction on Gunthewari land barring no-development zones, eco-sensitive areas, green belts, tourism zones and areas which carry security concerns upto the cut-off date. The extension is expected to benefit constructions, especially on unauthorised layouts especially on outskirts of cities like Aurangabad, Jalna and Pimpri-Chinchwad, officials said. Maharashtra cabinet on Wednesday approved extension of its electronics policy 2016 till March 2023. It was to expire on April 10, 2021. The government will synchronise its electronics policy with Centre’s scheme for promotion of manufacturing of electronic components and semi-conductors. Sectors which receive no benefit in the Centre’s policy will be granted incentives under the state policy, as the government wants to attract more investments. 1L solar pumps for agri to be set up The cabinet on Tuesday approved a scheme to use solar power for agricultural pumps. One lakh solar pumps for agricultural use will be set under the Centre’s Kusum scheme, officials said. The cost of the scheme will be Rs 1,969 crore, of which 30% or Rs 585 crore will be met by Centre and Rs 1,211 crore by the state. The scheme will provide reliable and cheaper energy for agriculture, which can be accessed during the day, officials said. It will be implemented by Maharashtra Energy Development Agency or Maha Urja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cabinet-extends-date-for-regularisation-of-constructions-on-gunthewari-land/articleshow/80140895.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Trichy||2,907 personnel posted as VVPOs in central zone||Trichy: Central zone police launched the village vigilance police officer (VVPO) programme in nine districts on Wednesday. Inspector general of police (IGP) of the central zone, H M Jayaram, inaugurated the programme, the concept of which has been rolled out in all the villages listed out based on the sensitivity of the locations. Stating that the state-wide scheme is being promoted by special director-general of police Rajesh Dass, Jayaram said that the villagers expressed their satisfaction to work in coordination with police for the development of the society. He also said that 2,907 police personnel have been deputed as VVPOs. The concept of VVPO is aimed at developing a good rapport with the residents of the particular village by keeping a close watch on even small issues in the village assigned for the cop. The crux of the system is to ensure that the response time of dealing with issues is reduced. Hence, if there is a grievance or petition from a particular village, the VVPO concerned should know about it and brief the sub-inspector or the inspector about the problem of the petitioner so that it can be prioritised and dealt with effectively. VVPOs should keep an eye on all the cases of suspicious deaths reported in the village and can dig deeper to ferret out the truth behind such deaths. Besides being focussed on crime and law and order issues, the VVPO is also assigned to look into civic issues such as road connectivity, drinking water, sewage problem so that it can be communicated to the revenue administration. The IGP said that such steps will also prevent the occurrence of road blockade and agitations by the people. Jayaram, deputy inspector general of police (DIG), Trichy range, Z Annie Vijaya, superintendent of police, and Trichy district T Jeyachandran participated in the programme at Panayakurichi under Thiruverumbur police jurisdiction and Irungalur under Samayapuram police jurisdiction to introduce the VVOPs to the villagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2907-personnel-posted-as-vvpos-in-central-zone/articleshow/80141825.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 7, 2021||Jaipur||Nurses protest against removing contract workers||Ajmer: Rajasthan Nurses’ Association on Wednesday staged a protest after the state government released an order to remove nurses working on contract in JLN Hospital. These nurses are working since a very long time and therefore due to the age bar, they were unable to appear in the nurses selection exam in 2018. The association threatened that every nurse in the district will go on strike if state government does not withdraw the order. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nurses-protest-against-removing-contract-workers/articleshow/80141826.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Jaipur||Cops book man for duping woman in name of marriage||Ajmer: A woman on Wednesday registered a report at Christian Ganj police station here against a man for cheating and extorting money from her in the name of marriage. Police have registered a case and are investigating. The woman has alleged in her report that one Rahul Kumar, a resident of Bengaluru, cheated her and has extorted money from her in the name of marriage. According to police, a woman came to them stating that about five years ago, she met Rahul on a social media site. Later, they started meeting and went into a relationship. He later asked her to marry him. The accused then asked for Rs 27 lakh from her as loan saying that his work was not going great and the victim agreed to give the money. The report stated that the man promised to marry her all this while but has now fled away with the money. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-book-man-for-duping-woman-in-name-of-marriage/articleshow/80141841.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Pune||Pune: Hotel waiter places camera in women’s washroom, held||PUNE: Police on Tuesday arrested an 18-year-old waiter on the charge of placing his cellphone camera in the women’s washroom of an eatery at Sutarwadi in Pashan along the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass on Monday night. A teenaged student lodged a complaint with the Chatushrungi police station after she noticed the cellphone and raised the issue with the authorities at the eatery. The waiter was called but he ran away after snatching the cellphone. “We arrested the waiter, Hanif Ansari, from his rented house,” assistant inspector Savita Bhagwat of Chatushrungi police said. Bhagwat said the complainant had gone to the eatery for dinner along with her family around 9pm on Monday. She went to the washroom and spotted the cellphone hidden in a wall. “She became suspicious because it was placed in such a way that only the camera lens was jutting out of the wall,” Bhagwat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hotel-waiter-places-camera-in-womens-washroom-held/articleshow/80141824.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Jaipur||Jodhpur-based producer’s film selected for big award||Jodhpur: Feature film ‘Prawaas’ produced in Marathi language by Jodhpur-based producer Om Chhangani has been selected for ICFT-UNESCO Mahatma Gandhi award in the International Film Festival of India.The award is given by International Council for Film, TV & Audio-visual Communication, Paris, to a film which reflects the ideals promoted by UNESCO, especially tolerance, intercultural dialogue and culture of peace. The film was also selected in the 51st International Film Festival of India 2020 along 23 other movies. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jodhpur-based-producers-film-selected-for-big-award/articleshow/80141822.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Vadodara||Two arrested for series of vehicle thefts||Vadodara: The detection of crime branch (DCB) on Wednesday arrested two men and cracked several cases of thefts registered in different areas of the city. The police said that it had received information that the accused duo would be passing from Akota following which they kept an eye in the area.According to the police, the duo Jalaluddin Sheikh and Imran Sheikh, both residents of Ahmedabad, were travelling on a stolen two-wheeler. They were picked up and questioned following which they admitted to have stolen four cars from different areas in the city. Four offences of vehicle thefts were registered against them in Raopura, Panigate and Bapod police station while one more was registered in Ahmedabad.The police said that they used to steal vehicles and sell them off for making some quick money. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-arrested-for-series-of-vehicle-thefts/articleshow/80139681.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Pune||Pune: Experts suggest caution, strict vigilance while issuing credit notes for road construction||PUNE: The new policy of issuing credit notes to developers building roads and bridges for the civic body would hit the revenue of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), experts said. Activists and town planners have urged necessary caution while using credit notes and have demanded strict vigil on allotment and utilization of the credit notes. The PMC’s standing committee on Tuesday approved a proposal to hire a consultant to study the public private partnership (PPP) initiative for development of four roads and two bridges worth Rs600 crore. Under the initiative, credit notes would be given for development of these facilities. The roads and bridges proposed to be built under this initiative are located in Hadapsar, Kharadi and Mundhwa. Vivek Velankar of Sajag Nagrik Manch, a citizens’ group, said monitoring of the credit notes would be a major concern and could lead to serious problems for the administration. Ramchandra Guhad, a senior urban planner, said, “The projects can be made successful under the PPP model through strict vigilance and proper utilization of the financial resources,” he said. The credit notes will be given in phases, based on the progress of the road works. The developers will be able to use maximum credit of Rs200 crore per year. “Such cash is must for day to day functioning of the PMC. A sizeable reduction in its flow may crumble the PMC’s financial management,” said Vijay Kumbhar of Surajya Sangharsh Samiti, a citizens’ group. “Such ideas for revenue generation will hamper the works. If inflow of cash goes down, PMC will be burdened with loans,” said Hemant Bagul, an architect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/experts-suggest-caution-strict-vigilance-while-issuing-credit-notes-for-road-construction/articleshow/80141853.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
January 7, 2021||Chennai||What’s the plan to handle int’l flyers: HC||Chennai: The Madras high court on Wednesday directed the Centre to take expert advice and come out with an appropriate plan to quarantine international passengers affected with the new variant of Covid-19 and their co-passengers, irrespective of country of origin. “We are not experts, but please ask the authorities to consult the experts and address concerns indicated by the petitioner and get back to us within a week,” the first bench of chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said. To this, additional solicitor general R Shankaranarayanan submitted that the government has already banned flights from the UK where the new strain of the virus has been identified. “We are not adding to the confusion, we are only requesting you to do it,” the court said. According to the petitioner, at present, only passengers from the UK are subject to mandatory testing and quarantine to ascertain whether they are infected with the new strain of Covid-19. Though the new variant was detected in the UK, a passenger coming from any other country may have been in contact with someone who visited the UK and was infected, he said. “During February and March, we focused only on passengers coming from China, but Covid-19 spread from passengers from other countries,” the lawyer said. Therefore, the government must ensure that all passengers travelling from abroad to India are subjected to RT-PCR test on arrival, he added. Moreover, on average, it takes up to six days for an infected person to exhibit symptoms and in some cases, it could take even 14 days. The present procedure will not help in tracking asymptomatic passengers, he said. When the plea came up for hearing, the bench observed that the UK, with its robust and sophisticated scientific research, has managed to identify the new variant of coronavirus even before the US. It has been reported that the new strain, though not as lethal as the old strain, is capable of spreading rapidly and could infect more people putting the vulnerable at risk, the court added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/whats-the-plan-to-handle-intl-flyers-hc/articleshow/80140806.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Patna||Nitish Kumar asks police top brass to control crime in Bihar||PATNA: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Wednesday held another review meeting with senior police officials over crime and law & order matters at the police headquarters here. He issued instructions and told police officers in very categorical terms that no laxity will be tolerated. It was the CM's second visit to the police headquarters in the last two weeks, and fifth review meeting on crime control in the last one-and-a-half months after taking charge as chief minister for the fourth consecutive term on November 16 last year. “Crime must be kept under control in all 38 districts across the state and no laxity on this count shall be tolerated. Police should do an investigation with complete honesty and full alertness and they should also complete the investigation within a stipulated time frame. Innocent people should not be framed at any cost and guilty people must not be spared,” Nitish told the officers at the review meeting. The CM further asked the officials to set up a ‘communication wing’ in the crime investigation department (CID) of the state police to provide correct information about police works and actions so that people could not be misled. “Several negative stories about crimes are being spread on different platforms of social media. The police department should give correct information to people about the crime scenario and other police actions using social media platforms. This will lead to a positive change in the society,” Nitish told the police officers at the meeting. The CM further asked home department officials to ensure that the DMs and SPs hold meetings on the law and order issues regularly. The CM also stressed the need for regular and periodic training of all police personnel and called for the strengthening of dog squads. “The dog squads have a very effective role in crime control and maintaining law and order,” Nitish told the police officers at the meeting. Later, while talking to media persons about his review meeting, Nitish said, “I mainly reviewed the functioning of two important wings of state police—the CID and the Bihar Military Police (BMP).” “During my last visit to the police headquarters, I had told you that I would be visiting here from time to time. Hence, I came here to discuss with police officers. Today, we discussed different aspects of crime control and law and order issues,” Nitish told reporters. He said the CID has to play a very significant role in the investigation and crime control. “The CID keeps and maintains police station-wise data about crime incidents. The CID will be provided with all necessary logistic support so that there will be no difficulty in its investigation works,” the CM said. Earlier at the meeting, the additional DGP (CID) Vinay Kumar made a detailed presentation before the CM about the structure and functioning of the CID wing of the state police. Similarly, the Director-General (BMP) R S Bhatti made a detailed presentation about the functioning and duties of the Bihar Military Police. State’s chief secretary Deepak Kumar, the additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani and the DGP S K Singhal also were present at the review meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-asks-police-top-brass-to-control-crime-in-state/articleshow/80140809.cms||Madan Kumar
January 7, 2021||Pune||Man robbed soon after ATM visit||Pune: Three men on a motorcycle waylaid, threatened and robbed a construction material supplier of Rs60,000, moments after he had withdrawn the cash from an ATM in Manjari around 12.40am on Tuesday. The incident occurred near Serum Institute of India on Malwadi Road in Hadapsar. An officer from Hadapsar police said, “The three men followed the construction material supplier Parappa Bansode and intercepted him. Two men threatened him and one robbed him and fled. He later lodged an FIR under relevant sections of the IPC.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-robbed-soon-after-atm-visit/articleshow/80141863.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Trichy||DMK won’t allow Hindi imposition in Tamil Nadu: Udhayanidhi Stalin||TRICHY: Recalling the anti-Hindi agitation of former chief minister M Karunanidhi at Kallakudi in Trichy, DMK youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin launched a tirade against the BJP-led government for “trying to impose Hindi in Tamil Nadu,” here on Wednesday. “Hindi cannot be imposed in Tamil Nadu. The rulers are hellbent on doing it, but Tamil people will never allow it. We (DMK) are not against Hindi. But we will oppose the imposition of Hindi forever,” he told reporters at Kallakudi railway station. Udhayanidhi visited Kallakudi Palanganatham railway station in the morning as part of his campaign in Trichy. He recalled the Kallakudi demonstration spearheaded by his grandfather and the late DMK president Karunanidhi to protest against the renaming of Kallakudi as Dalmiapuram after Ramakrishna Dalmia, a Bihar businessman who had set up a cement factory at Kallakudi in 1953. The third generation politician from Karunanidhi’s family termed his visit to the station today as a proud moment. During his campaign in Kattuputhur, Udhayanidhi called the state unsafe of everyone in the wake of the arrest of an AIADMK functionary by CBI in the Pollachi sexual assault case. “No one including students and farmers are safe in the state,” he alleged. Udhayanidhi also raked up the issue of the death of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa. Exuding confidence of coming to power in the 2021 assembly election, he said that the mystery surrounding Jayalalithaa’s death will be brought to light. Udhayanidhi alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was biased in not sanctioning funds to Tamil Nadu as the “voters rejected him”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dmk-wont-allow-hindi-imposition-in-tn-udhayanidhi/articleshow/80141861.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Trichy||Plastic waste caused death of cows in Trichy||Trichy: A day after a couple of milch cows were found dead in a farm in Pathalapettai near Thiruverumbur in Trichy district, the department of animal husbandry on Wednesday ascertained that a bloat due to plastic waste in the digestive system caused the death.On Tuesday afternoon, there were reports that four milch cows in Pathalapettai died under mysterious circumstances in a farm. As the news circulated, it led to speculation that the cows died due to some mysterious disease. Soon, it came to the notice of the Trichy district administration and the department of animal husbandry.Joint director of department of animal husbandry, Trichy, Dr S Esther Sheela on Wednesday ordered the department officials to visit the spot. Dr Esther denied that four milch cows died in the area yesterday. “We found two cows dead and our team performed the postmortem on the carcasses,” she told ToI.She also confirmed that the postmortem revealed that the plastic wastes were found in the digestive system. “The cows had been straying outside and consuming plastics wastes on the road leading to the tragedy. The owners of the cows should be responsible and keep them in the shed to protect them,” said Dr Esther.A government veterinarian said that the plastic could cause obstruction in the rumen in the cow over a period of time. “Being indigestible, the plastic will settle in the rumen and cause obstruction in the path leading to the accumulation of gas and will eventually lead to death,” said a veterinarian.In order to create awareness, the animal husbandry department organised an awareness camp for the cow owners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/plastic-waste-caused-death-of-cows-in-trichy/articleshow/80141886.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 7, 2021||Pune||IMA felicitates specialists||Pune: City-based gynaecologist Avinash Bhutkar received Indian Medical Association (IMA)’s lifetime achievement award, senior urosurgeon Shivdeo Bapat was conferred the academic excellence and research award. IMA Pune community and social award was given to the ENT surgeon, Avinash Wachasundar. Endovascular surgeon and researcher Shardul Date received IMA Pune young achiever’s award. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ima-felicitates-specialists/articleshow/80141872.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Arjun Rampal’s sister doesn’t appear before NCB||MUMBAI: Actor Arjun Rampal’s sister Komal failed to appear before Narcotics Control Bureau in connection with seizure of painkillers from his house last month. NCB had on Tuesday recorded the statement of Shruti Modi, former business manager of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, in connection with filing of a chargesheet in Rajput’s death case. Officials said NCB had seized two strips of painkillers which contain opium from Arjun’s house and had summoned Komal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rampals-sister-doesnt-appear-before-ncb/articleshow/80140897.cms||S Ahmed Ali
January 7, 2021||Chennai||Corpn budget: Residents want better waste disposal, amenities||Chennai: As the city corporation prepares for its budget, ahead of the assembly election, residents want it to focus more on solid waste management and basic amenities. It should also ensure better transparency regarding expenditure, they say. Former councillor T Subashchandra Bose, a DMK member, said the corporation may boast about its multi-level car parking facility and the Pondy Bazaar pedestrian plaza, but people only want good roads, proper garbage management and no water stagnation during rain. This, he said, the corporation had failed to deliver so far. Eight of the corporation’s 15 zones, which were added in 2011, are yet to see much development especially in terms of parks, playgrounds, solid waste management and infrastructure projects. Even during the recent rain, these zones were badly affected due to lack of storm water drains. V Rama Rao, an activist from Nanganallur, said there were very few community halls in the extended areas. “Enough space is available, such as the space behind Nanganallur 4th Main Road,” he said. V Kuppan of Adambakkam said the area did not have a single big park. Senthil Arumugham of Satta Panchayat said the civic body should try and set up area sabhas and ward committees to make governance easy and inclusive. Many residents said the major expenditure should be on solid waste management and setting up playgrounds in extended areas. Former chairman of Ambattur and councillor of Mogappair, Neelakandan said there was no transparency and the civic body usually spent more than market rates resulting in corruption. V Santhanam of Chromepet said corporation officials should wear name badges and budget allocations and work progress should be made public. Jayaram Venkatesan, convenor of Arappor Iyakkam, said the focus should mainly be on setting up infrastructure for composting and not just transporting waste. “With another 200 Amma clinics planned, we expect transparency in that.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-budget-residents-want-better-waste-disposal-amenities/articleshow/80140776.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Chennai||HC asks health officials to come up with action plan to tackle dengue||Chennai: The Madras high court on Wednesday directed the state health secretary to convene virtual meetings with all municipal health departments and take expert advice to come out with an action plan to tackle dengue spread not just in Chennai but across the state. “Institute of Clinical Research India (ICRI) can make efforts to explore the possibilities of developing a vaccine and a paper to indicate measures to prevent further spread of the disease,” the first bench of chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said. The court passed the interim direction on a PIL moved by advocate A P Suryaprakasam to prevent the spread of dengue in the metropolis of Chennai. When the plea came up for hearing, the bench said, “Indeed, the matter need not be confined to Chennai and may be seen to cover the entire state, including other towns and cities, where migration leads to additional people living in poor and unhygienic conditions, allowing stagnant water to create breeding grounds for the larvae.” The health department should endeavour to obtain expert advice, spread awareness among those most vulnerable, make regular attempts to remove stagnant water and to educate the citizens to cover water that may have been collected for future use, the court added. Noting that use of repellents and other chemicals on a regular basis may also be looked into by an expert body and advisories may be issued by the health department thereupon, the court said, “The department must constantly monitor implementation of the scheme, particularly in areas that have shown signs of greater infection or those more amenable to an outbreak.” “Particular attention should be paid to areas occupied by fishermen since they may have more collection of stagnant water,” the court said and adjourned the hearing to March 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-asks-health-officials-to-come-up-with-action-plan-to-tackle-dengue/articleshow/80140854.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Jaipur||2 smugglers from MP held with 10kg ganja||Baran: Baran district police arrested two smugglers from Madhya Pradesh at Kashipura Circle on Balunda Road under Mangrole police station of the district and recovered 10kg illegally possessed ganja that they were going to sell among the local consumers. On a tip-off from Baran district special team (DST) on illegal transportation of ganja in the area, a police team, during the checking of vehicles at Kashipura Circle on Balunda Road arrested two persons, identified as Gyanender Sharma (40) and Nakul Kalal (31), both residents of Sheopur district in MP and recovered 10kg illegal ganja from their possession, said SHO at Mangrol police station Jai Prakesh Atal. The police also seized the bike they were on, he added. During initial inquiry, the accused admitted that the drug was meant to be sold to local consumers in Baran district, he added. The two accused were booked under sections of NDPS Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-smugglers-from-mp-held-with-10kg-ganja/articleshow/80141862.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Chennai||Scion records tastes of Thanjavur Marathas||Every conqueror is known to have left his/her imprint on the places they conquered. Not just through official changes in the seat of power but also by contributing to the culture, cuisine and lifestyle of the region. The Marathas, who ruled the region of Thanjavur from 1676 to 1855, were no exception. Kesar mass is a royal dish associated with the Thanjavur Marathas. It takes only a few minutes to prepare and can be kept for a week. ‘Lady mamamud’ is made of mutton and ribbed gourd. Even though mutton rot looks like a cutlet, it is not. It is a vibrant world of recipes but only a few in the family know how to make it today. Pratap Sinh Serfoji Raje Bosle, the 14th descendant of Thanjavur royal family, has documented more than 100 such dishes which were once popular in the royal kitchen of the Marathas. He collected details from his mother Ayshwarya Serfoji Raje Bosle, an expert of the family cuisine. Even though Pratap Sinh grew up seeing his mother cook royal dishes with much aplomb, it was a handwritten menu of unique chicken and mutton rot recipes of the restaurant run by his parents at Anna Nagar in the 1980s that made him want to record the secrets of the kitchen before they are forgotten. "We served signature dishes with our traditional Thanjavur Maratha royal dishes at the restaurant. ‘Sunkti’ (similar to ‘kola urandai’ or mutton balls) were available only at our restaurant in those days. My parents ran the restaurant for three years," said Pratap Sinh, a software professional who also helps his father in running his electronics components unit in Chennai’s Ritchie Street. The menu was a turning point. Pratap Sinh started exploring the royal cuisines. He found King Serfoji II (1798-1832) was not only a scholar but also a connoisseur of food. "King Serfoji maintained three kinds of kitchen. A non-vegetarian (Marathi), a brahminical (vegetarian) and one for ‘Angriji’ (European). The Marathi kitchen cooked up rare dishes that were not known in the state of Maharashtra. The Marathi food in Thanjavur was different from the typical cuisine followed in Maharashtra. Those cuisines blended with the flavours from Thanjavur," he said. In Maharashtra, tamarind is not used for sour taste, unlike the Maratha cuisine from Thanjavur. The dishes prepared in the king’s kitchen were influenced by the regional taste of Tamil Nadu. "The handwritten manuscript of Sarabhendra Pakasastra from the time of Serfoji II contains more than 100 recipes. The first volume in Marathi talks about vegetarian and non-vegetarian dishes and the second volume contains recipes of Thanjavur Marathas. The pages of the book bear a number of water marks of the year 1816 and still remains a source of authentic Thanjavur Maratha food," said Pratap Sinh, author of ‘Contributions of Thanjavur Maratha Kings’. "My mother has published many books on cuisines of the Thanjavur Marthas and western delicacies. I find only a few know about our rich heritage and cuisines. I want to create awareness among people about our dishes so that they will not disappear," said Pratap Sinh, who plans food walks in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/scion-records-tastes-of-thanjavur-marathas/articleshow/80143525.cms||M T Saju
January 7, 2021||Trichy||Brimming tanks force shift of jallikattu venues||Trichy: Tanks and lakes being popular jallikattu venues in Trichy and Pudukottai districts, many villages are scouting for alternative sites for organising these events this year as good rain over the last few weeks has filled up many of these waterbodies which used to be dry or hold less water during the season. Periya Suriyur jallikattu in Trichy has been relocated from Periyakulam while Kalingapatti village in Manapparai too will witness change of its jallikattu venue as the village tank is full. Periyakulam village tank is the customary jallikattu venue in Periya Suriyur which offered a vast area to conduct jallikattu over the decades. “This year, only a small piece of land is left without water to hold the event. However, conducting the event on that land may not be possible because of the loose soil. So, we have decided to conduct jallikattu on a vacant land north of the village,” S Raja Manikandan, member, organising committee, Periyar Suriyur jallikattu, said.  Navalpattu is another popular jallikattu venue in Trichy which the organisers plan to change or postpone the event. State secretary, Tamilar Veera Vilayattu Pathukappu Peravai, T Ondiraj, said the village tank used to be an ideal spot for jallikattu for years. “Since the water is unlikely to recede any time soon, we are planning to either postpone the event or change the venue,” he said. In Pudukottai district, where many jallikattu events are held, the tanks may not dry up even in March and April given the volume of rain, said S Muthu, organiser of jallikattu in Thennalur, adding that many venues will have to be changed. The practice of organising jallikattu in village tanks began only in recent decades as congestion forced the events out of the village, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/brimming-tanks-force-shift-of-jallikattu-venues/articleshow/80141920.cms||Sampath Kumar
January 7, 2021||Pune||Pune: Pet dogs banned on tekdis, walkers worry about safety||PUNE: Several walkers and pet owners were concerned about safety on the tekdis after a ban on pet dogs (even those on leash) was announced by the forest department. They said the department does not have any guards to man these green spaces, and dogs are the best bet as defence in case of untoward incidents. Deputy Conservator of Forest (DCF), Pune region, Rahul Patil, told TOI, “We have issued a circular disallowing entry of pets on tekdis that are part of forest areas under the Maharashtra Forest Rules, Section 9. We had received requests from senior citizens and others who visit these tekdis to impose the ban. These spaces are home to peacocks, rabbits, snakes, and other birds and animals. Dogs and other pets brought here pose a threat to them, especially if they suffer from diseases.” Sushma Date, a frequent tekdi walker, said there have been many cases of mugging, molestation and groping of people visiting tekdis, and pet dogs provide protection against such miscreants. “Last year, there were two attempted rapes on a tekdi in the city. Pet dogs provide safety not only to their owners but also to other walkers in the vicinity. I have a first-hand experience when two drunkards had tried to approach me on the hill once and stopped only because my dog confronted them,” she said. Frequent visitors said if the forest department cannot provide guards on the hill for the safety of women walkers, they should allow pet dogs that are not a threat to other walkers if they are on a leash. Vishwas and Vaidehi Patwardhan have been going to Vetal Tekdi at Chatushrungi and Law College regularly for over 12 years. “Our pet dogs haven’t ever been a threat to anyone including the strays on the tekdi. Our dogs are always on leash. Dog poop is never left on the walking paths. Banning pets on the tekdi is arbitrary,” they said. Avanti Gadgil, a resident who has been taking her pet dogs to the ARAI Tekdi since 1990, said, “It is the only place where we can give pets the exercise they need. The ban is unfair since there are hardly any places in the city where pets can be taken for their daily walks, especially due to fear of rash drivers and vehicles. There have been many incidents of hooliganism on tekdis, where the parents and other walkers were saved by pet dogs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pet-dogs-banned-on-tekdis-walkers-worry-about-safety/articleshow/80141900.cms||Neha Madaan
January 7, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Samples of 22 contacts of UK returnees sent to NIV||MUMBAI: Samples of 22 contacts of UK returnees found positive for coronavirus have also been sent for genome sequencing to National Institute of Virology to check if they have contracted the mutant strain. Across the state, 513 contacts of 72 positive UK returnees have been traced, and 329 of them tested, of which 30 are positive so far. The state public health department on Wednesday said 4,854 international travellers have been traced in Maharashtra, of which 3,438 have been tested. Of these, 72 tested positive for Covid-19 and eight had the new SARS-Cov2 strain called B.1.1.7 lineage, said to be more transmissible and the more dominant variant in UK now. Of the eight, five are from Mumbai and one each from Pune, Thane and Mira-Bhayandar. BMC’s Dr Daksha Shah said of the five Mumbai cases, two were residents of Gujarat and Goa. She added that contacts of all positive patients are quarantined. State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said that all the eight travellers were asymptomatic. “Two (one each from Pune and Mumbai) were discharged after 14 days of isolation. Their two consecutive samples were found negative by RT-PCR,” he said. Dr Archana Patil, head, Directorate of Health Services, said patients with the strain have been kept in separate wards. Across India, 73 persons have been detected with the UK strain. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/samples-of-22-contacts-of-uk-returnees-sent-to-niv/articleshow/80140874.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Dehradun||WII director & NTCA official on visit to RTR||Dehradun: The director of Wildlife Institute of India, Dhananjai Mohan, and National Tiger Conservation Authority official Surender Mehra visited the Rajaji Tiger Reserve on Wednesday to take stock of the tigress that was translocated from Corbett. The tigress was translocated in a move aimed at flourishing the western Rajaji with a robust tiger population. The officials inspected the habitat for tigers and also enquired about a missing western Rajaji tigress. Notably, more than 130 cameras have been installed in the various zones of Rajaji Tiger Reserve to track the missing big cat. Incidentally, the western Rajaji, spanning across 177 sq km, houses just two tigresses while its eastern part has 35 tigers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/wii-director-ntca-official-on-visit-to-rtr/articleshow/80139693.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Japanese method to clean Ulsoor Lake||BENGALURU: Ulsoor Lake is all set to get rid of tonnes of sludge through Bokashi balls, a Japanese technique of cleaning water. In this method, the balls containing micro-organisms are dropped into the water and they feed on the sludge. The balls are made of sawdust and husk, and mixed with red soil, cow dung and effective micro-organisms (EM) solution. This method was earlier used to purify water in Kaikondrahalli Lake, but stopped after a few months. While Bokashi balls are good, there is no scientific evidence about their effect, an official from Karnataka Lake Conservation and Development said. Ramprasad Das, a founder of Friends of Lakes, said it’s a short-term practice and has not been proved scientifically. “Before experimenting with this, we need a scientific evaluation and it should be peer reviewed. It needs to be proved that enzymes used in the technique are not harmful to the lake species or humans,” he added. Experts said the primary problem in the sludge is the combination of nitrate and phosphate. “While the microbes feed on both, they excrete the phosphate back into the lake. This forms a vicious circle,” said an expert. The hyper-eutrophic Ulsoor Lake, with visibility less than three feet, is rich in phosphorus. “The main issue is that oxygen level is low and algae bloom is very high. The sun does not go below three feet, damaging the lake,” the expert added. The expert suggested that sunrays should go 5-6 feet deep into a lake if it has to be healthy, but it is in a bad state. Senior BBMP lake officials only asserted that Bokashi balls will do wonders for the waterbody. When asked about the sustainability after implementation of the same in Kaikondrahalli Lake two years ago, they remained silent. Mahadevapura Parisara Samrakshane Matti Abhivrudhi Samiti (MAPSAS), a volunteer group, had introduced Bokashi balls in Kaikondrahalli Lake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/japanese-method-to-clean-ulsoor-lake/articleshow/80140826.cms||Nithya Mandyam
January 7, 2021||Mumbai||88% schools have reopened in Maharashtra; 15 lakh attending classes||MUMBAI: Nearly a month-and-a-half after the state permitted schools to resume physical sessions for classes IX to XII, over 88% schools have reopened and over 15.7 lakh students are attending each day, according to education department data. The state permitted the classes to reopen on November 23. Teachers and non-teaching staff had to undergo RT-PCR tests and those who tested negative for Covid-19 were allowed to resume. Among nearly two lakh teaching and non-teaching staff who have undergone the test before joining school, 2,894 tested positive. In the first week, 9,127 out of 22,204 schools reopened and 2.9 lakh students attended. Up from that, 19,524 schools resumed operations as of January 4. “Fortunately, no case of Covid-19 has been reported from schools, and that has encouraged many to reopen. Students attend classes on alternate days, which means that around 30 lakh students are back in classrooms. Some parents are worried about sending their children to school but the numbers are increasing each week,” said Vikas Garad, deputy director, Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (MSCERT). Across the state, 100% schools reopened in Jalgaon district, with 53.2% students attending class. “There are 16 districts where more than 90% schools have resumed physical classes. It is due to efforts and cooperation of education officials, local administration, students and parents that attendance is increasing by the day. Safety rules are being strictly enforced,” said school education minister Varsha Gaikwad. Mumbai and Thane are the only districts where schools are yet to reopen. BMC said schools will be shut till January 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/88-schools-have-reopened-in-state-15l-attending-classes/articleshow/80141928.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 7, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan expediting DMIC project, eyes SPVs by end of March||JAIPUR: The much glorified Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor (DMIC) project seems to be back on track. The government is now pressing ahead to form special purpose vehicles (SPV) with DMIC for both Khushkhera-Bhiwadi-Neemrana Investment Region (KBNIR) and Jodhpur-Pali-Marwar Industrial Area (JPMIA). While senior officials gave no definitive timeline for the SPVs to be formed, it is expected to be done by the end of March. Only after the formation of SPV, tenders for appointing consultants and then work for building trunk infrastructure like roads, drains, pipelines and approach roads to the dedicated freight corridor can be undertaken. “We are working earnestly towards having the SPVs in place as soon as possible. Because creating the trunk infrastructure can start only after that. There are many things on cards which will be done simultaneously to expedite the work,” said Ashutosh Pednekar, commissioner of DMIC department and secretary, industries department. After reviewing the DMIC project in March last year, chief minister Ashok Gehlot had directed to restructure the DMIC department and handed over the work to RIICO to fast-track the project. Recently, both the chief minister and chief secretary reviewed the project for removing hurdles. In October last year, JPMIA was notified as Special Investment Region (SIR) having an area of 154sqk. After RIICO was made development authority of JPMIA, it acquired 210 hectares (ha) of private land and identified around 850ha government land. “The process of formation of SPV with NICDC has been started for JPMIA as well and efforts are being made to finalise the draft with NICDC officials,” added Pednekar. For the KBNIR, the chief minister has approved to reduce the area of Bhiwadi Integrated Township by de-notifying 42 villages out of 363 and create a new SIR comprising these 42 villages of Neemrana and Mundawar Tehsil in Alwar. He said while Bhiwadi Integrated Development Authority will continue to be the Regional Development Authority (RDA) for remaining 321 villages, for KBNIR SIR, RIICO will be RDA. Out of Rs 468.64 crore total compensation determined for the land in the 42 villages, about Rs 50 crore has been paid to the farmers and RIICO expects to pay another Rs 40 crore by March-end. About 40% of the DMIC runs through Rajasthan. The dedicated freight corridor is expected to reduce travel time of goods trucks between Delhi and Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust to less than 20 hours from over 10 days it currently takes. The government has planned to create manufacturing hubs and industrial towns on both sides of the corridor to usher in rapid industrialisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-expediting-dmic-project-eyes-spvs-by-end-of-march/articleshow/80141895.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
January 7, 2021||India||Panel to safeguard Ladakh culture||NEW DELHI: The home ministry on Wednesday set up a committee led by minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy to find an “appropriate solution” to issues related to language, culture and conservation of land in Ladakh. The announcement of the panel came after a 10-member delegation from Ladakh met home minister Amit Shah to express concern with respect to conservation of language, culture and land of Ladakh; participation of Ladakhi people in development; protection of employment; and protection against changes in demography of Ladakh region. The concerns were stressed in the light of difficult geographical conditions and strategic importance of Ladakh region. A protest on these issues was also held before the LAHDC elections||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/panel-to-safeguard-ladakh-culture/articleshow/80143907.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Dehradun||Two teams formed to curb drug smuggling & abuse in Doon||Dehradun: Dehradun’s senior superintendent of police, Yogendra Singh Rawat, on Wednesday formed two special teams to check drug abuse in the district and rein in the drug peddlers. The teams have been tasked to gather intelligence about the active drug rackets and make efforts to arrest the key persons involved in drug smuggling in Dehradun and surrounding areas. The teams will especially focus on the drug menace near colleges and schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-teams-formed-to-curb-drug-smuggling-abuse-in-doon/articleshow/80139697.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Maoist threat? Police curbs on minister, MP visits to Mulug||HYDERABAD: Security concerns in the backdrop of increased Maoist activity has driven police to enforce restrictions on movement of elected public representatives in Mulug. Public representatives, including women and child welfare minister Sathyavathi Rathod, Mahabubabad MP Kavitha Maloth and MLC Balasani Laxminarayana of the TRS, were in for a surprise when police told them that they would not be allowed to visit certain areas in the district. After they attended a few functions in Vajedu, police advised that they should not travel to Venkatapuram. This led to an argument between police officials and local TRS leaders. At Venkatapuram, assistant SP of Mulug P Sai Chaitanya and additional SP of Eturunagaram Gaush Alam intervened and explained on the heightened security concerns. “Had we been informed in advance, we would make required security arrangements,” Gaush Alam said. At the house of MLC Balasani Laxminarayana, the police officials told her that she cannot be permitted to visit other places in Venkatapuram mandal. Upon this, the minister restricted herself to participating in various programmes in the mandal headquarters itself. Asked why restrictions had been placed on the minister and public representatives, Chaitanya said it was purely due to security concerns. Kavitha and the MLC questioned police for preventing them from attending programmes elsewhere in Venkatapuram. “I don’t need police security? How can you stop me?” Balasani questioned a police officer who was deputed for security. MLC travelled to Peruru and inaugurated a Rythu Vedika there ignoring police advice||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maoist-threat-police-curbs-on-minister-mp-visits-to-mulug/articleshow/80140890.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 7, 2021||Mumbai||MBA held for threats to Jharkhand former deputy CM||MUMBAI: A 25-year-old MBA who allegedly threatened former Jharkhand deputy chief minister and demanded Rs 15 lakh was arrested by city crime branch. Unit VI, led inspector Deepak Chavan, arrested Nilesh Kamlesh Pandey from Shivaji Nagar slums in Govandi. Police are handing him over to Jharkhand police on Thursday. Police said a complaint was lodged by Mahendra Sharma, private secretary of Sudesh Kumar Mahato. He threatened the politician that if he failed to pay him, he would shoot him at his house. Jharkhand police had alerted their Mumbai counterparts of his presence in Mumbai. Based on the information, police arrested Pandey from the slum, said deputy commissioner of police (crime) Akbar Pathan. Police said he was from a well-to-do family but recently got involved in crime. He has been booked for attempt to murder, kidnapping and rape. Police are questioning him as to why he threatened the politician and demanded money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mba-held-for-threats-to-jharkhand-ex-dy-cm/articleshow/80140773.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 7, 2021||Chennai||The great Indian political family||Dynastic politics is the leitmotif as political sparring begins ahead of the Tamil Nadu assembly election nears. Union home minister Amit Shah fired the first salvo at the DMK, but M K Stalin countered with a list of the BJP’s political families.When Stalin’s son Udhayanidhi started his poll campaign, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami again brought up the topic of dynastic politics. "If members of a family get power and position in a party and government, family interest will get prioritised and public welfare will take a backseat. We, the AIADMK, prioritise welfare schemes for the people," said AIADMK Villupuram district secretary and minister C Ve Shanmugam. But the AIADMK’s party coordinator and deputy CM O Panneerselvam is also accused of promoting his son P Ravindhranath Kumar, who contested and won the Lok Sabha elections from their home turf of Theni.The DMK, for its part, is unperturbed by accusations that it is promoting dynastic politics. The party has been promoting Udhayanidhi Stalin and Kanimozhi as star campaigners and harking back to the "golden rule" of party and family patriarch Karunanidhi. "Earlier dynastic politics was treated like a Columbus discovery. We have given enough replies. The sons of leaders, Sheikh, Mulayam, Biju, Devegowda and YSR have become chief ministers. Those with talent alone could rise and survive. People will take to great heights those showing real interest in politics, and ready to sacrifice life for public welfare," said DMK general secretary S Durai Murugan. The party MPs Dayanidhi Maran, Kalanidhi Veeraswamy, Goutham Sigamani, Tamizhachi Thangapandian and K M Kadhir Anand ride the popularity of families.The situation is not very different in the Congress TN unit. Last week the party put out a list of office bearers, vice-presidents, general secretaries and secretaries after a gap of seven years, and the prominent nominees were sons of former TNCC presidents, K V Thangkabalu, E V K S Elangovan, S Thirunavukkarasar and late Era Anbarasu for the general secretary post. Ironically, Sivaganga MP Karti, son offormer Union minister P Chidambaram hit out at the leadership for "jumbo committees" and said that none would have any authority. TNCC president K S Alagiri finds no fault with dynastic politics. "In a family there is usually no shifting allegiances to other parties. The children try to follow in the footsteps of their elders. But postings are a recognition of the individual’s work. Capability and hard work decides rise in the ranks," he said. Last year following the death of MP H Vasanthakumar, his son Vijay Vasanth was appointed Congress general secretary. The young scion feels the barbs of nepotism are only valid if a person is undeserving. "When sons of lawyers and doctors can take up their parents’ profession, why should a politician’s son be questioned? The acceptance of people is important. The party considers the individual’s strength before taking a call on appointments," said Vijay, who says he worked with his father and picked up political insights. The actor is also touted asthe Congress candidate for Kanyakumari LS bypoll when it takes place.Though there is no denying people have voted to power kin of politicians, family politics does carry a burden of bias. "In parties like the BJP at the Centre or the AIADMK in the state, the top leaders do not have political heirs and so make an issue out of it. The fact also remains that in this era of political defection, loyalty also becomes a major concern. When Dheeran and Dalit R Ezhilmalai left the party at the crucial stage, PMK leader S Ramadoss was forced to bring in his son, Anbumani," said political analyst N Sathiya Murthy. It is a given that family members of many veterans across the political spectrum will seek poll tickets. In such a case, charges of dynastic politics will cancel out one another.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/the-great-indian-political-family/articleshow/80143534.cms||Julie Mariappan
January 7, 2021||Jaipur||IAF team in Suratgarh to probe MiG-21 crash||Jaipur: The team of Indian Air Force (IAF) officials reached Suratgarh on Wednesday to conduct the court of inquiry into MiG-21 Bison crash which happened on Tuesday night. The pilot ejected out from the aircraft on time and there was no loss of life reported.“The team will start the inquiry into the cause of the crash and once they submit the final report then we will definitely know more the mishap. The remains of the aircraft will be removed once the investigation is complete,” said a defence official.The primary cause of the crash is suspected to be a technical malfunction. The incident happened around 8:15 pm startling the civilians when they heard the loud noise. Local police were informed about the crash and they along with IAF officials reached the site to find that the pilot was safe though the crash had been quite severe. After the crash, other aircrafts could be seen in the night sky as well. Defence officials said that during a training sortie in the western sector, the aircraft experienced a technical snag which might have resulted in the crash. Two years ago, a MiG-21 fighter aircraft of the IAF crashed in Rajasthan’s Bikaner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/iaf-team-in-suratgarh-to-probe-mig-21-crash/articleshow/80141927.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Jaipur||CS holds meet on cattle deaths on railway tracks||Jaisalmer: Chief secretary Niranjan Arya on Tuesday held a video conference meeting about animals getting killed on railway tracks after getting hit by moving trains. Collectors of many districts including western Rajasthan and Jodhpur DRM Geetika Pandey took part in the conference. A discussion was held on fencing along the railway tracks, digging trenches near the rail tracks etc. Pandey informed about the initiative taken by Jodhpur rail division in order to save cattle and animals from accidents on the railway tracks. The state government assured to save cattle from getting killed on tracks. North Western Railway senior public relations officer Gopal Sharma said that the state government has also decided to extend help to the save livestock campaign started by the Jodhpur DRM. In the meeting by chief secretary, it was discussed that in approximately 1,600km route in the limits of Jodhpur rail division, work will be done under NREGA to protect the rail line.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cs-holds-meet-on-cattle-deaths-on-railway-tracks/articleshow/80141930.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Dehradun||Plantation & beautification drive held in Ward No 41 in memory of late ex-serviceman||Dehradun: A tree plantation drive was carried out at MDDA Park-I, GMS Road, by the family members of Late Subedar Major (Retd) Laxmi Prasad Sati in presence of Asha Bhati, councillor of Ward Number 41. Subedar Major (Retd) Laxmi Prasad Sati died at the age of 70 years. He served in Indian Army for over 30 years. He also served the Army during 1971 India-Pakistan war, Operation Meghdoot, and Operation Vijay (Kargil). He is fondly remembered by locals of the area. A beautification drive was also carried out under the supervision of Bhati in Indirapuram. During the drive, internal roads and parks were given a facelift. New plants and trees were also planted to spread awareness regarding environmental conservation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/plantation-beautification-drive-held-in-ward-no-41-in-memory-of-late-ex-serviceman/articleshow/80139708.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 7, 2021||Bareilly||‘Suicide pact’: Inter-caste lovebirds buckle under family pressure, end lives; probe on||Bareilly: In a suspected suicide pact, lovebirds — aged 18 and 19 — allegedly ended their lives near railway tracks in Maigalganj area of UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri district on Wednesday. Both had a bullet injury each on their heads and a country-made pistol was recovered from the spot, said police. The inter-caste couple belonged to Maholi area of neighbouring Sitapur district and had reportedly eloped, said police, adding that the girl’s family had recently lodged an FIR in connection with her “abduction”. The victims — Pawan, a Brahmin, and Rekha, an OBC — appeared to have ended their lives after their families opposed to their relationship, said police. The bodies were sent for autopsy. Lakhimpur Kheri SSP Vijay Dhull, who also visited the spot, said, “Police immediately rushed to the spot and started an investigation. The initial investigation by forensic experts and police suggested that the couple had committed suicide. The pistol used by them was also recovered from the spot. Their family members have arrived, and their statements are being recorded.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/suicide-pact-inter-caste-lovebirds-buckle-under-family-pressure-end-lives-probe-on/articleshow/80138203.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: 40k candidates yet to give poll spend details, face 3-year ban||HYDERABAD: Over 40,000 candidates who contested gram panchayat, MPTC and ZPTC elections in 2019, are facing disqualification from contesting polls for the next three years for their failure to submit election expenditure to authorities. Nearly 2.88 lakh candidates had contested polls in 2019. As on January 6, 2021, 9,765 of 40,943 candidates have already been disqualified. The Telangana State Election Commission is in the process of receiving reports from mandal parishad development officers (MPDOs) on the candidates to be disqualified after completing the procedure such as issuing show cause notices, going through the response of the candidates and taking action accordingly. Though a majority of the candidates who have been already disqualified are candidates who lost elections, this list also includes elected sarpanches, ward members and MPTCs who are holding office in elected bodies. “If elected sarpanches and ward members are disqualified for non-submission of their poll expenditure, their seats fall vacant and elections will be conducted to the casual vacancies. In case of candidates who lost elections, they are disqualified and debarred from contesting elections for three years,” State Election Commission (SEC) joint secretary Vishnu Prasad said. However, the SEC does have the statistics on the exact number of elected sarpanches and ward members who have been disqualified as they were still receiving reports from MPD officers. “Soon, the entire list of candidates, including elected sarpanches, ward members and MPTCs and those who lost elections, and were disqualified would be made public, said SEC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/40k-candidates-yet-to-give-poll-spend-details-face-3-year-ban/articleshow/80140901.cms||Roushan Ali
January 7, 2021||Jaipur||Lockdown hit education of girls more than boys: Study||JAIPUR: Life has changed upside down for 14-year-old Khushboo (name changed), a Class VIII student of a government school in Dausa, due to pandemic. Similar is the case with millions of other students of her age. A quick sneak into her life gives an indication that being a girl child change is worse than boys in the given situation. She is overburdened with household work more than ever before. From cooking meals for family occasionally to almost every day and from cleaning utensils once in a day to all the day. Also, taking care of younger sister and ailing grandmother throughout the day has taken a toll on her education and stressed her mentally. “I don’t want to wake up now,” says Khushboo, who remembers the non-Covid-19 days fondly when she had to visit her second home—school, where she loved to interact with her friends and teachers. “My parents used to give me full time to study and play. However, I don’t get time now for either,” said tensed Khushboo, to a researcher, who finds her under immense stress which her parents didn’t agree with. In a stark contrast, Khusboo’s elder brother regularly attends the online classes on WhatsApp and on priority watches academic videos on Youtube. The family of six has two smart phones. Her father keeps his phone for work and mother’s phone is used by the only son. This is not a case to be seen in isolation. The lockdown has cast it spell more on the girls’ students than the boys, says a study ‘Understanding barriers and enablers to girls’ secondary education in Rajasthan Post Covid-19’ by state funded Institute of Development Studies, Jaipur in collaboration with Delhi-based Development Solutions. The report says less than 11% of girls are able to attend online classes, while they spend more hours doing household chores than the non-Covid 19 period. The situation is certain to create an academic divide between boys and girls while sanitary pads and iron folic acid shortage due to closure of schools and anagwadi centres have taken the menstrual health for a toss. Kanchan Mathur, professor in IDS, said, “Khushboo was lucky to have not witnessed any sort of domestic violence which is many cases girls have told our research team. In many cases, the parents have expressed their inability to continue their study of their girl child due to loss of livelihood and uncertain future.” The survey is carried on low-income families whose children study in either government schools or budget schools. Highlighting the health concerns, the report says that most of the surveyed girls have either not received the iron folic tablets and sanitary pads from the school and anganwadi workers. Highlighting the impact of stress and anxiety on girls, Vasudha Chakravarthy, partner at Development Solutions, says that uncertainty of future along with no outside engagement is contributing to their stress levels. “The study clearly points out that this issue requires a multi-sectoral approach to ensure our girls’ future shouldn’t be effected by the pandemic. Every state needs to step in by coming up with long-term planning on the said subject,” said Chakravarthy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lockdown-hit-education-of-girls-more-than-boys-study/articleshow/80141960.cms||Shoeb Khan
January 7, 2021||Jaipur||Missing Uttarakhand teen’s body found in Kota canal||KOTA: The body of a 17-year-old Uttarakhand boy, who was missing for the last 4 days from his rented apartment at Saraswati Colony under Borekheda police station of the city, was recovered from Main Right canal in Kaithun area of the district on Wednesday morning. Initial probe revealed the boy was under depression and would often talk of dying by drowning. Himanshu Mehta’s body recovered from Main Right Canal in Kaithun area, 10km from the city, said Borekheda police station ASI Prem Singh said. The boy’s father is an army man who was earlier posted in Kota. The deceased had left his house for morning walk on Saturday and did not return till night following which his family lodged a missing complaint in Borekheda police station on Monday. “The body is around 4 days old that suggested the boy was likely to have taken the extreme step on the same day he had left home,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/missing-ukhand-teens-body-found-in-kota-canal/articleshow/80141957.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Trichy||VC applicants find it laborious attaching proofs for all claims||Trichy: Candidates applying for the post of vice-chancellor (VC) at Bharathidasan University (BDU) are having a tough time compiling valid proofs of their academic and administrative experience along with the application.As the tenure of incumbent VC P Manisankar is ending on January 7, the search committee constituted in December had called for applications, with January 12 as the last date. With less than a week left, only few applications are expected to be received this time.Unlike earlier, there were limitations on submitting supporting documents, but this time, candidates have to attach supporting documents with the 14-page long application. Some of the applicants said that they are expecting their applications with annexures might be of almost 600-700 pages. Another candidate said that he has delivered over 100 lectures and participated in numerous seminars and he will have to attach proofs of all. The committee could have asked for the valid proof of documents for selected things or it could have capped the numbers by asking for best 10 or 20, he said.Former president of association of university teachers (AUT) K Pandiyan said that the candidates that the candidates ought to be conscious about submitting valid details as it will affect them in case they are found to have given false information.By seeking valid proof for the claims made in the application, we will be able to avoid candidates who are not serious, said one of the senior members of the BDU vice chancellor search committee.He added that the committee is planning a very subjective evaluation and said that only academically active candidates will be able to present all the relevant documents. The idea of having this kind of application is to ensure correct evaluation, said the member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/vc-applicants-find-it-laborious-attaching-proofs-for-all-claims/articleshow/80141979.cms||Sampath Kumar
January 7, 2021||Dehradun||Nearly 1.5k vacant posts in edu dept to be filled||Dehradun: The state education minister Arvind Pandey has announced that the state will recruit a good number of people in the education department in the next academic year. The department is going to start the recruitment process soon for all the posts that will be left vacant in 2021-22 due to retirement or promotion of existing employees. The department estimates that recruitments could be made on around 1,500 posts. The department is also going to speed up the already-running appointment process of primary class teachers. It has also been decided that the guest teachers will be given an option to be posted in their home districts. The orders have been given to establish the teachers’ appointment process in the Atal Adarsh Schools with immediate effect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nearly-1-5k-vacant-posts-in-edu-dept-to-be-filled/articleshow/80139719.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 7, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Vaccine dry run to be held at Cooper, Rajawadi & BKC||MUMBAI: Three of the city’s municipal health facilities— RN Cooper at Juhu, Rajawadi at Ghatkopar and the BKC jumbo centre—have been chosen to conduct the vaccine dry run to be held nationally on January 8. Across the state, all districts barring four that had participated in the earlier drill on January 2, will be a part of the mock drill that is being carried out before the likely rollout of the Covid-19 vaccine next week. Wednesday saw health officials from all districts connect over an online meeting to discuss finer details of the dry run in at least three vaccination sites in each district. A minimum of 25 beneficiaries have been asked to visit the centres and participate in the mock process that would gauge preparedness, understanding and adherence to protocols. N Ramaswami, commissioner of National Health Mission, said districts that previously had the dry run also shared their learnings on Wednesday. Union health experts will meet state officials online on Thursday for another round of discussion. In Mumbai, the BKC jumbo centre saw hectic activity as 15 vaccination units were being set up on Wednesday. Dean Dr Rajesh Dere said the vaccination premises would have a separate entry and exit. There would be a registration centre, a vaccination booth and an observation area in all centres. “We have also created a small ICU set-up next to the observation room where beneficiaries would be kept for half an hour after administration of the vaccine to monitor any after-effects,” said Dr Dere, adding the facility was 90% complete to carry out the drill. Dr Vidya Thakur, medical superintendent of Rajawadi Hospital, said they would erect five makeshift tents for the dry run. A more permanent structure would be ready before the actual drive. The Ghatkopar hospital is one of the eight centres where the first round of immunisation of 1.25 lakh healthcare workers is supposed to be carried out. Work at Cooper Hospital, the model vaccination centre, is nearly complete, authorities said. Ramaswami said issues with patchy internet connectivity experienced by certain sites during the January 2 drive have been discussed. “We have asked officials to select sites with good connectivity,” he said, adding it was not a big issue. A crucial component of Covid vaccination is Co-Win app, on which beneficiary details need to be uploaded. Meanwhile, four other jumbo facilities have begun prepping. Dr Neelam Andrade, dean of NESCO jumbo facility in Goregaon, said Hall A will be converted into a vaccination centre and work will start to create 15 units. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said vaccination was voluntary, and one could refuse to take a shot after reaching the centre and registering names.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/vaccine-dry-run-to-be-held-at-cooper-rajawadi-bkc/articleshow/80141987.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 7, 2021||Trichy||DCE calls for list of teachers yet to enroll research candidates||Trichy: Directorate of collegiate education has asked principals of government arts and science colleges to submit the list of teachers who are neither carrying out research activities nor guiding MPhil and PhD students after obtaining guideship. N Ramalakshmi, joint director (planning and development), directorate of collegiate education (DCE), issued a circular to principals of arts and science colleges across the state in this regard on Tuesday. She has asked the principals to send the list of teachers who have obtained guideship but haven’t enrolled research students yet. She pointed that the state government is approving research departments in government arts and science colleges thereby enabling them to offer MPhil and PhD programmes. While faculty members are given research guideship from the concerned universities to guide these students, this has been helping poor and rural students to pursue research at a nominal fee. It had come to notice that many teachers were working in research departments without admitting research students, said Ramalakshmi. “Such acts will not only hamper educational growth of the college but also affect recognition from National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC),” she said. An official from the office of DCE said research component is an important aspect of NAAC assessment. At least three points in a four-point scale are essential to get autonomous status and these points cannot be obtained without improving research activities. Reacting to the statement, a government college teacher from Trichy said that DCE officials could have refrained from sending a generalised statement regarding complaints from a few colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dce-calls-for-list-of-teachers-yet-to-enroll-research-candidates/articleshow/80142006.cms||Sampath Kumar
January 7, 2021||Bareilly||SP suspends SHO after audio of briber goes viral||Pilibhit: Superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav on Wednesday suspended Pushkar Singh, the station house officer of Seramau North police station, after an audio clip went viral on social media in which a man can be heard complaining to Singh of not resolving “his issue”, even after taking Rs 60,000 bribe from him in two installments. In the viral clip, the SHO can be heard exerting pressure on the briber to strike a compromise with his adversary, describing the latter as highly influential and wealthy. Singh is also heard saying the matter has slipped out of his hands, as the adversary had taken up the issue with the UP director general of police. SP Yadav said CO (Bislapur circle) Lallan Singh has been asked to conduct an inquiry in the matter and to file its report within a week. The suspended SHO would remain attached to the reserve police line till any further decision, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sp-suspends-sho-after-audio-of-briber-goes-viral/articleshow/80138213.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 7, 2021||Dehradun||Edu dept releases list of holidays for 2021||Dehradun: The state education department has released the list of holidays for its staffers for 2021. In its order, the education department has stated that the headmasters of the state government-run schools will need to inform the respective Block Education Officers (BEOs) before going on leave. The order further states that winter vacation in 2021 will be observed only in those areas which are located at an altitude of 5,000 metres or above. Such regions will have 240 working days in 2021 and the other remaining places are to observe 244 working days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/edu-dept-releases-list-of-holidays-for-2021/articleshow/80139720.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 7, 2021||Jaipur||New PCC team strikes balance between Ashok Gehlot, Sachin Pilot supporters||JAIPUR: The much-awaited new team of the Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee (RPCC) was announced by the Congress central leadership late Wednesday night. The 39-member initial team has seven vice-presidents, eight general secretaries and 24 secretaries drawn from a pool of seniors and youngsters in the state unit, as was assured by AICC general secretary in-charge for Rajasthan Ajay Maken. In a separate order issued by the AICC earlier in the day, chief minister Ashok Gehlot along with two others were appointed as observers to oversee Congress election campaign for the upcoming assembly elections in Kerala. The new PCC team strikes a balance between supporters of chief minister Ashok Gehlot, speaker C P Joshi and former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot. Even Congressmen who owe allegiance to none of the ‘camps’ in the state have been accommodated. Legislators G R Khatana, Rakesh Pareek and Ved Prakash Solanki, who were among the 18 MLAs who rebelled with Pilot against Gehlot’s leadership in July-August last year, have found a place among the eight general secretaries. Congressman from Jhunjhunu Hakim Ali, who is seen close to MLA Brijendra Ola and Pilot, too is among the general secretaries. This shows that at least half the new PCC general secretaries are strong Pilot supporters. MLA Lakhan Meena, who switched sides from BSP to Congress, MLAs Rita Chaudhary and Prashant Bairwa and former minister Mangilal Garasia are the other four general secretaries. Talking to TOI, Pilot said, "I congratulate all members of the new PCC team. I am sure they will work hard to strengthen the Congress." Chief minister Gehlot tweeted his greetings and best wishes to the newly formed executive committee. "I hope that under the leadership of Congress state president Govind Singh Dotasra ji, you will be able to carry the policies, programmes, principles and ideology of Congress to every village," he wrote. The seven vice-presidents include four MLAs—Govind Ram Meghwal (Khajuwala, Bikaner), Jitendra Singh (Khetri, Jhunjhunu), Mahendrajeet Singh Malviya (Bagidora, Banswara) and Ramlal Jat (Mandal, Bhilwara). Former ministers Harimohan Sharma, Naseem Akhtar Insaaf and Rajendra Chaudhary have also been made vice-presidents. The 24 secretaries have members from Youth Congress, NSUI, Seva Dal and even the Kisan Congress. Prominent among the secretaries are former MLA Mahendra Singh Gujjar, Pushpendra Bhardwaj, Prashant Sharma, Shobha Solanki, Pratistha Yadav, Phool Singh Ola, Rajendra Moond, Rajendra Yadav, Lalit Yadav, Ravi Patel and Mahendra Khedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-pcc-teamstrikes-balancebetween-gehlotpilot-supporters/articleshow/80142017.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Renowned mineral engineer DMR passes away||HYDERABAD: The country’s leading mineral engineer, DMR Sekhar, who not only invented an alternative for chemical fertilizers but also struggled hard to ensure that this model reaches the farmers, breathed his last on Monday after suffering a massive heart attack. Born to a popular educationist D T Moses in Ongole, DMR, as he was popularly known in AP and mineral engineering fields, always was in the forefront to fight against injustice, to help the poor students, and also reach out to the farmers in distress. His invention, Phosphate Rich Organic Manure (PROM) was aimed at replacing chemical fertilizers. This is a value-added product produced by co-compositing different organic wastes with high-grade rock phosphate in fine size. This has become a useful and effective alternative to costly chemical fertilizers and the union fertilizers department too acknowledged it. Final rites to his mortal remains would be performed at Ongole, his native place, on Friday. He is survived by his wife, son, and daughter. Scores of people from scientific, social and political circles expressed shock at his sudden demise and were paying their tributes to this popular scientist who preferred struggle over comforts throughout his life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/renowned-mineral-engg-dmr-passes-away/articleshow/80140914.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Dehradun||HC asks state to file counter affidavit for not registering FIR against director, other officials of IIT-R||Roorkee: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) asked the state government to file a counter affidavit within three weeks for not registering an FIR against director and other officials of IIT-Roorkee with the police for alleged “financial fraud” in scholarships, central grants and construction money. The HC will reopen on February 20 after a month-long vacation and the next hearing in the matter will be held on February 22. Reportedly, one Manpal Sharma, a former employee of the institution, had approached a Roorkee court for registering an FIR against IIT-R director AK Chaturvedi, dean Manish Shrikhande, assistant registrar Jitendra Dimri, clerks Dhiraj Upadhyay and Rajesh Kumar in a financial fraud to the tune of over Rs 1 crore. The lower court in its decision on December 23 had instructed the police to immediately register Sharma’s complaint against officials of the institute. The IIT-R then had approached the HC to keep aside the lower court’s order as they had informed the court that they have already registered an FIR against Dhiraj after finding him guilty in the fraud case. Therefore, a fresh FIR into the matter should be revoked. In the meantime, Sharma approached the HC for the registration of his complaint on the basis of lower court’s order in December last week. Entertaining his petition, the single bench of Justice NS Dhanik had ordered the police to submit their response within two days. Though the hearing was scheduled for January 5, the board was discharged so the matter came up for hearing on Wednesday. "The bench of Justice RC Khulbe heard the whole matter and asked the state to submit a counter affidavit in the matter within three weeks. As the winter break in the HC is slated from January 18 for one month, the next hearing is scheduled for February 22," said Akshay Pradhan, Sharma’s counselor in the HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-asks-state-to-file-counter-affidavit-for-not-registering-fir-against-director-other-officials-of-iit-r/articleshow/80139734.cms||Tapan Susheel
January 7, 2021||Trichy||Veggie-fruit crops may see loss of yield due to untimely rain||Trichy: The untimely rain that has been lashing delta districts for the last few days has shattered the expectations of farmers whose standing samba paddy crop has matured, besides horticulture farmers who have been cultivating mango, watermelon, and vegetables. While samba paddy crops are suffering damage in the rain, those who cultivated fruits fear they will be unable to get good yield as the flowers are falling off.With northeast monsoon extending beyond December to January, delta farmers who have been reeling from Nivar and Burevi cyclones are in a spot of bother. Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts received around 137 mm more rain compared to normal rainfall till December. The prolonged rain has now come added to their worries over netting a good yield.Hundreds of farmers cultivate watermelon, cucumber and pumpkin in the delta districts while mango is grown on about 5,000 acres in Nagapattinam district alone. “Recent rain would cause damage to flower as well as fruits and vegetables. Rain would either lead to rotting of tender fruits and vegetables or bring down the yield during the harvest,” Kala, deputy director of horticulture department in Nagapattinam, told TOI.Pumpkins, especially white pumpkins, are mostly used by the people for Pongal festival. Due to rain, the supply of these vegetables may be affected. A cloudy sky is not a conducive atmosphere for vegetables and fruits, she added. “We have been advising farmers to administer fertilizer and pesticide in an organic way to avert huge loss by joining hands with Krishi Vigyan Kendra. Farmers should follow them,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/veggie-fruit-crops-may-see-loss-of-yield-due-to-untimely-rain/articleshow/80142042.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
January 7, 2021||Kolkata||Nation’s biggest medical depot turns eastern India’s Covid battle centre||KOLKATA: The Government Medical Store Depot (GMSD) on Clyde Row in Hastings has been abuzz with activities, two days before crores of Covid-19 vaccines are stored there from Friday before being dispatched to the entire eastern zone, Northeast and Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The entire 1.4 acres of the medical warehouse premises, now the heart of the Covid immunization programme in east India, has been fortified, with special protocols being implemented and cold rooms inspected. “Since the vaccine is a high-security affair, we are barred from divulging the nitty-gritty of vaccine storage,” said a senior GMSD official. “We have had all kinds of vaccines. Polio was in the highest proportion. But now, polio stock got cleared and the storage facility is ready to accommodate the Covid-19 vaccines. Since it will be mass immunization, a large space will be allotted to Covid-19 vaccines. But space is hardly a problem here,” said a GMSD official. The Government Medical Store Depot in Kolkata is the largest among the seven such facilities across the country. At least 10 crores of vaccines can be stored there safely before they are sent off to various states in cold vans to respective states’ refrigeration facilities before immunization process starts at the grassroots level. The depot in the city has 14 massive cold rooms, 10 of which are walk-in-coolers where temperatures can be controlled from 2 degrees Celsius to 8 degrees Celsius. The other four cold rooms have walk-in-freezers that can store vaccines at -20 degrees Celsius. “Going by the instructions we have received, the Covid vaccines have to be stored at 2°C to 8°C. So, we are presuming that the vaccines we need to store are either Covishield or Covaccine, which are storable at this scale of temperature,” said an official. After storage, the next process is distribution of the vaccines. The GMSD outsources a large number of cold vans, based on requirements. The depot office has already alerted its empanelled cold van vendors for supply of the vehicles on an urgent basis, the moment the requisitions come from different states. In Bengal for instance, there are 958 smaller cold chain facilities across the state. These, along with transportation facilities, were being streamlined and kept ready so that we could accept the vaccines when it was provided to us, said a senior health department official. “The Centre, in addition, will provide 19 new walk-in coolers to the state. So, we can expect a seamless movement of Covid vaccines for mass immunization,” said the officer. Three organizations — Pfizer, Serum Institute(Oxford vaccine Covishield) and Bharat Biotech (Covaccine) — applied for emergency authorization of their candidate vaccines. In Kolkata, Covaxin was tested at NICED, while Peerless Hospital carried out the Phase III trial of Sputnik V. Apart from that of Pfizer, all other vaccines can be run through the existing cold chain, without upgrading the facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nations-biggest-med-depot-turns-eastern-indias-cov-battle-centre/articleshow/80140926.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
January 7, 2021||Jaipur||Guidelines to reopen schools, coaching centres in Rajasthan released||JAIPUR: The state government finally issued orders to reopen schools, coaching centres and higher education institutes on Wednesday. Specific guidelines have been issued for coaching institutes in which the government has said that online teaching must remain an option while allowing classroom teaching from January 18. Coaching institute must keep social distancing norms in classrooms, open doors/windows for ventilation, sanitise classrooms and have a gap of 30 minutes between two batches. Education minister Govind Singh Dotasra said that separate guidelines are required for coaching institutes as hundreds of students are accommodated in a classroom. A senior higher education official said that they have also made norms for admitting out-of-state students at Kota institutes. “After entering the state, any out-of-state student has to go take the Covid test. Only a negative report will make them eligible to sit in classrooms. A written permission from parents is also a must for students to attend classes,” said a government official who wished to remain anonymous. In hostels, only one student will be allowed in a room because of social distancing. Hostels should be given on preference to students from outside. According to a senior education official, separate guidelines for schools will also be issued soon. The government had implemented guidelines of the central government regarding school reopening in September 2020. In a few days, the state will issue guidelines, especially for school reopening, with slight changes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/guidelines-toreopen-schoolscoaching-centresin-raj-released/articleshow/80142041.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Dehradun||India recorded over 100 tiger deaths last year; MP has maximum mortalities followed by Maharashtra||DEHRADUN: India lost over 100 tigers in 2020 due to various causes ranging from territorial fights, poaching, road mishaps and natural reasons. According to the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), the apex body formed by the ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) to keep a check on the status of big cats in the country, the number of tigers killed last year was 106 while the Wildlife Protection Society of India (WPSI), an NGO working to combat poaching and illicit trade in wild animals, pegs the number at 109. The slight discrepancy in the numbers, experts say, arises from the fact that scientifically, it’s difficult to pinpoint the exact number of tiger deaths. “In the wild, the carcass of tigers can get decomposed, and sometimes they are eaten up by scavengers, too, so it is difficult to know exact tiger deaths considering the huge landscape they live in,” said Y V Jhala, senior scientist, Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun. According to data compiled by WPSI, the highest number of big cat mortalities were recorded last year in Madhya Pradesh (31) followed by Maharashtra (20), Karnataka (12), Uttar Pradesh (10), Kerala (8) and Tamil Nadu (8). Around 30, that is a third of the total number of deaths, were attributed by WPSI to poaching and seizure of body parts of the big cats. In 2019, the number of deaths attributed to poaching was 38, the NGO said. NTCA data also indicates Madhya Pradesh (29) tops the chart as far as tiger deaths are concerned, followed by Maharashtra (16) and Karnataka (12). NTCA officials however put the number of poaching cases as seven this year, down from 15 cases registered in 2019. A detailed analysis of the reasons for tiger mortality as put out by WPSI shows that 38 tigers died in fights with other tigers, 28 were found dead, six died during treatment and rescue operations, four died in fights with other animals and three died in road accidents. The highest incidence of poaching and body part seizures was from Maharashtra (9) followed by Madhya Pradesh (6) and Karnataka (4) as per WPSI. The NGO said that in 2019, 113 tigers had died and that there was a dip in tiger mortality last year with 109 deaths. However, NTCA numbers pointed at an increase in big cat mortality last year — from 96 in 2019 to 106 in 2020. SP Yadav, member secretary of NTCA, told TOI, “Tiger deaths is a stochastic process being controlled by various ecological factors like tiger land tenure dynamics which results in variation in tiger deaths every year. As per our data, tiger mortality reduced from 101 deaths in 2018 to 96 deaths in 2019 and thereafter marginally increased to 106 fatalities in 2020.” Experts say proper enforcement is essential to save the tiger which is registered as an endangered species in the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List of Threatened Species. WPSI programme manager Tito Joseph said, “Our data clearly indicates that tiger skin, bones and other body parts are still much in demand. Enforcement and monitoring operations should be strengthened to protect the species.” India is home to 2,967 tigers, amounting to 70% of all the wild tigers in the world according to the All India Tiger Estimation Report for 2018 compiled by the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) for the NTCA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/india-recorded-over-100-tiger-deaths-last-yr-mp-has-maximum-mortalities-followed-by-maharashtra/articleshow/80139739.cms||Shivani Azad
January 7, 2021||Nashik||2 MBBS students die in accident||Nashik: Two third-year MBBS students studying at the SMBT College, Igatpuri, died on Monday when the bike they were riding was hit by a speeding car in Dhamangao on the Ghoti-Sinnar Road in Igatpuri taluka by an unidentified car. The deceased have been identified as Prathamesh Suresh Shendge (22) and Raju Jadhav (21). Ghoti police have registered an FIR against the unidentified car driver who knocked the suspects and fled without informing anyone about the accident. Assistant sub-inspector Anil Dhumse, who is investigating the case, said they have registered an offence under section 304 A (causing death due to negligence), 279 (rash driving) among other sections of the India Penal Code (IPC) against the unidentified suspect. Dhumse said that the accident took place at 8.30 pm. “Both the students resided in the hostel of the medical college. On Monday evening, they took permission from the hostel in-charge to go out for some work for which they left on a motorcycle.” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-mbbs-students-die-in-accident/articleshow/80138796.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 7, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Blue pottery, Makrana marble make it to ‘One District, One Product’ list||JAIPUR: The government has expressed its disappointment after the Centre selected only two products from the state for manufacturing and exports under the ‘One District, One Product’ (ODOP) scheme. Blue pottery and Makrana marble are the two that have received the nod though the government had sent a district-wise list that included Bharatpur’s honey, Dholpur’s red stone, Pali’s Mehandi and Bikaner’s Bhujia, among others. Compared to Rajasthan, 16 products from Uttar Pradesh, 11 from Tamil Nadu, eight each from Karnataka and Maharashtra, and six each from Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh, among others, have been identified under the scheme. The project will make the selected districts manufacturing hubs of their respective products and realise their export potential in full. Last month, in a letter to the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) under the commerce ministry, the state principal secretary (industries) had written about Rajasthan's “vast potential” and requested for more products to be “included in the first phase of this initiative”. Officials in the department said that Rajasthan was one of the first states which had submitted the district-wise list of products. But only blue pottery from Jaipur and Makrana marbles from Nagaur have made it to the list of 106 products selected from across the country. “Rajasthan has been proactive in providing all necessary data required by the central authorities for ODOP. The state has been ranked 1st in the Export Potential Index-2020 released by NITI Aayog, among the landlocked states. We are awaiting detailed guidelines from the Centre for promoting the product selected, leveraging the inherent strength of the state,” said Archana Singh, commissioner (industries). Through this initiative, the government tries to convert each district into an export hub by identifying potential products, addressing infrastructure bottlenecks, supporting local manufacturers to scale up and finding buyers outside India. The details are not available as of now. Senior officers in the department said that blue pottery is a very niche segment and does not have enough potential for a huge economic influence. “There are about 30 blue pottery units which engage about 250-300 people. The annual revenue of production is only Rs 6 crore. So, it has very limited scope. As for Makrana marble, it has already created its market and it does not need much support. There are many products in the list like Bharatpur’s honey and Pali’s Mehandi where government handholding is required, but sadly they have not been identified,” said the official. Moreover, these two products have Geographical Indication tags out of the 11 in the state, he added. As part of this initiative, an institutional mechanism would be set up in each district in the form of district export promotion committees (DEPCs) headed by collector and co-chaired by regional authority of DGFT with various other stakeholders as its members. DEPC will be mandated to prepare export action plans in collaboration with all the relevant stakeholders from the Centre, state and districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/blue-pottery-makrana-marble-makeit-to-one-district-one-product-list/articleshow/80142062.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
January 7, 2021||Nashik||2 Malegaon civic staff held for graft||Nashik: The anti-corruption Bureau (ACB) on Tuesday arrested two employees — a ward officer and a clerk — of the the Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) while accepting a bribe of Rs 3,000. The suspects have been identified as Pankaj Namdeorao Sonawane (ward officer) and Hiralal Gagada (clerk). A press release sent by the ACB (Nashik) said the complainant was planning to set up a medical store in Malegaon for which he needed a no objection certificate (NOC) from the municipal corporation. He had approached Gagada for getting the NOC for which the latter demanded Rs 3,000 for issuing the NOC. Subsequently, the complainant approached the ACB and registered an offence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-malegaon-civic-staff-held-for-graft/articleshow/80138801.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Kolkata||All 17 medical colleges in West Bengal to be immunisation sites||KOLKATA: All the 17 state-run medical colleges in Bengal are gearing up to act at vaccination sites for the first phase of Covid-19 immunization, under which about 6 lakh healthcare workers in the state will be vaccinated. The five teaching hospitals in Kolkata have been told to prepare multiple vaccination sites where beneficiaries will be immunized simultaneously. An online meet was held on Wednesday, when senior administrative officials of all the 17 medical colleges in the state were told to step up its preparedness. “All medical colleges will have six to seven vaccination session sites, where 100 beneficiaries will be immunized at each site every day. The institutes were told on Wednesday to revamp their cold chain facilities and augment manpower,” said a senior health department official. If each of the five medical colleges in the city come up with six sites, 600 healthcare workers will be vaccinated at one institute a day and 3,000 in total. “We have decided to have three sites in the hospital campus and another three on the campus opposite the hospital so that proper spacing can be done,” said an official at Calcutta National Medical College. Each session site will need a team of about eight personnel, including doctors, nurses and security personnel. Every hospital will need about six to seven such teams. “Preparations are on and we are almost ready with our infrastructure for the sites, cold chain points and manpower to take up vaccination programme as and when we are told to do so,” said an administrator at SSKM. Health officials have chosen the teaching hospitals as sites so that they have proper facility to tackle any adverse effect if any arises. “Medical colleges will be better equipped to handle adverse events if any. Even if the vaccines are safe, some people might get reactions,” said the official. Since managing adverse events is a significant part of vaccination programme, some hospitals have set up adverse management teams, comprising senior professors. “Different teams, including one that will look after successful vaccination and another one for adverse management, are in the pipeline. They will be in place right after the dry run on Friday,” said an official at NRS Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/all-17-med-colleges-in-state-to-be-immunisation-sites/articleshow/80140945.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 7, 2021||Dehradun||Ghats to be reserved for elderly pilgrims at Kumbh; app to help registration of senior citizens||HARIDWAR: In a bid to provide security to the senior citizens visiting the Kumbh, the Mela administration has announced that a few Ganga ghats (banks) will be reserved for the elderly pilgrims on the days of shahi snan (holy bath). Prakash Deoli, CO (Kumbh Mela), told TOI, “We will use around 107 river banks during the bathing festival. Special arrangements would be for the elderly pilgrims and the physically-challenged on the river banks for bathing. We have decided that two river banks in each direction will be reserved for the elderly pilgrims.” The administration has also decided to launch a mobile app for the elderly pilgrims. Those pilgrims who register themselves on the app will be escorted by cops. Also, child police stations will also be made during the Kumbh Mela to counter trafficking and other children-related issues. “A mobile app is also being developed by the Kumbh Mela police. Elderly pilgrims can register themselves for bathing and we will escort them to the reserved banks,” added Deoli. C Ravishankar, Haridwar DM, told TOI, “ We are planning to establish a special child police station unit to stop trafficking and other children-related crimes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ghats-to-be-reserved-for-elderly-pilgrims-at-kumbh-app-to-help-registration-of-senior-citizens/articleshow/80139764.cms||MS Nawaz
January 7, 2021||India||Punjab farmers now up in arms over land acquisition||KAPURTHALA: The Delhi-Katra Expressway and Jamnagar Expressway projects have begun facing opposition in Punjab from farmers whose land is being acquired. The farmers have complained that most of them would be left with patches of their land on two sides of the elevated expressways even as compensation for the acquisition is inadequate. Another problem is that many farm families have joint holdings in revenue records. The affected farmers have started organising themselves. The Punjab government is concerned about the low compensation and the matter is being discussed, official sources revealed. With farmers already protesting against the Centre over the three agri laws, the state government apprehends that the two projects can snowball into a major controversy due to twin factors of low compensation and the expressways cutting through the middle of land holdings. On Wednesday, farmers uprooted the small cement concrete pillars at Selbrah village in Rampura Phool sub-division of Bathinda put up for demarcation of land to be acquired. Gurdeep Singh Bhagat of Tibba village in Sultanpur Lodhi, who retired as a school principal, said his family holds land jointly for the last five generations and has not got it demarcated separately in revenue record though temporary divisions exist. “Eight families have a total of 23 acres of land and around 13 acres is set to be acquired for both the expressways. Of the remaining around 10 acres, only around half an acre is on our side,” he said. Both the expressways will converge at Tibba village in Kapurthala district. According to Kisan Sangharsh Committee state chief Sukhdev Singh Dhillon, in Santokhpura village of Sangrur basic compensation of Rs 9.7 lakh per acre has been announced and the owner would get a total less than Rs 20 lakh. “This would render many unemployed,” said Prabhdyal Singh of KSC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/punjab-farmers-now-up-in-arms-over-land-acquisition/articleshow/80143914.cms||IP Singh
January 7, 2021||Delhi||Ex-bank manager held for siphoning off people’s money in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The Economic Offences Wing of Delhi Police has arrested a former senior bank manager— the then head of the Najafgarh branch of Bank of India—and his associate on charges of siphoning off money from customers’ accounts. The then branch head, Rampat Singh, got a current account opened in the name of a fictitious firm and gave cash credit facilities to it. “Then he transferred money from accounts not operated for a while through forged cheques. The money was then diverted to other accounts or withdrawn in cash,” joint commissioner (EOW) OP Mishra said. According to police, two of the customers of Bank of India had informed the bank that there had been fraudulent transfers from their accounts. On enquiry, Bank of India found that money from both of the aggrieved persons were transferred to the account of one Mani Traders. Bank then zeroed down upon one Amit Jangra who was operating that account. “A police complaint was made by officials of Bank of India alleging that Jangra deposited the cheques in the CC Limit of Mani Traders. Thereafter, the money was transferred from this account to other different accounts of relatives of Jangra. A case was registered and investigation taken up,” said Mishra. Investigation revealed that Singh in connivance with Jangra had opened the account in the name of Mani Traders. Being the branch head, he sanctioned the CC Limit of Rs 30 lakh for this account. In a planned manner, they transferred Rs 2.6 crore in this account from the accounts of other customers. The amount so misappropriated from the accounts of other customers had to be compensated by Bank of India. After the probe, Singh and Jangra were arrested on January 5. During interrogation, Jangra disclosed that he had a timber business in Najafgarh and while looking for a bank loan for expansion of his business, he came in contact with the branch head of BOI, Najafgarh. A few days ago, the EOW had arrested two former senior managers of Punjab National Bank for allegedly carrying out a similar fraud. In that case, a complaint was made by Punjab National Bank officials alleging that a company in the name of Sarki Trading Company had obtained the cash credit limit of Rs 2.5 crore on the basis of false credentials and documents in the year 2013.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ex-bank-manager-held-for-siphoning-off-peoples-money/articleshow/80140952.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Bareilly||Girl raped, thrown off terrace of house in Uttar Pradesh||BAREILLY: A 19-year-old girl was allegedly raped inside her house and later thrown off the terrace by her neighbour in UP’s Moradabad district on Tuesday midnight. The victim is fighting for life at a hospital after sustaining multiple injuries. The accused was nabbed by locals and handed over to police. Police had registered an FIR under sections 354 (attempt to outrage the modesty of a woman), 457 (house tress-pass in with intent to commit offence) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt). However, the girl’s father alleged that the local SHO changed his complaint and registered the case under milder sections of IPC to save the accused. He wasnt booked for rape. The girl’s father said, “I was sleeping when I heard people shouting that a thief was there on the terrace of my house. When I rushed, I saw my neighbour, Arvind, pushing my daughter from the roof of the house. My daughter’s hands were tied with a piece of cloth and a cloth was stuffed into her mouth. I immediately informed police and Arvind was arrested. Police took my daughter to a hospital. But later, I was made to sign on a blank paper and my complaint was changed by the SHO.” The girl had eight stitches on her head. Moradabad SSP Prabhakar Chaudhary said that the girl’s statement was recorded by a magistrate in the hospital on Wednesday. The SSP said, “Dial 112 team brought the girl to the hospital and arrested the accused. In her statement before the magistrate, the girl has said that she was raped by the accused. We will take all these facts into consideration and add the sections on the basis of evidence.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/girl-19-raped-thrown-off-terrace-of-her-house-in-moradabad-cops-didnt-press-rape-charge/articleshow/80139741.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 7, 2021||Nagpur||ABNORMAL IS NORMAL||Barging in surreptitiously, 2020 held us captive and left with the most unflattering epitaph ever. Panellists at the TOI Debate unpack the year that was, meditate on the lessons learnt, and forecast what’s in store for humanity 2021 onwardsDespite experiencing as tumultuous a year as it gets, developmental psychologist Neha Sahu believed a large part of society emerged unscathed. “We are in a good spot, mentally and emotionally,” she said, with the caveat that she knew many who were not. Social media strategist Ajeet Parse posited that social media was the “dopamine” that soothed humanity. “We realized the importance of social bonding,” Sahu concurred. It was also a year of quirky trends like ‘rasode mein kaun tha’?, said entrepreneur Vatsal Kothari. But all this came later in the day. The first phase of lockdown, said school principal Shabih Chaurasia, was replete with virus relief mumbo-jumbo. “It was everywhere. All kinds of fake remedies were on offer, the messages were irresponsibly shared and hence the ‘remedies’ used by many,” she said. At times, said Chaurasia, she wondered if students would ever get to return to school. “Children learn a lot in school besides academics, and most of this learning happens on playgrounds. The pandemic made me think about whether they will get to play freely again,” she said. Echoing Chaurasia’s reflections, real estate broker Pankaj Roshan said the main thing that 2020 gave society was “the time to think”, but also acknowledged that this view may not correspond with the nation’s majority. “Most of the panellists belong to the top 1%. We are talking about our ‘normal’, but do not know its implications for the farmers sitting on the road today,” he said. For Roshan, the past year was a reminder to shun the rat race and focus on his life’s direction, rather than speed. “With the extra time at home, I got a better insight into my son and wife’s thought processes. The year was a blessing for me,” he said. Entrepreneur Rutwik Joshi agreed with Roshan’s philosophical musing. “We got to explore and experience the importance of life. We were cooped up in our homes for so long that when we eventually stepped out, it felt like freedom.” Joshi added, “We also learnt how important people like sanitation workers and doctors are for us. The kind of sacrifice we used to hear about (by the Army) at the borders was now being exhibited at our neighbouring hospitals.” Sahu chimed in, “We started living life more deeply. One found creative ways to do so many more boring chores”. The pandemic also gave her the opportunity to practice what she preaches, as she could finally spend quality time with her child. “Father-son friendships blossomed because of lesser work and more time together,” said Kothari. Chaurasia said she was grateful not just to front line Covid warriors like health care workers, but also to teachers for keeping students engaged with online classes, despite having “their own kids jumping around” in the background. Kothari pithily observed how the society had learnt to make “the abnormal normal”. He cited the instances of cost cutting in marriages, sensitivity towards people, equality, and general hygiene to assert that issues hitherto brushed under the carpet became relevant and somewhat mainstream in 2020. Like most other panellists, activist Shashank Gattewar’s 2020 was dedicated to introspection too. “Humans got to spend time with themselves. Most importantly, hygiene became an integral part of many Indian citizens’ lives.” To this, Joshi raised the question of whether people would continue to take sanitation seriously after getting vaccinated. “Homo sapiens as a species value convenience over everything else,” pat came the panellists’ answer. The environmental impact of Covid-19 was discussed. Roshan said the cleaning up of rivers and the sound of birds chirping outside his home was proof enough that “Nature has the power to heal itself”. But the condition soon reverted to the old normal, some panellists pointed out. Joshi felt the feeling of ownership regarding the environment was needed to drive that change forward. Gadchiroli activist Datta Shirke added, “The improvement in environmental conditions was borne out of corona fear in people’s minds. But the fear has dissipated now. Look at how the number of guests in weddings has ballooned from 10-20 a few months ago to 400-500 now.” Chaurasia averred, “Fear is what drives action, indeed.” Gastroenterologist Dr Saurabh Mukewar looked back at the unprecedented challenges him and his team had to surmount. “We were expected to deliver health care despite the spectre of coronavirus looming large in front of us, our family and staff. The work environment changed completely, but we just had to keep going.” Detailing doctors’ ordeal, Mukewar said, “In the summer, we were sweating from top to bottom and lost 3-4 kg weight purely to the heat. Doing 2-hour procedures with 5-10 kg lead on top of 2-layered PPE kits and face shields was extremely difficult.” For many, the challenges continue this year. “2021 will be tough for subcontracting businesses, as the main contractors are not releasing payments and the subcontractors have to make payments to labourers and other vendors. Government agencies should look into the cycle of payment right till the end,” said advocate Manish Gopalani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/abnormal-is-normal/articleshow/80140961.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Vadodara||Gujarat’s first crocodile park to come up near SoU||Vadodara: Visitors to the Statue of Unity (SoU) will soon get to watch deadly jaws from up close in Gujarat’s first crocodile park that is set to come at the site. The Sardar Patel Zoological Park, known as Jungle Safari, in Kevadia has decided to build a crocodile park in its premises. Located next to the towering statue, this safari is home to several wild animals and exotic birds. “The idea is to add one more attraction to the safari that has become very popular among the tourists. We plan to build a crocodile park in our premises. Design for the park is ready and we have invited bids for the project. Once completed, the crocodile park will be one of our major attractions,” said Dr Ram Ratan Nala, director, Sardar Patel Zoological Park. The park enclosure will ensure safety of the crocodiles and give them enough space to swim around without getting into territorial conflicts. “The park is being divided into two parts. One zone will be for public viewing of crocodiles while the other section will be for rescued crocodiles,” Nala told TOI. The authorities will be preparing a set up for treating injured crocodiles rescued from water bodies and then releasing them back in their natural abode. To be built at the cost of Rs 98 lakh, the park spread over 5,500 sq m land is expected to be completed within next six months. When asked how the park will acquire crocodiles, Nala said, “We will get crocodiles through an exchange system.” Interestingly, a lake near Sardar Sarovar Dam was home to hundreds of crocodiles that were reportedly removed for the seaplane project as the plane was to land in that water body. The Jungle Safari that is one of the most popular attractions in SoU has nearly 350 exotic animals and birds including capuchin monkeys, lama, alpaca, squirrel monkey, giraffe, zebras, lion and tiger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gujarats-first-crocodile-park-to-come-up-near-sou/articleshow/80140944.cms||Tushar Tere
January 7, 2021||Nashik||Over 50 traders booked in 2 years for selling nylon manja||Nashik: Even as the city police have launched a drive against vendors selling banned nylon manja after the death of a woman on the Dwarka flyover, the police said in the past two years, they have booked at least 50 shopkeepers for selling the banned manja.Vijay Kharat, the deputy commissioner of police (Zone II), said, “Every year, we book around 25 nylon manja sellers in the city around the Makar Sankranti festival. This time we have decided to take stern action against those manja sellers. While close to a dozen have already been booked this year so far and police teams have launched a campaign to trace such manja sellers, we even sent proposals to the office of the deputy labour commissioner in Nashik to cancel the license of the five shopkeepers who were found selling the nylon manja”“Even if the licences are not cancelled, we want stern action to be taken so that they do not sell the nylon manja in the future,” added Kharat.  Deepak Pandey, the police commissioner, said, “The nylon manja is brought illegally from Hyderabad. If the need arises, we will set up a team and send it to Hyderabad to take action against the manufacturers. We will also speak to our counterparts there.” These vendors bring the material by road mainly from Hyderabad. Anand Wagh, police inspector of the crime branch, said, “The vendors keep the nylon manja hidden inside their houses or shops. There are many middlemen involved in the sale of the nylon manja. Hence, it is not easy to know who is the seller of the nylon manja.” In general, a person in need of nylon manja manages to get the information from his common friends about the middleman. After a deal is struck, the middleman procures the manja from the seller and delivers it to the buyer.The price ranges from a few hundreds of rupees to Rs 1,000 depending on the quality and quantity of nylon manja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-50-traders-booked-in-2-years-for-selling-nylon-manja/articleshow/80138818.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 7, 2021||Nashik||Police to take action against all illegal biz: Game||Nashik: Divisional commissioner Radhakrishna Game has instructed the police in north Maharashtra to take action against all the illegal businesses within their jurisdiction, while also providing force to different departments during their action. During a recent visit to Nashik, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had made it clear that there should no confusion on which department should take action against illegal businesses.Game held a meeting of chiefs of various departments from north Maharashtra. Also present at the meeting were IG (special) Pratap Dighawkar, district collector Suraj Mandhare, city police commissioner Deepak Pandey, NMC commissioner Kailas Jadhav, SP Sachin Patil, Nashik RTO Bharat Kalaskar, district public prosecutor Ajay Misar, Joint director of FDA Nashik Madhuri Pawar, divisional deputy commissioner of state excise department Arjun Ohol. Game said that Dighawkar has taken very good action against illegal businesses. Misar said that if the police come across any illegal activity or business, they should be taking action under different Acts of the Indian Penal Code. He said that the police have taken suo motu action against various illegal businesses and such cases were in the court. Pandey said that the police had been taking action against illegal businesses and would continue to do so. A couple of months back, Pandey had said that departments, which issue various licences, should be the ones to take action against those violating the provisions of the licence. The police can focus on maintaining law and order, and crime prevention and detection. This had created confusion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-to-take-action-against-all-illegal-biz-game/articleshow/80138805.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 7, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Stopped for checking, criminal grievously injures two cops in Tilak Nagar||NEW DELHI: A history-sheeter attacked two Delhi Police beat officers in west Delhi’s Tilak Nagar on Wednesday. A face-off ensued in full public view around 7.30pm in which one of the cops and the criminal were left critically injured. A criminal attacked two police constables with a knife in Chowkhandi area of #TilakNagar on Wednesday evening. A co… https://t.co/aepUDzSB3Y— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1609983547000Constable Deepak and his partner Mukesh were on patrol duty and checking vehicles in the area when they ran into Sagar Champa in B Block. Champa first tried to flee when stopped for checking, and then got into a scuffle with Mukesh. When Mukesh didn’t let him go, Champa whipped out a dagger and attacked him. Mukesh was first hit on the right hand, cutting the main artery. Subsequently, he was also stabbed in the chest. As Mukesh fell down, Deepak, who was at a little distance, rushed to his rescue, but he was also attacked. Mukesh then whipped out his pistol and asked Champa to surrender. But Champa tried to stab Deepak following which Mukesh opened fire. While he fired first in the air, the second bullet pierced Champa’s chest. Help and reinforcement arrived by then and the trio were taken to hospital. While Mukesh and Champa are in the ICU, Deepak has been discharged. Both Mukesh and Champa were operated upon, and the cop is learnt to be stable. An FIR has been registered for attempted murder and attacking on-duty policemen. Both Deepak and Mukesh will be rewarded for their act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/stopped-for-checking-criminal-grievously-injures-beat-officer-in-tilak-nagar/articleshow/80140975.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Nashik||School attendance goes up in rural areas||Nashik: More schools are reopening in the rural areas of Nashik district with more parents agreeing to send their wards for the physical classes. “Over the past two days, more parents have given us consent. We are not taking any chances and have asked the school authorities to conduct the classes in two sessions if needed to ensure safe physical distancing,” Vaishali Veer, the secondary education officer of Nashik zilla parishad, said. There are 1,324 government-run and government-aided secondary schools — for students of classes IX to XII — including junior colleges. When the schools first reopened on January 4, the officials said that 846 schools began functioning with 1.2 lakh students. The number of students now has risen to 1.8 lakh. Students who have parental consent are allowed to enter the schools and sit for classes only after they undergo mandatory health screening every day. Students without masks are not allowed entry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/school-attendance-goes-up-in-rural-areas/articleshow/80138820.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 7, 2021||Trichy||Tamil Nadu man murders brother in fight over Pongal dole||THANJAVUR: A drunk man in Thanjavur district was murdered on Tuesday night by his elder brother -- who too was in an inebriated condition -- after the former attacked their father demanding the Rs 2,500 Pongal gift the family had got from the Tamil Nadu government. The deceased has been identified as R Viswalingam of Siramelkudi. Viswalingam’s father Raman, 78, received Rs 2,500 cash along with the Pongal gift hamper from a PDS shop in the village on Tuesday. Viswalingam approached Raman and asked him to give him the money. As Viswalingam was in an inebriated condition, Raman refused to give the money fearing that he might spend it on liquor. Viswalingam kept on demanding the money. At one point, he picked up a sickle and attacked Raman. Raman, who sustained minor injuries, was admitted to a private hospital in Mathukur. Raman’s elder son, R Balasubramanian, 50, came to know that his younger brother had attacked their father. Balasubramanian, who too was in an inebriated condition, picked up a quarrel with Viswalingam. The verbal duel between the two turned violent. In a fit of rage, Balasubramanian attacked Viswalingam on his head with a log, killing him on the spot. On being informed, the Mathukur police rushed to the spot and sent the body to a government hospital for postmortem. They arrested Balasubramanian.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/drunk-man-attacks-dad-demanding-dole-murdered-by-brother/articleshow/80142127.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat forest department issues alert concerning bird flu||AHMEDABAD: The state forest department has issued an alert and directed field staff to monitor deaths of birds especially at the sites where large numbers of migratory birds have come. Barring the deaths of 53 birds at the Bantva dam in Manavadar, no deaths of birds have been reported from any part of the state. The department in its preliminary report stated that the birds had died due to poisoning. Forest department officials issued a special alert for Kutch, especially Flamingo City, and for Nalsarovar and places where migratory birds come in large numbers. Animal husbandry minister Kunvarji Bavaliya said, “The preliminary investigation revealed that the birds at Bantva had died of poisoning. We have sent the dead birds from Bantva to the High Security Animal Disease Laboratory in Bhopal for detailed investigations. We have also got four dead crows from Rajpipla and have also sent their samples to Bhopal. The preliminary report in the case of these crows also does not point to anything suspicious.” Bavaliya said the animal husbandry department has also issued an alert and asked its deputy directors to remain alert and immediately inform superior officers and the forest department in cases of such deaths. A forest department report stated that the postmortems carried out by the panel of doctors has stated that while what two birds had eaten could not be analyzed, it seems they may have died due to poison. The gizzards were filled with wheat grains. The report stated that no symptoms of respiratory tract infection were seen.” Brijesh Chaudhary, deputy conservator of forests, Nalsarovar, said, “We have asked field staff to stay alert and not just monitor the area in and around Nalsarovar and Thol sanctuaries but also village ponds where migratory birds have come.” Beat guards are also making rounds of such areas and are monitoring deaths. “So far we have not come across any suspicious deaths, if we do senior officials will immediately be informed,” said the DCF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-forest-dept-issues-alert-concerning-bird-flu/articleshow/80140971.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Burning of wood, plastic now biggest air pollution factor||MUMBAI: Harish Pandey, whose flat overlooks the Ganpat Patil Nagar slums in Dahisar, wakes up these days to the sight of a haze cloaking the neighbourhood. With mercury down, residents of the shanty settlement which adjoins a swathe of mangroves are burning wood to keep their tarpaulin-lined dwellings warm or to heat up water for bathing. “The smoke travels into our homes and many in the area can’t even keep their windows open,” said Pandey. Track the pollution level in your cityWith winter setting in, wood or coal burnt for warmth or cooking and garbage set aflame for roadside bonfires are worsening the already polluted air. Complaints of emissions from open burning of biomass and waste have increased as residents feel the impact on their health. TimesViewAir pollution in Mumbai is mostly associated with heavy industry or traffic, but the fact that biomass is burnt on almost every street goes unnoticed. Part of the reason is the extent of the slum population, which is forced to scavenge for wood, coal, plastic to keep kitchen fires burning. The other factor is lack of government initiative to plug pollution by providing more gas connections and enforcing rules against burning of waste more strictly.For those who blame industry and traffic alone for blighting their ambient environment, a look at historical data may be sobering. According to System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), in 2016 as much as 27% of the PM 2.5 (particulate matter measuring lesser than 2.5 microns) generated in Mumbai came from use of biofuels in residential-slums, open burning, fires, etc. “Not just slums or standalone homes, but the security staff at most housing societies also burn wood to keep themselves warm during winter nights,” said Pandey. While the civic body’s Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 prohibit waste burning, garbage is often burnt along bylanes or in industrial units with complete impunity. According to a factory owner from Mulund, “There are various small industrial units right outside our compound. The society has refused to avail the civic body’s services for their waste to be picked up. Instead, they burn it during the night causing harm to the health of the residents who live in the vicinity. The waste is toxic and one can feel an itch in the throat almost immediately.” Recently, activist Sumaira Abdulali wrote to state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray demanding tougher rules to prohibit open burning. Abdulali’s NGO Awaaz Foundation measured PM 2.5 concentration along a stretch in Bhiwandi where garbage was being piled up and burnt last year and found it to be over 612 microgrammes per cubic metre. “We found pollution levels had a direct correlation with the size of the garbage dump burning. It is impossible to control air pollution solely through generalized Air Quality Index (AQI) monitoring, unless individual sources are also identified and tackled one by one,” she said. While the city’s pollution levels are in check due to natural factors during the four monsoon months, AQI begins to spike as winter sets in because as temperature dips, the inversion layer – height beyond which pollutants cannot disperse – is lowered and pollutants stay closer to the earth’s surface. On Wednesday, overall AQI was 309. AQI between 301 and 400 is considered very poor and triggers a health alert. (This is the first of a series on the impact of burning wood, coal, waste, etc on air pollution. Readers are invited to send in their complaints and suggestions)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/burning-of-wood-plastic-now-biggest-air-pollution-factor/articleshow/80142173.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 7, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Schools plan to re-open with board science practicals||KOLKATA: Schools in the city said they were ready to re-open at a short notice—as and when the state gave the permission—and would start with students who have laboratory-oriented subjects in their board exams. CBSE schools are particularly worried as the board has declared practical exams will be held in March. Though CISCE is yet to make a decision, affiliated schools said Class-XII science students had lost crucial lab time and they needed to be called to the campus first. Times ViewIt’s a dilemma for schools, parents and students with board exams round the corner door but the virus is still around despite a significant dip in cases. The academic calendar has already seen delays; so deferring key exams further makes no point. But Covid precautions need to be followed now with as much rigour as last year. A drop in guard can have really bad consequences.After the Christmas break, Many institutes have called their teachers to the campus so that they can take virtual classes from school, an exercise that can be a rehearsal for physical classes. “Once the state government clearance comes through, Class-X and -XII science students will be called to the campus,” said Indrani Chattopadhyay, vice-principal of DPS Ruby Park. Students will be called in small groups and spread out across the multiple labs. Other board-year students will be called in for interactions with teachers. Hybrid online teaching will continue. The Heritage School plans to call Class-XII science students first as CISCE has science practicals only for ISC students. “Though the council has said students will be on campus for two months before the exams are held, there is very little time now, since each science student needs 30% of the academic year in labs,” said Seema Sapru, principal of the school. La Martiniere schools would also re-open with Class XII science students, followed by others, said secretary Supriyo Dhar. “We are ready with our SOP and awaiting state permission,” he said. Loreto House held practical classes on the campus with small groups for a few days before the winter break. Loreto Bowbazar, too, did a few sessions, when students went to school to submit project files. Most schools are preparing virtual consent forms to be signed by parents. “We will make it clear schools should not be held responsible if a child falls ill...” said the principal of a school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-plan-to-re-open-with-board-science-practicals/articleshow/80140983.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
January 7, 2021||Nagpur||Sisters, 60 and 50, found dead in Juni Kamptee||Nagpur: Sisters, aged 60 and 50, were found dead in their house in Juni Kamptee area on Wednesday afternoon. The body of one of them was in a highly decomposed state, DCP Neelotpal told TOI. Police sources said the sisters may have died due to starvation or some disease. The cops found no foodstuff in the house. Prima facie their death did not indicate any foul play. Neelotpal said the exact cause would be known after a post mortem. The deceased have been identified as Padma Lavte (60) and Kalpana Lavte (50), residents of slum rehabilitation scheme of Dal Oli No. 2. Police said the incident came to fore on Wednesday morning when a Kamptee municipal council staff went to collect property tax. “Though the door was latched from inside it opened following a push by the tax collector,” said Neelotpal. On seeing the bodies in a partially decomposed condition, the staffer alerted the neighbours and Juni Kamptee police too. The sisters used to live alone and didn’t interact with anyone. “Nobody had seen them for more than a fortnight,” police said. It’s learnt that Padma was mentally unstable. Kalpana used to work as a labourer or a domestic help. Neighbours informed the police that the sisters were not keeping well for quite some time. Sanjay Lavte, a cousin, lives in the neighbourhood but was not on talking terms with the sisters, the police said. Police said after their father had remarried after his wife died. They have three step sisters. One of them died in a road accident. Police have informed the other two — residing in Indore and Buldhana — and they are scheduled to reach Nagpur on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sisters-60-and-50-found-dead-in-juni-kamptee/articleshow/80141002.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 7, 2021||Delhi||Delhi court dismisses lawyer’s plea seeking copy of video footage of raid on office||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Wednesday dismissed a review plea filed by lawyer Mehmood Pracha seeking copy of the video footage of the raid conducted at his office on December 24. Additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana noted that the plea was not legally correct and hence not maintainable. “The prayer regarding the supply of video footage has not been disposed of by the trial court and the impugned order (of magistrate) is purely interlocutory in nature. I concur with the additional public prosecutor that the instant revision petition is legally not maintainable,” the judge observed. Pracha had challenged the magistrate court order, which had refused to share with him the video footage while ordering it to be preserved. While dismissing the review plea, the court noted that a provision of law mandates that the record of a raid be forthwith given to the magistrate, but not the applicant. Judge Rana was informed that on December 25, 2020, Pracha had filed a plea seeking copies of the material seized and all records made during the search and seizure conducted in his official premises. The magistrate court, Pracha contended, on December 27 directed that the footage of the search be preserved and allowed him a copy of the report of the search. but not copies of the video footage. It was also submitted that the search conducted in Pracha’s office premises was a matter of “grave concern” for the legal fraternity as the raiding party had compromised confidential and privileged information and data of hundreds of clients. The lawyer further said that the cops committed several “illegal and criminal acts” during the search — all of which would be clear when the footage is perused. He apprehended that police would make “every attempt to manipulate and tamper the footage” so as to prevent their illegal and criminal acts from being exposed in public domain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-dismisses-lawyers-plea-seeking-copy-of-video-footage-of-raid-on-office/articleshow/80140988.cms||---
January 7, 2021||India||Talks a chance to explain laws: Goyal||NEW DELHI: Union minister Piyush Goyal on Wednesday said he looks at the ongoing discussions with farmer unions as less of a problem and more of an opportunity to explain the benefits of the new laws to them and the country. Addressing the 74th foundation day of Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS), Goyal said there are always different points of view to look at things as he cited the example of the discussions with farmers unions. “There are always different points of view to look at things. No good work is easy and difficulties always come. Problems arise in everything, but it all depends on how we see things and how we deal with them. It is all about the point of view,” he said. Goyal, as food and consumer affairs minister, along with Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has been holding talks with the farmers groups protesting against the recently enacted farm laws. “For example, when I go along with agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar for discussions with farmer unions, should I see that as a trouble or as an opportunity that I am getting? I see that as an opportunity at those discussions to explain to farmers that the new laws are in their interest and in the interest of the country. I tell them that the entire country will benefit if farmers’ income increases and their lives, as well as the lives of their children, will get better. That is my point of view to look at things,” the minister said. The next round of meeting with the farmer unions is scheduled on Friday. Thousands of farmers are protesting for more than 40 days at the Delhi borders, demanding the repeal of the three farm laws enacted in September 2020. The Supreme Court is also scheduled to hear on January 11 a batch of pleas challenging the new farm laws as also the ones raising issues related to the ongoing farmers’ protest at Delhi borders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/talks-a-chance-to-explain-laws-goyal/articleshow/80143936.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Vaccine may not give you complete shield||NEW DELHI: Vaccination may not mean you can dispense with the mask or stop washing your hands. Covid-appropriate behaviour will be necessary even after you get the anti-coronavirus jab. The vaccine, doctors say, may help protect against developing severe symptoms if you get the infection, but it is unclear if it can reduce infectiousness. According to Dr Uma Malhotra, clinical associate professor at University of Washington in Seattle, US, the vaccine provides only a layer of protection. Addressing a webinar organised by All India Institute of Medical Sciences in collaboration with Niti Aayog and Union health ministry on Wednesday, Malhotra said, “What we have learnt from the vaccine trials is that we are preventing symptomatic infections. We have not shown that we are preventing asymptomatic infections. So, we may be gaining protection from the disease but we may still be able to transmit the infection to others. We don’t have that data. We need to make the community aware of that.” Dr Randeep Guleria, director, AIIMS, added that vaccination didn’t give anyone the freedom to dispense with Covid-appropriate behaviour. India has approved two vaccines, Covaxin and Covishield, for emergency use in the country. The former was developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with Indian Council of Medical Research and the latter by Oxford and Astrazeneca. Both vaccines have to be administered in two doses. Dr V K Paul, member of Niti Aayog, said all preparations had been done for the rollout of the vaccine on January 13. He, however, refused to answer which vaccine would be administered in the first phase of the inoculation programme. “The nitty-gritty is being worked out. We will communicate the details of this,” he said, in answer to a question from a doctor who wanted to know which vaccine would be given to healthcare workers who are first on the priority list for the Covid vaccination in India. Paul added that he personally preferred Covaxin since it is an indigenous vaccine. “I am ready to take the vaccine in public if needed,” he declared. There has been a controversy over some public health experts questioning the emergency use approval given to Covaxin since the results of the third phase of its trial are still awaited. Health experts said at the webinar that social distancing was a must at vaccination centres. “Crowding is possible at vaccination centres. This should be discouraged. Otherwise, these places can become focal points of infection,” said one of them. Winter is the time when common flu is also widespread and elderly citizens and those with co-morbidities are advised to take preventive shots. Dr Gagandeep Kang, professor of microbiology at CMC Vellore, said that the World Health Organization recommended a two-week gap between the influenza shot and the Covid vaccine. “Right now, WHO is only recommending Pfizer, not even Moderna. So, the recommendation for the mRNA vaccine is to maintain a two-week gap,” Kang said. Watch Covid Vaccine may not give you complete shield||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vaccine-may-not-give-you-complete-shield/articleshow/80142249.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
January 7, 2021||Nashik||198 senior colleges in Nashik district to reopen from Jan 11||Nashik: Following directions from the University Grant Commission (UGC) and the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), 198 senior colleges in Nashik district will begin physical classes from January 11, said Prashant Tope, the coordinator of SPPU’s Nashik sub-centre. “The senior colleges have been asked to open physically so that they can complete the syllabus (wherever required) and get the practicals of various subjects done. This is to ensure that the students’ academics are not affected,” Tope said. All the colleges have been informed about conducting lectures and practical sessions, and the guidelines to be followed in case of multiple sessions on the same day. The colleges will be conducting multiple sessions with the sanitization of the premises done in between. Nobody apart from bonafide students and college staff will be allowed to enter the campus. “The security personnel at the college gates have been instructed to allow only the students with valid identity cards inside. The students will go straight to the classrooms that have been assigned to them and only at the timings informed to them. Any kind of loitering will not be allowed and the rules of entering and exiting the campus will be strictly followed to avoid overcrowding,” U K Kulkarni, Principal of Bhonsala Military College, said. At the same time, the students have also been told to ensure that they stick to the guidelines and come to the short sessions that have been planned from early morning till evening to ensure they get through their lectures and practicals smoothly. “The theory part of the syllabus is mostly over (though not completed) for all the classes. The stress, therefore, will be on the practicals. The students will be directed to the laboratories when they enter the premises so that they do not touch any other thing. The sessions will start at 7.30 am and conclude by 7 pm,” said V B Gaikwad, the principal of KTHM College, of Maratha Vidya Prasarak Samaj, Nashik. The colleges have created batches for the students and will inform them about the same in a couple of days. The students will be coming to the colleges only as per the timings assigned to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/198-senior-colleges-in-nashik-district-to-reopen-from-jan-11/articleshow/80138859.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 7, 2021||Delhi||AAP: Punjab has implemented 3 farm laws||NEW DELHI: AAP’s Punjab co-in-charge, Raghav Chadha, on Wednesday accused Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh of “betraying the farmers” and demanded his resignation. Chadha alleged that despite Congress claiming to be supporting farmers, the three central farm laws against which the protests are being held have been implemented in Punjab. “In a press conference, Punjab’s minister of food and civil supplies has clearly stated that the three farm laws have been implemented in Punjab,” the MLA claimed. “He also mentioned how all produce is being bought and sold as per the new laws. It was also confirmed that irrespective of notification, Punjab has opened its doors to farmers from neighbouring regions, and there will not be any MSP.” Slamming the “back-door implementation” of the laws, Chadha said, “There cannot be a bigger fraud, a bigger betrayal than this.” Chadha, who recently toured Punjab, said over 50 farmers had died at the Singhu-Tikri borders. “Congress and the Punjab CM both lay exposed,” he alleged. He said Singh was present during the discussions on the draft laws in July-August 2019 and he hadn’t met protesting farmers even once. “He makes regular visits to Delhi to meet important BJP functionaries, but has not bothered to travel a few extra kilometres to engage with the farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-punjab-has-implemented-3-farm-laws/articleshow/80141007.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 7, 2021||Nashik||NMC to invest Rs 30cr to construct sewage pipeline||Nashik: With the city expanding, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to invest Rs 30 crore for construction of underground sewage pipelines in the new areas of the city. According to the NMC, the underground sewage lines with a total length of 50 km will be constructed by March 2022. These new areas, where the underground sewage network is developed, are located on the outskirts of the city like Pathardi, Mhasarul, Makhmalabad and other areas across the six divisions. NMC already has the sewage pipeline network of 1,500 km so far and sewage lines of around 100 km were built in the last one and a half years. The civic body has a total of 10 sewage treatment plants (STPS) with sewage water treatment capacity of 360 million litres per day (MLD). Currently, NMC is treating around 300 MLD of sewage and it gets sewage through the sewage lines. “As the city is expanding, we are constructing the sewage lines. With the rise in population, we also need to increase the capacity of the STPs to treat the sewage water. We are building a new STP at Pimpalgaon Khamb in the city,” said S Vanjari, the executive engineer of NMC. The construction of the proposed new STP, which will be spread on eight acre, is already under construction and is expected to be operational by December 2021. The capacity of this STP will be 32 MLD. NMC is also in the process of upgrading the existing nine STPs and it has already sent the proposals to the central government for upgrading four old STPs . The cost of upgrading these four STPs is expected to be over Rs 250 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-invest-rs-30cr-to-construct-sewage-pipeline/articleshow/80138866.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Zoos taking extra measures||Ahmedabad/Surat: The bird flu scare has led to massive surveillance in the zoos in the state. The forest department in Junagadh has decided not to set up a hospital under the Karuna Abhiyan during Uttarayan at Sakkarbaug Zoo. Chief conservator of forests D Vasavda said, “After the bird flu alert, the forest department has decided not to allow the entry of birds from outside. A hospital is usually set up under the Karuna Abhiyan at Sakkarbaug Zoo, but this year the department will set up the hospital at another campus. The department also accepts birds that are rescued now no such birds will be accepted.” He further said that all precautions that were issued under Covid protocols have been continued. R K Sahoo, the zoo superintendent at Kamla Nehru Zoological Garden said the zoo has begun surveillance of animal keepers and are collecting data on whether there are poultry farms near their residences. We have asked them to inform the department if they come across any dead bird on the zoo campus. The bird carcass is to be collected and sent to the animal husbandry department.” Sahoo said cages are disinfected regularly and the birds in the zoo are not at risk as they are isolated and in cages. Rajesh Patel, superintendent of the Surat zoo, said, “We are keeping vigil and are testing samples from birds in the captivity area of the zoo. We have instructed supervisors to keep a watch for mass deaths of the crows, pigeons or migratory birds due to the avian flu threat. As of now we have found nothing indicating avian flu. Regular samples are sent to Bhopal for testing.” Patel added, “Migratory birds are carriers of avian flu and not birds in captivity. Migratory birds spread the virus through their stool. Our vigilance has been intensified.” “There is a very small possibility of zoo birds mixing with migratory birds, and we carry out the disinfection process regularly. The forest department is keeping watch on zoo birds also and take samples when required,” said R K Hirpara, superintendent of Pradhyuman Zoological Park, Rajkot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/zoos-taking-extra-measures/articleshow/80140982.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Nagpur||After NIV, genome sequencers coming soon at GMCH Nagpur||Nagpur: Soon, research bodies, civic authority and hospitals will not have to depend for genomic sequencing, in-depth analysis of any viral disease or virus culture on Pune-based National Institute Virology which at present is the lone centre in state for all such investigations. The state will have two more genomic sequencers once the cabinet approves proposal by Government Medical College and Hospital in city and BJ Medical College at Pune. GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra told TOI the proposal was part of Phase II expansion of the state-level viral research and diagnostics lab (VRDL) set up at the medical college nearly a year ago. The 8-capillaries genomic sequencer would process 80 samples at a time. It would be procured at a cost of Rs1.41 crore through Haffkine Institute for Training, Research and Testing at Mumbai. Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) has approved proposals of both the medical colleges. GMCH had forwarded the proposal in mid-December and it is now awaiting administrative approval from government. Associate professor of microbiology and Covid lab incharge Dr Swati Bhise said the infrastructure and manpower to run the new lab are already in place. The genomic sequencing could commence within a couple of days of GMCH receiving the machine. Lately, the city had to wait for more than 10 days to get samples of UK returnees investigated for the new Covid strain at NIV but ultimately returned as they were negative. Five more samples are still pending. Dr Bhise said two ICMR scientists are already appointed in the VRDL. “Genome analysis is to study the virus RNA to ascertain which gene it carries and complete genetic material. The machine can be used for any viral disease,” she said. Viral culture - growing virus in an artificial environment – to study virus and its impact would also be done here. “As we only give symptomatic treatment in viral infections, diagnosis becomes very crucial to reduce mortality. So only viral diseases would be investigated at GMCH lab,” Dr Bhise said. She added the onset of viral infection was very acute as suddenly the patient collapses due to sudden spread of respiratory pathogens like in swine flu. “The lab will immensely benefit people here,” she said. All activities at the lab would be in coordination with Integrated Disease Survelliance Programme (IDSP) run under the deputy director of health services. Mega boost*Genenomic sequencer to process 80 samples at a time * All viral diseases to be researched *To cost Rs1.41crore and procured through Haffkine Institute * It will run from GMCH’s state-level VRDL * Room has been allotted for the facility * Proposal okayed by DMER, now pending with state cabinet * Lab can start in a couple of days after GMCH receiving it * New facility can also develop kits like NIV * Only human samples would be investigated||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-niv-genome-sequencers-coming-soon-at-gmch-nagpur/articleshow/80141041.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 7, 2021||Nashik||Amnesty scheme helps NMC collect Rs 19 cr dues||Nashik: The amnesty scheme of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has yielded rich dividends as defaulters have been clearing their property tax dues. According to the property tax department of NMC, the civic body collected property tax dues amounting to Rs 19 crore during the past two months. Around 31,000 tax defaulters paid their dues in these two months. “We have introduced an amnesty scheme in a bid to increase the property tax dues and it is yielding good results,” said M Sangamnere, an officer from NMC. NMC recovers 2% fine per month on the tax dues from the last day of paying taxes. Moreover, it also recovers expenses of notices and warrants issued to the tax defaulters. As per the amnesty scheme, defaulters will get 75% rebate if they pay by January 15, 50% if they pay between January 16 and February 15. The defaulters will get 25% rebate if they pay all tax dues between February 16 and 28. The NMC administration has warned of action against the tax defaulters in March if they fail to clear their property tax dues. NMC has collected property tax of Rs 79 crore by December-end, against Rs 105 crore during the corresponding period in the previous financial year. Mayor invites Fadnavis to inaugurate projects City mayor Satish Kulkarni met former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis in Mumbai on Wednesday and asked him to inaugurate the development projects like city bus service, LED streetlights, construction of 20 elevated water tanks in January. The dates for inauguration will be fixed soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/amnesty-scheme-helps-nmc-collect-rs-19-cr-dues/articleshow/80138875.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 7, 2021||Chennai||Right to religion not above right to life, says Madras high court||CHENNAI: The Madras high court asserted on Wednesday that the right to religion is not higher than the right to life. “Religious rights are subject to public interest and the right to life,” the HC said. If the state decides to take some action by restricting religious functions during the pandemic, we (court) cannot interfere, the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said. The court made the observations while hearing a PIL moved by Rangarajan Narasimhan alleging that religious functions and rites that ought to be conducted at the Srirangam temple in Trichy are not conducted as per the sacred texts but according to the whims and fancies of the Hindu religious and charitable endowments department. The petitioner wanted the court to direct the state government to constitute a committee comprising religious heads to decide the mode and manner in which such functions should be conducted. When the plea came up for hearing, the bench said that when the government imposes certain restrictions to protect the life and health of the public, the same must be adhered to. However, if such religious functions can be performed with minimal participation of the public, the same can be done after following the Covid-19 protocol, the court added. Concurring, the petitioner said there are ways prescribed in the “shastras” to conduct functions in a minimal way. But only religious leaders, who are well-versed with the shastras, can suggest the same, not the joint commissioner or executive officer of the department, he said. Representing the authorities, senior advocate Satish Parasaran submitted that all mandatory religious functions are conducted by adhering to Covid-19 standard operating procedures. The court directed the authorities to consult the religious leaders concerned as to how the festivities would be conducted. However, hygiene and Covid-19 protocol cannot be compromised to conduct such functions, the court added. Noting that the state might consider including the petitioner in the discussions, the court directed it to file a report in six weeks as to the manner in which the functions can be conducted till July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/right-to-religion-not-above-right-to-life-says-hc/articleshow/80141009.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Delhi||Standing tall: Peepal tree in right of way at Delhi's Chandni Chowk||NEW DELHI: After several failed attempts, the encroachment in the form of a temple located in the middle of the carriageway in Chandni Chowk was successfully removed in the early morning hours of Sunday. The structure was coming in the way of the Chandni Chowk redevelopment and pedestrianisation project. However, the fate of the peepal tree growing next to the temple structure remains unclear. For now, the bulldozers have left the tree of the ficus species untouched. Some officials cited the Delhi High Court ban on felling of trees in the area for the circumspection. The riposte to this was that unless the tree was transplanted in some other location, the goal of clearing the right of way on the carriageway wouldn’t be achieved. A PWD official involved in the execution of the redevelopment project said that there were 90 full-grown trees on the 17th century boulevard and attempts had been made to protect them. “Only two of the existing trees were creating hurdles for the project. One of them is located near Fountain Chowk and the other is this particular peepal tree growing next to where the temple stood,” said the official. “The tree at Fountain Chowk was incorporated into the project, but the planners are concerned that if the temple tree is not removed or transplanted elsewhere, the purpose of clearing the right of way won’t not be achieved.” The official disclosed that an application will soon be made to the forest department to have the tree relocated. “Compensatory planting with grown trees will be carried out if permission to remove the peepal tree is granted. We will also be growing ornamental plants and herbs along the footpath,” the official added. In the Chandni Chowk pedestrianisation and redevelopment project, greening of the entire stretch is to be carried out with 118 ornamental trees and 140 flower pots being placed in the 1,300-metre redevelopment stretch between Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid. Officials say that these will mostly be native species. “We have divided the whole area into four zones. The first zone between Lal Jain Mandir and Gurdwara Sisganj will have six trees and 64 flower pots. The second from the gurdwara to Town Hall will have nine trees and 42 planters,” the official revealed. Extensive greening of the heritage area will be carried out between Town Hall and Fatehpuri Masjid. “Around 67 trees and eight pots will be placed between Town Hall and Ballimaran, and then 36 trees and 26 pots till Fatehpuri. These trees will improve the ambience and provide shade for pedestrians in summer,” the official said. The removal of the temple has created a political controversy. It is, therefore, with some caution that PWD is considering the peepal tree obstruction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/standing-tall-peepal-tree-in-right-of-way-at-chandni-chowk/articleshow/80142271.cms||Paras Singh
January 7, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: BJP plans campaign over corporation funding||NEW DELHI: Though more than a year is left for the municipal elections, Delhi BJP has planned a multi-pronged campaign to reach out to the voters to tell them that “Delhi government has not released Rs 13,000-crore dues to the corporations and how it has crippled them.” Between January 7 and 9, BJP workers will deliver letters across the city and hold various ground-level campaigns. Party functionary Harsh Malhotra said all wings of the Delhi BJP would conduct a signature campaign at 1,000 major places demanding “Rs 13,000 crore due funds” of the municipal corporations besides making people aware of this issue. “On January 9, leaflets will be distributed by party workers in all the parks and a day later, the party workers will give leaflets in houses located under 13,750 booths in the city,” Malhotra said. Malhotra claimed AAP had halted constitutionally allocated funds given to urban bodies and fund crunch had become the biggest obstacle in carrying out development work in the capital. “For the last several months, corporation employees have not received their salaries and pensioners are not getting pension. The family and work of the employees are affected, but CM Arvind Kejriwal has no concern with regard to the problems of Delhiites,” he said. AAP has categorically denied that Delhi government owes Rs 13,000 crore to the corporations and said that the government under AAP has paid the corporations more than what the previous governments had paid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bjp-plans-campaign-over-corpn-funding/articleshow/80141011.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Trichy||Protest continues in delta opposing farm laws||Trichy: Sporting half-shaved moustaches and beards, farmers staged a novel protest in front of the office of Prasar Bharati office in Trichy on Wednesday demanding withdrawal of the three agri-marketing laws. The protest organized by farmers affiliated to Desiya Thenninthiya Nathigal Inaippu Vivasayigal Sangam was headed by their state president P Ayyakannu. They raised slogans demanding fixing of reasonable price for all agriculture produce and urged the Union government to withdraw the laws that “will destroy the livelihood of the entire farming community.” Meanwhile, police arrested 117 farmers including 10 women and members affiliated to CITU in Thanjavur for pressing the same demands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/protest-continues-in-delta-opposing-farm-laws/articleshow/80142245.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Foresters on vigil at Vadla||Ahmedabad: Vadla, the area near Nalsarovar which has large presence of migratory birds, has been put on alert. Villagers are taking turns to check for deads birds in the area. The forest department has also appointed special staff for surveillance in the area. The sarpanch of Vadla, Puna Chavda, said villagers are keeping special surveillance in the area where birds roost, looking out for dead birds whether local or migratory. On finding a carcass, the villagers are to immediately inform the panchayat, which will in turn inform the forest department. Chavda said they have not come across any dead bird so far. The forest department also educated panchayat members about what symptoms of bird flu to watch, he said. Officials said that a beat guard has been tasked with making at least one round a day to check for suspicious bird deaths. Officials said Vadla is not under the forest department but as there are large numbers of migratory birds in the area, the department is being extra vigilant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/foresters-on-vigil-at-vadla/articleshow/80141010.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Delhi||Delhi govt asks schools to check weight of bags||NEW DELHI: The directorate of education has notified the School Bag Policy 2020, which was released recently. Now, schools in Delhi will have to check the weight of bags of students and provide lockers to children to store books. There will be no homework for students of classes I and II, states a circular issued to school principals. According to the circular, the weight of the school bag for students between classes I and X should not be more than 10% of the body weight. It has been capped at 5kg for a Class XII student. Students of pre-primary will no longer have to carry a bag. Schools have also been asked to ensure that the timetable indicates which books will be used on which day. Delhi government has recommended a single notebook— for classwork only—to be used for classes I and II. The circular also suggests that sharing of textbooks among children be encouraged. “Heavy school bags are a serious threat to the health and well-being of school students. These have adverse effects on growing children, which can cause damage to their vertebral column and knees. In schools that are functioning in double or multi-storey buildings, children have to climb stairs with heavy school bags, which further aggravate the problem,” reads the circular. School managements have also been asked to ensure that there are portable water filters on the premises, so that children do not have to carry a water bottle. “Parents should be informed that bags for children should be made of light material and should not have wheels,” the DoE stated in the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-asks-schools-to-check-weight-of-bags/articleshow/80141029.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Nashik||Leopard trapped inside home rescued||Nashik: Govind Hindole, a 55-year-old resident of the Pimpalgaon Bhatata village in Igatpuri taluka, managed to trap a leopard that had entered his house — while chasing his pet dog — on Tuesday. The forest department was informed and the wildcat was finally nudged into a cage set up to capture and extract it safely after sustained efforts of more than three hours. According to the forest department, the incident took place around 3 pm when Hindole’s was alone — his son and daughter-in-law had gone out for some work. Hindole was just outside his house when he saw his pet dog being chased by a one-and-a-half-year-old female leopard. The dog ran into the house and the leopard followed. Somehow, the dog managed to escape from the back door, but the leopard stayed inside. Thinking on his feet, Hindole bolted both front and back doors from outside, trapping the animal inside. Forest officials arrived at the spot and the leopard was finally rescued at 7.30 pm. “We rushed to the spot after we were informed. We erected a cage near the rear door of the house. The animal only entered the cage after several hours,” said Ramesh Dhomse, the forest range officer of Igatpuri. “Thereafter, we conducted a medical check of the big cat. The health of the animal is stable. The decision to release the leopard will be taken following all official procedure,” added Dhomse. There is a large forest belt in Igatpuri and leopards are often sighted here. Around a month back, two people were killed in separate incidents of leopard attacks in Igatpuri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/leopard-trapped-inside-home-rescued/articleshow/80138884.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 7, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Centre warns about fake Co-WIN apps||NEW DELHI: The Union health ministry on Wednesday warned people about fake mobile applications that sound similar to the upcoming official application, Co-WIN, and asked them not to download or share personal information on these apps. When the Covid vaccine is made available, people in priority categories will have to first get themselves registered on Centre’s official Co-WIN mobile application to get inoculated. TOI reported on Wednesday that though the application was yet to be launched for the public, a few similarly named mobile applications had surfaced and were being downloaded by people eager to register themselves. “Some apps named ‘#CoWIN’ apparently created by unscrupulous elements to sound similar to upcoming official platform of Government are on App stores. DO NOT download or share personal information on these. #MoHFW Official platform will be adequately publicised on its launch (sic),” the Union health and family welfare ministry tweeted on Wednesday. Co-WIN, which stands for Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network, has been developed as a digital platform to ensure a smooth rollout of the vaccination drive, including registration of beneficiaries. When the app is launched for the public, it will have four different modules for administrators, beneficiaries, status update, etc. The one-stop digital platform and the application will not only help ensure a smooth inoculation process but will also help in monitoring the vaccines in real time. At present, details of the initial beneficiaries such as healthcare workers and frontline workers, who will get the vaccine on priority, are being uploaded on the platform. Following this, the application is expected to be launched for the public. A few mobile applications are now available on Google Play Store with the name Cowin, which are created by private developers and being downloaded by thousands of people. From the reviews, it is clear that these people mistook the apps for the official one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/centre-warns-about-fake-co-win-apps/articleshow/80142307.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 7, 2021||Coimbatore||Tight vigil at border checkposts in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The animal husbandry department has intensified vigil at checkposts on the Tamil Nadu-Kerala interstate border in Gudalur and Pandalur taulks in the district following an outbreak of bird flu in Allepey and Kottayam districts.Transportation of poultry from Kerala and some places in Karnataka that are located close to Kerala border has been banned, collector J Innocent Divya said.The checkposts include Kakkanallah, Nambiar Kunnu, Thalur, Nadugani and Pattavayal, among others. Headed by an assistant veterinarian, a team has been deputed in each of the eight checkposts. With coordination with other departments such as forest, revenue and police besides the veterinary teams, all the eight have been kept under scanner.The collector has requested the poultry owners in the district to be vigil and inform the authorities in case of suspicious deaths of birds in their poultry. "We are checking the vehicles entering the district from Kerala and Karnataka at eight checkposts and goods vehicles are fumigated," an official from the animal husbandry department said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tight-vigil-at-border-checkposts-in-nilgiris/articleshow/80141024.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Trichy||Twin brothers help woman, 70, get back home, win hearts||Trichy:Wishes and praises have been pouring in for nine-year-old twin brothers of a Pudukottai village for helping a 70-year-old woman to return home after visiting a ration shop. The duo, V Nithin and V Nithish, from Kothamangalam village near Alangudi saw Subbulakshmi, 70, lying under a tree near a PDS store as she was unable to walk back home. The shop is half-a-km from her home, and the ailing old woman had decided to go to the PDS shop to get the Pongal gift and Rs 2,500 announced by the state government on Monday. She had a surgery on her backbone a few years ago, and was not able to walk even a short distance without support. While the PDS shop workers refused to give the Pongal gift to her daughter with learning difficulties, Subbulakshmi decided to go to the shop on her own. She managed to walk up to the PDS shop, but fell down on her return. She was lying under a tree, and the two boys noticed her. After informing their parents at home, they took a tricycle from their home, made Subbulakshmi lie down on it and pushed the tricycle to her home. The incident was video-graphed by V Vanitha, 35, mother of the two boys to seek help for the woman from her friends. However, the video went viral with many people praising the boys for their act. “I decided to source help from others by shooting a video of my sons pushing the tricycle with the woman and shared it among my friends,” she said. It ensured help for Subbulakshmi as the village administration officer visited her and promised help. Subbulakshmi thanked the boys with tears.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/twin-brothers-help-woman-70-get-back-home-win-hearts/articleshow/80142316.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Nashik||342 new cases, 6 deaths in Nashik district||NASHIK: As many as 342 Covid-19 positive cases, including 213 from the city, have been reported in Nashik district in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of positive cases to 1,11,606. Six people succumbed to Covid-19 infection in the district, including four from the city. The death toll stands at 990 in the city and 1,997 in the district. As many as 272 patients were discharged from across the district on Wednesday, of which, 195 were from the city. Presently, the district has 1,794 active cases, including 1,100 from the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/342-new-cases-6-deaths-in-nashik-district/articleshow/80139875.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Nagpur||Bombay HC asks NMC to take policy decision on installing traffic booths in 8 weeks||NAGPUR: Expressing concern over the delay in setting up of traffic booths in the middle of city squares, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Wednesday directed the civic body to take a policy decision in this regard in eight weeks. Earlier, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) traffic engineer Shakil Niyazi filed an affidavit stating that out of 86 sites identified for setting up of traffic booths, 28 sites belonged to the civic body. About 27 sites are below the MahaMetro lines and flyovers, and 24 are under state Public Works Department (PWD) and National Highway Authority of India (NHAI). Remaining sites are outside Nagpur city limits. Niyazi informed that a proposal submitted by Varsha Outdoor Advertising Private Limited for erecting and maintaining traffic booths with advertisements in the middle of roads was discussed in the corporation meetings. As per the advertising policy of NMC, no site can be given licence for more than three years and Rohit Ahuja of the agency wanted the site for a minimum of 25 years. “As a result, the talks with Ahuja have not progressed any further. The other option available with NMC is to invite Expression of Interest (EOI) from various parties for erecting traffic booth in the middle of squares with/without advertisement. It will take at least three months’ time to select the successful bidder,” Niyazi said. This decision would be subjected to any of the directions passed by this court, Niyazi added. The affidavit was filed in response to two suo motu PILs (No. 5/2016 and No. 7/2019), where Shreerang Bhandarkar was appointed amicus curiae, assisted by Nidhi Dayani. In the last hearing, a division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote directed NMC to inform the court on the time needed to set up 86 traffic booths at major squares to regulate traffic. The civic body was further told to submit details about the number of cameras installed at all squares, and how many of them were functional. Replying to it, NMC in its affidavit mentioned that 3,669 CCTV cameras were installed all over the city. “Out of these, 274 cameras are presently non-functional due to the developmental activities of MahaMetro, state PWD and cement road construction work. As soon as these works are completed they would be made operational,” Niyazi informed. The traffic engineer added that NMC had issued a communication on December 18 to the vice-president of Urban Mass Transit Company Limited in Hyderabad. The firm prepared a comprehensive mobility plan for MahaMetro, and a street parking management plan for the city. The civic body sought the firm’s opinion about the permissibility of installing elevated traffic booths along with the advertisements. The firm’s response placed reliance on the ‘Guidelines on regulation and control of mixed traffic in urban areas (first revision)’, which address the issue through multi-functional zones. These guidelines, however, do not refer to any traffic control booths in the middle of the road, Niyazi said. NMC speaks • Out of 86 sites identified for setting up of traffic booths, 28 sites belonged to civic body • About 27 sites below MahaMetro lines and flyovers, 24 under PWD & NHAI • 3,669 CCTV cameras installed all over city • 274 cameras non-functional due to developmental activities||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-asks-nmc-to-take-policy-decision-on-installing-traffic-booths-in-8-weeks/articleshow/80141206.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 7, 2021||Nagpur||Preserved samples at VRDLs, AIIMS help in identifying virus strains||NAGPUR: Two Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) situated at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) and Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and laboratory of AIIMS have preserved swab samples of all Covid-19 positive patients since the district registered its first case on March 11. This has helped in conducting genome sequencing to find if there is any mutation in novel coronavirus or entry of new variant in the region. National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, on Monday had informed GMCH that swab samples of three UK variant suspects were not eligible for genome sequencing as they had tested negative in RT-PCR tests. GMCH then traced positive samples of two other suspected patients from laboratories of IGGMCH and RTMNU and sent them to NIV. Incharge of VRDL, IGGMCH Dr Ravindra Khadse told TOI, “We are preserving all samples that tested positive at our laboratory since the beginning of this pandemic. We will preserve it for one more year or beyond unless there is a change in guidelines by the government. We are preserving positive samples in two deep freezers that have capacity of 500 litres each.” “Samples are stored at minus 70 degree Celsius. It does not require any additional preservative. When NIV asked for them, we could easily send the samples of April, August, September, October and November. NIV will do genome sequencing to check whether strain is undergoing change and also carry out other researches,” he said. Swab samples were sent to NIV in at minus 40 degree Celsius using dry ice containers. Dr Khadse said, “Swab samples of some positive patients are still with our VRDL despite some quantity being used for testing here and also sent to NIV recently. Testing centres send 3ml sample. Of it, 0.5ml is used for RT-PCR test and 1.5ml is stored in one tube and remaining 1 ml in another tube. Two tubes are stored in deep freezer,” he said. In initial days, testing of samples was done only at IGGMCH and GMCH. Then, AIIMS started testing followed by MAFSU, NEERI and RTMNU. GMCH medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande too said they were storing positive samples at their VRDL. The laboratories of Mafsu, Neeri and RTMNU are not VRDLs and have been given approval for testing only Covid-19 samples. An official from AIIMS said, “We have stored all positive samples tested at our laboratory since the beginning.” MAFSU director (research) Dr NV Kurkure said, “We have stored over 100 positive samples in minus 80 degree Celsius. The government had recently revised the guidelines and asked us to dispose of all samples. Since then, we have stopped.” Five private laboratories in the city are also doing RT-PCR tests. Dr Rajkumar Rathi from CX Clinicare and Dr Shailendra Mundhada from Dhruv Laboratory said, “We are storing all samples, negative as well as positive, for 1-3 months as per ICMR guidelines. ICMR ask samples from us for cross-checking.” Around 9.6 lakh swab samples have been tested in the district of which 1.26 lakh tested positive. IN A NUTSHELL * District registered first positive case of Covid-19 on March 11 * IGGMCH, GMCH and AIIMS have stored all positive swab samples tested at their laboratories * Samples are stored at minus 70-80 degree Celsius * IGGMCH sent many samples from April to November to NIV for genome sequencing * IGGMCH and RTMNU have given old positive samples of two UK variant suspects for genome sequencing * This will help determine if virus has undergone any mutation here or new strain has entered||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/preserved-samples-at-vrdls-aiims-help-in-identifying-virus-strains/articleshow/80141163.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 7, 2021||Nagpur||15-year-old girl rescued moments before being married off||NAGPUR: The Child Welfare Committee rescued a 15-year-old girl moments before her marriage was to be solemnized on Wednesday. The CWC members and Pachpaoli rescued her from being married off to one Suresh Rathore, 27, a Delhi resident, after being tipped off. Wedding garments and other material was seized. Police sources said the girl and her 12-year-old brother were staying in Nava Nakasha area in Lashkaribagh with their adoptive grandmother. The grandmother had fixed the girl’s marriage with Rathore and it was to be held at their residence at 11am on Wednesday. The arrival of the CWC and police created a commotion for some time among the bride and groom’s families and guests. The CWC team first stopped the marriage and sought evidence of girl being a major. CWC was tipped off that the girl was a minor which was corroborated by scrutiny of the age proof. The action was taken as per the instructions of District Women and Child Development officer Aparna Kolhe. A team comprising district child protection officers Mushtaq Pathan, Sachin Jadhav, Vinod Shende, law and probation officer Sujata Gulhane, Manish Godbole, anganwadi workers Pushpa Warke, Jayshree Giradkar and social activist Joy Masih carried out the operation. After rescuing the girl, the CWC team sent her and her 12-year-old brother for rehabilitation. Pachpaoli police said no offence was registered as the girl was rescued before the marriage. The practice of trapping underage girls in marriage is rampant in Nagpur district and in the last nine months, CWC has succeeded in preventing seven such child marriages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/15-yr-old-girl-rescued-moments-before-being-married-off/articleshow/80141692.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 7, 2021||Nashik||Significant decline in no. of critical patients||Nashik: As the number of people testing positive for Covid-19 going down every day along with decline in number of active cases, the number of critical patients in the city has also reduced at large. Out of the 2,057 Covid beds for critical patients in both civic and private hospitals across the city, 1,659 are currently lying vacant. Also, there are only 378 critical patients as against 450 around three weeks ago. The critical beds include 1,295 oxygen beds, 503 ICU beds and 259 with ventilator support. Out of the 378 critical patients, 208 patients are on oxygen beds, 111 in ICU and 59 on ventilators. The city had reported a spike in Covid cases in the month of September as on an average 867 cases were reported every day. Hence, the number of critical patients had also increased to 1,100. However, the declining trend of new cases began from the month of October and continued in November and December. With drop in new cases, the number of critical patients have also reduced at large. “The Covid-19 positive cases started increasing in the city from July. Since then, we focused on increasing the contact tracing and testing of patients for early detection. This helped us to provide immediate treatment to the patients that led to rise in the number of recoveries. Timely treatment also helped reduce the number of critical patients,” Bapusaheb Nagargoje, medical superintendent of NMC, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/significant-decline-in-no-of-critical-patients/articleshow/80139846.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 7, 2021||Nagpur||Demanding loan dues can’t be abetment to suicide: HC||NAGPUR: In a verdict that would bring relief to thousands of employees working as recovery agents with banks and financial institutions, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has ruled that demanding outstanding loan amount from a defaulting person cannot be construed as abetment to suicide. Recovery agents were often held responsible in case defaulters end their life after failure to repay the loans. Recently, many such suicides have taken place across the country after people availed instant loan from app-based companies. After being unable to repay the amount, many such debtors faced harassment from recovery agents, who publicly defamed such defaulters on social media and also called their family members and friends. While quashing a police complaint lodged in Washim against a Pune youth under Section 306 for abetment to suicide, the HC observed that the allegations are only to the effect that the petitioner demanded outstanding loan amount from the borrower and it was part of his duty being an employee of a finance company. “The demand of outstanding loan amount from a person who was in default in payment, during the course of employment as a duty, at any stretch of imagination, can’t be said to be intended to aid or instigate or abet the borrower to commit suicide,” said a division bench comprising Justice Vinay Deshpande and Justice Anil Kilor. According to prosecution, P Chouhan had taken loan from Mahindra Financial Service Limited for purchasing a new vehicle. A loan of Rs6.21 lakh was sanctioned and Chouhan was supposed to pay it in four years in monthly instalment of Rs17,800. As the borrower failed to repay the amount, petitioner Rohit Nalwade started calling Chouhan on his mobile demanding repayment. Subsequently, Chouhan committed suicide and blamed the petitioner for harassment in a suicide note. The deceased’s family lodged an FIR with Shripur police station after which the petitioner was booked for abetment to suicide. Quoting previous HC verdicts, petitioner’s counsel NB Kalwaghe contended that the prosecution should prima facie establish that the accused had an intention to aid or instigate or abet the loanee to end life. “Abetment involves mental process of instigating or intentionally aiding a person in doing a thing. Without an act on accused’s part in aiding or abetting the deceased to end life, such persons can’t be compelled to face trial. In this case, the allegations are only in respect of demand for outstanding loan amount. It doesn’t amount to any intention to abet the borrower to end life,” he said. Opposing his contention, additional public prosecutor MJ Khan pointed out that because of demand of outstanding loan amount, the deceased was under tremendous mental pressure, which was the cause for commission of suicide. “We’ve arrived at a conclusion that none of the requirements of Section 306 is being satisfied. Therefore, Section 306 does not applies against the petitioner. It wouldn’t be proper to compel the petitioner to face the trial before criminal court as the same would be a futile exercise,” said the judges while allowing his petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/demanding-loan-dues-cant-be-abetment-to-suicide-hc/articleshow/80141683.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 7, 2021||Coimbatore||AIADMK feels the heat over arrest of cadre in Pollachi rape case||COIMBATORE: Another round of arrests in the Pollachi sexual assault and extortion case, barely four months before the assembly elections, has given fresh ammunition to opposition DMK. Within hours after the arrest of three men, including the now sacked student wing functionary of AIADMK K Arulanandam, the women’s wing of DMK as well as women’s associations launched a protest in Coimbatore against the ruling party. DMK president M K Stalin issued a strongly worded statement, laced with allegations against AIADMK ministers and senior leaders. Accusing the AIADMK government of protecting the accused, Stalin demanded that other suspects in the case should also be arrested. “CBI should dig deeper and bring to book all those involved in the scandal. At the same time, the investigating agencies should also ensure that those arrested do not get bail swiftly and walk free,” a statement said. DMK women’s wing chief Kanimozhi said the allegations repeatedly made by DMK that more AIADMK men were involved in the scandal has been vindicated by the arrest of the AIADMK student wing functionary. “When a woman, who attempted to create confusion at the makkal sabha meeting chaired by our leader was sent away by police, AIADMK men cried hoarse and said we are against women. Now, their men have been arrested for raping girls,” said Coimbatore east district secretary of DMK and Singanallur MLA N Karthik. Immediately after the arrest, photographs of the accused attending AIADMK functions in close proximity with senior functionaries started circulating on social media. CBI had taken over the investigation from CB-CID in March 2019. CBI made the latest arrests after 20 months it took over the probe. While four men, including prime accused Thirunavukkarasu, were arrested in February 2019, the fifth accused had surrendered in a court in March 2019. The sex scandal was the main poll plank in Pollachi during the last Lok Sabha election and was cited as one of the reasons for the poor show of AIADMK in the segment, despite the goodwill enjoyed by then MP C Mahendran, who was fielded again. AIADMK men have started feeling the heat this time also. “The issue might be raked up again by opposition parties during this election. AIADMK should have taken the decision of removing the accused long back. At least, they should have been asked to lie low instead of letting them participate in party functions,” said an AIADMK functionary in Coimbatore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/arrests-give-dmk-fresh-ammunition/articleshow/80141034.cms||Mayilvaganan
January 7, 2021||Coimbatore||Check encroachments in elephant corridors: HC||Though reserved forests are protected across the country, corridors connecting them, particularly those used by elephants, are not protected under any law, the Madras high court observed on Wednesday.The first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy made the observation while hearing a PIL seeking to protect the corridors in Coimbatore region of the Western Ghats.The court directed the state government and the principal chief conservator of forests to come up with an appropriate plan to clear human encroachments in elephant corridors, particularly in Thadagam region of Coimbatore.Steps must be taken to ensure right of passage to elephants, the court added.According to petitioner Muralidharan, illegal mining caused by brick kilns in the Thadagam area is causing hindrance and affecting the habitat of elephants.Muralidharan said that illegal mining in the region is the sole reason behind the rising number of man-animal conflicts. “Brick kilns that mine red soil have destroyed the corridors used by elephants to migrate to contiguous forest areas. This is resulting in elephants moving into human settlements and damaging crops and lives,” he said. “Between 1999 and 2014, as many as 100 elephants died in the area and 77 people were killed in man-animal conflicts. This apart, between 2011 and 2018, about 61 people were injured in such conflicts.”Pointing out that 27 people are killed every year in the area in related incidents, the petitioner wanted authorities to take steps to protect the corridors in the area as done in the Nilgiris.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/check-encroachments-in-elephant-corridors-hc/articleshow/80141030.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Coimbatore||10 new Covid cases logged||The Nilgiris reported 10 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the tally to 8,012. Of the 105 active cases, about 34 people are taking treatment for Covid-19 at government and private facilities in Coimbatore, while 19 patients are kept in home quarantine and being monitored.The remaining patients are being treated at government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur. “As of now, we have enough accommodation in government hospitals,” an official of the public health department said.10kg of banned plastic items seized: In a drive across the district, officials seized 10kg of banned plastic items from shops on Wednesday. The seized items include plastic bags, plastic cups and plates and plastic bottles. A sum of Rs 31,600 was collected as fine from shopkeepers. Similarly, more than 50 people were fined for not wearing masks. A fine of Rs 8, 000 was collected from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/10-new-covid-cases-logged/articleshow/80141035.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Meerut||Two cops found dead in UP's Meerut||MEERUT/BULANDSHAHR: Two policemen were found dead under mysterious circumstances in UP’s Meerut and Bulandshahr districts on Tuesday. In Bulandshahr, Sunil Kumar, a constable posted with Khurja Dehat police station, was found hanging in a hotel room. Police said that a five-page suicide note was also recovered from the spot. Based on a complaint, they have registered a case against a woman with whom he had an illicit affair. Bulandshahr senior superintendent of police Santosh Kumar said, “A five-page suicide note was recovered from the hotel room in which he has mentioned about being harassed by a woman with whom he was in a relationship outside marriage. He has mentioned that the harassment was the reason behind the extreme step.” The constable is survived by his wife and two children — a five-year-old daughter and a one-year-old son. Similarly in Meerut, the body of sub-inspector Satendra Kumar, a native of Aligarh and posted at police lines, was found outside a liquor store next to Ganganagar police station. His wife is also a constable who is currently posted in Bulandshahr. Police said that the cause of his death is likely to be ascertained only when the postmortem report comes. The deaths come four days after a woman sub-inspector Arzoo Pawar ended her life by hanging herself. She blamed herself for the extreme step in the suicide note recovered. In October last year, Ankit Yadav, 26, a police constable allegedly shot himself with his service revolver in Sambhal district. Similarly in May 2020, constable Vijay Gaud deployed at the SSP office in Meerut allegedly ended life at his residence in Ganganagar area in the city. Later, family dispute was claimed to be the reason behind Gaud ending his life. At least 18 policemen, from inspectors to constables, had killed themselves in 2019 in an alarming trend pointing at pressure and stress they go through while performing their duty which is further aggravated by domestic disputes and broken relationships.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/2-cops-found-dead/articleshow/80139922.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Day-long snag makes 30,000 BSNL phones go silent||NAGPUR: Over 30,000 landline phones of BSNL—the largest service provider in this segment— were down for much of the day on Wednesday. The breakdown was longest in the recent past, yet communication was largely maintained due to mobile services of BSNL and other service providers going on. BSNL’s Sitabuldi main exchange that covers over half of the city’s connections encountered a snag at 10 am which could be repaired only by 4.40pm. The snag affected connections mainly in western part of the city. There was no panic as communication continued through alternative means and data and lease line services of BSNL were unaffected too. Even in the affected areas outgoing calls could made from some phones as incoming service was impacted, said senior official in BSNL. However, important services like fire brigade and police control room were hit. People normally depend on calling 100 and 101 on landline for police and fire brigade respectively in times of emergency. BSNL officials accepted that a number of helpline numbers had gone down too. The 108 ambulance service which is linked to an exchange in Pune remained unaffected. The railways, which depend on their own network, also did not have any hassles either. There was a partial impact at the airport as landline phones in almost all the government offices, NMC, Government Medical College (GMC), and Mayo Hospital did not ring throughout the day. A source in GMC said the situation could have been worse if the outage had gone on for more than a day. A senior BSNL official told TOI a power cut had hit the electricity supply plant of the exchange after which the system could not reboot. The console was not displaying any prompts as the screen went blank. The EWSD exchange has been supplied by Siemens. Even as BSNL is shifting to latest technology based new generation network, this exchange has not been converted yet. Teams from BSNL plunged into action. Experts from Siemens’ regional office at Pune were also monitoring the process online, said the official. “It was a software related problem which could be finally resolved by 5 pm. No major expenditure was incurred for the restoration,” said a senior official. Landline phones continue to be a major business for BSNL with 14,000 new connections being granted each year, said an official. The Sitabuldi exchange is due to shift to NGN in a month’s time, said a senior official. Rajendra Uchake NMC’s fire officer said the 101 service did not work throughout the day. In case of emergency the fire brigade could be contacted on mobile numbers which are published from time to time in newspapers. He accepted that only 101 is known to the public. “There were no fire incidents in the city either,” he said. A spokesperson of the city police said that control room could not be reached till 4 pm and data was also partially affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/day-long-snag-makes-30k-bsnl-phones-go-silent/articleshow/80141196.cms||Shishir Arya
January 7, 2021||Vadodara||Gujarat: Beautician lured with online Rs 8 lakh lucky draw cheated||VADODARA: A beautician living in Bhayli ended up paying almost Rs 1 lakh to three conmen who cheated her by saying that she had won Rs 8.2 lakh in a lucky draw. The victim Ashwini Rana told police that she received a call on September 8 last year from a man named Nitish Kumar who identified himself as an employee of online marketplace Snapdeal. He told Rana that since she purchases beauty products from Snapdeal, she had been selected for a lucky draw and had won a cash prize of Rs 8.2 lakh. Rana, however, was asked to pay Rs 2,150 through online transfer as fees for participation. After making the first payment, Rana started getting calls daily from Kumar and two other persons for transferring money in different bank accounts as various charges. Police said that she was asked to pay the money for file processing charges, tax, GST and income-tax (I-T) among other reasons. Once when Rana refused to pay, she was told that I-T department will raid her home. On October 3 too, she was told that the prize money has been transferred to her bank account, but when she did not find any transaction entry, she called the accused to inquire. They made her pay Rs 20,000 more as bank charges which she did, but the money never was never credited. “After receiving Rs 99,950 from the woman, the accused stop receiving calls from her. It was only then that she realized being cheated,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/beautician-lured-with-online-rs-8-lakh-lucky-draw-cheated/articleshow/80141264.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Coimbatore||Working moms in a fix as day care centres, pre-schools yet to reopen||Coimbatore: Even as theatres are allowed 100% occupancy of seats and political meetings as well as protests are an everyday affair, day care centres and pre-schools are yet to be reopened. With IT companies, customer service centres and banks have begun to call their staff back to office for at least two to three days a week from this month, working mothers are in a fix as to where to leave their children when they go to office. “With pre-school and daycare not opening, I am forced to make my mother fly down from Kolkata to take care of my baby. My husband has already returned to work full-time,” says a beautician at a private parlour in Race Course.Poornima, an employee of a popular e-commerce website based in Saravanampatti, has desperately begun searching for a reliable nanny because her company has hinted that she would be required to come into work twice a week. “My parents are in the US and are hesitating to fly down with the new Covid strain spreading across the world. I am now praying for my in-laws to come down from Rajasthan,” she says. Though Poornima is searching for a nanny as a backup, she is reluctant to leave her son alone with one. “I don’t know how she will feed and take care of him, her personal hygiene and what happens if she suddenly quits or takes leave,” she says. Rajshekhar of Kidzee, a day care centre at R S Puram, says the government are yet to allow day care centres to reopen. “We took care of children till 5pm, which includes us putting them down for a nap, feeding them lunch and taking them to the restroom. But we can’t open now until we get a clear go-ahead,” he adds.Parents also say that Coimbatore, even in pre-Covid times, lacked premium reputed day cares that offer a set ratio of teacher or caretaker to children, temperature-controlled rooms and CCTV camera viewing facilities. “I sent my son to two day-cares across a span of four and half years, because I preferred that to leaving him with a nanny,” recalls Aruna Veeran, an assistant vice-president of Axis Bank. “Though the teachers were nice, and he had peers to play with, I had issues with the cleanliness and hygiene of the place,” she says.Coimbatore had around 17 functioning day care centres before Covid-19.Rajshekhar says that Coimbatore being a tier II city is not a large enough market for such premium day care centres. “There are not many nuclear families or working women in the city for such premium chains to launch here. Most parents here don’t prefer daycare, and those that opt for us may not be willing to pay Rs 15,000 a month, which is what multi-chain daycares in metros charge,” he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/working-moms-in-a-fix-as-day-care-centres-pre-schools-yet-to-reopen/articleshow/80141028.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: BJP to collect Rs 10 from each household for Ram temple||MUMBAI: BJP party workers will go door-to-door on behalf of Ram Mandir Trust to collect Rs10 from each household as donation for construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya. The drive is likely to begin on January 15. BJP state president Chandrakant Patil said at a press conference on Wednesday the party had finalised the plan for collection right up to the booth level. The party held meetings with office-bearers over two days here. They were attended by state in-charge C T Ravi, Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis and others. The collection drive, along with the party’s poor performance in recent elections to graduates constituencies, was discussed at the core committee meeting on Wednesday. BJP won only one of six seats for which elections were held. Patil said there were complaints of non-registered non-graduate voters casting votes, in several cases blank papers were found in ballot boxes. The party will take up the issue with Election Commission, and if required, approach courts against malpractices. The party’s 28 state leaders will travel across Maharashtra over three days to bolster candidates contesting 14,500 gram panchayat poll seats. Elections to 92 nagarpalikas and panchayats and five municipal corporations were discussed. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bjp-to-collect-rs-10-from-each-household-for-ram-temple/articleshow/80140732.cms||---
January 7, 2021||India||Right to religion not higher than right to life: Madras HC||CHENNAI: The Madras high court asserted on Wednesday that the right to religion is not higher than the right to life. “Religious rights are subject to public interest and the right to life,” the HC said. If the state decides to take some action by restricting religious functions during the pandemic, we (court) cannot interfere, the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said. The court made the observations while hearing a PIL moved by Rangarajan Narasimhan alleging that religious functions and rites that ought to be conducted at Trichy Srirangam Temple are not conducted as per the sacred texts but according to the whims and fancies of the Hindu religious and charitable endowments department. The petitioner wanted the court to direct the state government to constitute a committee comprising religious heads to decide the mode and manner in which such functions should be conducted. When the plea came up for hearing, the bench said when the government imposes certain restrictions to protect the life and health of the public, the same must be adhered to. However, if such religious functions can be performed with minimal participation of the public, the same can be done after following the Covid-19 protocol, the court added. Concurring, the petitioner said there are ways prescribed in the “shastras” to conduct functions in a minimal way. But only religious leaders, who are well-versed with the shastras, can suggest the same, not the joint commissioner or executive officer of the department, he said. Representing the authorities, senior advocate Satish Parasaran submitted that all mandatory religious functions are conducted by adhering to Covid standard operating procedures. The court directed the authorities to consult the religious leaders concerned as to how the festivities would be conducted. However, hygiene and Covid protocol cannot be compromised to conduct such functions, the court added. Noting that the state might consider including the petitioner in the discussions, the court directed it to file a report in six weeks as to the manner in which the functions can be conducted till July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/right-to-religion-not-higher-than-right-to-life-madras-hc/articleshow/80143943.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Nashik||Nashik: Man kills friend after petty brawl||NASHIK: A 29-year-old man hit his friend on the head with a stone over a petty argument, allegedly resulting in his death on Tuesday night. Both of them were under the influence of alcohol. After killing the friend, the suspect informed about it to a person he spotted on a street. Police then reached the spot and arrested the suspect. The suspect has been identified as Rupesh Yadav (36), resident of Shiv Shakti Chowk, Cidco, while the victim is Mahesh Vishnu Layare (29) of Datta Nagar, Chunchale. Anchal Mudgal, senior inspector of the Gangapur Road police station, said that on Tuesday night, the two friends purchased a liquor bottle and went to an unoccupied building in the Anandwali area. “After consuming liquor, both of them had a quarrel. Yadav picked up a stone and hit Layare with it. Layare died due to the injury,” she said. Later, Yadav came out of the building and told a man on the street about what had happened. This person called the police, Mudgal said. Mudgal said that both, the suspect and the victim, were unemployed and excessive drinkers. Yadav has been remanded in police custody till January 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-kills-friend-after-petty-brawl/articleshow/80139920.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Caracal put on critically endangered list||Ahmedabad: The National Board for Wildlife on Wednesday approved a recovery program for the caracal, which is now a critically endangered species. The caracal is found only in Gujarat and Rajasthan. This was announced by Union forest minister Prakash Javdekar, who tweeted that with the addition of the caracal there will now be 22 species on critically endangered species recovery programme. A senior officer who is part of the National Board for Wildlife said, “Including the species in the recovery programme will mean the species will have a separate conservation programme. The Union forest ministry will first order a population estimation and then carry out a study on their habitat. Once these findings are available, a habitat improvement and breeding programme will be taken up, similar to that for the great Indian bustard. If required, a captive breeding programme will also be undertaken.” The officer said the semi-arid region of Kutch is one of only two homes of this cat species in India. According to a research report, the caracal’s presence has been noted in only three states, with just two possible viable populations. These are in the marshy areas of Kutch district, the higher areas closer to Kalo Dungar with grassy scrubland; and in Rajasthan’s Sawai Madhopur, Karoli, and Dholpur districts. The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) lists caracals as a species of ‘least concern’, mainly due to their large numbers in Africa. But in India they are ‘endangered’. According to the study ‘Historical and current extent of occurrence of the Caracal in India’, in Gujarat 19 sightings were reported, all in Kutch district, and nine of these were authenticated by photographs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/caracal-put-on-critically-endangered-list/articleshow/80141025.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 7, 2021||Coimbatore||Collector promises better infra facilities in village||Coimbatore: Residents of Ponnandampalayam village launched an indefinite hunger strike on Wednesday, urging authorities to bring the village under one panchayat. They stopped protesting after collector K Rajamani promised to fulfil their demand within two months.As many as 100 people, including 60 women, began the hunger strike at 11am. They demanded that the village, which comes under four panchayats — the eastern side under Kaniyur, southern side under Arasur, western side under Naranapuram and northern parts fall under Moppiripalayam town panchayat — be brought under one panchayat — preferably Kaniyur.The village lacks ration shops, roads and drinking water facilities as each panchayat has different priorities and facilities, said ward councillor of Kaniyur panchayat P Sivakumar. “Residents find it difficult to get education loan, passport, register pregnant women under the pregnancy infant cohort monitoring and evaluations (PICME) scheme and access vaccination,” he said.A group of villagers had met the collector in December and submitted a petition detailing their woes. When this yielded no response, the residents erected black flags in front of their homes on January 1 and announced that they will launch a hunger strike if their demand was not met. On Wednesday, hardly half-an-hour after protesters sat in front of the Ponnandampalayam bus stop, police arrested them.However, the collector convinced the residents to withdraw the protest by promising to fulfil their demand within two months. “He said he will ensure all parts of the village get roads and drinking water facilities,” Sivakumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/collector-promises-better-infra-facilities-in-village/articleshow/80141038.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Goa||Battleground Melauli: Locals, cops clash at IIT-Goa site||MELAULI (SATTARI): Villagers and police clashed at Melauli in Sattari again on Wednesday, with cops resorting to lathicharge and use of tear gas to disperse the protesters who prevented surveyors from demarcating the land for the proposed site of the new IIT-Goa campus. Ten cops and an equal number of villagers sustained injuries in the clash and were rushed to the community health centre for treatment. While a policewoman was seriously injured, a minor boy was severely affected by the tear gas. Early on Wednesday, Sattari deputy collector Rajesh Ajgaonkar and his team requested the protesters to move and let the demarcation proceed. They were given 5 minutes to vacate the site. But the villagers refused to budge and remained lying down at the spot. Police then began using force to move them and resorted to lathicharge and when that also failed, they used tear gas. As tensions flared, villagers began pelting stones at police forcing the them to beat a hasty retreat. Angry villagers then set ablaze police shields that were left behind some policemen. The protesting villagers said they were only defending themselves and alleged that the violence broke out because police used brute force. “The clash started when police started moving forward towards the villagers who were lying on the ground. Valpoi PI Sagar Ekoskar stamped on the chest of a woman,” said villager Unati Melekar. By afternoon, hundreds of villagers gathered outside the Valpoi police station, demanding that Ekoskar be suspended and FIR filed against him for mistreating a woman. Co-convener of the Melauli Panchkroshi Gram Bachav Andolan, Shubham Shivolkar, said they have demanded strict action against Ekoskar. “The chief minister must visit Valpoi and hear us out. Villagers will not move from the main road outside Valpoi police station till our two demands are fulfilled,” he said. But villagers dispersed late on Wednesday, vowing to resume their protest on Thursday morning. They said they’d continue till their demands are met. Members of many political parties and NGOs arrived in the village to extend support to the Melauli locals by participating in their protest at Valpoi. Villagers from Dhamshe, a neighbouring village of Melauli, also supported the locals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/battleground-melauli-locals-cops-clash-at-iit-site/articleshow/80142340.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Nashik||Leopard deaths caused by road accidents double in ’20||Nashik: The number of leopards killed in road accidents in Nashik and Ahmednagar districts has almost doubled in the last year, when compared to the 2019 figures. According to the data provided by the Nashik forest division, while 24 leopards died in road mishaps in these two districts in 2020, the death toll in 2019 was 13. The rise of accidental death of the big cats last year took place despite the restrictions on the movement of vehicles for around two months due to the Covid-related lockdown. As per the forest officials of the two districts, the stretches of the Mumbai-Agra national highway near Igatpuri, Sangamner area of Nashik-Pune highway and the Nashik-Trimbakeshwar are the most accident-prone spots for the leopards. Pankaj Garg, the deputy conservator of forest (Nashik West), told TOI: “The leopards do not know anything about roads and movement of vehicles on these busy roads. Sometimes, when the leopards try to cross these roads, they get hit by speeding vehicles,” said Garg. Garg said there are many roadside eateries (dhabas), where proper solid waste management is not practised. “These eateries throw the food waste, which attracts dogs. And the leopards are on the lookout for dogs for food. Some of the mishaps, in which leopards have died, were when they were crossing the road chasing the dogs,” he said. Sources in the forest department said the roads do not have proper corridors to provide safe passage to the leopards. “When the roads were designed and constructed, there should have been provisions for an underpass in the leopard-prone areas, which would have helped the big cats tcross the roads safely. Since there are no underpasses, these leopards cross the roads and get hit by vehicles,” said the forest officials. Alarmed by the growing number of the accidental deaths, the forest department has decided to fix signages along these busy roads cautioning motorists to drive carefully due to the presence of wildlife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/leopard-deaths-caused-by-road-accidents-double-in-20/articleshow/80138894.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
January 7, 2021||Goa||Over 18k healthcare workers in Goa register for Covid vaccine||PANAJI: Over 18,000 healthcare workers from the public and private sector have registered for the Covid-19 vaccine, and will be inoculated in the first phrase of the programme. Deputy director of health services Dr Vandana Dhume said that the department has readied itself in accordance with guidelines issued by the Centre, and that not all the 18,277 would be given the jab on the same day. The directorate is awaiting further directions from the Centre, and the date on which the programme will start hasn’t been communicated yet, she said. Of those registered, around 12,500 are from the public sector. After phase-I, in which healthcare workers will be inoculated, frontline workers will be in phase-II, followed by persons above 50 years of age. However, this last group will further be divided taking into account their co-morbidities. Meanwhile, collation of data of frontline health workers is underway. Vaccinators have been identified and trained, and storage facilities have been kept ready. “We have bought syringes and we have our storage ready. We are yet to receive the vaccines,” Dhume said. Only people who pre-registered on the Co-Win portal will be vaccinated. The state successfully conducted its first mock dry run last week in North Goa. The second dry run has been scheduled on Friday, which will be held in both districts. “We haven’t yet selected the session sites for the mock dry-run, but it will be held in North Goa and South Goa,” she said. Considering the vast exercise that the vaccination programme is set to be, the Centre has directed states and Union territories to rely on the latest electoral roll of the Lok Sabha and legislative assembly elections to identify people aged 50 and above. Another health official said that considering the knowledge and experience of previous vaccination programmes, Goa should be able to carry out the programme without any hitch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-18k-healthcare-workers-in-goa-register-for-covid-vaccine/articleshow/80142343.cms||Bindiya Chari
January 7, 2021||Kolhapur||Nashik: Govt institutions prepare for Friday’s vaccine dry run||NASHIK/KOLHAPUR: Select government-run hospitals and primary health care centres are now gearing up for the Covid-19 vaccination dry run on Friday. In Nashik district, the mock drill will be conducted in five different government institutions — three in Nashik rural and one each under the jurisdictions of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) and Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) — on Friday. “The dry run will be conducted at 8 in all the five locations simultaneously. We will check if the procedure was flawless. We will try to spot practical difficulties that may crop up and address them,” Ratna Rokhande, the civil surgeon of the Nashik civil hospital, said. Collector Suraj Mandhare chaired an online meeting of the officials of the civil hospital, NMC and the district health office on Wednesday to prepare for the dry run. The NMC will be conducting the drill at Satpur Urban Health Centre, while the Malegaon civic body has selected the Wadia Hospital for the activity. The district civil hospital, the sub-district hospital at Trimbakeshwar and the primary health centre at Sayyed Pimpri are the three locations for the rural areas of Nashik district. The lists of 25 beneficiaries — selected from among health workers — for each of the five centres has been made available with the nodal offices concerned and the same will be put through the CoWin app that will send a message to the beneficiaries informing them about the time-slot for vaccinations. 30 volunteers register for mock drill at Shirol In Kolhapur district, the vaccine dry run will be held at a primary health care centre in Shiroli on Friday. More than 30 volunteers — mostly frontline Covid workers such as doctors, nurses and other health staff — have registered for the dry run. Subsequently, a dry run will be held at almost 18 health centres in the district. The state government has asked the health administration of every district to conduct the mock drill for which the guidelines have been provided and health staff have undergone online training over the past few days. Yogesh Sale, the district health officer, said: “We will start the mock drill at 9 am on Friday at the Shiroli health care centre. Three rooms have been kept ready — one for registration, one for the actual vaccination and a third one the observation of the vaccinated individuals, where s/he will be kept for half-an-hour. We have assigned the task of the mock drill to a team of five. There will be a person managing the queue outside, one at the registration, two for the actual vaccination and one to help the vaccinated people rest in the observation room. Since there is no time limit to vaccinate an individual, we expect 45 minutes to one hour for every registered individual.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/govt-institutions-prepare-for-fridays-vaccine-dry-run/articleshow/80151642.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Nashik||Nashik: Govt institutions prepare for Friday’s vaccine dry run||NASHIK/KOLHAPUR: Select government-run hospitals and primary health care centres are now gearing up for the Covid-19 vaccination dry run on Friday. In Nashik district, the mock drill will be conducted in five different government institutions — three in Nashik rural and one each under the jurisdictions of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) and Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) — on Friday. “The dry run will be conducted at 8 in all the five locations simultaneously. We will check if the procedure was flawless. We will try to spot practical difficulties that may crop up and address them,” Ratna Rokhande, the civil surgeon of the Nashik civil hospital, said. Collector Suraj Mandhare chaired an online meeting of the officials of the civil hospital, NMC and the district health office on Wednesday to prepare for the dry run. The NMC will be conducting the drill at Satpur Urban Health Centre, while the Malegaon civic body has selected the Wadia Hospital for the activity. The district civil hospital, the sub-district hospital at Trimbakeshwar and the primary health centre at Sayyed Pimpri are the three locations for the rural areas of Nashik district. The lists of 25 beneficiaries — selected from among health workers — for each of the five centres has been made available with the nodal offices concerned and the same will be put through the CoWin app that will send a message to the beneficiaries informing them about the time-slot for vaccinations. 30 volunteers register for mock drill at Shirol In Kolhapur district, the vaccine dry run will be held at a primary health care centre in Shiroli on Friday. More than 30 volunteers — mostly frontline Covid workers such as doctors, nurses and other health staff — have registered for the dry run. Subsequently, a dry run will be held at almost 18 health centres in the district. The state government has asked the health administration of every district to conduct the mock drill for which the guidelines have been provided and health staff have undergone online training over the past few days. Yogesh Sale, the district health officer, said: “We will start the mock drill at 9 am on Friday at the Shiroli health care centre. Three rooms have been kept ready — one for registration, one for the actual vaccination and a third one the observation of the vaccinated individuals, where s/he will be kept for half-an-hour. We have assigned the task of the mock drill to a team of five. There will be a person managing the queue outside, one at the registration, two for the actual vaccination and one to help the vaccinated people rest in the observation room. Since there is no time limit to vaccinate an individual, we expect 45 minutes to one hour for every registered individual.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/govt-institutions-prepare-for-fridays-vaccine-dry-run/articleshow/80139945.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Coimbatore||1kg tumor from woman’s chest cavity removed||Salem: Doctors in Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital (SGMKMCH) have successfully removed a non-malignant tumor, weighing one kilogram, from the chest cavity of a 35-year-old woman.SGMKMCH dean Dr R Balajinathan told TOI that the destitute woman from Namagiripettai in Namakkal district was admitted to hospital on December 14 after she developed severe chest pain and breathing difficulties. Her CT scan showed a huge mass in the chest cavity. It was compressing her heart, lungs and trachea.The team led by the head of cardio-thoracic department Dr Pon A Rajarajan performed the complicated surgery with the support of other surgeons, including Dr K Sivasankaran and Dr Subash Chandru, on December 16.“The whole mass was excised in total along with the diseased right upper lobe,” the dean said, adding that the mass was later reported as epithelioid hemangioendothelioma which is a rare non-malignant vascular tumor and chance of becoming malignant is intermediate.“Only 500 cases have been reported in the world so far and it’s the first case to be reported in the state,” the dean added.Dr Rajarajan said that the cost of the surgery would be Rs 5 lakh in the private hospitals. But the surgery was performed in the hospital free of cost under Chief Minister's Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/1kg-tumor-from-womans-chest-cavity-removed/articleshow/80141044.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Kolhapur||Foresters look for big cat spotted along NH-4||KOLHAPUR: The forest department has started a search operation for a leopard that was spotted near Karad, along the National Highway-4 that connects Mumbai and Bengaluru, late on Tuesday night. The officials suspect the leopard might have sustained minor after beinh hit by an unidentified vehicle. Satara district forest officer Bharat Hada told TOI that forest department found some blood stains at the spot where the leopard was seen. “The blood sample confirms the presence of the leopard,” he said. The leopard was spotted at the Pachwad Phata near Karad. The animal was sitting along the highway despite having heavy vehicular movement. However, traffic came to a standstill for few minutes when people spotted the animal. Some people clicked photos and recorded the big cat. According to the residents, the leopard sat at spot for about five minutes and later vanished into a nearby sugarcane field. “A team of forest personnel rushed to the spot after receiving the information. They collected the blood sample from the spot to confirm the animal’s presence. A team of 10 forest department officials, comprising a veterinary doctor, is now searching for the leopard,” Hada said. “The leopard might have come from the Chandoli sanctuary. It may even have gone back to the sanctuary if it has sustained minor injuries. We will treat the animal if it is found or take it to a hospital in Pune,” he said. The forest department and police had not received any report about any attack on animals or humans till late in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/foresters-look-for-big-cat-spotted-along-nh-4/articleshow/80138907.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Nashik||Woman robbed of gold chain in Nashik||NASHIK: A 51-year-old woman was robbed of her gold chain worth Rs 95,000 in the Adgaon area of Nashik city on Tuesday evening. Suvarna Bhagwat of Chetana Nagar filed a complaint with the Adgaon police in this regard. Bhagwat told police that the robbery took place in front of Sri Hari Krushna Height building at Tapovan Road of Chavan Nagar. The complainant told police that at around 6.30 am on Tuesday she was on her way to attend a wedding ceremony. As she got down from her car and was walking towards the wedding lawn, an unidentified biker approached her. He natched the gold chain she was wearing and escaped from the scene. Chain robberies have become a menace in the city since the last few years. Despite police arresting chain robbers frequently, the menace continues in the city. Last year, more than 90 chain robberies have taken place in the city. Until November end last year, police had registered 94 cases of chain robberies as against 82 that were registered during the same period in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/woman-robbed-of-gold-chain-in-nashik/articleshow/80139952.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Coimbatore||Passengers’ association demands Mettupalayam-Thoothukudi train||Coimbatore: The Pollachi Train Passengers Welfare Association has demanded that the erstwhile Coimbatore-Thoothukudi train be reintroduced as the Mettupalayam-Thoothukudi train. The train will help lakhs of workers from southern Tamil Nadu who travel to farms and industries in Pollachi and Mettupalayam for work. They also demand that the Pollachi-Coimbatore train be restored and extended to Mettupalayam, which will provide connectivity to the Nilgiris.The association wrote to Coimbatore MP P R Natarajan on Wednesday requesting to reintroduce the Coimbatore-Thoothukudi train as Mettupalayam-Thoothukudi train. "The train will help not just workers, but also traders, businessmen and pilgrims, because this train passing through Madurai, Virudhunagar and Palani will connect all major temples in and around Madurai and Palani," secretary of the association B Mohan Raj said. Tourists too will benefit because it will connect destinations like Ooty, Marudhumalai, Valparai, Munnar and Palani and Madurai, they wrote.Passengers also requested that the Pollachi-Coimbatore and Madurai-Palani-Coimbatore passenger trains till Mettupalayam and also operate a new passenger and express train from Mettupalayam to south Tamil Nadu destinations—Coimbatore and Pollachi.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/passengers-association-demands-mettupalayam-thoothukudi-train/articleshow/80141048.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Coimbatore||Virtual edition of marathon conducted||Coimbatore: More than 6,500 runners participated in the virtual edition of the Coimbatore Marathon 2020 held from December 1 to December 31.The theme of the marathon, organised by the Coimbatore Cancer Foundation in association with Coimbatore Runners and Show Space Events, was ‘Run Smart’. “We have a sense of pride as we complete the 8th edition of the Coimbatore Marathon in a virtual format,” said T Balaji, managing trustee of the Coimbatore Cancer Foundation.Race director Ramesh Ponnuswami said that being the first time on a virtual platform, there were many things that the team had to set up from scratch, learn and adapt from similar events from around the world. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/virtual-edition-of-marathon-conducted/articleshow/80141047.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Goa||In pandemic-hit year, students flock to health, pharma colleges||PANAJI: The pandemic seems to have renewed the interest of students in the healthcare and pharmaceutical sectors. Not a single seat has gone unclaimed for the ayurveda, homeopathy and pharma degrees, as well as in the five allied health programmes — physiotherapy, occupational therapy, optometry, medical imaging technology and anaesthesia technology — for the academic year 2020-21. In fact, the lone private pharmacy institute in the state, PES College, Farmagudi, has received permission to increase its seats from 75 to 100 this year, with an additional 10 seats added as quota for Economically Backward Sections. Yet, all of the increased seats found takers. “Every year, the 75 seats at Goa College of Pharmacy, the government institute with subsidised fees, go full. But it is noteworthy that seats at the private college went from 75 to 110, but there are still no vacancies,” said an official of the directorate of technical education (DTE). “In a year when half the engineering college seats went vacant, the number of applicants for NEET-based programmes were on par with last year, at 2,000 applicants for 600 seats.” Officials said that pharmacy seems like a good stream to pursue now for students, especially as they can find jobs locally due to nearly all major pharmaceutical companies having units in the state. In the homeopathy, ayurveda and allied health programmes, it is not uncommon in a regular year to see some stray vacancies. “But this year not only are all seats filled, in programmes like ayurveda, there are higher numbers who have shown interest than seat availability. This is also because of the central government’s recent amendments which now allow ayurveda post-graduates to perform some surgeries,” said the official. While there are 110 seats in all the five allied health programmes offered at Goa Medical College, Bambolim, there are 65 seats in ayurveda and 50 in homeopathy available in the state in two private colleges, the only ones offering the programmes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-pandemic-hit-year-students-flock-to-health-pharma-colleges/articleshow/80142345.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
January 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Welfare scheme for prisoners announced||Ahmedabad: The social defence department of the Gujarat government’s social justice and empowerment department has announced a self-employment scheme for families of prisoners sentenced to five or more years of imprisonment. Additional DGP (Jails) K L N Rao said for the families of such prisoners would be provided one-time assistance of Rs 25,000 “This had been done so the families of prisoners can earn a living on their own,” he added. Rao added that there a few guidelines which have to followed while applying for the assistance. “The income of the family of the prisoner should not be more than Rs 1.5 lakh per year in urban areas and Rs 1.2 lakh in rural areas. The forms to get this assistance are available at all central jails and also online. Prisoners have to fill in the forms and submit them either to the jail superintendent or to the welfare officers,” he added. Rao added, “We have also launched a prisoners employment exchange in the four central jails, where released prisoners’ details are collected and their skills are documented and these are shared with the social welfare department and other organizations so that they can be rehabilitated and find a livelihood. We shared the details of 230 such prisoners in 2020.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/welfare-scheme-for-prisoners-announced/articleshow/80141037.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||PIL wants prohibited caste names removed from govt lists||Ahmedabad: A PIL in the Gujarat high court is seeking directions to the governments to remove all prohibited words for scheduled castes from government lists and websites as well as from the portal of the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) and replace them with the new names for these castes as suggested by the government itself.Chirag Parmar (22), the petitioner, who is preparing for competitive exams, approached the court with the grievance that even after banning the use of certain words denoting scheduled castes, the government itself and its portals continue to use those words on lists of castes and communities and this is humiliating for people belonging to these castes.Parmar has maintained in his PIL that the government itself has come up with various words denoting those scheduled castes, which were described by names that are prohibited to be used. The government authorities should start using the new names and replace the old names of these scheduled castes. He cited examples of the state government portals, the UPSC portal and claimed that continuing to use the old names for identification of particular scheduled castes is the violation of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. The PIL reiterates that the law prohibiting these words should be strictly implemented in the state. There are 40.74 lakh SC people in Gujarat, or nearly 6.74% of the population, and continuing the use of the old names, even on list of castes by the government itself, is an insult and humiliation to these people. The PIL states that a complaint was made to various authorities in March 2002 for action against the officials responsible who chose to use these words on the list of castes. Repeated requests were also made to the authorities to replace these words by names chosen by the government itself such as Rohit, Rohitdas, Valmiki, Vankar etc. to these castes. The petition also took exception to a book ‘Buddha Lila’ in which prohibited names of scheduled castes have been used. The petitioner has been demanding action against the publishers of the book.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pil-wants-prohibited-caste-names-removed-from-govt-lists/articleshow/80141033.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Nashik||NMC to shut two Covid centres in Nashik||NASHIK: With the drop in new coronavirus cases, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to shut its two Covid Care Centres (CCC) by January end. The CCCs at Thakker’s Dome along Trimbak Road and Punjbrao Deshmukh hostel building at Meri in the Panchavati area of the city will be shut. Moreover, the NMC has also decided to reduce the temporary health staff that it had recruited for these CCCs. According to NMC, there has been a drop in new Covid-19 cases in the last two months. Around 85% of the total 4,550 beds reserved for Covid patients in civic and private hospitals in the city are lying vacant due to rise in recoveries. Of the nine CCCs, four centres at Vilholi, Tapovan, Gangapur hospital and Wadala have already been temporarily closed. Moreover, the NMC has also stopped admission of Covid patients in its Covid centre at the social welfare department hostel building near Dwarka area of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-shut-2-covid-centres-in-city/articleshow/80139983.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 7, 2021||Nagpur||Defying Covid, Maha school attendance up 425% since Nov||Nagpur: School attendance figures are now within touching distance of 16 lakh mark, in less than 40 days of reopening. Even education officials have been taken aback by the steep rise in attendance figures every week, evidence that more and more parents are feeling safe sending their children to school. The 425% jump in attendance since reopening on November 23 without corresponding jump in Covid cases also proves the schools’ ability to safely conduct physical classes. Currently in Maharashtra only Std IX-XII have been allowed to reopen for physical classes. Chintaman Vanjari, district education officer, said, “Schools are taking all precautions and there is an increase in awareness about personal hygiene as well. Students are also particular about washing their hands and wearing masks properly. All these things add up to a secure environment and that’s what parents are also convinced about.” Almost 88% of the eligible (Std 9-12) schools in Maharashtra have reopened and this number is expected to nudge upwards. An education official from the department’s Pune headquarters told TOI the attendance figures took them by surprise too. The official said, “Resistance to reopening was mostly by grant-in-aid schools because for many oftheir teachers/principals, it was an extended vacation with a guaranteed salary that can be as high as Rs 1.25 lakh per month. So coming back to work, combined with some fear of the virus, was obviously not ideal from their point of view. There were concerns on how their resistance will affect psychology of parents who were fence sitting on consent.” But within 10 days of reopening, such concerns vanished. Another official from Nagpur division’s deputy director of education office said, “There was lot of pressure from teachers’ associations to delay reopening. Fortunately the government stood its ground because students could not be deprived of education. Students from poor economic background need to be back in class if they are to compete academically. After 10 days when we looked at attendance figures across the state, it was clear they are going to shoot up.” Attendance across state: November 23: 2,99,193 December 2: 4,91,962 December 11: 6,04,884 December 14: 10,72,490 January 4: 15,70,807 28% of total eligible students are back on campus 88% of total eligible schools have opened||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/defying-covid-maha-school-attendance-up-425-since-nov/articleshow/80141062.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
January 7, 2021||Kolhapur||Satara district adds 83 new cases||KOLHAPUR: Satara district reported 83 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths due to infection since Tuesday late night, taking the total number of cases to 54,942. The death toll has now risen to 1,797. As many as 52,411 patients have recovered while 734 are undergoing treatment. Satara taluka reported 20 new cases, Phaltan added 13 new patients, 12 people tested positive in Koregaon, Karad recorded six patients, two people from Wai taluka tested positive, Maan and Patan added nine and seven patients respectively, among others.  A 57-year-old woman from Khatav taluka and a 71-year-old man from Maan succumbed to the contagion. Meanwhile, all eleven talukas in Solapur district reported new coronavirus cases in single digit since late night on Tuesday. Solapur rural has reported 38,361 patients so far, of which, 1,133 have succumbed to the infection. Solapur city, on the other hand, reported 18 new cases since late night on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-district-adds-83-new-cases/articleshow/80139987.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Goa||Count triples a day after lowest cases||Panaji: A day after the state reported the lowest daily count of Covid-19 infections in the last six months, the number of new cases almost tripled on Tuesday after the lag over the weekend. Around 800 more tests were conducted resulting in 95 new cases reported on Tuesday as opposed to 35 cases on Monday. However, no Covid related deaths were reported during the day. A total of 27 were hospitalised and 57 opted for home isolation on Tuesday. The state’s recovery rate rose to 97% with 94 recoveries. There are presently 797 active cases in the state, the lowest in six months. Margao health centre continued to report more infections and continues to have the highest number of active Covid infections at 83, followed by Ponda at 55, Panaji at 52, Cansaulim at 47 and Porvorim at 41. New cases were reported in Bicholim, Mapusa, Panaji, Aldona, Candolim, Colvale, Corlim, Chimbel, Siolim, Mayem, Curchorem, Margao, Vasco, Cansaulim, Chinchinim, Balli, Curtorim, Marcaim among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/count-triples-a-day-after-lowest-cases/articleshow/80241011.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Goa||Track doubling on Karnataka side gets wildlife board’s OK||MARGAO: Union minister for environment, forest and climate change, Prakash Javadekar, on Wednesday announced that the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) has given its nod for South Western Railway’s (SWR) proposal for double tracking in the Tinaighat-Castlerock-Caranzol section lying in the protected areas of the Western Ghats in neighbouring Karnataka. Sources in the Indian Railways said that with this clearance has been secured from the National Board for Wildlife for all the protected areas coming within the Hospet-Tinaighat-Vasco track doubling project. “Happy to inform that in its 60th meeting National Board for Wildlife has recommended the proposal for Tinaighat-Castlerock-Caranzol Railway doubling of South Western Railways, Karnataka with certain mitigation measures as advised by the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun,” Javadekar stated from his official Twitter handle. The Goa State Wildlife Board as well as the National Board for Wildlife had in April approved the track doubling work between Kalay and Caranzol stretch lying on the Goa side of the project. In a previous meeting of the National Board for Wildlife in July, the board had decided to defer the project till the receipt of the report from the National Tiger Conservation Authority as the project passes through the Dandeli-Anshi Tiger Reserve. Sources in the Indian Railways said that the next step entails clearance from the ministry for environment, forests and climate change, for axing the trees in the protected forest areas. The Union ministry of Railways had in 2010 sanctioned the doubling of the existing Hospet-Tinaighat-Vasco railway line passing through Karnataka and Goa. The first phase between Hospet and Tinaighat has already been completed. The second phase between Tinaighat and Vasco passes through the dense forests of the Western Ghats, including the Bhagwal Mahavir national park in Goa. The South Western Railway’s track doubling project is one of three Centre-sponsored infrastructure projects that has seen widespread protests in the state in the past few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/track-doubling-on-karnataka-side-gets-wildlife-boards-ok/articleshow/80142347.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Kolhapur||Kolhapur district adds seven Covid cases, Sangli 23||KOLHAPUR: Kolhapur district reported seven fresh coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the total number of patients to 49,598. Of these, 1,710 have already succumbed to the contagion. The district reported no Covid-related death on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the number of active patients in the district remained at 44, the lowest so far in the current declining phase of the epidemic cycle. On Wednesday, 14 patients were discharged from various Covid care facilities in the district. With this, the total number of recovered patients has reached 47,844 in the district. Sangli district identifies 23 cases Sangli district reported 23 fresh cases on Wednesday, the highest single day cases in recent weeks. The district, however, reported no casualty on Wednesday. The number of active cases in the district has increased further to 212 as the number of cases are increasing by the day. So far, the district has reported 47,711 cases, of which, 1,735 have succumbed to infection while 45,764 have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-district-adds-7-cases-sangli-23/articleshow/80140001.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Bhubaneswar||For Odisha’s special children, return to school means not going to bed hungry||Purab Sha can’t wait to be back in school. A Class IX student, Purab goes to the school for visually challenged in Sundargarh. But more than education, what he misses most is the food that he used to get at the residential school, something he had to skip on several occasions these past 10 months the 17-year-old has been at home owing to the Covid-19 outbreak that shut down schools, took away life and livelihood and brought untold misery on countless others. His is the story of the majority of 6,815 students studying in 103 government-run schools and one college for the differently-abled in the state. These schools, which come under the Social Securities and Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (SSEPD) department, have residential facilities and provide students with four meals a day, apart from two sets of clothes for the year. Purab, who hails from Brjarajnagar in Jharsuguda district, said, “My father is a vegetable vendor. But his business was badly hit during the lockdown. The school authorities had given us Rs 3,000 as food expense for three months. But I soon ran out of money.” The few, who were lucky enough to get regular meals at home, had to struggle to arrange for smart phones for online classes. Raja Sahu (19) had to wait till the time his mother – a daily wage labourer – would return home so that he could use the phone to access whatever study material was sent there. The whole exercise was nerve-racking for him as well as his parents as sometimes the network would be weak, at other times the family would not have enough money to get the phone recharged. Once school reopens, he won’t have to bother about such details. Class X student Raju, from Kutasingha village of Balangir district, said, “My father is paralysed. My family couldn’t afford a smart phone. So, we bought a basic phone for Rs 700. But it was not possible to access online classes with it. The teachers were sending recorded voice messages, but my phone could not support heavy files.” There is no substitute for face-to-face interaction, especially for children with disabilities, believes Kishore Prakash Panda, headmaster of a blind school in Sundargarh district. “Though we managed to carry on with classes through WhatsApp with teachers sharing audio clips, clarifying the doubts of students was next to impossible,” said Kishore, adding that students would be able to learn better on a full belly. On the school’s preparedness to resume classes, he said, “We have taken all the necessary precautions to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The classrooms have been sanitized. Students will be made to sit apart from each other, as per government guideline. Soap dispensers and sanitisers have been installed in the washrooms.” Asked about how these visually impaired students will maintain social distance, Kishore said, “That would be a challenge for us, but we will have helpers to ensure that.” The phone of Basant Seth, secretary, Odisha Teachers’ Association for the Blind, has not stopped ringing ever since the government announced that on-campus classes for Classes X and XII would resume from Friday. “The other students are also hoping and praying to return to the comfort of these residential schools,” Basant said. At the Physically Handicap School in Bargarh, many students come from areas surrounded by forests. Headmaster Meghnad Sahu, said, “Very few students had access to smart phones. Many of them come from places where mobile network is yet to reach. So, even if they had phones, it was futile. In such a situation, we could practically hold no class during the lockdown.” Buddhadeb Swain, vice-principal, Deaf School, Bhubaneswar, said, “Out of 12 students in Class X, only four had smart phones. Even they would face problems as the phones belonged to their parents.” Bhaskar Sharma, commissioner-cum-secretary of the SSEPD department said, “We had covered 70% students as far as online classes are concerned. Of course, we could not reach out to all. When we had sent them home, we had given each student Rs 3,000 so that their food expenses could be taken care of.” EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/for-states-special-children-return-to-school-means-not-going-to-bed-hungry/articleshow/80154246.cms||Rajani Yadav
January 7, 2021||Nashik||NMC seeks objections from tax payers||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has sought objections from property tax payers about the existing tax related to property tax assessment, error in names, excluding tax on open plots after getting completion certificate for buildings, etc. February 19 is the last date for filing objections at the respective divisional offices of the municipal corporation. The municipal corporation has made all the necessary entries of all existing properties on its property tax register, including the areas of properties and the tax levied on them. Accordingly, the details of properties in the current financial year 2020-21 have been carried forward in the tax register for 2021-22. The NMC has issued a public notice in this regard, urging property owners to check the information of their properties registered in the register for the financial year 2021-22. This property register has been put on display in all six divisional offices of the NMC. “We carry out this process every year in January before the new financial year begins. Property tax payers can make necessary changes related to correction in name, change of use, etc. so that necessary correction is made,” said NMC official M Sangamnere.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-seeks-objections-from-tax-payers/articleshow/80129901.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 7, 2021||Coimbatore||Remove encroachment from reserved site, say residents||Coimbatore: Residents of Thayammal layout in Kurichi here on Wednesday staged a protest urging the city corporation to remove an encroachment on the open space reservation (OSR) land.Kavitha Karthik, a member of the Thayammal Layout Residents’ Welfare Association, said the residents have been struggling to remove the encroachment in the 9.75-cent land since 1996. In 2004, the Madras high court issued a direction in favour of the residents, but the corporation is yet to demolish it.“Two illegal buildings were constructed on the land. A workshop functioned in a building. Residents conducted noise assessment and submitted the report to the city corporation. Subsequently, former corporation commissioner K Vijayakarthikeyan inspected the site and eviction notice was given to the occupants. An encroacher vacated the building immediately and the other sought 15 days to vacate. He now claims to own that portion of the land,” Karthik said.“After issuing several notices, the corporation in 2020 demolished the buildings. But the occupant encroached it again and set up a shed. Due to the noise pollution, a resident had to admit his children in a hostel as they could not concentrate on studies. An anganwadi centre is functioning at the site. When the corporation decided to construct a compound wall around the site and a toilet near the centre using the MLA fund, we asked the officials to remove the encroachment before starting construction work. They promised to remove it before construction is finished. But it is still standing tall,” she said.Once the land is retrieved, the residents plan to turn it into a park that would benefit children and elderly people.A corporation official promised to sort out the issue. “Only a few square feet of the land have been encroached. We had promised to reclaim it. But the residents have stopped the construction work,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/remove-encroachment-from-reserved-site-say-residents/articleshow/80141055.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||In-laws accused of demanding dowry||Ahmedabad: A 32-year-old woman registered a case against her husband and in-laws allegedly for forcing her to get dowry from her widowed mother. Nayna Solanki lodged a complaint with Airport police against her husband Prashantkumar, father-in-law William, mother-in-law Vijyaben, sister-in-law Dipika and her husband’s sister-in-law Neelam Sushil Solanki for torturing her mentally and physically for dowry. Police said, “The complainant alleged that her in-laws used to ask her to get money from her mother, saying she would have got a lot of money after retirement. She alleged that the in-laws beat her and abused her. “They allegedly told her that she would not be allowed to have any kind of relationship with her husband till she brought in the dowry. She also mentioned in the FIR that she and her son were driven out of the house on October 17. Since then, she has been living with her mother.” Airport police have registered a case under Sections 498 (a), 323, 294(a) and 114 of the IPC and are verifying details mentioned in the FIR before taking action against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/in-laws-accused-of-demanding-dowry/articleshow/80141046.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||One in three persons found not wearing mask properly||Thiruvananthapuram: A survey on using masks during the pandemic in the state capital has revealed that 30% of men and 11% of women do not wear masks properly. Apart from this, 2.5% of people do not wear mask at all. The study was conducted by Capsule (campaign against pseudoscience using law and ethics), a wing of Kerala Sastra Sahitya Parishad, at 11 public places — Ayyankali Hall, Palayam, Kaimanom junction, Sree Padmanabhswamy temple road, Women and Children Hospital, Thycaud, Railway Station, East Fort bus stand, Kallinmoodu market, Manacaud junction, Kumarichanda, Attakulangara, and Ramchandran Textiles road. Among the 1,017 people observed as part of the survey, 403 men were found using masks properly covering their nose and mouth. However, 179 of them were wearing masks on their chin and 15 were not wearing masks at all. Among women, 363 were wearing the masks properly, 46 were wearing it on their chin and 11 did not have one. The study found that people were not serious about wearing mask in public places. “Kumarichanda continues to be a very sensitive region as people were not following Covid-19 protocols properly. This market was the nerve centre for the first super spread reported in the district.” Among the 19 local traders in this market, five were selling fish without a mask while nine others were wearing masks on their chin. “Even though several studies have pointed out that usage of masks would lessen the infection spread, people have not been taking the advice seriously. In the wake of the new virus strain being reported world over, including Kerala, we have to be more cautious on mask usage,’’ said M P Anil Kumar, convener of Capsule, Kerala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/one-in-three-persons-found-not-wearing-mask-properly/articleshow/80140016.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||2 held for ‘raid’ on ex-bootlegger||Ahmedabad: Two men, who thought it was a good idea to pose as fake cops and extort money from a former bootlegger, landed in jail after the smart woman realised the con and called the cops. The police arrested Surendra Tilwani of Palanpur and Prakash Gadhvi of Kubernagar for impersonating Crime Branch officials and trying to raid the former bootlegger’s house in Sardarnagar to extort money. In her complaint, the 45-year-old woman told police that she used to sell liquor a while ago, but had changed her ways and worked as a labourer now to earn a living. Inspector M M Solanki of Sardarnagar Police Station said, “The two arrived at her house on a bike on Sunday and identified themselves as Crime Branch. They told her to accompany them to the police station.” However, the woman kept her cool and got the two talking, said police. “She realised that the two were drunk and could not be real cops. Meanwhile, her son who spotted their bike outside the house and gauged the situation, called the police control room. Sardarnagar police reached the spot and arrested the imposters,” said police. Solanki said the accused have been charged under Sections 170, 504, 448 and 114 of IPC and have been sent for pre- arrest Covid-19 test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2-held-for-raid-on-ex-bootlegger/articleshow/80141049.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Chennai||Centre asks Tamil Nadu to drop move on 100% occupancy in cinemas||CHENNAI: Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, has in a letter to Tamil Nadu chief secretary K Shanmugham, said that the state government’s order permitting 100% occupancy in theatres and multiplexes dilutes MHA guidelines. The MHA guidelines had allowed only 50% occupancy and that too outside containment zones. States and Union territories shall not dilute guidelines issued under Disaster Management Act in any manner, the letter said. “We have taken it (the letter from MHA) to the notice of the honourable chief minister,” chief secretary K Shanmugham told TOI on Wednesday. The state government had on Monday allowed 100% occupancy in theatres and multiplexes. The Tamil Nadu government had permitted 100% occupancy in theatres and multiplexes with strict adherence to SOPs, responding to pleas from the film fraternity. “The chief minister is on election tour. Once he returns to the city, a decision could be taken after discussing the issue with all concerned,” said Tirupur K Subramanian, Tamil Nadu Theatres and Multiplex Owners’ Association president. The Tamil Nadu government’s order on January 4 cited decreasing Covid-19 positive cases in the state for its move to allow full occupancy and asked theatres to screen short films to make the public aware of Covid norms to be followed. The relaxation of norms was welcomed by the Tamil film industry and theatre owners, who had earlier appealed to the state to permit 100% occupancy, as the industry has lined up big budget movies like ‘Master’ and ‘Easwaran’ for release during the Pongal festival. Actor Vijay too had called on chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and made a request on December 27, 2020. But several others, including health professionals, expressed displeasure and feared the move could trigger a second wave of Covid. While the state health department, the nodal agency for Covid-19 prevention and management, was in the dark about the government’s decision to relax restrictions on occupancy in theatres, members of the state-appointed medical expert committee expressed concerns. Minutes after the announcement, National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur, who is also a member of the expert committee, tweeted, “Closed spaces without social distancing are a perfect setting for explosive spread of Covid-19. Request public to avoid such settings.” Kaur in an interview to TOI said, “Risk of infection multiplies with each risk factor - indoors, poor ventilation, more time spent, crowding, speaking/shouting and lack of mask - cumulative effect means red zone - highest chance of spread of covid-19.” (With inputs from Pushpa Narayan).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/centre-asks-tn-to-drop-move-on-100-occupancy-in-cinemas/articleshow/80141063.cms||D Govardan
January 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Last mile connectivity missing: Study||Ahmedabad: Just as widths are diminishing from road plans and private vehicle are charged parking fee, there is more emphasis on strengthening public transport and pedestrian infrastructure. But a recent analysis of the lack of feeder transport system harming existing public transport system was realised in a combined civic body-institution study. The perception study of more than 200 individuals carried out between Shivaranjini and Jivraj Park clearly indicated the lack of public transit mode or last-mile connectivity, between workplaces and homes. The study, which involved civil and infrastructure engineering departments of LDRP-ITR, Gandhinagar and IITRAM, Ahmedabad, found that a majority of the passengers travelled between Shivaranjini and Jivraj stations for work or business purpose, almost 52%, 14% travelled for household errands, while 25% were students who were attending tuitions and skill development courses. The study revealed that the household trip for Jivraj Crossroads to Shivranjani Crossroads is also significant at 37% as Jivaraj Crossroads is surrounded by housing societies and residential buildings. The passengers complained that there should exist an efficient feeder system.  They claimed that last-mile connectivity within an area of 3 to 4 km around. A total of 229 passengers were interviewed. The most preferred medium for last-mile connectivity were autorickshaws to travel home or to office from the BRTS stations.  “The highest commuter movement was during morning and evening peak hours. The trips are meant for business or work,” claims the study. Citizens cited e-rickshaw service in Delhi, Faridabad and Gurgaon that is linked with their respective metro services and have demanded a similar service for Ahmedabad city. A fleet of 20-odd jan-e-rickshaws was planned for Shivaranjini, Jodhpur, Bodakdev and Ambawadi by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). Parking docks for the vehicles were also provided.  “We will be incorporating more e-rickshaws to improve last-mile connectivity to homes and offices from bus or metro stations in future. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has already provided a parking dock for this new set of e-rickshaws opposite Keshavbaug,”said a senior AMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/last-mile-connectivity-missing-study/articleshow/80142358.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Vadodara||Black-necked storks build new abode near Wadhwana Lake||Vadodara: Bird lovers were a disappointed lot when the only nest of a black-necked stork in Vadodara fell off a tree near Wadhwana Lake and got damaged a few days ago. Foresters felt that the bird may migrate to some other location to build its new home. But the stork couple, it seems, has decided to make a new nest in the same area. Over last few days, the storks have been putting together a nest on a tree right next to Simaliya Lake behind Wadhwana. “It will take them several days to build the nest that is located on the top of the tree. Storks always build nests at a height. That they have chosen the same area to build their nest again means that the couple will reside here for years to come,” said Baldevsinh Waghela, divisional forest officer (wildlife), Vadodara. Locals staying near the lake said that the stork couple spends the entire day away from its nest and returns in late evening. “They are very shy birds and prefer to stay away from crowd and noise. When their nest fell down some days ago, we thought that they may fly to some other location,” said Kartik Upadhyay, a bird watcher. The storks are very protective about their babies so they design their nest like a fenced fort. By using thorny bushes, this bird builds the nest in such a way that the reptiles cannot enter it from any direction. For the hunters who come from above, the stork is always prepared and combative. The nest of black-necked stork near Wadhwana is among the 16 nests that the bird has in Gujarat. The stork nest that fell off the tree is being conserved by the forest department that plans to display it at the ecological camp site for public viewing. Very few black-necked storks are now seen in the state and ornithologists feel that if not protected, they may disappear. Splendid storks Black-necked storks are a loner and build their nest at isolated spots near marshy areas. These birds feed on frogs, small reptiles and earthworms. At five-feet, the black-necked storks are the tallest among the storks. Once they build the nest at any spot, they return to the same abode for years to breed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/black-necked-storks-build-new-abode-near-wadhwana-lake/articleshow/80140022.cms||Tushar Tere
January 7, 2021||Nashik||Real estate sector picks up in Nashik||Nashik: Real estate projects have started picking up pace in Nashik city after witnessing a drop during the first four months of the current fiscal year. The outbreak of Covid-19 followed by lockdown had affected all sectors, including real estate. But, the real estate projects in the city have gathered momentum between August and December. According to the town planning department, things are improving and over 600 residential projects have been approved by December end during the current fiscal year. These projects range from five flats to over 50 flats. These projects also include some individual bungalows. There has been a drop in the number of approvals to the buildings plans between April and December as compared to the corresponding period during the previous financial year. The town planing department has given approval to 626 projects, including building plans, so far during the current fiscal year. Of these, 90% were given approval during the last five months. Moreover, very few projects were approved in December as the state government introduced new unified Development Control and Promotion Regulations (DCPR) for Maharashtra, barring Mumbai with effect from December 2. Now, builders or land-owners have to submit building plans to the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) as per the new norms. Hence, the town planning department has stopped giving new building permissions to big projects, except a few bungalows. The state town planning department has organized a training for NMC officials concerned related to the new development control rules for approving the building plans in the second week of January. Thereafter, the process of giving permissions to building plans of the residential projects is expected to gather momentum. Talking to TOI, president of CREDAI Nashik Ravi Mahajan said that the real estate sector is gradually picking up after the severe jolt of Covid pandemic. “Things are improving now. But, it will pick up more pace during the last two months of the current financial year February and March,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/real-estate-sector-picks-up-in-nashik/articleshow/80129915.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 7, 2021||Goa||Goa CM Pramod Sawant to meet Amit Shah in Delhi today||PANAJI: CM Pramod Sawant is scheduled to meet the Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday to discuss various issues related to the state including coal handling. Sawant will leave for Delhi on Thursday morning. “I will discuss various issues, including resumption of mining,” Sawant told TOI. During the meeting with Union mines minister Pralhad Joshi in December, the main trading body of mine owners— Goa Mineral Ore Exporters’ Association (GMOEA)— opposed the auction route and sought an amendment to the law so that mining can continue in Goa till 2037. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-to-meet-shah-in-delhi-today/articleshow/80142355.cms||Murari Shetye
January 7, 2021||Bareilly||‘Suicide pact’: Inter-caste lovebirds buckle under family pressure, end lives; probe on||Bareilly: In a suspected suicide pact, lovebirds — aged 18 and 19 — allegedly ended their lives near railway tracks in Maigalganj area of UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri district on Wednesday. Both had a bullet injury each on their heads and a country-made pistol was recovered from the spot, said police. The inter-caste couple belonged to neighbouring Sitapur district and had reportedly eloped, said police, adding that the girl’s family had recently lodged an FIR in connection with her “abduction”. The victims — the boy, a Brahmin, and the girl, an OBC — appeared to have ended their lives after their families opposed to their relationship, said police. The bodies were sent for autopsy. Lakhimpur Kheri SSP Vijay Dhull, who also visited the spot, said, “Police immediately rushed to the spot and started an investigation. The initial investigation by forensic experts and police suggested that the couple had committed suicide. The pistol used by them was also recovered from the spot. Their family members have arrived, and their statements are being recorded.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/suicide-pact-inter-caste-lovebirds-buckle-under-family-pressure-end-lives-probe-on/articleshow/80138320.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 7, 2021||Mumbai||PNB scam: Nirav Modi’s sister, her husband turn approvers||MUMBAI: Fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi’s sister Purvi Mehta and her husband Maiank have been permitted to be approvers prosecution witnesses against him in the money laundering cases filed by the Enforcement Directorate. A special court granted the couple pardon on Monday while allowing their separate applications to be declared approvers in the case. Both were co-accused in the case and had last month filed applications which their counsel Amit Desai said were made to provide “substantial and important evidence” relevant to the prosecution case against Modi. Nirav Modi is the prime accused in the Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam. Purvi was made an accused in the money laundering case filed by the ED but is not an accused in the predicate offence filed by the CBI. Purvi is a Belgian national, and Maiank, a British national. Purvi, the court noted, did not contest the provisional attachments by the ED of seven out of eight assets, including a bank account in Mumbai, Marathon House at London Beneficially owned by her worth approximately Rs 60 crore, a bank abroad where she was the beneficial owner with assets worth Rs 104 crore, another bank asset worth Rs 161 crore, property in New York Central Park South beneficially owned by The Ithaca Trust; settlor Purvi Modi worth Rs 180 crore, another property called The Essex House at Central Park South, New York, worth Rs 36 crore and a flat at Mumbai’s posh Bhulabhai Desai Road worth Rs 19 crore. The ED case, argued by PP Arvind Aghav, was that various bank accounts and trusts in her name were used to launder proceeds of crimes. Purvi said she is “not one of the prime accused and has been attributed only a limited role’’ and has fully cooperated with the ED. Both said they had “distanced’’ themselves from Nirav Modi. They expressed their willingness to be examined as witnesses and to make “full and true disclosure’’ via video conference. But special judge V C Barde in his January 4 order directed that they appear before the court by returning to India and directed the ED to facilitate their approach “at the earliest”. Their case was that their “entire personal and professional life has now been brought to a standstill because of Nirav Modi’s alleged criminal activities.” A red corner notice has been issued by Interpol against the couple. They said their inputs would prove critical to establish facts against Nirav Modi and other accused and can help ED “identify and attach more proceeds of crime in India and abroad, to repatriate the proceeds of crime to India and to obtain more evidence against the mastermind”. The ED did not object to granting them pardon in their individual capacity only. The court invoked the power under section 307 of the Criminal Procedure Code on grant of pardon which can be done any time before judgment is passed in a trial, to a person considered to be directly or indirectly concerned in or privy to any offence. “There is nothing on record not to grant the pardon” said the court, and allowed their applications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pnb-scam-nirav-modis-sister-permitted-to-be-approver/articleshow/80142363.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘Two-phase signals can ease traffic at junctions’||Ahmedabad: Just as many of us head home for lunch, it is quite common to see lights at traffic junctions turn amber and stay that way, causing traffic jams. A study by a team of traffic experts revealed that this occurs because the vehicle count on both minor and major roads approaching a junction exceeds the Indian Road Congress (IRC) norms. The experts, who conducted the study at Shayamal-CCD crossroads during unsignalised hours, concluded that a two-phase signal, which allows traffic stream from two lanes to cross intersection while traffic stream from other two lanes are stopped, can smooth traffic flow at junctions. Congestion occurs when traffic on road approaches crosses saturation limits. According to IRC, the limit is 1,950 passenger car units (PCU) per hour for minor approaches and 3937.5 PCU per hour for major approaches. “The study clearly shows how more than 3,600 PCU passed by the junction in an hour during morning hours. The numbers increased to 4,100 between 10 am and 11 am. Even during afternoon hours, the vehicle count was 3,239 PCU per hour, which was close to IRC limits,” says a senior AMC official. The study has recommended critical traffic flow time periods for other nearby junctions, including studying large vehicles and pedestrian streams to improve road junction infrastructure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-phase-signals-can-ease-traffic-at-junctions/articleshow/80142365.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Nashik||Season’s first container of grapes exported from Nashik to Germany||Nashik: The grape export season has begun and the Nashik district has sent the first container, with 12 tonne of grapes, to Germany. The regular grape harvest season in Nashik begins in December and picks up in January. “Grape export to European countries has begun. The first container from Nashik has been sent to Germany. The volume is expected to increase in the second half of January,” said Kailas Shirsat, the deputy director of the agriculture department of Nashik district. “We are expecting an increase in grape export this season. Export volume us likely to touch 2 lakh metric tonne,” Shirsat said. The district had exported 1.2 lakh tonne of grapes in the December-April season of 2019-20. The year before that, Nashik had exported nearly 1.4 lakh tonne of grapes. There has been a rise in the number of vineyards registering with the state agriculture department. As per government norms, farmers looking to export grapes must register their vineyards with the state agriculture department. Around 37,090 grape farmers have registered their vineyards measuring 22,780 hectare for the 2020-21 grape season. This is a 30% rise in the number of farmers looking to export their produce. In the previous grape season (2019-20), 28,382 grape farmers had registered their vineyards. The areas under grape plantation in Nashik district is estimated to be around 58,367 hectare, including 22,000 hectare in Niphad taluka, 15,758 hectare in Dindori taluka, 11,671 hectare in Nashik taluka and 5,148 hectare in Chandwad taluka. The rest of the vineyards are located in Bagalan and Kalwan talukas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/seasons-first-container-of-grapes-exported-from-nashik-to-germany/articleshow/80129930.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 7, 2021||Kochi||Walayar sisters’ rape-murder case: Prosecutors are the problem||KOCHI: Along with ordering a fresh trial into the Walayar sisters’ rape-murder case, the high court listed out defects in investigation and prosecution and directed remedies. The division bench noted that the prosecutor did not ask relevant questions during the trial nor conduct proper cross-examination. The judge also did not take a proactive role to try and ascertain facts, it said. Initial investigation, too, was shoddy, the court held, while ordering de novo trials as miscarriage of justice had occurred. While calling for the training of investigating officers and judges handling Pocso cases, the court slammed the state government for continuing with the practice of appointing prosecutors on the basis of their political clout. Pointing out that no effective consultation with district judges happen while prosecutors are appointed, the judgment said, “Appointments of government pleaders and public prosecutors, including the special public prosecutors, can never be regarded as part of any social welfare scheme of the state government so as to benefit a particular class of advocates disregarding their suitability, merit, integrity, and capability … such posts are not intended to provide employment to the favourites of the ruling dispensation on extraneous considerations. State government … is duty bound to remember that they are appointing government pleaders and public prosecutors to discharge their constitutional obligations to maintain law and order.” While remarking that the initial investigation was “utterly disgusting”, the court called for effective programmes to sensitize investigating officers and to train them on proper evidence collection and the legal nuances of Pocso law. “It is high time for the political and bureaucratic executive to understand that inexcusable flaws in the investigation into serious offences will only bring disrepute to the administrative setup. It is high time that the state government take up serious steps to educate and sensitize station house officers to deal with such cases when reported directly to them. It is because the initial flaws may destabilize the whole case…,” the bench said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/prosecutors-are-the-problem/articleshow/80140034.cms||---
January 7, 2021||India||SC confirms IIT admission for teen whose ‘online error’ cost him seat||MUMBAI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday confirmed the admission of 18-year-old Siddhant Batra to IIT-Bombay for the undergraduate bachelor of technology (BTech) course in electrical engineering on his plea that he had lost his seat to an “apparent mistake” while opting to withdraw only from further rounds during the online admission process. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Dinesh Maheswari and Hrishikesh Roy regularised the admission for Batra, who had scored all-India JEE rank of 270, and said a “quietus” be put on this issue. But, on the request of the IIT counsel Sonal Jain, the SC bench directed that its order not be treated as a precedent. On Wednesday, Batra’s counsel Pralhad Paranjpe submitted to the SC that his was “not an adversarial litigation”. He informed the bench that the interim order was complied with and he was given admission by IIT-B last month. It was a provisional admission, said IIT-B, which had in its counter said it was Batra’s “conscious” move to withdraw from seat allocation. The student said it was a bona fide mistake as the reason he cited was the admission he already secured for the BTech course. The IIT-B advocate said there were other students who had also withdrawn from the seat allotment process, and one of them had even filed a similar petition before the Calcutta high court, hence requested that it should be not a precedent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-confirms-iit-admission-for-teen-whose-online-error-cost-him-seat/articleshow/80143952.cms||Swati Deshpande
January 7, 2021||Aurangabad||Nylon Manja: Bombay HC adjourns hearing on PIL to Jan 27||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court on Tuesday posted for January 27 the next hearing of a suo motu PIL on the issue of nylon manja (kite string) after noting that the authorities seemed to be taking some action in the matter. The bench of Justice T V Nalawade and Justice M G Sewlikar also put off the hearing as many of the authorities (in the 12 districts under the Aurangabad HC jurisdiction) to whom the court had asked notices to be issued, were not served the notices. ‘It appears that notices which are issued as against the commissioner of police and district superintendent of police, are not yet served and the report is not yet received. There is such an office note. It appears from the newspaper items that some steps are being taken in all the cases. So, keep the matter on January 27,” the bench said in a brief order. The suo motu PIL is based on two news reports published in The Times of India on December 30 relating to the death of a woman on December 28 due to nylon manja (kite string) in Nashik and activists demanding total ban of sale of nylon or synthetic material coated manja for kite flying ahead of the `Makar Sankrati’ festival which falls on January 14. On January 1, the then bench of Justice Ravindra Ghuge and Justice Vibha Kankanwadi had directed the police to file daily reports till January 5 (Tuesday) on action taken against shops/outlets selling nylon manja or people using the same in violation of a ban on use of nylon manja. On Tuesday days, the bench referred to the action reported in newspapers over the last few days and said that there was no need to pass separate orders on this matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nylon-manja-hc-adjourns-hearing-on-pil-to-jan-27/articleshow/80129951.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 7, 2021||Nashik||Nylon manja banned in Nandurbar||Nashik: Nandurbar district collector Rajendra Bharud has announced a ban on the use of nylon manja in the district under the Environment (Protection) act of 1986. Bharud has issued a circular in this regard. Besides, banning the use of nylon manja, the collector has also warned of action against those storing and selling the banned product. He said that nylon manja is not only harmful for human life, but also for birds and animals. Nylon manja is not biodegradable and it often chokes gutters and nullahs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nylon-manja-banned-in-nandurbar/articleshow/80129965.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||NH work to resume as Plavila stalemate likely to end soon||Thiruvananthapuram: The three-year long stalemate of work on national highway 66 at Plavila may soon be over with all parties involved reaching on a consensus. In a meeting convened by the district collector on Wednesday, the national highway authority officials agreed to submit a new proposal for an overpass across the NH at Plavila junction, near Kanjiramkulam, which is the main demand of Kazhakootam-Karode national highway action council. The NHAI officials here had approached the collector seeking police protection to resume works. It was following this, the collector took initiative to convene the meeting, which was held at Neyyatinkara tahsildar’s office. The action council was represented by its patron, former MLA Jameela Prakasam and chairman V Sudhakaran. Kanjiramkulam panchayat president K Shailaja Kumari and other elected representatives concerned were also present along with NHAI officials. “The action council leadership has agreed to call off the agitation and facilitate the resumption of work after we agreed to consider their demand for the overpass,” said collector Navjot Khosa. She has also directed the Neyyatinkara tahsildar to inspect the spot and submit a local enquiry report. If the enquiry finds the demand for overpass is justifiable, the collector would initiate measures to make it realise through NHAI. Speaking to TOI, NHAI sources said the work of overpass cannot be carried out along with the NH work as it is not possible to award the work to the current contractor who is carrying out the NH work. “We have to invite tenders and award the work to a new contractor. Due procedures have to be followed for this,” a NHAI official who attended the meeting said. Meanwhile, Sudhakaran said while they welcome the district administration’s move, they doubt the NHAI citing procedures may be another excuse to delay the matter further. However, the action council would be cooperating with the authorities for now, he said. The local residents had been protesting against the NH work here as the highway would cut through an existing road that lies perpendicular to it. They had been demanding an overpass at the spot where the Kinattadi-Thazham road now exists so that the daily commute of villagers would not be affected. The work on this stretch had been stalled for the past three years owing to this protest. The local residents have been agitating here under the aegis of Kazhakootam-Karode Bypass Action Council. Kazhakkoottam-Karode NH 66 stretch has a total length of 43km. The works were carried out in two phases with 26.7km-long Kazhakootam-Mukkola stretch being phase I and 16.5km-long Mukkola-Karode being phase II. The works of phase I was completed and inaugurated by the Minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari in October last year. The disputed region of Plavila falls in the second phase of the NH stretch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/nh-work-to-resume-as-plavila-stalemate-likely-to-end-soon/articleshow/80140039.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
January 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Need to promote inter-caste marriage, says Ramdas Athawale||AHMEDABAD: Appealing to agitating farmers to call off their stir against the new farm laws, Union minister of state for social justice and empowerment, Ramdas Athawale, said in Ahmedabad on Wednesday that if all laws which are opposed by people are withdrawn, the Constitution will be in jeopardy. “Why would the PM enact laws against farmers, who voted him to power twice? The government has categorically said that minimum support price (MSP) mechanism and APMC will stay. If every law which is opposed is withdrawn, the Constitution will be in jeopardy,” remarked the minister.  He added that those with vested interests were instigating farmers to continue their protest against the new farm laws. “I appeal to the farmers to call off their protest, as people have been dying because of the cold,” Athawale, said. The Union social justice minister said inter-caste marriages ought to be promoted to reduce caste differences in the country. He said both the Union and state governments provide financial assistance to couples who are from different castes and get married. “This practice should be promoted on a larger scale. The Gujarat government provides financial assistance for couples where the husband and the wife are from different castes,” he said. Quoting figures of Gujarat, the minister said that 657 inter-caste couples received assistance in 2016-17, 502 in 2017-18, 711 received assistance in 2018-19 and 846 received assistance in 2019-20. ‘Conversion not necessary for interfaith marriage’ When asked about laws being enacted against love jihad, Union minister Ramdas Athawale said that there should not be a problem if two persons of different faiths decide to marry and stay together without either of the two having to change his or her religion. “The law will be applied only if conversion is involved,” the minister opined. AIMIM contesting Gujarat’s local body polls will divide Congress votes: Minister When asked to comment on the announcement of All India Majlis-e-Itehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) to contest the Gujarat local body elections and the West Bengal assembly election, Athawale said, “AIMIM will only cut into Congress votes. RPI will support the BJP in Gujarat as well as in WB. BJP will get more than 200 seats in the WB assembly election.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/need-to-promote-inter-caste-marriage-says-athawale/articleshow/80142376.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Surat||Told to switch off fan, teen leaves home||Surat: City police helped a doctor couple in tracing their 18-year-old son on Monday after he went missing from the house in the morning. The teenager, who is believed to have left home in a huff upon being reprimanded to keep the fan off as it is winter and he may fall sick, was traced to the Tapi riverbank. The Class X student left home after his parents went off to work and did not return till evening. After the parents returned home and didn’t find him they search for him but couldn’t locate him till late in the evening. and finally contacted Umra police. Cops immediately jumped into action and checked all possible locations where the boy could have gone, till he was traced. “The boy was sitting idle on the riverbank and his behaviour was very normal. But he was very silent,” said a police officer. Parents informed the police that the teenager, who is the only child, had left home a couple of times even in the past after having minor tussles with his parents. The father tried to discuss issues with the boy but could not find a solution and even sough medical help from a leading psychiatrist. But even that did not help. The parents told the police that the teenager is an introvert who does not have friends and prefers to spend time alone. Police did not register an offence in the incident since the boy was found within an hour of police swinging into action. On being found the boy did not say anything to cops and cooperated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/told-to-switch-off-fan-teen-leaves-home/articleshow/80139065.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
January 7, 2021||Vadodara||Gujarat: Mahisagar villagers claim tiger sighting again||VADODARA: The string of tiger ‘sightings’ that never got confirmed in Mahisagar district continued with residents of a village claiming with conviction to have spotted one. Villagers of Jethola in Khanpur taluka claimed that the tiger was trying to attack a cow when they spotted it. The incident reportedly took place on Tuesday night even as the forest department has not found any evidence confirming the presence of a tiger there and believe that it might actually be a leopard. Earlier too, villagers have claimed that they had seen a tiger, but only the presence of a leopard could be confirmed. Jethola resident Kanaka Damor told reporters that they had seen a tiger. He added that they had requested the forest department to look into the matter. Villagers also preserved the pug marks by fencing them with thorny bushes and encircling them so that forest officials can study them. A team visited the village for investigation and are keeping a close watch. However, range forest officer, RV Waghela said no pug marks were seen at the spot where villagers claimed that a cow was killed. “The injury to the cow is minor,” said RV Waghela. “Prima facie they appear to be pug marks of a sub-adult tiger, probably male. We do know the adjoining Indore-Dewas landscape holds a small tiger population, and this could be a sub-adult nomad. I am sure the forest department will conduct a thorough analysis and only after their confirmation can there be sure shot clarity,” said Priyvrat Gadhvi, member of the State Wildlife Board. Another senior official pointed out that if a tiger had been lurking in the area big animals like cattle or nilgai would have been killed, but that has not been the case. He added that a tiger would have had to cover a long area to reach Mahisagar from any neighbouring state where it stays. “It is unlikely that it would go unnoticed while traversing such a long distance,” he said. In February 2019, a tiger was spotted in the jungles of Sant Matro in Mahisagar district. It was a sense of déjà vu for many who had been saying since decades that they had seen tigers in the area, but were snubbed. The tiger was later found dead and it is believed that this happened due to starvation. It had come to Mahisagar from Ratapani forests in Madhya Pradesh covering a distance of around 300km.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mahisagar-villagers-claim-tiger-sighting-again/articleshow/80140069.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Nagpur||Dry run of Covid vaccination in Yavatmal tomorrow||Yavatmal: The dry run of Covid-19 vaccination will be conducted in Yavatmal district on Friday at three centres — one urban and two rural areas, said district civil surgeon (CS) Dr Tarangthushar Warey. The CS said the urban centre is located at municipal ayurvedic at Patipura. The other two are at public health centres at Darwha and Savargad village. “Actual vaccine will not be administered in the dry run,” said Dr Warey and added that 25 beneficiaries will participate in it. “One room will be for registration, second for the vaccination and the third will be observation room where those inoculated can wait for 30-45 minutes,” the CS said. “There are 10,174 beneficiaries who have registered on the government app while 4,793 are on the private list,” said Dr Warey. The CS said the dry run will involve 107 officials at government set up while 221 will be there at private hospitals. “The actual vaccination programme will be held as per government guidelines. All the preparations have been done and the staffers have received training,” said Dr Warey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dry-run-of-covid-vaccination-in-yavatmal-tomorrow/articleshow/80155982.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Nashik||25 private English medium schools yet to reopen||Nashik: Around 25 English medium schools in Nashik city are yet to reopen due to lack of consent from parents. According to Himgauri Adke, president of the association of private English medium schools in Nashik, 10 out of 35 private English medium schools associated with the association have started classes for students of Class IX to XII. But, parents of students from remaining 25 schools are yet to give their consent. The association said that they are expecting the other schools to reopen gradually in the next few days. “We have 35 private English medium schools which are members of the association. Some schools have started classes for Class IX to XII students after their parents gave consent,” said Adke. “Some parents are still not willing to send their wards to schools due to Covid fear while some are concerned about the mode of transport as it is responsibility of parents to drop and pick up their children from school,” said Adke. Meanwhile, the NMC school board on Tuesday said that the attendance of students in their schools has increased marginally on the second day of reopening of schools. On the first day on Monday, only 16% of 2,318 students from 13 municipal schools in the city had attended schools. But the attendance increased up to 20% on the second day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/25-private-english-medium-schools-yet-to-reopen/articleshow/80129979.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 7, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Vellar crafts village to be inaugurated on Jan 16||Thiruvananthapuram: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate renovated Vellar crafts village on January 16. The village, spread over 8.5 acres, features emporium, art gallery, studios, design strategy lab, restaurant, auditorium, pond, game zone and other attractions. The village features about 50 crafts prepared in 28 studios. Each studio gives the customer an option to see the making of the handicraft first hand and buy them. It has paintings, pottery, cane products, jewellery, home decor, home and office equipment, clothing, statues, curios, souvenirs, exhibits and tools made of wood, palm and palm fronds, bamboo, reeds, coir and cloth. Handicrafts like Pattachitra (cloth-based scroll paintings) from Bengal and Odisha, murals of Kerala, colourful paper quilting originating in ancient Egypt, centuries-old Nettoor boxes, glass-stone ornaments, etc can be seen in the studios. The studios also showcase the finest handicrafts inside and outside the country, including curios, dry flowers, handicrafts made from paper to metals, ivory creations, Pooram crafts and hammocks. The woodwork category includes teak, rosewood and whitewood with products ranging from home appliances to toys. Aranmula Kannadi, Peruvamp musical instruments, Balaramapuram handloom, Muttathara wood carvings and Thazhava textile products are on the exhibit. The crafts village employs about 750 artisans, including Padmashree Gopi Master, Shilpaguru award winner K S R Mohanan and artisans who are national and state award winners. There are also plans to organize a world-class art and craft biennale and workshops every year based on a specific theme, including painting, terracotta, handlooms, sculptures and bamboo and reed products. The paintings of the selected artists will be exhibited at the art gallery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/vellar-crafts-village-to-be-inaugurated-on-jan-16/articleshow/80140063.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||New features on Dharani bring relief to buyers||HYDERABAD: In a major relief to buyers, all kinds of mutation of properties are being accepted on the Dharani portal. Set up with an aim to ease registration of properties, the portal faced several hiccups and prominent among them was mutation. Many people faced trouble, particularly regarding mutation of properties. Reacting to these reports, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao conducted a high-level meeting last week and directed the officials to solve these issues and streamline the portal. Earlier, mutation, that is, change in the title of the property, was not happening. When a property was sold by a real estate company, the sale deed would exist in the name of the company but pattadar passbooks were not issued. These passbooks were issued only in the name of those who purchase the land in small parcels from the company and these documents were submitted to the tahsildar offices for mutation purpose. However, when the Dharani portal was launched, there was a major problem as the mutations did not happen since these companies don’t have Aadhaar cards, but the issue has been resolved now. According to the new norms, Aadhaar number of any person belonging to the firm can be used for mutation. Another new feature is that NRIs can get their passbooks on basis of their passports. Earlier, this facility was not available and passbooks were not issued to them as they don’t have the Aadhaar card. Several NRIs urged the government to solve this problem. In some passbooks, survey numbers are missing. Sources say officials are resolving the issue. Guidelines will be issued by district officials. Meanwhile, registration of non-agricultural properties has also begun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-features-on-dharani-bring-relief-to-buyers/articleshow/80141157.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 7, 2021||Nagpur||Covid vaccination dry run at 4 places in Wardha district tomorrow||Wardha: As a prelude to the much-awaited vaccination programme against Covid-19, the administration will be conducting a dry run at four places in the district on Friday as per the directions of the Union ministry of health and the state government. The dry run will be held at 9am, for which the health department and district general hospital have done the arrangements, said civil surgeon Dr Sachin Tadas. The centres include the district general hospital, rural hospital at Selu, primary health centre at Kharangana-Morangana in rural areas, and Datta Meghe Institute of Medical Sciences at Sawangi (Meghe). The dry run will cover 25 beneficiaries at each centre. Out of the 17,000 health workers targeted for the first phase of vaccination programme, the beneficiaries will be registered on Co-WIN app. They will be sent a message about where the vaccination will be done. After they are given the jab, beneficiaries will be asked to rest in a room. The district health officer said that they would also investigate for any immediate side-effects. District collector Vivek Bhimanwar will be monitor the process. He will note the difficulties faced in the process and accordingly inform the government, stated the district collector office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-vaccination-dry-run-at-4-places-in-wardha-district-tomorrow/articleshow/80157318.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Nashik||Cops rush pregnant woman to hospital on time||Nashik: Personnel of the Gangapur police helped a pregnant woman, who had gone into labour early on Saturday morning, by rushing her to the hospital on time. The woman delivered a baby within five minutes of hospital admission. Around 3 am on Saturday, a patrol team of the Gangapur police station spotted an elderly couple and a pregnant woman walking towards the main road of the village. API Nitin Pawar of the Gangapur police station said the woman, Bharati Jadhav, was experiencing severe labour pains and the delivery was imminent. It was 3.05 am and any chance of them getting a vehicle was slim. They had already walked about a kilometre from their home, but the pregnant woman was not in a position to walk any further, said Pawar. Bharati’s husband, a farmer, was out of town at the time. Pawar then immediately called for a police patrol van. But since Bharati was registered at the Girnare rural hospital, the patrol van had to go out of the police station’s jurisdiction. Pawar, therefore, called Anchal Mudgal, the senior PI of Gangapur police station, to inform her of the situation. Mudgal instructed the patrolling team to waste no time and immediately take the woman to the Girnare rural hospital, about 9 km away. Bharati was hospitalised at 3.25 am and she delivered a baby girl at 3.30 am. Pawar said the guidance of all senior officers, including police commissioner Deepak Pandey, DCP Amol Tambe, ACP Deepali Khanna proved extremely helpful. He also made a mention of constables Girish Mahale and Rahul Solse, who constantly reassured Bharati during the dash to the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cops-rush-pregnant-woman-to-hospital-on-time/articleshow/80129972.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 7, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man burns kid’s cheek with cigarette lighter||MUMBAI: A two-year-old Nalasopara boy’s cheek was allegedly burnt using a cigarette lighter by his father last week. The mother, assaulted for intervening, later filed a police complaint. In her complaint to Manickpur police, the 24-year-old woman said her son wanted to visit his maternal uncle’s place in Mumbai. The father, also 24, was not ready to take them. When the child kept crying the father pulled out a cigarette lighter and burnt his right cheek on Friday. The mother tried to intervene but the accused thrashed her with a leather belt and punched her, she told police. The child was taken to a civic hospital in Nalasopara, where doctors told the mother to file a complaint. Police said he was booked under IPC section 324 (causing hurt) and sections of Juvenile Justice Act. Police said a notice had been issued to him to be present in Vasai court, when a chargesheet is filed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-burns-kids-cheek-with-cigarette-lighter/articleshow/80140757.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Madurai||Man gets bail to perform mom’s final rites||Madurai: The Madras high court on Wednesday granted interim bail to a man jailed in a case, to perform final rites for his mother. The court was hearing the bail petition filed by Ananda Kumar. The case of the prosecution is that the petitioner was having an illicit relationship with his brother’s wife. Due to this reason, the petitioner’s brother and his children committed suicide by self-immolation. Following this incident, the Usilampatti Taluk police in Madurai district had registered a case and arrested the petitioner in November 2020. The petitioner’s counsel submitted that the petitioner’s mother passed away and her funeral is scheduled on Wednesday. Since the petitioner is the eldest son, he sought to grant interim bail to him to perform the final rites. The government advocate also confirmed that the petitioner’s mother had passed away. Taking into account the circumstances, justice M Nirmal Kumar granted interim bail to the petitioner till January 9. The judge directed the petitioner to surrender before the Madurai Central Prison at 4pm on January 9. The judge also directed to grant escort to the petitioner. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-gets-bail-to-perform-moms-final-rites/articleshow/80142379.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Hardik Patel’s former aides push for anti-interfaith marriage law||AHMEDABAD: While the agitation for reservation for Patidars led by Hardik Patel ended, after its spearhead and other members joined electoral politics, Patidar leaders have begun pushing for stringent law against inter-faith marriage, based on the Uttar Pradesh model. The demand was raised by activists of the Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti (PAAS), which Hardik Patel used to lead, and the organization of his mentor, Lalji Patel, the Sardar Patel Group (SPG). The demand was raised a month ago by SPG head Lalji Patel, who believes that the issue of ‘Love Jihad’ — the term used by the Hindu right wing for marriages between a Hindu girl and a Muslim boy — was always on their agenda. “We have been getting complaints from parents of many Hindu girls that their daughters have eloped with Muslim boys. So when the Uttar Pradesh government introduced the law, we also decided to start an agitation to address this issue,’ said Lalji, who initiated Hardik Patel, now a Congress leader, into the Patidar reservation agitation. Hardik Patel’s aide from Mehsana, Satish Patel, has also launched an agitation and has been continually submitting memoranda at different government offices seeking a law against inter-faith marriages. “Apart from a stern law against inter-faith marriages, we want that parents’ consent be made compulsory in case of inter-faith or inter-caste marriages. If the girl is below 22, her marriage should be solemnised with the consent of her parents and witnesses should also be older than 35. This will prevent marriage at an immature age,” said Satish Patel. Another close aide of Hardik’s, Ahmedabad PAAS convener Jayesh Patel, said he and his outfit support the idea of a law against ‘Love Jihad’. He said that this was not on the agenda of PAAS, which agitated only for Patidar reservations. Gujarat Congress leader Hardik Patel said though he was unaware of any PAAS member doing such advocacy, he stressed that he was against any such machinations in the garb of religion, including the idea that inter-faith marriages were a conspiracy against someone.  “I believe that two persons with mutual consent and understanding have the sole right to decide on their marriage, and the family or even state should not intervene,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hardiks-former-aides-push-for-anti-interfaith-marriage-law/articleshow/80142380.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||New TPCC chief after Nagarjuna Sagar bypoll||HYDERABAD: The new TPCC chief is unlikely to be announced by January 8 as three main contenders have also agreed that finalisation of the candidate should be done only after completion of Nagarjuna Sagar bypoll. A Revanth Reddy, Bhatti Vikramarka and D Sridhar Babu conveyed this to the party high command. Senior leader T Jeevan Reddy, who has emerged as a frontrunner, said he would abide by the decision of Sonia Gandhi. A majority of seniors have also told the Congress leadership that the finalisation of candidate should be done after the bypoll. The majority opinion emerged on Wednesday after party veteran and seven-time legislator K Jana Reddy agreed to contest the bypoll. This was decided at a zoom meeting of AICC and TPCC members.  “Except a few, almost all leaders are in favour of postponing the TPCC president’s selection exercise till the bypoll to Sagar constituency. The opinions of the leaders will be submitted to Sonia Gandhi before taking a final decision,” said an AICC leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-tpcc-chief-after-nsagar-bypoll/articleshow/80141159.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: 2 industrialists held in Rs 67-crore fraud||HYDERABAD: Goods and Services Tax (GST) officials of anti-evasion wing of Medchal commissionerate have booked cases of fake invoices and evasion of GST against three industrialists and an auditor for creating fictitious firms in the name of auto drivers and servants. The accused reportedly issued invoices without supplying goods and facilitated fraudulent availing of input tax credit by over 200 different companies. GST officials arrested industrialists Arjun Chowdary and Kiran Chowdhary and auditor Vikas Saraf, while another accused Gordhan Singh, also an industrialist, went absconding. The accused defrauded the government to the tune of Rs 67.7 crore. GST Medchal-Malkajgiri commissioner N Sridhar said Gordhan Singh had created Famous Enterprises and four more companies in the name of auto drivers by taking Aadhaar card ID and raised invoices in the name of these companies. Arjun Chowdary and Kiran Chowdhary too adopted the same modes operandi. Gordhan Singh used to pass on the invoices to other companies. Investigations revealed that Gordhan Singh, Arjun Chowdary and Kiran Chowdhary had created 11 bogus firms either in their names or in the name of different individuals by alluring them with monthly payments of meagre amount. They took their IDs and registered firms on their names. The GST commissioner said, “They were aided by Vikas Saraf, an auditor, who helped them in obtaining multiple GST registration numbers, arranging input bills from bogus firms, maintaining all records, viz., purchase invoices, accounts, filing of IT and GST returns, keeping ID and passwords under his control. During investigations, it was noticed that the fake invoíce trading took place against payment of 9% or 10% commission in cash.” It was also found that the recipient firms (of the fake bills) were paying the invoice amounts through regular banking channels by way of RTGS/cheque to the bogus firms, which had issued fake bills and the amounts were being paid back to them by withdrawing cash from their account by deducting their commission. The arrested persons were produced in the economic offence wing court on Wednesday and remanded ion judicial custody till January 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-industrialists-held-in-rs-67-cr-fraud/articleshow/80141162.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 7, 2021||Kochi||Addiction, abuse… smart devices leave parents smarting||KOCHI: It’s a ticking time bomb. Nevertheless, neither parents nor authorities know how to deal with it: Covid-19 and the resultant lockdown did not give them time to evaluate the safety nets for children who were increasingly using gadgets for online learning. Beyond education, kids who are handed smartphones, tablets or computers without even a moment’s hesitation are exposed to online entertainment and hitherto taboo subjects. Two recent incidents of sexual abuse in Idukki district involving minors have exposed the vulnerability of children to such devices and content. The latest incident, reported on Tuesday, involved a 14-year-old girl who has been left pregnant after being repeatedly raped by a 16-year-old neighbour, who is also her relative. He used to visit her house everyday on the pretext of online classes, show her pornographic videos and then abuse her. In another case within the same police station limits, a 17-year-old girl was impregnated by an 18-year-old boy from the same neighbourhood nearly two months ago. Police say children use smartphones to connect with each other, which often leads to exchange of images and videos. The parents of both victims are plantation workers who proceed for work early in the morning, leaving their kids home alone all day. Across the state, cops are baffled by the increase in incidents of abuse involving minors. “We usually don’t register cases involving minors. Instead, we alert parents and send them for counselling. Only when it crosses the line of a sexual act do we send children to juvenile homes,” a police official said. “There’s a huge social issue that rears its head in homes with just one or two rooms. Here, kids are exposed to sexual behaviour of parents and are naturally curious. This often leads them into online spaces where they can see titillating images,” said K Nazeer, member, state child rights commission. He said the commission had carried out a study on living conditions and children of plantation workers and those in layams. “The situation in layams is worse. They have only one room and students are completely exposed,” he said. “I think we have to view cyber misuse as a crime, even among adolescents, because most children are mature beyond their years. These are children who experience menarche at 8-9 years. Moreover, the boys have enough sexual drive to commit a crime. They also think that they can get away with the crime because they are minors,” said Dr Shailaja Ramkumar, senior psychiatrist. “I had a case of a child who had seen her mother with another man. The mother downplayed the incident. In such cases, children do not understand the social, cultural and moral implications of the act and start indulging themselves too early,” Dr Shailaja said “Neither parents nor children are aware of safety measures. What is needed is a major awareness campaign, something on the lines of the good-touch-bad-touch campaign. Everybody knows the dangers of smartphones, but most parents are not knowledgeable enough to monitor their use and children know how to cover up what they are doing,” said a police official with cyberdome. Box On Wednesday, the Cumbum mettu police in Idukki been registered a POSCO case against a 16-year-old boy for impregnating a 14-year-old girl. He was produced before Juvenile court. The police said that the sexual act happened for long as the girl was alone in her home during the Covid-19 pandemic. The issue came to light when the girl complained of abdominal pain and was diagnosed pregnant. In November 2020, a 17-year-old girl was impregnated by a 18-year-old boy under the same police station limit and the police registered case against the boy. According to the police, the boy and girl were neighbors. It was in December 2019, Upputhara police in Idukki arrested two youths in connection with the suicide of a 17-year-old girl. The girl, a resident of Edappookkalaml was found hanging inside her home on October 8. The accused had collected gold ornaments and cash from the girl after one of them pretended to be in love with her. When the girl asked to return the gold, she was threatened. Later, she committed suicide. In August 2019, a 12-year-old girl was impregnated by a 11-year-old boy under Kumily police station limit in Idukki. The Kumily police have registered POSCO case against the boy. The case came into light when she was rushed to the hospital after fainting in the class. The kids were close relatives and they lived in the same home. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/addiction-abuse-smart-devices-leave-parents-smarting/articleshow/80140125.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
January 7, 2021||Nashik||14 of a gang held under MCOCA||Nashik: The Nashik city police have invoked Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) against 20 members of a gang involved in a murder case registered with the Upnagar police station in November last year. While 14 of them are under arrest, six others are yet to be nabbed. Speaking to media, commissioner of police Deepak Pandey said that the city police is aiming to the make the city gang free. “Over the next three months, we are expecting that no menace of gangs in the city and the police are taking all the necessary steps in this regard. The charges of MCOCA framed against the concerned accused is part of the same,” said Pandey. In November last year, Yogesh Pannalal Chayal (22) was killed by a group of six to seven people who had attacked him with sharp weapons in the Deolali Gaon area of Nashik Road. The murder was a fall out between two gangs in the Nashik Road area. During the course of investigation, police found involvement of 14 people who have been detained. Of these, three are aged between 16 and 18. Pandey said that the all the 14 accused have confessed to the crime and police have also confiscated an auto rickshaw and a two-wheeler used in the crime along with recovery of sharp weapons used for killing Chayal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/14-of-a-gang-held-under-mcoca/articleshow/80129983.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 7, 2021||Madurai||Ban instant loan mobile apps: Plea||Madurai: The Madras high court on Wednesday sought a response from the central and state governments on a plea seeking to ban instant loan mobile applications. A division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi sought the response while hearing a public interest litigation filed by S Muthukumar, an advocate and resident of Madurai district. The petitioner stated that several instant loan mobile applications are functioning without proper approval from the Reserve Bank of India. Such applications are also charging excessive interest rates. Once people avail loan through these applications and are unable to repay the loan amount, the telecallers are harassing them continuously which forces them to resort to extreme steps like taking their lives. He stated that several cases of suicide are reported in the country as people who obtained loans are unable to repay the money within a stipulated time. He stated that owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, several people tend to obtain loan from these instant loan mobile applications and are facing harassment at the hands of the companies. The petitioner stated that though he sent a representation to the authorities seeking to take action against such illegal applications by framing appropriate laws, no steps were taken so far. Hence, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench seeking to ban all such applications. He also sought to frame appropriate laws in order to prohibit such applications since they are charging excessive interest rates and are using inappropriate recovery methods. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ban-instant-loan-mobile-apps-plea/articleshow/80142378.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Task Force’s quick response foils kidnappers’ plans||HYDERABAD: Task Force police played a key role in rescuing the kidnapped trio. Teams of Task Force not only rounded up the suspects but also found out that the offenders used fake vehicle number plates to hoodwink the search parties. Immediately after the kidnap, Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar alerted senior officers of the commissionerate and the Task Force team at around 9.45 pm on Tuesday. The Task Force team immediately spoke to the three brothers’ family members who expressed suspicion about former AP minister Akhila Priya and her husband Bharghav. They claimed that one of the kidnappers took the latter’s name while leaving the house. It was then a team of Task Force cops rushed to Akhila Priya’s house in Kukatpally and spoke to her. Another team went to the house of Bharghav’s family member at SR Nagar. In an open place near his house, some vehicle number plates were found. After analysing the CCTV camera footages, the Task Force team found out that the assailants came in three four-wheelers, including an Innova, Swift Dzire, XUV and changed the registration plates at SR Nagar to hoodwink the cops. Using the information given by the suspect’s family members, police kept a watch on the kidnappers and tracked their movements in the city. The kidnappers made three brothers sit in three different vehicles. As all the police units were alerted and with cops reaching Akhila Priya’s family members, the kidnappers had to abandon the three brothers near Telangana State Police Academy and escape from there. After locating the brothers, Task Force cops handed them over to their law and order counterparts. Later, they were reunited with the family members. “We were relieved that the kidnapped trio was found without any bodily harm,” said a Task Force official. Police suspect the involvement of certain Rayalaseema gangs with prior criminal record as the offenders used fake ID cards, search warrants and even used police uniform to make the brothers believe that the ‘raid’ was genuine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/task-forces-quick-response-foils-kidnappers-plans/articleshow/80141173.cms||Mahesh Buddi
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana tower density better than national average: Chief secretary||Hyderabad: Chief secretary Somesh Kumar on Wednesday said the tower density is 0.71 per thousand population against the national average of 0.42%. Presiding over the second meeting of the state broadband committee here, Somesh Kumar said the National Broadband Mission has set the tower density target of 1.7 by 2024 and Telangana is on course to achieve that target. The chief secretary reiterated that the state government is committed for the fiberisation of Base Station Towers (BTS) and will extend the necessary support for the better communications coverage in the Telangana. The state is now having 35 percent of fiberisation of BTS and will reach the target of 70% set by National Broadband Mission. The chief secretary assured representations from the electricity and Panchayat Raj departments to sort out the issues. “Telangana has 24,961 towers and the balance target is 34,902 towers. Necessary approvals will be given for 109 sites. The government will focus on 140 uncovered gram panchayats,” Somesh Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-tower-density-better-than-national-avg-cs/articleshow/80141169.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad woman held captive in Sharjah||HYDERABAD: In a case of human trafficking, a woman from Hyderabad was sent to Sharjah on the promise of being given a job as a nurse. The woman, in a video appeal, has said she had been tricked into taking up the job offer and was taken advantage of in Sharjah. Her family in Hyderabad has appealed to Union external affairs minister S Jaishankar to rescue her. The 30-year-old woman, Noor Jehan—a resident of Umdah Hills, Bandlaguda—was working as a nurse in KM Hospital at Shamsheergunj, Hyderabad. A lady by name Fatima, a resident of Vattepally in Old City, approached her and offered her a job as a nurse at a hospital in Sharjah. Noor Jehan was promised that she would get a salary of Rs 40,000 a month. Following the assurance Noor Jehan travelled to Sharjah, UAE on December 15, 2020. According to Noor Jehan’s mother Syeda Banu, her daughter was received by one Ammar Ahmmed Omer Ahmmed and took her to his house and has been holding her captive. MBT leader and social worker Amjed Ullah Khan has provided the Union ministry of external affairs all the details of the victim, her family and the names and information of those who had duped Noor Jehan. He also explained the torture that the victim had undergone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-woman-held-captive-in-sharjah/articleshow/80141170.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 7, 2021||Nashik||‘Miracle my son survived, don’t take children out on bike now’||CLEARED SKHER Nashik: As Makar Sankranti approaches, the memories of the festival from six years back make Suresh Tank shudder. His toddler son had a narrow escape after a nylon manja slit his throat. Alert people on the road and doctors helped save his son’s life. In January 2015, Suresh, a mason by profession, had no plans step out of his home on Makar Sankranti given the menace of nylon manjas on the streets. In fact, he had also called up his relatives and warned them against venturing out. But his two daughters and wife were pestering him to take them to a restaurant to eat misal paav. He gave in and the family left home on his bike. His then two-year-old son, Parthak, was seated on the fuel tank, while Suresh was driving the vehicle. While they were passing Dindori Road, a nylon manja slit Parthak’s throat and none of them even noticed it had happened. It was only when people on the road alerted them about blood oozing out of Parthak’s throat that they realised what had happened. “The speed of my bike may not have been over 30 kmph. Yet, when we were passing from the Dindori Road, a nylon manja slit Parthak’s throat without anyone’s notice,” recalled Suresh. “Fortunately, some people on the street spotted blood falling from our bike and alerted me. I was aghast to see what had happened.” He abandoned the bike and rushed Parthak towards Synergy Hospital, which was located a stone’s throw away. “Parthak was a healthy baby. He must have lost at least two litres of blood by the time I reached the hospital,” he said. The manja had left an inch deep cut on Parthak’s throat. Deepak Sonawane, resident medical officer of Synergy Hospital, said, “Half the child’s neck had been pierced by the manja when he was brought to the hospital. Hospital director Kalpesh Surana on checking the child’s condition called a team of six to seven doctors comprising surgeons, plastic surgeons, pediatricians, anaestheticians and took up the surgery.” Parthak was hospitalized for about a fortnight until he was fully treated along with the plastic surgery. Tank said that after the surgery, it is impossible to make out where the injury was. Parthak, now a Std III student at an English Medium School, doesn’t recall any of this traumatic experience. “I have heard about what happened to me, but I do not recollect it. I, however, ensure that papa wears a scarf or helmet when he goes out on bike,” Parthak told TOI. Since that incident, Suresh has not taken his children out on his bike. He even bought a four-wheeler for his family. “The problem of nylon manja needs to be nipped in the bud. It should not be manufactured in the first place so that shopkeepers don’t sell it from the backdoor,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/miracle-my-son-survived-dont-take-children-out-on-bike-now/articleshow/80129874.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 7, 2021||Madurai||Bird flu: Reveal any info on fowl deaths, deputy CM tells farms||Theni: People rearing chicken in Theni district have been asked to ensure that they reveal any information in case of fowl deaths or sickness in people handling poultry farms, to the concerned officials. Deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, who convened a meeting of the concerned officials in the presence of Theni district collector Pallavi M Baldev on Wednesday, said that all efforts were being taken to prevent the spread of avian influenza or bird flu in the district. He said that the more than 15,000 vehicles crossed the Tamil Nadu- Kerala border everyday. Check-posts have been established at Kumili, Bodi mettu and Cumbum mettu to screen people coming from Kerala. Theni district has 89 poultry farms and more than 1.50 lakh birds are reared there. Bird flu can spread through dead birds, bird excreta and utensils used in poultry farms. He said that the owners of the poultry farms should ensure that birds from outside did not enter the farms. A control room should be established and contact should be maintained with the owners of the poultry farms on a daily basis. Reports on dead birds should be obtained immediately and the health of the farm workers must also be closely monitored. Bird flu does not usually affect humans, but in some cases, people handling dead birds were susceptible to the disease and necessary precaution should be exerted, the deputy chief minister added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bird-flu-reveal-any-info-on-fowl-deaths-deputy-cm-tells-farms/articleshow/80142382.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Chandigarh||Chicken prices fall by Rs 50/kg, as bird flu cases increase||Ludhiana: The rising cases of bird flu in neighbouring states have started taking toll on the Ludhiana’s poultry industry and raw chicken dealers. Inspite of no cases of bird flu reported in the district, meltdown in the industry has began due to the panic and rates have started to crash drastically. On Wednesday morning, the rate of raw dressed chicken registered drop by Rs 10 and by the end of the day, the rate plummeted by Rs 50 per kilogram in the wholesale markets. Last rate of the day at which the dressed chicken traded in Ludhiana’s wholesale markets was Rs 150-160 per kilogram, which, till Monday, was selling for Rs 190-200 per kilogram. Similarly, huge drop was registered in the eggs wholesale market as well and the rates of 100 pieces of eggs fell to Rs 533 today, which earlier was being traded at Rs 572 in the markets. The poultry and raw chicken businessmen are nervous, as they are anticipating further drop in the rates in the coming days as the bird flu cases are popping up from more states. Giving more information, Bhupinder Singh, president of Punjab Wholesale Poultry Association, said, “Even though there is no danger of bird flu in Ludhiana and Punjab, huge panic has spread in the market and as a result demand has taken hit. The rate of live chicken, which was at Rs 93 per piece, currently has crashed and tomorrow the benchmark rate will be close to Rs 80. Similarly, the rate of dressed chicken, which was in the range of Rs 180-200, has now dropped in the range of Rs 150-160 per kilogram and it is expected that tomorrow market will open at further lower rates. There has been reduction of Rs 40-45 (per 100 pcs) in the rates of eggs. The situation is just the reminiscent of the time when coronavirus hit India and due to rumours that it spreads by consumption of chicken the rates crashed to such levels that we had to organise free chicken distribution melas to repose people’s faith in the poultry products.” According to Ramandeep Singh, a raw chicken dealer from Kochhar market, “Today there has been drop of almost 60% in the footfall at my counter as compared with other days. The bird flu problem could not have come at worse time than this because till last week we were doing decent business, as there was surge in demand of poultry products since November when majority of the lockdown restrictions started getting eased.” Speaking to TOI, Aman Saini, a city businessman, said, “Its good that till date there have been no cases of bird flu reported in Punjab, but our family has stopped consumption of meat ever since we heard about its outbreak in the neighbouring states. Already risk of such deadly pandemic of coronavirus is looming large everywhere, then why invite trouble by taking chance of consuming chicken and eggs, its better to wait for few days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chicken-prices-fall-by-rs-50/kg-as-bird-flu-cases-increase/articleshow/80140074.cms||Mohit Behl
January 7, 2021||Surat||Woman to get mediclaim for Chiari malformation||Surat: The consumer court in Navsari has ordered a private insurance company to pay the mediclaim amount to a 52-year-old woman who had undergone treatment for Arnold Chiari malformation, a structural defect in the base of skull and cerebellum. The insurer, Oriental Insurance Co., had rejected the claim of Navsari resident Paras Patel on the grounds that the condition for which she took the treatment fell under ‘genetic disease’ category, which is exempted from the policy clause. Patel had purchased mediclaim policy of Rs one lakh for the period of one year starting December 2018. On January 16, 2019, she suffered back pain and underwent surgery at a private hospital in Surat. She then filed her claim for treatment cost of Rs 1.66 lakh incurred. But the company rejected her claim in February 2019 stating that ‘Arnold Chiari Syndrome’ falls under genetic disease group and as per the policy clause, genetic disorders and stem cell surgeries are in the excluded category. However, the court observed that Patel had not undergone stem cell surgery but taken treatment for ‘Arnold Chairi malformation with C4-5 disc protrusion K/C/O-hypothyroidism’ due to her age and therefore it was not a treatment for genetic disorder treatment. “Moreover, the complainant had been purchasing this policy since 2009 and had she indeed been suffering from genetic disorder, she would have taken treatment in four-five years. Whereas this treatment has been taken after 10 days. So, it can’t be believed that it was genetic disease,’the court observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/woman-to-get-mediclaim-for-chiari-malformation/articleshow/80139082.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
January 7, 2021||Nashik||Man upset with son, chokes him||CLEARED SKHER Nashik: A 57-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly choking his son, who was objecting to his extra-marital affair, to death on Tuesday morning at their residence. The police have arrested Prabhakar Malwad, a government employee, based on the complaint filed by his wife. He has been remanded in police custody till January 8. His deceased son has been identified as Nilesh Malwad, who was unmarried and still studying. API Pravin Shinde of the Mumbai Naka police station said Prabhakar was in an illicit relationship with a woman and Nilesh would often quarrel with his father over it. “Recently, Prabhakar transferred their farmland in the name of the woman and Nilesh had a fight with his father over it. Prabhakar used to threaten to kill Nilesh,” police said. On Monday, Prabhakar allegedly went inside Nilesh’s bedroom at around 5.45am and choked him. Nilesh’s mother rushed him to a hospital where he was declared brought dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-upset-with-son-chokes-him/articleshow/80129995.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 7, 2021||Chandigarh||Schools to reopen from Thursday||Ludhiana: The government has decided to reopen all government, semi-government and private schools from Thursday. Assistant district commissioner (ADC) Sandeep Kapur in his FB live session said the timings of the schools will be from 10am to 3pm and students only from Class V to XII will be allowed to attend physical classes in the schools. He further said, “All the schools have been directed to ensure the safety of the children. School managements have been asked to strictly comply with the directions of the government especially advisory issued by the health department to avert the threat of contraction of coronavirus.” Classroom teaching-learning would definitely help to accomplish ‘mission 100%’ said one of the principals of a government school. However, in the private schools principals were in dilemma about the picking and dropping off the students. One of the principals said, “It is a hasty decision. The government should have waited till the mid of January, as winters are at its peak and students are not able to visit the school any time before Lohri. We would take the consent of the parents and start the process.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/schools-to-reopen-from-thursday/articleshow/80140075.cms||Mehak Jain
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Bird flu: Telangana govt constitutes 1,300 rapid response teams; 276 bird samples tested||HYDERABAD: The state government has constituted over 1,300 rapid response teams comprising officials from forest and animal husbandry departments to examine the unusual bird deaths and has set up a toll-free round-the-clock control room with the number 18004255365. If people notice any dead bird they can report it to the control room. “We have so far tested 276 samples of birds brought from various farms and forest areas in the state. There have been no traces of suspected deaths of bird flu reported in Telangana in the last two weeks. Officials of the animal husbandry and forest departments at all levels have been put on high alert to check for unusual mortality of birds,” said animal husbandry minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav. The field officers and employees of forest and animal husbandry departments are visiting poultry farms and all such areas where migratory birds come to check for unusual death of birds in the field. They will lift the samples of dead birds and even suspected cases in birds, and send them to the Veterinary Biological and Research Institute (VBRI) in Hyderabad, and would take all preventive measures against the spread of bird flu. The Nehru Zoo Park curator and the officers in charge of Kakatiya Zoo (Warangal), Manjeera Bird Sanctuary (Sangareddy), Pakhal Wildlife Sanctuary including Pakhal lake, Siwaram Wildlife Sanctuary, Kinnerasani Wildlife Sanctuary including Kinnerasani lake have been instructed to constitute rapid response teams for patrolling the areas where migratory birds congregate. Similar directives have been issued to all circle and division heads. The field officers have been instructed to collect the carcasses of birds detected during this period, pack them safely and send them to veterinary science laboratories for analysing and identifying the cause of death. The district officers have been requested to coordinate with animal husbandry as well as the district administration in taking required preventive measures and to detect the death of birds. “The winter season attracts a large number of migratory birds from northern region of Himalayas to southern states. These birds nest and breed in water bodies. Since these birds travel over long distances, crossing several states, it is essential to keep track of these birds at the nesting and breeding sites. A suitable instruction has been issued in this regard. The Telangana Forest Department requests the general public to give information relating to bird flu for immediate response,” said Telangana principal chief conservator of forest and chief wildlife warden, R Sobha. Earlier in the day, minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav held a high-level review meeting with animal husbandry, forest, poultry and wildlife officials and discussed the measures being taken to check spread of bird flu in the state. Telangana has the third highest poultry population of eight crore birds in the country and all steps are being taken to check the possible spread of bird flu. “The assistant directors and assistant veterinary surgeons have been told to visit poultry farms and check for unusual bird deaths. We have asked them to lift samples and conduct tests in the district labs, and also to send samples to VBRI, Hyderabad. If needed, we will send the samples to even the lab in Bhopal,” animal husbandry director Lakshma Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bird-flu-govt-constitutes-1300-rapid-response-teams-276-bird-samples-tested/articleshow/80141165.cms||Roushan Ali
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Drug bust: Hyderabad police draw a blank at two pharma units||HYDERABAD: Following the arrest of a city-based pharma company director, Vedprakash Vyas, by Indore police in possession of Rs 70 crore worth Ecstasy drug, city police conducted a search at two companies linked to him in Kukatpally industrial area. Police did not find any evidence suggesting that the drugs were manufactured there and suspect that Vyas or his associates could be using another facility to make drugs with the help of experts. “During the inspection of the pharma units at IDA Kukatpally, we have not found evidence to indicate that any narcotic substance is being manufactured there. We suspect that the drugs could be manufactured elsewhere. We are trying to find out the people who are making the drugs for Vyas,” said a police source. Vyas along with his driver M Venkatesh and three others were arrested on Tuesday by Indore cops when he was handing over 70 kg Ecstasy to Indore-based gang members. Following the arrest, Cyberabad police found out that Vyas is director of three companies—Ariston Pharma Nova Tech Pvt Ltd, Kyros Medicaments Private Ltd and Totus Health Care (India) Ltd. While Ariston Pharma and Totus Health Care are registered in Hyderabad, Kyros Medicaments is registered in Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh. As the office address of Ariston Pharma and Totus Health Care are mentioned in Prashanti Nagar area of IDA Kukatpally, a police team of Cyberabad inspected the two firms located close to each other. Ariston Pharma has been in operation since 2012 and Totus was incorporated in 1994 and has been in operation for over 20 years. “During a preliminary investigation, we found out that these two companies have been manufacturing various medicines, including drugs for acidity and blood pressure, with proper permissions. We are verifying the documents to find out who owns the facilities and what type of medicines are being manufactured here,” said a Cyberabad police official. In his confession to Indore police, Vyas said he worked as a medical representative in the past and lived in Ujjain, Dewas and Mandsaur in MP. Police also spoke to the family of Vyas in the city and they claimed to have no knowledge of his involvement in the drugs business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drug-bust-city-police-draw-a-blank-at-two-pharma-units/articleshow/80141168.cms||Mahesh Buddi
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Land for workshop at Kazipet junction||Warangal: Panchayat Raj minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao on Wednesday handed over land documents of 150 acres to authorities of South Central Railway (SCR), Kazipet junction for a railway wagon periodical overhauling workshop in the presence of district collector RG Hanumanthu. Errabelli said, “We are going to New Delhi to meet PM Narendra Modi and appeal to him to sanction a railway coach factory instead of an overhauling workshop. Chief minister K Chadrasekhar Rao is keen on developing Warangal district and establishing industries here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/land-for-workshop-at-kazipet-junction/articleshow/80141174.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
January 7, 2021||Mumbai||88% schools reopen in state; 15L attending classes||Mumbai: Nearly a month-and-a-half after the state permitted schools to resume physical sessions for classes IX to XII, over 88% schools have reopened and over 15.7 lakh students are attending each day, according to education department data. The state permitted the classes to reopen on November 23. Teachers and non-teaching staff had to undergo RT-PCR tests and those who tested negative for Covid-19 were allowed to resume. Among nearly two lakh teaching and non-teaching staff who have undergone the test before joining school, 2,894 tested positive. In the first week, 9,127 out of 22,204 schools reopened and 2.9 lakh students attended. Up from that, 19,524 schools resumed operations as of January 4. “Fortunately, no case of Covid-19 has been reported from schools, and that has encouraged many to reopen. Students attend classes on alternate days, which means that around 30 lakh students are back in classrooms. Some parents are worried about sending their children to school but the numbers are increasing each week,” said Vikas Garad, deputy director, Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (MSCERT). Across the state, 100% schools reopened in Jalgaon district, with 53.2% students attending class. “There are 16 districts where more than 90% schools have resumed physical classes. It is due to efforts and cooperation of education officials, local administration, students and parents that attendance is increasing by the day. Safety rules are being strictly enforced,” said school education minister Varsha Gaikwad. Mumbai and Thane are the only districts where schools are yet to reopen. Recently, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation announced that schools in the city will stay shut till January 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/88-schools-reopen-in-state-15l-attending-classes/articleshow/80140744.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 7, 2021||Jaipur||RU convocation tomorrow||Jaipur: Rajasthan University will hold its 30th annual convocation on January 8. Due to pandemic, the ceremony will be held virtually using animation. According to the university, around 210 PhD and 113 gold medals will be given to students. Animation technology will be used to show that governor Kalraj Mishra is giving certificates to students. Professor S.L.Sharma explained, “We will provide the certificates and degrees to students personally after the convocation. During the convocation program the picture of the student will be shown on screen with governor. This is the first such event in any university in Rajasthan. We are following IIT Bombay pattern.”Mishra along with vice-chancellor Rajeev Jain will be present at the virtual conference. Students have been asked to visit the university to collect their certificates individually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ru-convocation-tomorrow/articleshow/80141164.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||SCCL officials to get over Rs 110 cr PRP||Hyderabad: CM K Chandrasekhar Rao approved the proposal for payment of over Rs 110 crore Performance Related Pay (PRP) to officials of Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) for 2018-19. About 2,500 officials of SCCL will benefit from the decision. The PRP will be paid in February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sccl-officials-to-get-over-rs-110-cr-prp/articleshow/80141176.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||HCA to allow Andhra Bank to play league||HYDERABAD: In keeping with the high court order on Tuesday, the Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA) officials have decided to allow the Andhra Bank team to play in the league for the 2020-21 season. “We will accommodate the Andhra Bank team in the league for this season as per the court order. As the teams have only played three games so far, it will not be a problem to include them,” HCA secretary R Vijayanand told TOI in Wednesday. The HCA has also decided to suspend the league till they get the interim stay vacated. “In light of the interim stay order, you are hereby informed that all ongoing league matches stand postponed with immediate effect,” Vijayanand wrote to the league committee and added that the HCA’s legal counsel’s advice is to stop the league. “We are going to approach the court and get the stay vacated and then we will fight the main case,” he added. The main case involves the amalgamation of Andhra Bank with Union Bank of India. There is an Union Bank team already, which became Unique and later on Team Kun. “It’s for the AGM to decide about the Andhra Bank team. One institution, one team is the idea. When SBH became SBI, the teams too were merged and same is the case with the Syndicate Bank and Canara Bank.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hca-to-allow-andhra-bank-to-play-league/articleshow/80141179.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: One kidnapper was in khaki, say cops||Late in the evening, prime accused A V Subba Reddy, a one-time associate of Akhila Priya, was picked up from Ayyappa Society in Madhapur even as he was talking to reporters and denying any involvement in the kidnapping. Anjani Kumar said that the at around 7.20 pm on Tuesday showing fake ID cards and a search warrant, the kidnappers summoned the brothers into the living room of the house and ushered other family members into a bedroom. One of the kidnappers was in a police uniform to make the family believe that it was a genuine raid. Two assailants stood guard at the bedroom door, which was bolted from outside and cell phones of the family members were also taken away. About half-an-hour later, the assailants left with the three brothers in tow without informing the family members. The incident came to light when a family member, Sarita, who was at a neighbour’s place, returned home and opened the bedroom door. “We really thought it was an I-T raid,” Praveen’s nephew K Manish told police in his complaint. After looking at CCTV footage, the family realised the brothers might have been kidnapped and lodged a police complaint. “The complainant alleged they suspect the involvement of AV Subba Reddy, Akhila Priya and her husband Bhargav,” Anjani Kumar said. At around 4am, the brothers were located on the road near TSPA in Narsingi. Police officials said they had not been hurt. “Besides Akhila Priya, Srinivas Chowdary, Sai, Chanti and others are also involved. So far, only Akhila Priya has been arrested. We will form special teams and send them to Andhra Pradesh to arrest the remaining accused, who are absconding. It is not acceptable that people from outside the state are resorting to criminal activities in relation to land and other civil matters in Hyderabad. We will take stern action against such people,” Kumar said. The CP also asked people to call police if they have any doubt about fraudsters trying to pose as IT, CBI or ED sleuths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/one-kidnapper-was-in-khaki-say-cops/articleshow/80141177.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Nagpur||Banned Chinese manja being sold through WhatsApp groups||Nagpur: Chinese manja sellers in the city have struck upon a new modus operandi to beat the ban. The banned thread is being sold surreptitiously through private groups on WhatsApp.Despite the ban on the deadly thread, nylon manja is being sold in the city on a large scale, leading to life-threatening accidents. Recently, 17-year-old Aditya Bhardwaj met with a severe accident after his neck got slit with a sharp nylon manja.TOI could not get in touch with the victim or his family members, but anti-nylon manja activists informed that the boy was in critical condition at a private hospital. A resident of Godhani, Bhardwaj was reportedly driving a two-wheeler when his neck got entangled in the manja near Mankapur.In the last few years, similar accidents have caused fatal accidents in the city. Despite this, the banned thread continues to be sold and used widely. Last year in January, 32-year-old Satender Tiwari’s and 24-year-old Shraddha Shende’s necks were brutally slashed from nylon manja. Blaming the civic authorities, activists are demanding stringent action against both, sellers and users of the Chinese thread. Recently, members of King Cobra Organization Youth Force submitted a memorandum to the Supreme Court, central and state governments, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) and other agencies, stating that despite over five years of the ban, the manja continues to take lives of innocents.They also demanded that the government provide compensation to the affected families. “Free treatment should be provided to the victims,” said Arvind Kumar Raturi, founder-president of the organization.He added that though the civic body had initiated action, it was not strong enough. On Wednesday evening, Raturi filed a complaint with police officials, stating that the manja was being sold in bylanes of different areas like Trimurti Nagar, Pratap Nagar and others. “We have also come across a strong nexus of manja sellers, who are operating through groups on WhatsApp. They procure a huge quantity of the banned manja from manufacturers and wholesalers, and deliver it to customers,” added Raturi.The organization also met MPCB officials, who have assured to take action under the Environment Protection Act, 1986. “Rules are in place, punishment is in place, still the authorities are being lenient. It seems they have no value for human life,” added Raturi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/banned-chinese-manja-being-sold-through-whatsapp-groups/articleshow/80141175.cms||Manka Behl
January 7, 2021||Chandigarh||PTM to discuss the result of the December exam||Ludhiana: To discuss the report of December exam, a virtual parent-teacher meeting will be organised by the teachers for classes I to XII from January 7 to January 8. Over these two days, teachers will make phone and video calls parents in their respective schools, to have one-to-one discussions on child’s learning and also, to discuss the challenges faced by families. Parents will be told about mission 100%, besides the December test. Teachers should also motivate students on attendance, their homework, worksheets. Parents will be also apprised about other initiatives like buddy groups, each one ask one. Teachers will concentrate on these agendas and will analyse the performance of the students in consultation with the teachers and parents to make strategies to further improve the academic levels of the students District education officer (DEO) Rajinder Kaur said, “We had a meeting with cluster heads and block mentors beforehand and discussed these challenges with the teachers. This provided relief to many parents, who felt that their child’s school was invested in the wellbeing of the family during these trying times. The mission allowed the children to continue following a schedule during the day, along with an increase in one-to-one interaction with their teachers. Teachers have been regularly making calls to the students and providing support with their learning. The virtual PTM will give them the opportunity to reach out to the parents to find out about any support that the parents and students need and plan their days accordingly.” Davinder Singh Chhina, principal of GSSS Shahpur said, “ At the PTM on January 7-8, we will analyse the performance of the students with parents to make strategies to further improve the academic levels of the students.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ptm-to-discuss-the-result-of-the-december-exam/articleshow/80140094.cms||Mehak Jain
January 7, 2021||Surat||Marketing professional suspected to have consumed poison||Surat: Police investigation into the mysterious death of a 22-year-old marketing professional has revealed that she had consumed some poisonous substance during New Year celebration organized in a hotel room on Gaurav Path on January 2.Tanvi Bhadani was found dead in a room of an OYO hotel in Ripple Mall. She went there with her friend and colleague Pankaj Gohil. Three other couples and a group of friends were with them. They celebrated New Year, cut cake, ate food and consumed liquor. During the celebration, Bhadani went into the bathroom and spent some time. When her friends asked her the reason for sudden dizziness, Tanvi Bhadani told them that she had consumed poison. Her friends immediately made her vomit by inserting fingers in mouth. However, when they decided to call an ambulance, Bhadani told them that it was a prank.Believing her, her friends did not take her to the doctor and the next morning she was found dead. Earlier, her father Dilip, had told police in a statement that Bhadani had heart and breathing related ailments since childhood and she could have died due to that. Preliminary postmortem findings suggested that she died due to blood clotting that led to heart attack. On coming out, she complained of dizziness. “Some of her friends claim that Bhadani told them about consuming poison while few others say that she had played a prank. We can reach to some conclusion only after getting the viscera and histopathology reports,” said a police officer. Gohil was with Bhadani in the room during the night. When she did not wake up, he called his other friends from neighbouring rooms. They checked and found Bhadani not breathing. Later, the other friends left and Gohil informed Bhadani’s parents. Gohil is into marketing of medical products and Bhadani also worked for him. Gohil’s family earlier lived in the city and knew the Bhadani family. Gohil had helped her father set up a shop of diamond machine tools besides giving her a job.Party for patch-upSurat: Gohil and Bhadani had gone toSilvassa on December 29 and spent two days there. They had an argument over Bhadani wearing short clothes in parties. “Bhadani knew that Gohil was married and she was demanding that he should spend as much time with her as he gives to his wife. However, Gohil’s refusal led to tussle between them,” said police. In order to patch up with Gohil, Bhadani planned the party at the hotel in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/marketing-professional-suspected-to-have-consumed-poison/articleshow/80139165.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
January 7, 2021||Jaipur||Alwar cop in ACB net over Rs 3 lakh bribe||ALWAR: The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Wednesday arrested Alwar rural CO Sapat Khan and constable Aslam Khan for taking a bribe of Rs 3 lakh against providing relief to Tijara’s resident Rashid Khan in multiple criminal cases. The operation was carried out at the residence of the accused cop by ACB ASP Sanjiv Nain and DSP Chitragupta Mahavar. The agency is also probing the role of Aravali Vihar police in-charge Jaheer Abbas who is investigating one of the cases against the complainant and has been named for seeking bribe. Sources said he was under questioning by the ACB sleuths till the last report came to establish his role in the expose. Abbas was not present at the spot when the bribe was being given to Sapat. Rashid Khan, along with one Akbar Khan, is facing multiple criminal complaints in various police stations in Alwar. They claimed that they were falsely implicated in the cases and police were forcing them to pay the bribe. Rashid met ACB DG B L Soni and lodged a complaint against Sapat and Jaheer for seeking bribe. As per the plan, Rashid and his son reached Sapat’s residence along with constable Aslam Khan with Rs 3 lakh cash. Soon after the cash was handed over, the ACB team raided the spot and recovered the marked cash from Sapat’s possession. He was arrested and presented in the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/alwar-rural-co-in-acb-net-over-rs-3-lakh-bribe/articleshow/80141192.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Jaipur||‘Truck driver was drunk, samples sent to FSL’||Jaipur: A day after three persons were killed and four others injured in an accident here, the police have registered a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder against truck driver Rohitash Kumar.Preliminary investigation suggested that he was heavily drunk and his blood samples were sent to FSL for medical examination.According to Jitendra Gangwani, in-charge of accident police North, the accused has been identified as Rohitash Chaudhary (40), a resident of Haryana. “A case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder against the driver has been filed. The doctors have confirmed that he was drunk and once the FSL report will be released, the course of inquiry will be decided,” Gangwani said.The incident has taken away the life of three persons, including a scarp dealer Rajkumar Manvani, a resident of Kagdivada in Bhrampuri area. He survived by two daughters, aged 11 months and six-year-old and his wife. The deceased could barely meet his ends leaving behind the uncertain future of the family.Kishanpol MLA Mahesh Joshi visited the family and assured all help.Gangwani gave an assistance of Rs 10,000 to the family and appealed the civil society to help them stand on their feet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/truck-driver-was-drunk-samples-sent-to-fsl/articleshow/80141181.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||It’s a fight over 25-acre prime Hyderabad's Hafeezpet land||HYDERABAD: A 25-acre prime land in Hafeezpet in the vicinity of IT corridor is the trigger for the sensational abduction of three brothers on Tuesday. The police said the land was purchased by Praveen in 2016. “Issues with the land deal were mediated with Praveen by AV Subba Reddy and Bhuma Nagi Reddy,” DCP, North Zone, Kalmeshwar Shingenavar said. Praveen and AV Subba Reddy reached an understanding, but the latter did not execute his terms of understanding with Bhuma Nagi Reddy. When both his daughters asked Praveen for a share, he said he completed the transaction with AV Subba Reddy. Akhila Priya then started threatening him, the DCP said. Hyderabad CP Anjani Kumar said, in 2020, a case has been registered at Miyapur PS against AV Subba Reddy and others for trespassing into Praveen’s land. Priya and her husband hatched a conspiracy to abduct Praveen, Sunil and Naveen, DCP said. Sources said Priya’s family thought the land would be disposed soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/its-a-fight-over-25-acre-prime-hafeezpet-land/articleshow/80141186.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Madurai||Our alliance with AIADMK intact, says BJP||Tuticorin: Stating that their alliance with AIADMK is intact, BJP state vice-president K Annamalai said DMK is their common enemy. Responding to questions on the war of words between leaders of AIADMK and the BJP here on Wednesday, he said such “small debates do not mean we are not united or that the alliance is going to break.” According to him, leaders of both parties have to strengthen their party and their comments could be with that intention. He denied the party had released a list of 38 candidates for assembly polls calling it the handiwork of mischief mongers. “Decision pertaining to alliance, seat sharing and where to contest will be decided by the committee that will be formed by the state president and senior leaders at the headquarters,” he said. He said he will “have to” contest if it is the decision of the party high command. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/our-alliance-with-aiadmk-intact-says-bjp/articleshow/80142455.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Nagpur||Vax dry run at 4 places in Amravati dist on Firday||Amravati: The district administration is geared up to conduct the coronavirus vaccination drive dry run on Friday, said collector Shailesh Naval here on Thursday. In Amravati Municipal Corporation area, the campaign will be run at nursing school campus in the district general hospital and PDMC Hospital, while in rural belt, it will be conducted at Teosa rural hospital and Anjangaon Bari primary health centre. Accordingly, 25 persons will be registered and checked at each of these centres. Naval said each centre will have a medical officer, a vaccination officer and four other persons. “They all have been asked to report at 8.15am at their respective centre,” he said. The collector visited nursing school campus on Thursday evening and inspected the arrangements there. “This is a dress rehearsal for actual vaccination. The dry run is being conducted to ensure accuracy in actual implementation,” he said. In the first phase, only health care workers will be vaccinated. Vaccination will be done by only government and health machinery. No other organization will be doing it, said the collector and urged people not to fall prey to any misleading propaganda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vax-dry-run-at-4-places-in-amravati-dist-on-firday/articleshow/80157399.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Visakhapatnam||As pandemic strains marital ties, divorce rate shoots up||Visakhapatnam: The Covid-19 pandemic may have created a new work from home culture and brought families together but it has also brought in its wake marital discord in some households. If data provided by lawyers of family courts in the city is any indication, there is an at least 30 per cent increase in petitions seeking divorce. According to city advocates, there has been a 30 to 40 per cent increase in the petitions moved before the two family courts in the Port City in the last three months. About a dozen petitions are filed every day in these courts. This is in contrast to seven or eight petitions moved daily in the city. Family counsellors, psychologists and lawyers attribute the causes for divorce to various issues including financial, infidelity, physical and mental incompatibility between couples and frequent friction with in-laws due to spending increased time at home in view of Covid-19 and the consequent lockdown, restriction on movement and work from home norms. Speaking to TOI, Kuppili Muralidhar, senior advocate and president of Forum of Legal Professionals (FLP), said, “The district family courts are overburdened with divorce cases with a minimum of a dozen new cases filed daily. There is a demand from the Gajuwaka bar association for shifting one of the two family courts to Gajuwaka but given the heavy rush of cases in the city courts, it seems a new family court would be required for Gajuwaka jurisdiction rather than shifting existing courts.” As per advocates, couples seeking divorce are mostly younger ones, with less than five years of marriage. “Infidelity, extramarital affairs, physical and psychological incompatibility, over indulgence in pornography leading to unrealistic expectations and dissatisfied sexual life, financial insecurity and job losses, altercations with in-laws and harassment by them during prolonged stay at home are the main reasons for seeking of divorce,” added Muralidhar. Counsellor and senior professor MVR Raju from the department of psychology at Andhra University, said, “Before the pandemic, I used to get four to five cases of marital discord, which has now gone up to at least 10 cases a month including both in-person and online counselling and such cases are steadily increasing. From our observance, it is found that there are multifactorial grounds behind couples falling apart and seeking of divorce.” “In some cases, alcohol addiction and torturing have led the spouse to get into extramarital affairs. Domestic violence, torture by in-laws, marriages forced on children by parents without taking their opinions, sexual dissatisfaction, overindulgence in pornography, job losses and financial insecurity – all these have also adversely impacted marital relationships leading to an increase in seeking separation and divorce,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/as-pandemic-strains-marital-ties-divorce-rate-shoots-up/articleshow/80140111.cms||Sulogna Mehta
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Andhra Bank — a rich tradition in HCA, now crying for attention||HYDERABAD: Though the Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA) has over 200 teams in its league, only a few can boast of the erstwhile Andhra Bank team’s glories. Andhra Bank, now fighting for a place in the HCA league, came into existence in the 1971-72 season due to the efforts of the late N Sriramachandra Murthy and the late CS Sham Lal. The bank officials were so taken in by the enthusiasm of the duo that they recruited Test player Kenia Jayantilal and Ranji Trophy players like Abdul Hai, D Inder Raj, D Meher Baba and Mallick Dev among others. Andhra Bank was allowed to play in the A Division as an Institution team and proved to be a force immediately. “In the first year itself, the team finished runners-up in the senior division,” former pacer P Jyothi Prasad told ToI on Wednesday. This led Sham Lal to plan a trip to Sri Lanka in 1974 and it proved to be a path-breaking tour as the players gained experience. It began to show in their performance in the HCA league. Under the leadership of the late T Vijaya Paul, Andhra Bank not only won the league championship but also completed a Grand Slam. “It was a jolly good ride for us as we kept winning tournaments. From 1974 to 1978 we won the League, Behram-ud-Dowla, Kishen Pershad and Ghulam Ali tournaments. It was a marvellous achievement and credit to the late Vijaya Paul, who astutely led the team along with MV Narasimha Rao,” Prasad said. So strong was Andhra Bank team that seven of its players were included in the South Zone team to take on England in 1977! The golden run continued till 2008 as Andhra Bank played the feeder role by producing players not only for Andhra and Hyderabad but also for the country. “We had several players who did exceedingly well not only for Hyderabad but also Andhra Ranji teams till recently,’’ Prasad said. Players like Jayantilal, Narasimha Rao, SL Venkatapathi Raju, VVS Laxman, Pragyan Ojha and GH Vihari went on to play for the country. Inder Raj and Jyothi Prasad played for the India junior team and off-spinner Kanwaljit Singh was an India ‘A’ player. This apart, the bank has produced more than 50 first-class cricketers in its almost 50-year history. “It is sad the way the officials have treated the Andhra Bank team,” said former wicketkeeper Prasanna Kumar, who represented AB and Andhra in Ranji Trophy. “Despite having good teams like Hyderabad Blues, Syndicate Bank, State Bank of India and State Bank of Hyderabad, Andhra Bank was the big daddy of all. Almost every youngster aspired to don the Andhra Bank jersey,” said Kanwaljit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/andhra-bank-a-rich-tradition-in-hca-now-crying-for-attention/articleshow/80141190.cms||Solomon S Kumar
January 7, 2021||Madurai||New cases dip again: 88 in south, 72 in central TN||Madurai/Trichy:The number of fresh Covid-19 cases in the 10 southern districts of the state dipped further on Wednesday to 88 from 99 on Tuesday, the new lowest in daily cases in more than six months. With this, the tally has climbed to 1,34,188. The number of active cases also dropped to 938 from 979 on Tuesday, the lowest in the last 10 days. The number of fresh cases in the central region also dropped from 75 to 72, taking the tally to 74,422, which include 757 active cases. Both the regions recorded one death each. Madurai recorded 20 fresh cases, the highest in the region followed by Tirunelveli (18), Kanyakumari (13) and Tuticorin (10). The six other districts recorded less than 10 cases with Sivagangai and Tenkasi recording less than three cases each. Theni (4), Ramanathapuram (4), Virudhunagar (6) and Dindigul (7) are the other districts that recorded fewer cases. Three districts have less than 50 active cases – Ramanathapuram (29), Sivagangai (44) and Tenkasi (46), while Theni (70), Tuticorin (92) and Virudhunagar (98) have less than 100 active cases. Kanyakumari (171) has the highest in the region and is followed by Madurai (162), Dindigul (113) and Tirunelveli (113). According to the health department bulletin, the lone death reported in the region is of a 78-year-old man in Kanyakumari district. Trichy recorded 20 cases, the highest in the region taking the tally to 14,310. Trichy is followed by Thanjavur with 13 fresh cases, which has pushed its tally to 17,300. Karur recorded 12 fresh cases pushing its tally to 5,248. There were no fresh cases in Perambalur. Ariyalur and Pudukottai recorded four and three fresh cases. Thanjavur has 189 active cases, while the number is 181 in Trichy. The casualty in the central region is a 62-year-old woman in Ariyalur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/new-cases-dip-again-88-in-south-72-in-central-tn/articleshow/80142474.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad’s office market records 640% rise during October-December||HYDERABAD: After a dull start with almost zero deals, Hyderabad’s realty market made a phenomenal comeback in last three months of 2020, with office space transactions soaring by 640% during the quarter. In fact, October to December supply numbers put 2020 as second-best year of the decade – with 8.7 million square feet (mn sft) of fresh office area added to Hyderabad’s kitty -- show Knight Frank’s India Real Estate Report. “Though in comparison to 2019, transactions fell by about 53% last year, we still managed to clock 6 mn sft, which is not bad for a year hit by a pandemic,” said Samson Arthur, branch director, Knight Frank. He added: “2020 figures were on par with three years preceding 2019, where average was between 5.9 mn sft and 7 mn sft.” This turnaround was thanks to consistent growth along west, primarily Hi-Tec City and Gachibowli. They added 3.3 mn sft to kitty. “Larger firms started to, albeit slowly and in a more planned manner, embrace work-from-office mode in the last three months. Even developers offered incentives,” said Arthur. None of the prominent business pockets of Hyderabad saw any change in rent. Another success story of 2020 was growth of banking, financial services and insurance industry. From 4% share in city’s office market in July to December 2019, it grew to 30% the same time last year. “Entry of biggies such as Goldman Sachs into Hyderabad may further propel this rise,” Arthur said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyds-office-mkt-records-640-rise-during-oct-dec/articleshow/80141195.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Vijayawada||AP records 3 Covid deaths; all districts register less than 50 cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 289 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,83,876. The toll increased to 7,125 as three more people succumbed to the virus, one each from Krishna, Prakasam and Visakhapatnam districts. As many as 428 patients were declared cured on Wednesday. There are currently 2,896 active cases, 8,73,855 cumulative recoveries and 7,125 fatalities. All the 13 districts recorded less than 50 new cases each on Wednesday, while the new infections are in single digits in four districts. Vizianagaram has consistently posted single-digit case numbers for the last two weeks. For the first time in months, the active case load dropped below the 500-mark in all the districts. The active case load is less than 100 in four districts with Vizianagaram having as few as 40 active cases. Andhra Pradesh tested 51,207 Covid-19 samples on Wednesday and detected 289 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of less than 0.6 per cent. The state’s case positivity rate stood at 0.8 per cent in December 2020, the lowest in the last eight months. It has further reduced to 0.6 per cent in the last one week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-records-3-covid-deaths-all-dists-register-less-than-50-cases/articleshow/80147477.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Madurai||Include metro rail for Madurai in manifesto, Chamber tells parties||Madurai: Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry (TNCCI) has urged political parties to include metro rail project for Madurai in their assembly election manifestos. “We have urged parties to include it in the manifesto as the state government should be willing to fund 50% of the project and it is up to the state to propose the name of the eligible city to the Centre,” chamber president N Jegatheesan said. He said that a city with a population of more than 10 lakh is eligible for the project and Madurai has a population of more than 15 lakh, and including the periphery it crosses 25 lakh. He said that Madurai the second largest city in Tamil Nadu is also most affected by traffic crisis after the state’s capital. “Measures taken so far to curb the traffic crisis have been ineffective,” he said. “Metro rail will not only help people reach Madurai at ease but will also be a permanent solution to the traffic congestion in the city and its adjoining areas,” he said. The trade body also suggested two routes for the project: the first from Melur to Thirumangalam and the second from Thirupuvanam to Checkanurani. “We made a representation to revenue minister R B Udhayakumar to take it to the notice of the CM, and also to DMK treasurer T R Baalu. They have responded positively,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/include-metro-rail-for-madurai-in-manifesto-chamber-tells-parties/articleshow/80142489.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Visakhapatnam||AP records 3 Covid deaths; all districts register less than 50 cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 289 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,83,876. The toll increased to 7,125 as three more people succumbed to the virus, one each from Krishna, Prakasam and Visakhapatnam districts. As many as 428 patients were declared cured on Wednesday. There are currently 2,896 active cases, 8,73,855 cumulative recoveries and 7,125 fatalities. All the 13 districts recorded less than 50 new cases each on Wednesday, while the new infections are in single digits in four districts. Vizianagaram has consistently posted single-digit case numbers for the last two weeks. For the first time in months, the active case load dropped below the 500-mark in all the districts. The active case load is less than 100 in four districts with Vizianagaram having as few as 40 active cases. Andhra Pradesh tested 51,207 Covid-19 samples on Wednesday and detected 289 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of less than 0.6 per cent. The state’s case positivity rate stood at 0.8 per cent in December 2020, the lowest in the last eight months. It has further reduced to 0.6 per cent in the last one week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-records-3-covid-deaths-all-dists-register-less-than-50-cases/articleshow/80140129.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Amaravati||AP records 3 Covid deaths; all districts register less than 50 cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 289 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,83,876. The toll increased to 7,125 as three more people succumbed to the virus, one each from Krishna, Prakasam and Visakhapatnam districts. As many as 428 patients were declared cured on Wednesday. There are currently 2,896 active cases, 8,73,855 cumulative recoveries and 7,125 fatalities. All the 13 districts recorded less than 50 new cases each on Wednesday, while the new infections are in single digits in four districts. Vizianagaram has consistently posted single-digit case numbers for the last two weeks. For the first time in months, the active case load dropped below the 500-mark in all the districts. The active case load is less than 100 in four districts with Vizianagaram having as few as 40 active cases. Andhra Pradesh tested 51,207 Covid-19 samples on Wednesday and detected 289 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of less than 0.6 per cent. The state’s case positivity rate stood at 0.8 per cent in December 2020, the lowest in the last eight months. It has further reduced to 0.6 per cent in the last one week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-records-3-covid-deaths-all-dists-register-less-than-50-cases/articleshow/80147476.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Bank team cries foul over HCA decision||HYDERABAD: The Andhra Bank cricket team, now rechristened as Union Bank of India team, is crying foul and charging the Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA) with misleading them and disobeying the orders of the court. Following the merger of Andhra Bank with Union Bank of India, the Andhra Bank cricket team and its officials had requested the HCA to continue them as AB team or UB team since their team is a valid member in HCA. Initially, the HCA authorities agreed to do so. But later, they backed out saying that they had received another application from the Union Bank of India team. In the end, the HCA eliminated both the Andhra Bank and Union Bank of India teams. The bank is now alleging that what the HCA did was cheating as there was no application or team in the name of Union Bank of India. It decried the HCA’s claim that since Andhra Bank lost its identity after its merger with Union Bank of India, its affiliation with HCA too stood nullified. On November 9, 2020, HCA informed this to the Union Bank of India/Andhra Bank team and said the issue of its participation in the ensuing matches would be referred to the ombudsman. The Union Bank of India cricket team said that even the claim about the ombudsman reference was bogus because the appointment of the ombudsman has not been finalised yet. Though Justice Challa Kodanda Ram gave enough time to the HCA to explain its case, it could not do so. When the judge gave an interim order asking the HCA to include the Union Bank of India team in the league matches, the HCA failed to comply with this order. This irked the high court which stayed all the ensuing league matches. According to K Lakshmi Narasimha, counsel for the Union Bank of India and Andhra Bank team, Andhra Bank cricket team initially came into being in 1971-72. It continued to be a member of the HCA. Since then, it has emerged as one of the strongest and popular cricket teams in the south in general and Hyderabad in particular. It has got a rich cricketing history of 48 years in the banking industry, he said. Andhra Bank has been a brand in promoting cricket in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh and giving employment to upcoming cricketers who went on to play the game on a bigger stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bank-team-cries-foul-over-hca-decision/articleshow/80141197.cms||M Sagar Kumar
January 7, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Trucker who killed 3 persons crossed 6 accident-prone zones||JAIPUR: The truck driver who mowed down three persons here on Tuesday passed through six accident-prone blind spots — RAC Cut, Galta Gate Signal, Eidgah Cut, Paramadi Cut, Khole Ke Hanumanji Cut and Dhobi Ghat Cut. He first killed a pedestrian at Eidgah Cut before it overturned at Dhobi Cut killing two bikers. These six spots are among the 74 blind spots identified by the traffic control board as accident-prone areas in 2017. They were accepted by the JDA in 2020 for carrying out corrective measures which are yet to start. These spots have a history of accidents and marred by common problems such as badly maintained signages and road markings, non-existent speed calming measures and poor enforcement. Aminuddin Azad of JDA said soon they would work on all the accident points in Jaipur to prevent and minimize mishaps. “The list of blind points has been given to the traffic control board and corrective measures will follow soon,” said Azad. It also raises questions on how the driver dodged the police barricades and the speeding vehicle was not stopped by police. As per the CCTV camera footage, maximum speed attained by driver Rohitash Chaudhary was 80kmph in an area where 30 kmph should be the limit. “Had corrective measures been in place along with proper enforcement, the accident could have been averted. It was a case of rash driving which lead to the disaster,” said a former traffic commissioner of Jaipur. TOI called up deputy commissioner of traffic Adarsh Sidhu but got no response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/trucker-who-killed-3-persons-crossed-6-accident-prone-zones/articleshow/80141198.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Residential segment still lagging behind||HYDERABAD: The city’s residential segment continued to be sluggish through 2020. If the first half of the year bled with a 40% drop in sales – over the July to December period of 2019 – the second half managed to recover only marginally. According to Knight Frank’s latest report, even as new launches saw a jump during the October to December, it brought with it a higher unsold inventory of 7,180 units. “Home-buyers had to be careful with their purchases as their priority to was to stabilise jobs and incomes,” said Samson Arthur, branch director of Knight Frank Hyderabad. The bright spot was stable growth of affordable housing – houses below Rs 50 lakh. This segment grew by 76% between July and December last year. In 2019, this was 85%. Prices remained largely unchanged in 2020, with per square feet cost of homes in Rs 4,000 to Rs 5,000 range, like the previous year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residential-segment-still-lagging-behind/articleshow/80141199.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Surat||Contract hospital workers in Surat strike over unpaid wages||Surat: Scores of contract workers at the New Civil Hospital (NCH) went on strike on Wednesday demanding payment of wages outstanding for last three months.The workers included sweepers, ward boys, cooks, medical helpers, lab technicians, etc, who also gheraoed the office of the NCH superintendent and blocked the entry of the building. Sources said that the workers had been repeatedly requesting the authorities to pay their outstanding wages.In wake of the strike, patients in the emergency department had to be shifted to the SMC-run SMIMER hospital by the 108 staff, added sources.The striking workers also forced the closure of the emergency department of the NCH, COVID-19 hospital, operation theatres, trauma centre and radiology department. The agitation went on for a few hours before the police reached NCH and dispersed them.A lab technician seeking anonymity said, “We were repeatedly telling them (NCH authorities) give our wages, but they were not heeding. However, we decided to protest for our rights. Strike will continue till our demands are met.”Iqbal Kadiwala, vice-president of Gujarat Nurses’ Union said, “Our 125 nurses working on contract did not join the strike in the interest of the patients. They packed bodies, nursed patients and performed other activities in the ward. Only those with a non-nursing background joined the strike.”Abdul Rehman Malbari, president of Ekta Trust said, “Due to the strike the patients at Covid-19 hospital on the campus were left in the lurch. We had to arrange for the food for about 60 patients admitted to the hospital from a hotel.” Despite repeated attempts, NCH authorities were not available for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/contract-hospital-workers-in-surat-strike-over-unpaid-wages/articleshow/80139189.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Nagpur||Just 2 deaths in Amravati division, only Nagpur district sees above 60 cases||NAGPUR: The Amravati division witnessed just two Covid fatalities — a 70-year-old man and a 65-year-old woman from Chikhli in Buldhana district — even as seven districts in Vidarbha didn’t report any Covid death on Wednesday. Cases everywhere except Nagpur were under 60, and among the 14 Covid deaths in the region, all death-reporting districts had a single-digit toll. The 14 Covid deaths were from Nagpur (8), Bhandara (2), Chandrapur (2) and Buldhana (2), taking the region’s toll to 6,649. Wardha, Gondia, Gadchiroli, Amravati, Yavatmal and Washim didn’t report any Covid death. The region recorded 804 new cases from Nagpur (434), Bhandara (41), Wardha (60), Gondia (29), Chandrapur (54), Gadchiroli (13), Akola (31), Amravati (59), Yavatmal (48), Buldhana (23) and Washim (12). This took the tally to 2,56,845. Though still less than the new case tally, the region saw slightly more recoveries than the previous day. The 634 discharged patients were from Nagpur (304), Bhandara (19), Wardha (34), Gondia (28), Chandrapur (73), Gadchiroli (5), Akola (12), Amravati (71), Yavatmal (56), Buldhana (29) and Washim (3), making for a total of 2,42,729. Now, 7,368 are under treatment in the region. Gadchiroli: No Covid death was reported. New cases count increased by 13, while 5 recoveries were reported. The district now has 185 active cases, while total cases are 9,121. So far, 103 have succumbed to the disease, while 8,833 have recovered in the district. Washim: The district didn’t report any Covid death. The district reported the lowest number of cases in Vidarbha at 12, while 3 patients recovered. Death toll remains at 150. The new cases took the tally to 6,731, and discharged count rose to 6,452, while 128 are under treatment. Buldhana: Two Covid deaths took place while 23 new cases and 29 recoveries were reported. According to official data, the district now has 12,802 cases, 12,289 recoveries, 155 deaths and 358 active cases. Bhandara: The district reported two Covid deaths, 41 new cases, and 19 recoveries. The district has 404 active cases. Total caseload is 12,619 cases, and 11,917 discharged patients. Covid toll is 298. Gondia: The district didn’t witness any Covid death, 28 recoveries and 29 new cases. Number of patients under treatment are 249. The new positive patients took the tally to 13,810. So far 179 have succumbed, while 13,382 have recovered. Akola: The district reported 31 new cases and 12 recoveries. Two Covid deaths took place on Wednesday. The cases tally climbed to 10,728. So far, 323 people have died here of Covid. With new recoveries, the tally reached 9,869. There are 536 active patients. Chandrapur: In all 54 new cases were detected while 73 patients were discharged leaving 335 active patients in the district on Wednesday. Two more deaths took the toll to 375. The Covid total has now reached 22,520, while the recoveries amount to 21,810. Yavatmal: With no death reported on Wednesday, the toll remains 407. The day saw 48 new cases, taking the caseload to 12,937 in the district. Recoveries touched 12,163 after 56 patients getting discharge on Wednesday. Wardha: After new 60 positive cases on Wednesday, the Covid count reached 9,324 while 34 patients were discharged taking the recoveries to 8,723. Now, 325 patients are undergoing treatment. New cases came from Wardha (42), Deoli (9), Hinganghat (6), Selu (2) and Arvi (1). No death was reported on Wednesday and toll stands at 276. Amravati: The district today saw 59 new cases and 71 recoveries. The caseload went up to 20,064 while recoveries reached 19,342, leaving 322 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/just-2-deaths-in-amravati-division-only-nagpur-district-sees-above-60-cases/articleshow/80141208.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Tanker owner held for stealing ATF||Hyderabad: An oil tanker owner, J Ramulu, was arrested for illegally siphoning off aviation turbine fuel (ATF) while transporting it from IOCL depot to Bidar at Mallapur on Tuesday. Nacharam police caught Ramulu red-handed when he was transferring ATF from his tanker into another truck with the help of his driver, Achyuta Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tanker-owner-held-for-stealing-atf/articleshow/80141205.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Madurai||Murder cases in Sivaganga district dip by 52% in 2020||Sivaganga: Murder incidents came down by 52% in Sivaganga district in 2020 compared to 2019, said district superintendent of police R Rohith Nathan. He said that 44 murders took place in 2019 and it came down to 21 in 2020. Sixteen people were detained under the Goondas Act in the district in 2020. They include seven people involved in ganja smuggling and selling.While the number of murders in some districts in southern Tamil Nadu have come down, it has shown an increase in some, including Madurai.Nathan told TOI that they did aggressive bind over of the accused under CrPC sections to prevent them from committing further offences. “Electronic beat system to monitor movement of antisocial elements helped. We ensured that as many cases were registered as possible and the cases charge-sheeted to keep the accused busy in court proceedings. Spot inquiry of petty quarrels and free registration of FIR also helped,” he said.While 263 robbery, theft and snatching incidents took place in 2020, a total of 123 cases were detected and properties were recovered. As many as 43 cases were registered in connection with ganja smuggling and selling in 2020, an increase by 26 cases compared to 2019.As many as 196 cases were registered in connection with illegal sand mining in 2020 and 201 accused were arrested. As many as 251 vehicles were seized. In 2019, 324 cases were registered, 361 arrested and 406 vehicles were seized.There is a major reduction in the number of road deaths in 2020 compared to its previous year. While 265 people lost their lives in road accidents in 2019, 146 died in 2020. Number of accidents came down to 804 from 977 accidents in 2019.The district police would strive to bring down crime and road accidents further in 2021, the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/murder-cases-in-sivaganga-district-dip-by-52-in-2020/articleshow/80142515.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Jaipur||Parents divided, Rajasthan schools welcome reopening||JAIPUR: Decision of the state government to reopen schools from January 18 has evoked mixed response from the parents. The people in urban areas, whose children are studying in big schools, are reluctant to send their kids to educational institutes. However, in small school in rural areas, parents have welcomed the move. Besides, majority of the schools have supported the decision. Jaswant Kumar, a resident of Shahpura, said that this is a need of the hour and reopening will kick-start their children’s education properly. “Connectivity problem is a major issue in our area and most of the time my child in Class IX complaints that he is not able to understand properly in online classes. I think with better precautions, it is a good step,” said Kumar. Similar views were presented by Vijay Kumar from a village in Nawalgarh who said that in online teaching it is difficult to monitor students who are sometimes playing games instead of studying. Neetu Sharma, a resident of Jaipur, however, refused to send her children to school. “It is not right to think about sending children to school at the time when a new strain has been discovered. Children have weak immunity. I will not send my children to school and will continue with online classes,” said Sharma. However, schools are in favour of this decision. Ashok Vaid, president of Sahodya Schools of Association, said, “We are already prepared about opening of schools as students are coming to school for consultation. We have sanitized the building, reduced the seating in classrooms, installed sanitisers in schools. This is important decision for us.” Some schools’ principals anonymously questioned the decision of 50% capacity. Their argument is that if they have a greater number of classrooms in which they can teach students from Class IX to XII while maintain social distancing why to just call half capacity. Meanwhile, Anil Sharma, president of School Shiksha Pariwar, said that there is a need to start consultation classes for students in lower section especially from Class V to VIII. “There are many areas where internet connectivity is low. Hence, online classes are not of much importance. It will be better for government to allow them to come,” said Anil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/reopening-of-schools-parents-divided-institutes-welcome/articleshow/80141202.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 40-yr-old man held for raping girl working at his flower shop||HYDERABAD: A flower shop owner in Shamshabad was arrested for allegedly raping a minor who worked at his shop. S Satish, 40, was arrested by police on Wednesday for allegedly raping the 15-year-old girl. According to police, the accused raped the girl on December 30. The girl used to go to Satish’s home if it was late at night, police said, adding that Satish had convinced the girl he would marry her and cheated her. “We received a complaint three days ago. We arrested him. He was sent in judicial remand on Wednesday,” said P Vjay Kuamar, inspector, Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) Police station. Police also said that the accused had threatened the victim. “He threatened her and asked her not to approach police. He also started stalking her and harassing her by calling her multiple times. The girl approached us and lodged a complaint,” RGIA police said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/40-yr-old-man-held-for-raping-girl-working-at-his-flower-shop/articleshow/80141203.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||GHMC built 7,400 toilets in 2020||Hyderabad: Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation on Wednesday said that measures are being taken to maintain public washrooms in the city. GHMC constructed 7,400 public toilets in 3,500 locations in 2020. “In order to provide better facilities, their maintenance is given to the agencies,” read a GHMC statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-built-7400-toilets-in-2020/articleshow/80141207.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Guard convicted for minor’s rape||Hyderabad: A 30-year-old private school security guard in Abids was convicted of raping a minor girl and sentenced to 20 years imprisonment by a local court on Wednesday. In 2017, Abids police arrested him for sexually assaulting the girl. Special sessions judge for POCSO cases sentenced him to undergo 20 years in jail and also pay Rs 2,000 fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/guard-convictedfor-minors-rape/articleshow/80141209.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Health dept slashes price of rapid antigen test kit at private laboratories||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state health department has reduced the price of a Covid-19 rapid antigen test at private laboratories to 230 from the initial 750. In an order released on Wednesday, the health department cited increased availability and production of testing kits as the reason for price cut. The department had earlier constituted a five-member technical committee to suggest a reasonable price for antigen testing. The government revised the price after the committee submitted the report. Coordinated efforts are needed for the smooth flow of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, which would begin soon, said chief secretary Adityanath Das. The chief secretary chaired the state steering committee meeting on the vaccination drive. Speaking on this occasion, Adityanath Das said 3.7 lakh healthcare workers would first get the vaccine, followed by frontline respondents, people aged 50 years and above and those with comorbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/health-dept-slashes-price-of-rapid-antigen-test-kit-at-private-laboratories/articleshow/80140138.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Surat||Airport terminal bldg expansion project gets environ clearance||Surat: The Surat airport’s terminal building expansion project on Wednesday received environment clearance (EC) from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC). Official sources said that with the EC issued, the critical infrastructure work for the project will gather momentum and it is expected to be completed before March 2022. The terminal building of Surat airport is being extended by the Airport Authority of India (AAI) at the cost of Rs 354 crore. The existing terminal building has an area of 8,474 sq m that will be extended by additional 17,046 sq m (excluding city side and air side kerb) to have a total area of 25,520 sq m. Along with the terminal building expansion, the work of the parallel taxi track has also been started to allow the smooth landing and take-off of the aircraft. A senior AAI officer told TOI, “The expanded terminal will change the face of Surat airport. More flights will be able to operate from here with more number of passengers.” Following the delay in the EC from the last one-and-a-half-year, the construction work of the terminal building could not be completed on time. Earlier, the completion date for the project was set in April 2021. In its last meeting held in New Delhi on February 25, 2020, EAC had recommended additional terms of reference (ToR) to the AAI for the EC approval for the project. The EAC observed that the airport authorities had not complied to conditions including the provision of sewage treatment plant (STP) for the rainwater harvesting, setting up of the laboratory for environment management cell etc. The airport authorities had requested that the expansion project did not require wildlife clearance as there is no wildlife sanctuary within 10 km radius and that the unnotified Hazira bird sanctuary too was located at 11.2 km away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/airport-terminal-bldg-expansion-project-gets-environ-clearance/articleshow/80139207.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Bad road: Plaint against GHMC||Hyderabad: Upset after his complaint regarding a bad road on a flyover was not attended, a techie, working for civic causes in the city, lodged a complaint with the police against the GHMC officials. After noticing that the road on the Raheja Mindspace flyover was in a bad shape with gravel scattered all over the place, the techie took to Twitter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bad-road-plaint-against-ghmc/articleshow/80141217.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||V P Joy returns to state cadre, to be next chief secretary||Thiruvananthapuram: The government has appointed chief-secretary-in-waiting V P Joy, who is coming back to the state cadre after his central deputation, as the officer on special duty, in the rank of additional chief secretary. He would take over as the new chief secretary on March 1, it is learnt. V P Joy, an officer from the 1987 batch, was the secretary of coordination in the Cabinet secretariat in New Delhi. He will have a term as chief secretary till June 30, 2023. In another appointment, B Ashok, who was waiting for posting after being transferred as road safety commissioner, has been appointed as the chairman and managing director of Kerala transport development finance corporation in place of ADGP M R Ajith Kumar, who was holding the additional charge of the post besides that of transport commissioner. The post of CMD, KTDFC, has been made equivalent to the status and responsibility of secretary to the government for posting B Ashok. Secretary (taxes-excise) Saurabh Jain has been appointed as the secretary (power), in the vacancy created after Dinesh Arora, who was holding the charge of power and public works departments and Kerala state transport project (KSTP), has gone on leave. It is reliably learnt that Arora is joining the Asian Development Bank (ADB). Secretary (water resources) and labour commissioner Pranab Jyothinath has been given the additional charge of project director of KSTP. Additional secretary Mohammed Y Safirulla has been given the full additional charge of secretary of electronics and IT. Meanwhile, principal secretary (higher education and environment) Usha Titus will retire from service on January 31. While chief secretary Vishwas Mehta will retire on February 28, additional chief secretary (labour and skills) Satyajeet Rajan will retire on March 31. Also, a couple of senior officials are learnt to have applied for leaving on central deputation. There may be a minor change in district collectors too, as a prelude to assembly elections, based on instructions from election commission of India, as the collectors of Palakkad and Pathanamthitta fall under the category of officials who completed three years in the same district. Sources said that there would be change in the posts of SPs of Malappuram and Alappuzha, in connection with the elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/v-p-joy-returns-to-state-cadre-to-be-next-chief-secretary/articleshow/80140160.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Chandigarh||HP signs MoU to set up mountain medicine institute||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh government on Wednesday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Six Sigma Healthcare to invest Rs 100 crore to set up Asia’s first mountain medicine institute in Shimla district and Chudhdhar areas. Six Sigma Healthcare, a super specialised mountain medicines team trained by the Armed Forces in India since 2009, has been providing free high altitude medical services in all pilgrimages like Amarnath, Kailash Mansarover, Kedarnath, Manimahesh and in disasters like Uttarakhand floods and Nepal earthquake. In the meeting, the proposal to set up the institute was given by the chief executive officer of Six Sigma, Dr Pradeep Bhardwaj, and board member of Six Sigma Major General Atul Kaushik, Souvik Chandra Dutta. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur accepted the proposal and said the state government will provide support in the purchase of the land for the institute in Shimla and Sirmaur district. He also appreciated the team of Six Sigma for providing healthcare facility in Kailash Manimahesh Yatra. He said the state government is committed to provide quality healthcare services in the mountainous areas and pilgrimage. Dr Pradeep Bharadwaj said the institute once operational would provide jobs to 727 youths. He said the objective of the institute is to develop all type of research in allopathy, homeopathy, ayurveda, naturopathy and yoga concerning high altitude mountains and to educate professionals in mountain medicines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hp-signs-mou-to-set-up-mountain-medicine-institute/articleshow/80141214.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Vadodara||Conmen cheat beautician with Rs 8L lucky draw prize||Vadodara: A beautician living in Bhayli ended up paying almost Rs 1 lakh to three conmen who cheated her by saying that she had won Rs 8.2 lakh in a lucky draw.The victim Ashwini Rana told police that she received a call on September 8 last year from a man named Nitish Kumar who identified himself as an employee of online marketplace Snapdeal. He told Rana that since she purchases beauty products from Snapdeal, she had been selected for a lucky draw and had won a cash prize of Rs 8.2 lakh. Rana, however, was asked to pay Rs 2,150 through online transfer as fees for participation. After making the first payment, Rana started getting calls daily from Kumar and two other persons for transferring money in different bank accounts as various charges. Police said that she was asked to pay the money for file processing charges, tax, GST and income-tax (I-T) among other reasons. Once when Rana refused to pay, she was told that I-T department will raid her home. On October 3 too, she was told that the prize money has been transferred to her bank account, but when she did not find any transaction entry, she called the accused to inquire. They made her pay Rs 20,000 more as bank charges, but the money never was never credited. “After receiving Rs 99,950 from the woman, they stop taking her calls. It was only then that she realized being cheated,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/conmen-cheat-beautician-with-rs-8l-lucky-draw-prize/articleshow/80140162.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Nagpur||New Ear Day: Cochlear implant surgeries resume||Nagpur: Cochlear implant surgeries under the Scheme of Assistance to Disabled Persons for Purchase/Fitting of Aids and Appliances (ADIP Scheme) resumed in the city. With 13 children getting hearing aid at government medical college and hospital (GMCH), four at Indira Gandhi government medical college and hospital (IGGMCH) and two at Orange City Hospital and Research Institute (OCHRI), 19 implants were successfully performed in the last three days under the mentorship of Padma Shri Dr Milind Kirtane. The children who got the hearing aid are under six years of age. Officials at GMCH claimed that 13 children receiving the cochlear implant in two days is one of the highest numbers of surgeries done in a single session in any government set up in the state. Cochlear implants under the ADIP scheme have become an annual feature these days and many children born with hearing impairment benefit through it every year. But 19 surgeries performed in three days (between January 1 and 3), that too in a Covid-19 situation is a major achievement and a good indicator of the fact that life is now returning to normalcy. “Since the Cochlear Implant Clinic and Care facility was started in November 2018, GMCH has successfully performed 47 cochlear implant surgeries till date and many children are registered under the scheme. We followed additional Covid protocols to perform the surgeries successfully,” said Dr Ashok Nitnaware, HoD (ENT). According to Dr Jeevan Vedi of IGGMCH, no child tested positive for Covid-19. “We conducted the RT-PCR tests of all children, their parents, their attendants apart from all doctors, nurses and the staff. Only those who tested negative were allowed to enter the operation area. Wearing masks or face shields was mandatory,” said Dr Vedi. Mayo Hospital has performed 38 surgeries till date with an additional four in the pipeline. Mayo was the first to start these surgeries for needy children in 2016. In OCHRI, two cochlear implants were done on January 2 by ENT surgeons Dr Nandu Kolwadkar and Dr Sameer Choudhary. Audiologists Dr Ashish Disawal and Neelu Somani supported the surgeries. “With Covid cases slowing down, the non-Covid OPD and indoor admissions are now in full swing at OCHRI to cover the backlog of elective cases. The public must understand the new 2021 routine. With the resumption of all activities, wearing masks always and hand sanitization before touching face and hands will continue to be the new normal,” said Dr Anup Marar, director of OCHRI. BACK TO NORMAL * First big surgical camp for kids in pandemic * GMCH performed 13 surgeries in two days — a record and reached 47 surgeries since 2018 * IGGMCH performed 4 surgeries and reached 38 implants since 2016 * OCHRI launched Cochlear Implant programme in 2015. Performed 2 surgeries * Doctors take care of all aspects right from assessment of patients, implant, post-operative surgical care, training and rehabilitation of patients||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-ear-day-cochlear-implant-surgeries-resume/articleshow/80141224.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 7, 2021||Nagpur||31% of 773 accidents in 2020 involved two-wheeler riders: Traffic dept data||Nagpur: Close to 31% of the accidents happening within Nagpur police limits involve two-wheeler riders, according to the findings of Nagpur traffic police in a study of about 773 accidents in 2020. According to the data, road accident deaths have reduced by 14.2% in 2020 compared to 2019, and the number of vehicles involved in fatal road accidents have reduced by 17%. As compared to 2019, the city roads witnessed 234 fewer accidents in 2020. In 2020, the city roads witnessed 773 accidents, including 195 fatal, 283 serious and 295 minor accidents, claiming lives of 213 people (185 male and 28 female) and injuring 752. In 2019, the city had reported 1,007 accidents which claimed 250 lives (including 208 males), and injuring 1,042 others. More than 35% fatal accidents involve heavy vehicles, followed by four-wheelers, as reported in 10 zones of traffic police. As per the DCP (traffic) data, 69 heavy vehicles were involved in fatal accidents, followed by four-wheelers which accounted for 36 fatal accidents, and two-wheelers with 35 fatal accidents witnessed in the last calendar year. Though the number of traffic-related offences have increased significantly in the last calendar year, the intensification of traffic police drive against violators has reduced the number of road accidents in 2020. Constant enforcement by the traffic police and Covid-19 lockdown has led to a drastic decline in road accident deaths during the year 2020 in the city. The 2020 data also indicates that internal roads in Nagpur are more accident-prone as compared to state and national highways. The data revealed that internal roads in the city witnessed 473 accidents, while inner ring road recorded 82 accidents in 2020. Amravati road, too, earned the dubious distinction with 42 accidents, followed by 37 each on Wardha and Jabalpur roads. Hingna Road is safer among the busy roads in the city. It has witnessed only seven accidents, revealed the traffic police data. The traffic police said a number of initiatives were taken to control road accidents, which is bearing results. Police said that a couple of days ago, 125 bikes were seized in a special drive against minors involved in rash and negligent riding. City police chief Amitesh Kumar interacted with their parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/31-of-773-accidents-in-2020-involved-two-wheeler-riders-traffic-dept-data/articleshow/80140158.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 7, 2021||Navi-mumbai||More Indian airlines could face bankruptcy in March when suspension of law is lifted: Report||MUMBAI: One or more Indian carriers may head to the National Company Law Tribunal once the suspension of the bankruptcy law is lifted at the end of March, said the Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation (CAPA), an aviation consultancy firm. On Monday, the firm released a list of trends to watch out for in 2021. To help businesses hit by the pandemic, the government had suspended the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code last year, and later extended the suspension to March 31, 2021. Without significant recapitalisation, atleast one Indian carrier, if not more, will head towards bankruptcy. The other big trend would be “consolidation” . “Consolidation is inevitable and will be strategic in nature. It could result in a 2-3 airline system in the near term,’’ said the CAPA 2021 trends report, adding that Air India’s privatisation is likely to be successful by the end of 2021. The Indian airline sector will be completely private then. Tata Sons will increase its shareholding in AirAsia India from its recent 84% to 100%, it predicted. “The structure of competition may change in the near to medium term, possibly resulting in a two-horse race in both the airline and airport sectors. Following the privatisation of Air India, the airline sector is likely to be dominated by two major players, with a combined domestic market share of around 75-80%. The acquisition of Mumbai and Navi Mumbai airports by Adani Airports may result in a two-horse race emerging in the private airport sector. These developments will necessitate a strengthening of competition and consumer protection regulations,’’ said CAPA. Domestic traffic in FY2022 is expected to reach 70-80% of FY2020 levels. But this does not factor in the possibility of industry consolidation and supply-side risks. Discretionary domestic travel segments, which accounted for an estimated 55% of the market pre-Covid, are are unlikely to return until the pandemic is under greater control or deployment of a vaccine is widespread, it said. International traffic is only expected to recover to 35-40% of FY2020 levels. FY2022 is expected to be another year of large losses for the industry, especially airlines. The cap on airfares imposed by the government in May last year might continue to the first half of 2021, CAPA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/more-indian-airlines-could-face-bankruptcy-in-march-when-suspension-of-law-is-lifted-report/articleshow/80150149.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Special team arrests woman in Goa||Hyderabad: A special team arrested a woman in Goa for cheating. In 2013, Samala Padmaja, her husband Samala Narsi Reddy and five others convinced P Vijay Raja to pay a loan of Rs 5 crore and to invest Rs 3 crore for constructing villas in Gopanapalli. The project did not have clearances. Niranjan Reddy, circle inspector, Punjagutta PS said other accused are absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/spl-team-arrests-woman-in-goa/articleshow/80141211.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Vijayawada||Expert panel to assess damage to Somasila project area on Sunday||AMARAVATI: Taking serious note of damages at the Somasila project, the government has constituted an expert committee to inspect the project area. The 11-member committee comprising several retired chief engineers and superintending engineers will make the field inspection on Sunday. The experts’ team has been directed to assess the quantum of damages to the apron and concrete flooring during the recent floods. Although the structures of the project were designed to take a load of about seven lakh cusecs of flood, the cracks are visible on the entire concrete platform of the apron and flooring area even for an outflow of just around 3.5 lakh cusecs. Several concrete structures were completely washed away in the recent floods after which project engineers alerted senior officials prompting the constitution of the expert committee. The irrigation department is planning to take up modernisation and repair works to the damaged portion after the receipt of the expert committee’s report. Somasila project is one of the oldest reservoirs constructed across the Penna river with a capacity of 78 tmc and helps farmers of nearly six lakh acres in the upland region of the district to cultivate different crops. While four lakh acres of the ayucut gets water for paddy cultivation, Irrigated Dry (ID) crops are cultivated on another two lakh acres. Although the project was commissioned almost two decades ago, authorities have never filled the project to its Full Reservoir Level (FRL) due to various reasons including insufficient inflows from the upstream. The project receives nearly 15 tmc of Krishna water from Pothireddypadu canal. About 30 tmc of flood water is being released for agriculture under Kandaleru and close to another 5 tmc for drinking water in Udayagiri constituency. “Somasila is an important project which is helping several lakhs of farmers get irrigation water in the district. We will take all required measures to protect the project,” said irrigation minister Anil Kumar Yadav, and added that chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has agreed to extend full support to take up the required repairs. He said they have also launched works for the second phase of lift irrigation on the project. The new lift scheme will irrigate about 50,000 acres in the upland regions of Atmakur and Udayagiri constituencies, the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/expert-panel-to-assess-damage-to-somasila-project-area-on-sunday/articleshow/80140149.cms||Samdani MN
January 7, 2021||Amaravati||Expert panel to assess damage to Somasila project area on Sunday||AMARAVATI: Taking serious note of damages at the Somasila project, the government has constituted an expert committee to inspect the project area. The 11-member committee comprising several retired chief engineers and superintending engineers will make the field inspection on Sunday. The experts’ team has been directed to assess the quantum of damages to the apron and concrete flooring during the recent floods. Although the structures of the project were designed to take a load of about seven lakh cusecs of flood, the cracks are visible on the entire concrete platform of the apron and flooring area even for an outflow of just around 3.5 lakh cusecs. Several concrete structures were completely washed away in the recent floods after which project engineers alerted senior officials prompting the constitution of the expert committee. The irrigation department is planning to take up modernisation and repair works to the damaged portion after the receipt of the expert committee’s report. Somasila project is one of the oldest reservoirs constructed across the Penna river with a capacity of 78 tmc and helps farmers of nearly six lakh acres in the upland region of the district to cultivate different crops. While four lakh acres of the ayucut gets water for paddy cultivation, Irrigated Dry (ID) crops are cultivated on another two lakh acres. Although the project was commissioned almost two decades ago, authorities have never filled the project to its Full Reservoir Level (FRL) due to various reasons including insufficient inflows from the upstream. The project receives nearly 15 tmc of Krishna water from Pothireddypadu canal. About 30 tmc of flood water is being released for agriculture under Kandaleru and close to another 5 tmc for drinking water in Udayagiri constituency. “Somasila is an important project which is helping several lakhs of farmers get irrigation water in the district. We will take all required measures to protect the project,” said irrigation minister Anil Kumar Yadav, and added that chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has agreed to extend full support to take up the required repairs. He said they have also launched works for the second phase of lift irrigation on the project. The new lift scheme will irrigate about 50,000 acres in the upland regions of Atmakur and Udayagiri constituencies, the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/expert-panel-to-assess-damage-to-somasila-project-area-on-sunday/articleshow/80147745.cms||Samdani MN
January 7, 2021||Mumbai||More Indian airlines could face bankruptcy in March when suspension of law is lifted: Report||MUMBAI: One or more Indian carriers may head to the National Company Law Tribunal once the suspension of the bankruptcy law is lifted at the end of March, said the Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation (CAPA), an aviation consultancy firm. On Monday, the firm released a list of trends to watch out for in 2021. To help businesses hit by the pandemic, the government had suspended the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code last year, and later extended the suspension to March 31, 2021. Without significant recapitalisation, atleast one Indian carrier, if not more, will head towards bankruptcy. The other big trend would be “consolidation” . “Consolidation is inevitable and will be strategic in nature. It could result in a 2-3 airline system in the near term,’’ said the CAPA 2021 trends report, adding that Air India’s privatisation is likely to be successful by the end of 2021. The Indian airline sector will be completely private then. Tata Sons will increase its shareholding in AirAsia India from its recent 84% to 100%, it predicted. “The structure of competition may change in the near to medium term, possibly resulting in a two-horse race in both the airline and airport sectors. Following the privatisation of Air India, the airline sector is likely to be dominated by two major players, with a combined domestic market share of around 75-80%. The acquisition of Mumbai and Navi Mumbai airports by Adani Airports may result in a two-horse race emerging in the private airport sector. These developments will necessitate a strengthening of competition and consumer protection regulations,’’ said CAPA. Domestic traffic in FY2022 is expected to reach 70-80% of FY2020 levels. But this does not factor in the possibility of industry consolidation and supply-side risks. Discretionary domestic travel segments, which accounted for an estimated 55% of the market pre-Covid, are are unlikely to return until the pandemic is under greater control or deployment of a vaccine is widespread, it said. International traffic is only expected to recover to 35-40% of FY2020 levels. FY2022 is expected to be another year of large losses for the industry, especially airlines. The cap on airfares imposed by the government in May last year might continue to the first half of 2021, CAPA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/more-indian-airlines-could-face-bankruptcy-in-march-when-suspension-of-law-is-lifted-report/articleshow/80142650.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Surat||Recover power theft dues from garage property: Court||Surat: In a 2008 case of power theft by a garage owner, the additional civil judge in Bharuch ordered the Dakshin Gujarat Vij Company Ltd (DGVCL) to recover its dues of stolen power from all types of movable and immovable properties of the garage located near Bharuch. The court also ordered the garage to bear cost of the complainant as well as his own. As per the case details, officials of the DGVCL, a state owned power distribution company in South Gujarat, carried out a checking at Ramu Motors, near Nalanda Complex, National Highway Number 8 at Bharuch on November 24, 2018, They found that while the garage was not a consumer of DGVCL, it took illegal electricity connections and was engaged in power theft. Owner of the garage, Raju Motilal Yadav, was caught red-handed stealing 180 watt units of electricity amounting to Rs 22,117 along with charges as per company rule. Out of the total outstanding bill amount, the firm paid Rs 11,500 to DGVCL with a request to grant it some time to pay the remaining amount. DGVCL accepted the request, but the accused failed to pay the amount. Finally, the firm had a total of Rs 14,471 as pending dues together with delay payment charge amount (from November 2008 to December 2010) of Rs 3,853. After the firm failed to pay the dues, DGVCL filed a suit in the court to recover its amount. Moreover, the owner of the garage firm failed to remain present for the court hearings and also didn’t send any representative to defend the suit. based on the discom’s argument, the court ordered: “The garage is ordered to pay Rs 14,417 to the power distribution company with 9 percent per annum interest from the date of institution of the suit till the realisation of the amount from all types of movable and immovable properties.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/recover-power-theft-dues-from-garage-property-court/articleshow/80139240.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
January 7, 2021||Chandigarh||Local youths turn saviours||Local youths, who have formed ‘Team Raptors’ group, proved to be live-savers for hundreds of tourists on Tuesday night. As both police and administration do not have four-wheel-drive vehicles for snow rescue operations, they seek help from Team Raptors, reports Suresh Sharma. The group, which includes ace rallyst Suresh Rana, brought around 500 stranded tourists from Solang to Manali. On Saturday, they had rescued over 300 tourists from the Atal Tunnel. Another team member Jony Singh said, “When we reached Solang at night, most tourists had locked themselves inside their cars to keep themselves warm. The parking area was full of vehicles. When we said that we have come for their help, they started coming out. We first helped people with children and the elderly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/local-youths-turn-saviours/articleshow/80141218.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 7, 2021||Chandigarh||Avalanches swamp road to Atal Tunnel||Manali: Three avalanches reportedly hit the Manali-Atal Tunnel highway beyond Solang valley on Wednesday, disrupting all vehicular movement. The area has witnessed over 90cm of snowfall. There are possibilities of more avalanches in the next few days. A massive avalanche, barely 200m from the Atal Tunnel south portal, buried nearly 100m stretch of the highway under snow. The north portal of the tunnel has also received heavy snow over last three days and there are strong possibilities of avalanches. A BRO official said a massive avalanche has been reported at MSP-12 just next to the entry gate of the tunnel on its south side. “We are clearing the debris,” he said. Snow has blocked the highway in Lahaul and BRO is using snow blowers to clear it. In Kullu, police have stopped traffic movement at Nehru Kund, 6 kms from Manali. “The road beyond Solang is closed. Vehicular movement will be regulated depending on the weather and road condition,” Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/avalanches-swamp-road-to-atal-tunnel/articleshow/80141210.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Will vaccine be given to lawyers as priority: HC||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Wednesday asked the state government whether it would accord priority to advocates and court staff while administering the Covid-19 vaccine. A bench of Justice A Rajasheker Reddy and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave time to the state counsel till Friday to ascertain from the government. The bench converted a letter written by advocate Ponnam Ashok Goud as a PIL and issued a notice to the government. The advocate in his letter expressed apprehensions over the safety of advocates. He said the lawyers run from one court hall to another in pursuit of arguing their cases and inevitably run the risk of getting afflicted with the virus. “It is equally precarious for the court staff,” he contended. Though the state counsel said the government would act in tune with the Centre’s guidelines and sought four weeks to get back to the court, the judges said two days are more than enough to get a clarity on this pressing issue. The judges agreed with the plea of the state counsel to implead the central government in the case. The bench adjourned the case to January 8 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/will-vaccine-be-given-to-lawyers-as-priority-hc/articleshow/80141231.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Jaipur||400 farmers from Maha reach Jaipur, to join farmers’ protest in Delhi||Jaipur: Nearly 400 farmers from Maharashtra, who are on their way to Delhi to extend their support to the farmer’s agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws, have reached Jaipur.Apart from their demand to repeal the farm laws, they would also want to raise issues pertaining to farmers’ suicides in Maharashtra and call upon the central government to bring a policy to address it.While most of the Maharashtra farmers have reached Alwar’s Shahjahanpur border, around 100 of them have stayed put at a Gurudwara near Ramgarh Mod in Jaipur because of rains.Suraj Mehetre, who came from Parbhani district in Maharashtra, said since minimum support price (MSP) was not guaranteed to the farmers for their produce, hundreds of farmers committed suicide in the district over the past few years. “Family members of 50 such farmers have come with us. We neither get MSP nor appropriate market value for our agricultural produce. Due to low income, we are unable to meet the cost of production and run our families. Hence, the farmers are pushed to commit suicides in the state,” said Suraj, who produces wheat, cotton, soyabean, moong and other crops in his agricultural field.“Most of the farmers who committed suicide in our district are in their 20’s. The government should make a policy to address this issue and ensure free education for the children of the farmers. A farmers’ quota should be created for education of their children,” he added.Meanwhile, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) convener Hanuman Beniwal said, “On January 8, we will decide on RLP’s next move in support of the farmers’ agitation. We will declare our fresh strategy on the same day. If they (the government) want to see a large crowd, lakhs and lakhs of people will participate in the agitation in the coming days.”“The government should give up their obstinacy and repeal the three farm laws. I also appeal to the government to ensure a guarantee on MSP. The government should have consulted the NDA members and all political parties before bringing these laws. Everybody would have welcomed the laws had these been in support of increasing the income of the farmers.”Congress MLAs Chetan Dudi and Govind Ram Meghwal also joined the farmers’ agitation at Shahjahanpur border on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/400-farmers-from-maha-reach-jaipur-to-join-farmers-protest-in-delhi/articleshow/80141219.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Nagpur||Tired of waiting, coaching institutes to press govt for reopening nod||Nagpur: After being in ‘wait and watch’ mode for long, coaching institutes finally decided to approach the government regarding reopening of their sector. Even as wine shops, bars, restaurants, religious places and schools have reopened, no permission was granted to coaching classes to open. While every sector’s associations kept up the pressure on the government on reopening, coaching institutes were hoping the government would grant them permission in due course of time on its own. However, government has not said anything about them. Institutes in big cities like Mumbai and Pune too could not make a strong pitch for reopening even though they are geographically closer to the power centre. Vidarbha region, which is fast becoming a hub of coaching activity, is home to the more active group known as Association of Coaching Institutes (ACI). Rajnikant Bondre, president of ACI, said, “We will now be writing to the state government and demanding permission to reopen. Now that schools have also opened, it makes no sense to keep our institutes closed.” ACI’s argument is that students of Std IX-XII, for whom state has granted permission for physical classes, are of the same age group that attend coaching classes. ACI also says that keeping institutes closed also means a loss to the exchequer. “We pay income tax and GST in addition to other taxes and make a sizable contribution to the exchequer. We never get any facility from the government in return and are always neglected,” said Bondre. He added coaching institutes had been “conveniently omitted” in every unlock circular. “In many other states coaching institutes have been permited to reopen. Keeping them closed is causing a tremendous loss to students in Maharashtra as they have to get ready for competitive exams like JEE, NEET etc,” said Bondre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tired-of-waiting-coaching-institutes-to-press-govt-for-reopening-nod/articleshow/80140166.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
January 7, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Sabari rail: Kerala to pay 50% cost||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state cabinet has decided to bear half the expenses for constructing the Angamaly-Erumeli Sabari rail project, that has an estimated project cost of Rs 2,815 crore. The funds will be made available through Kerala infrastructure investment fund board (KIIFB). The project was originally announced in the railway budget of 1997-98. The project was envisaged considering the convenience of devotees visiting Sabarimala from various parts of the country and the need for developing south-western part of the state. The project, when announced, had an estimated cost of Rs 517 crore, that has now touched Rs 2,815 crore. Railways, which originally was not keen on implementing the project, later took a stand that half the estimated cost should be borne by the state government. In this backdrop, the state government decided to bear half the project cost. The state cabinet has also put forward some conditions before the railways for sharing the project cost. The operation and maintenance of the project should be by the railways, and the development of stations on the route should be on public-private partnership model. The state government had entered into an agreement with ministry of railways for the formation of a joint venture company for development of railway infrastructure in the state in September 2016. The company was formed with an aim to identify projects and possible financing avenues and form special purpose vehicles (SPVs) for each project. The Sabari rail project was one of the priority projects of the company. The state cabinet on Wednesday also considered the factor that if the project is extended to Punalur in Kollam, the railway line can be extended to Tamil Nadu in future. The total length of Angamaly-Erumeli project is 111km, of which only 7km has been completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sabari-rail-state-to-pay-50-cost/articleshow/80140168.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees over 4,000 cases after an interval of 21 days||MUMBAI: After a gap of 21 days, the state recorded over 4,000 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. A total of 4,380 cases and 66 fatalities were recorded in the state, taking the tally to 19,54,553 and the death toll to 49,825. Mumbai, too, saw a marginal jump in cases. On Wednesday, the city reported nearly 800 cases after seeing an average of 650 cases in December. A total of 795 cases and 8 deaths were reported in the city, taking the tally to 2,96,320 and the toll to 11,155. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that nearly 15,000 tests were being carried out in the city every day. “On certain days, there are more tests, so we see slightly higher cases,” Kakani said. A civic official said that due to New Year festivities, daily tests had dropped to 11,000-12,000 in the first few days of 2021. Dr Archana Patil of the Directorate of Health Services said that trends cannot be derived from a spike in cases for a day. “They fluctuate based on testing in a day. Overall, the cases and deaths are under control in the state,” she said, adding that the system was now gearing up for the mammoth vaccination drive. In Maharashtra, more than 7.5 lakh healthcare workers have already been registered to get the vaccine in the first round. The state cabinet on Wednesday had a discussion on the Covid-19 vaccination drive and the preparedness of the state health machinery for it. The administration explained that the state is all geared up and will be following all the protocols laid down by the ICMR for it. The Union health ministry will be having a video-conference with all the states on Thursday to review the preparedness to roll out the Covid-19 vaccine. Maharashtra will be raising its queries and concerns in the meeting and the public health minister said they will also demand that the Centre cover the cost of vaccination for people from below poverty line as well. After the meeting, as part of the country-wide dry run, there will be a dry run in the state as well on Friday. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region saw 6.7 lakh cases and 19,186 deaths. Kalyan-Dombivli did not see a single Covid-19 death on Wednesday for the second day in a row. A health official said that the previous two deaths were reported two days ago, on Monday. Kalyan-DOmbivli reported 124 Covid-19 cases, taking the tally of patients to 58,034. There have been 1,110 deaths so far. Currently, 903 patients are undergoing treatment. As many as 142 new positive cases were reported from Thane city on Wednesday, taking the tally of infected people in the city to 56,138 while three Covid deaths took the virus toll to 1,257. The recovery rate in Thane was at 96% with 53882 people recovered and 999 still under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-sees-over-4000-cases-after-an-interval-of-21-days/articleshow/80143442.cms||Bhavika Jain
January 7, 2021||Vijayawada||ABV moves anticipatory bail plea||VIJAYAWADA: A day after writing to the IPS officers’ association, former state intelligence chief AB Venkateswara Rao moved the high court seeking anticipatory bail. In his plea, Rao stated that he has reliable information that a case is being fabricated to arrest him and suspend him again on the basis of being in judicial remand for 48 hours. The matter came for hearing before Justice Lalitha Kanneganti on Wednesday. Rao’s counsel requested the court to take up the matter for hearing instead of adjourning it. However, the public prosecutor argued that as the petition has been filed in an unregistered crime, the law and order police are not aware of the matter and do not have a clue about the case. At this stage they cannot answer any of the issues raised in the petition, he said, and requested the court to adjourn the matter for obtaining instructions. Justice Lalitha said that they cannot hear the matter at this stage as the public prosecutor and also the standing counsels for ACB and CID, who have been made respondents, also need to get instructions and posted the matter for further hearing to Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/abv-moves-anticipatory-bail-plea/articleshow/80140164.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Chandigarh||Centre arm-twisting Punjab over farmers’ protest: Manpreet Singh Badal||CHANDIGARH: Blaming the Centre for not releasing Punjab’s rural development fund (RDF) and pending share of GST, Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal termed it as an ‘arm-twisting’ tactic in wake of the ongoing farmers’ protest against farm laws. He also claimed that while Covid pandemic pushed the global economy into recession, Punjab has not availed the overdraft facility in the current financial year. “Holding back the RDF is an arm-twisting tactic. They (BJP at the Centre) are annoyed with us over the fact that Punjab farmers are agitating and that we are not controlling it. The pending GST is Rs 8,500 crore. The Centre has raised the borrowing limit from 3 % to 5 % but Punjab will not go beyond 3% at least this year,” he said. “Their promise on the MSP does not ring true because of the way they defaulted on the GST compensation issue, which was a constitutional obligation,” said Manpreet. Punjab deprived of RDF, food park for UAEGiving a last year’s wrap up, Manpreet rued that where the Centre had deprived Punjab of RDF, it did not choose the state for setting up of one of the three food parks for the UAE. “It would have been a big investment and UAE was keen on coming to Punjab. We had even sent a proposal. No prize for guessing that one of the park projects went to Gujarat,” he said. “The Centre’s attitude towards Punjab is unfair. They held back Rs 1,200 crore RDF. I met with the Union minister also and the move smacked of politics,” he added. On the delay in GST compensation, he said, “There is huge pendency of GST by the Centre. The Centre now says we cannot compensate fully due to Covid. They want us to borrow the interest while the Centre will give the original of the total loss due to the pandemic. With a population of around 3 crore, there is a per head debt of a bit less than Rs 1 lakh. But we don’t intend to borrow this year,” he added. Punjab was the last state to agree to the Centre’s options on GST compensation, he said. No data of pensioners, properties“You will be surprised to know that Punjab had no electronic database of pensioners in the state. There were also complaints of harassment and corruption. But now after the data is ready, the pensioners can track the status of their pension on their phones,” said Manpreet. Soon Punjab will be ready with a new database that will keep a track of all properties and buildings of the Punjab government in the state. “We did not know how many properties we had in Mohali or how many offices we had in a district. Even for revenue earning departments like GST, a software is being provided to track the amount of collections made by the,” he said. “After the vehicle management system was brought in, there was a dip of 16% in fuel consumption despite the hike in prices. This also helped in checking irregularities. Now, the Punjab government is also keeping a track of direct beneficiaries of the various centrally-sponsored schemes digitally. “These funds go to the accounts of the beneficiaries and are not transferred to any of the state departments,” he said. Salaries delayed for complianceManpreet added, “You read news reports about salaries of employees of some department getting delayed. The reason is that we introduced a human resource management system last year and not due to any financial crunch. These departments were reluctant to be HRMS compliant. We asked them to furnish details of their total employees. Eventually, the finance department had to stop the salaries to push them. The result was that the presence of ghost employees was ruled out. There were departments that had almost 500 bank accounts and it was suspected that government funds were parked there.” Staff didn’t face cuts, paid betterPunjab has not imposed any cuts or any delay in the salaries of its employees as has been done in almost 16 states even though the pay scales are 15-25% higher in Punjab than in case of central employees. “I am myself keen that the report of the pay commission is received so that it could be incorporated in the next state budget. But I cannot force them to do it,” he said. On employees being up in arms against the delay in dearness allowance (DA) instalment, Manpreet said one reason for the cost-saving was for giving central scales to its new recruits. Resource mobilisationManpreet claimed that Punjab had undertaken additional resource mobilisation measures like development tax of Rs 200 per month which has generated revenue to the tune of Rs 94.24 crore and Rs 138.07 crore in 2018-19 and 2019-20; implemented social security surcharge on vehicles that has brought revenue of Rs 56 crore in 2018-19 and Rs 53.39 crore in 2019-20 to be used specifically for providing social service benefits; electricity duty in rural areas has also been revised from 13% to 15%; stamp duty on urban property registration has been rationalized from 9% to 6% that has led to an increase in revenue by 4.48% (2017-18) and further by 7.61% (2018-19). He added that other initiatives included shifting of 470 government offices from private buildings to government or semi-government buildings. Punjab didn’t go into overdraftManpreet claimed that prudent debt management through a dedicated debt management unit; investment of Rs 972 crore in the consolidated sinking fund helped the state in saving Rs 10.75 crore in 2017-18, Rs. 21.70 crore in 2018-19 and Rs 5 crore in 2019-20 respectively. Consequently, the state during the current fiscal year 2020-21 has not gone into overdraft for even a single day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/centre-arm-twisting-punjab-over-farmers-protest-manpreet/articleshow/80141225.cms||Vibhor Mohan
January 7, 2021||Jaipur||Complete Aadhar seeding of 33 lakh NFSA beneficiaries by organising camps||Jaipur: The food and civil supplies department secretary Naveen Jain on Wednesday directed the district supplies officers (DSOs) of all districts to complete Aadhar seeding of remaining 33 lakh NFSA beneficiaries in the state by organising camps in the districts. Of the remaining ones, it has been observed that most of the beneficiaries do not have Aadhar cards and the officials have been directed to issue fresh cards to them. Under ‘One Nation, One Ration Card’ scheme, so far, Aadhar seeding of 4.18 crore beneficiaries has been completed. The department, meanwhile, has seized 16 bio-diesel pumps in Churu and Chittorgarh districts for illegal sale of bio diesel over the past few days.Meanwhile, Jaipur divisional commissioner Samit Sharma on Wednesday issued orders to supend development officer of Parasoli village, during his visit to Dudu, as the official was found to absent from duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/complete-aadhar-seeding-of-33-lakh-nfsa-beneficiaries-by-organising-camps/articleshow/80141232.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Madurai||5.75kg of pangolin scales seized from gang||Theni: Personnel from the wildlife crime control bureau (WCCB), forest department and the Theni district police arrested five people and seized 5.75kg of pangolin scales from them. The value of the seizure is estimated at several lakh rupees. An official said that pangolins that are protected under Schedule I of The Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, are hunted for misconception over their medicinal value. It is mostly exported to China. Based on a tip-off, P Sekar, 50, of Kadamalaikundu village near Andipatti in Theni was picked up for questioning. The scales were seized from him and based on information provided by him they arrested R Munusamy, S Latchumanan, V Chellapandi and K Vanaraj. Inquiry with the accused revealed that about a kilogram of scales was obtained from a pangolin. Officials said the docile creatures are trapped by setting snarls at the mouth of their burrows, using dogs or by blowing smoke into the burrows. Largescale hunting has pushed the creature on the verge of extinction. The accused were subjected to medical examination and remanded in judicial custody on Wednesday. Further inquiries were carried out by the forest department to nab the network.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/5-75kg-of-pangolin-scales-seized-from-gang/articleshow/80142589.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Nagpur||Probe starts after NGT order in pollution case||CHANDRAPUR: The joint committee of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and Maharashtra State Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has begun probe into alleged pollution caused by Chandrapur Super Thermal Power Station (CSTPS) and Western Coal Fields (WCL) mines around the city. The directives were issued by principal bench of National Green Tribunal (NGT) in the wake of a writ petition filed by industrialist and president of Chandrapur MIDC Industries Association, Madhusudan Roongta in high court, which was later shifted to NGT following the request of MPCB. In the petition filed in 2017, Roongta had alleged emissions beyond the norms prescribed under clause 25 of Schedule-I to the Environment (Protection) Rules, 1986. There is also non-compliance of notification dated January 25, 2016, issued by the MoEF&CC requiring fly ash disposal by December 31, 2017, the petitioner alleged. In view of non-appearance on behalf of applicants, who sought to move the case to NGT, the principal bench issued the order directing CPCB and MPCB to form a joint committee to look into latest status of compliance of environment norms The NGT has given three months to CPCB and MPCB to submit the report. Reliable sources told TOI that the investigation started on Monday and CPCB and MPCB committee members have collected the ambient air quality samples and water samples from CSTPS premises. The team on Wednesday collected the air quality samples at the Padmapur, Bhatadi, Lalpeth, and Durgapur mines under WCL Chandrapur area. Water samples from the discharge points in mines were also collected. The members thoroughly inspected the power plant and WCL mines. The inspection is likely to continue for a couple of more days. Hearing will take place based on the reports, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/probe-starts-after-ngt-order-in-pollution-case/articleshow/80141241.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Madurai||Not a sweet Pongal for farmers as cane prices crash||Madurai: With just a week to go for Pongal festival, sugarcane (sengarumbu) farmers in Madurai district are complaining of crashing prices due to less demand arising out of incessant rains, which lashed several parts of Tamil Nadu. With not many traders turning up to procure the cane, farmers are selling the produce to the society at a loss, to be distributed by the government free of cost. Farmers also blamed the middlemen for taking away all the profits and resulting in loss to them. Sugarcane, one of the main ingredients for the festival, is being harvested in full swing in Madurai. Navinipatti, Keelaiyur, Thaniyamangalam, Sathamangalam, A Vallalapatti, Karuthapuliampatti of Melur block and Mangulam, Meenakshipuram, Arumbanaur and Kallanthiri in Madurai East block. Farmers said that sengarumbu (chewable cane) cultivation is taken up in around 5,000 acres in Madurai. A Boomiraja, a farmer from Thukkalapatti village near Mangulam said that price of sugarcane depends on the quality and length. “We sold a vandi (300 pieces) at an average price of Rs 4,200 last year, but this year traders are buying it at Rs 3,200 to Rs 3,500. The recent rains have resulted in less demand as people do not prefer to eat sugarcane during rainy season,” he said. S Anandakumaran, a farmer from Koothappanpatti village said, “Government is paying well for the sugarcane procurement, but the benefit does not reach us. Middlemen take away all the profits, while we face loss. This year, I cultivated sugarcane in two acres, but I am planning to cultivate it in just one acre next season.” Farmers say that best quality sugarcanes would have fetched around Rs 6,500 to Rs 7,000 per vandi this year had it not rained for long. It is now being sold between Rs 5,200 and Rs 5,500. With traders having brought down the demand, farmers are forced to less their produced for lesser price, they say. K Lakshmanan, a farmer from Thaniyamangalam said that traders procure each peice at Rs 10 to Rs 15 from farmers, but sell them between Rs 25 and Rs 30. “Middlemen take away all the profits, while they face loss. It takes around Rs 3,000 to Rs 3,500 to produce a vandi sugarcane, apart from cutting charges. Farmers invest around Rs 30,000 per acre for the cultivation of normal sugarcane meant of sugar production, while chewing sugarcane requires more than Rs 1 lakh per acre,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/not-a-sweet-pongal-for-farmers-as-cane-prices-crash/articleshow/80142641.cms||V Devanathan
January 7, 2021||Chandigarh||CM rubbishing minister’s statement only to defend his lies: SAD||Chandigarh: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday said it did not behove chief minister Amarinder Singh to lie and try to rubbish a factual statement given by food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu who had said that the Congress government had implemented one of the three farm laws by allowing outsiders to sell their produce in Punjab. Former minister and SAD spokesperson Dr Daljit Singh Cheema also questioned the chief minister for trying to bring the fourth estate into disrepute by terming media reports of his minister as well as Ludhiana MP Ravneet Bittu, admitting that the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 had been implemented in Punjab, as mischievous. The SAD leader said it was strange that the chief minister had released a press note to rubbish factual coverage of the press conference of Ashu, but had not said one word to clarify whether the black law had been implemented in Punjab or not. “It is obvious that you know you are lying and don’t have any feet to stand on. That is why you have come out with a wishy washy statement in a desperate bid to befool the people after being exposed thoroughly,” he said. Dr Cheema said if the chief minister felt that the food and civil supplies minister had lied to the people, he should sack Ashu immediately. The SAD spokesperson said it was also a fact that the Congress government had not only implemented the black laws, but had also made amendments in the APMC Act in 2017 to implement the same provisions as contained in the three anti-farmer agricultural laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cm-rubbishing-ministers-statement-only-to-defend-his-lies-sad/articleshow/80141233.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Vijayawada||Minor fire breaks out at GGH in Guntur||GUNTUR: A minor fire broke out in the Covid-19 and neighbouring wards at Government General Hospital (GGH) late on Wednesday night. No injuries were reported. The fire reportedly broke out in a fuse box connected to an old electrical cable in the corridor in the old block of GGH. Patients in the Covid-19 ward noticed the fire and shouted for help. GGH authorities shifted patients on the first floor to another block. About 15 Covid-19 and five dialysis patients in the second floor were also shifted to other wards. GGH staff contained the fire before fire tenders arrived. SP RN Ammireddy and GGH superintendent Dr N Prabhavati visited the hospital and enquired about the mishap. Superintendent Prabhavati said all the patients were safe and the mishap was the result of a short circuit in the power supply line.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/minor-fire-breaks-out-at-ggh/articleshow/80140167.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Rise in Covid admissions in pvt hospitals delays plan to shut down separate wards in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Corporate hospitals have been seeing a slight increase in admissions of Covid-19 patients over the last three to four weeks. While this has not led to a shortage of beds — as asymptomatic patients are no longer seeking admission unlike at the beginning of the pandemic — it has led to a further delay in hospitals’ plans to wrap up Covid wards by December end. In fact, hospitals are now going to wait and watch till the end of January to see the impact of the upcoming Sankranti festival and the ensuing marriage season to decide on the possibility of wrapping up Covid wards. “From seeing one or two, and sometimes, no new admission in 24 hours in the second half of November and early December, we are now seeing a slight increase in cases. This week, for instance, we have seen 35 new admissions. All of these have been symptomatic patients,” said a senior official from a corporate hospital in the city. As per government records, bed occupancy in the government sector has been constant since December 1, but there is an increase in occupancy in the private sector. While currently nine per cent of beds allocated for Covid-19 treatment are occupied (774 out of 8,575 in government hospitals in the state), in the private sector 19 per cent beds are occupied (1,501 out of 7,769). Dr Bhaskar Rao, president Telangana Super Speciality Hospitals Association, said, “Although there is a five per cent to 10 per cent increase in admissions in super speciality hospitals, it may not be a representation of the entire state as a lot of hospitals which were not taking admissions earlier are taking covid patients now. However, with the increase in cases hospitals will have to wait and watch till the end of this month to take a decision on Covid wards. We had expected cases to come down drastically in December and closing Covid wards by end of that month, but that has not happened.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rise-in-covid-admissions-in-pvt-hosps-delays-plan-to-shut-down-separate-wards/articleshow/80141236.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||International sweet and kite fests likely to be deferred||HYDERABAD: With the annual Numaish not taking place this year, two of Telangana government’s events—the International Sweet Festival and the Kite Festival—are also likely to be deferred. The department of language & culture planned to organise the International Sweet Festival and Kite Festival for three days from January 13 to 15, coinciding with the Makara Sankranti festival. Officials have already sent a detailed programme to get the government’s approval. “We are ready to organise once the state government gives the clearance, as late as two days ahead of schedule,” Mamidi Hari Krishna, director, department of language and culture told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/intl-sweet-and-kite-fests-likely-to-be-deferred/articleshow/80141242.cms||Sunil Mungara
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana records 410 fresh Covid infections||HYDERABAD: The number of active cases in Telangana went below the 5,000 mark, a first since June, even as the state recorded 417 new cases of Covid-19 and two deaths on Wednesday. Overall, 2,81,872 patients in the state have recovered from the infection and there are 4,982 active cases under medical supervision now. On June 14, the state reported 4,974 active cases Of the patients who have succumbed to the virus, 45 per cent had no other while 55 per cent had other co-morbidities. A total of 43,318 samples were tested in the state on Wednesday The GHMC recorded 82 new cases on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-records-410-fresh-virus-infections/articleshow/80141243.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Vadodara||Former state minister succumbs to Covid-19||Vadodara: Babar Tadvi, former state minister and Congress MLA from Sankheda constituency in Chhota Udepur district, succumbed to Covid-19 on Wednesday. Tadvi (80) was admitted to a private hospital in Vadodara after he had complained of fever. Sources said that he passed away after undergoing treatment for four days. Tadvi, a three-term MLA, had started his career as a school teacher in Vadodara. He contested the Gujarat assembly elections in 1990 on Janata Dal ticket and won with a margin of 9,294 votes. He also served briefly as a minister of state for tribal affairs in Chhabildas Mehta’s government. When the Janata Dal was dissolved in Gujarat, Tadvi joined the Congress party along with other leaders of Janata Dal. During the 1995 polls, he contested on a Congress ticket and won with a margin of 2,496 votes. He repeated the stint in 1998 polls, defeaing the BJP candidate by 3,973 votes. In 2002, Tadvi was defeated by BJP’s Kanti Tadvi by 35,619 votes. Congress repeated him again in 2007, but Tadvi lost against BJP’s Abhesinh Tadvi. He then briefly joined BJP, but soon got back to Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/former-state-minister-succumbs-to-covid-19/articleshow/80140211.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Surat||Two arrested for loot & murder attempt at jewellery shop||Surat: Crime branch sleuths arrested two unemployed men on Wednesday for a murder and loot attempt at a jewellery store in Katargam on January 2. Sandip Dungrani (27) and his friend Nikul Bhingradiya (20) for trying to kill Nitin Soni, owner of Prasang Jewellers and attempting to loot his shop in Katargam.The accused were nabbed from near Navjivan Restaurant in Sarthana while trying to escape from the city. Dungrani and Bhingradiya, are natives of Panchpipla village in Bhavnagar district. They were living in a rented accommodation since the last 15 days. They had come with plan to carry out loot.The duo entered Soni’s shop on January 2 and asked to show a gold bracelet but alert Soni asked them to remove their mask first. Soni also questioned them about their residence when they named a nearby society. Soni immediately asked if they knew any of the residents when they fumbled. Meanwhile, Soni took out a silver bracelet to show them and refused that he doesn’t have gold jewellery. “The accused had planned in advance that they would attack the jeweller if they failed to loot. Hence Bhingradiya stabbed Soni multiple times in neck and back and fled,” said a crime branch official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-arrested-for-loot-murder-attempt-at-jewellery-shop/articleshow/80139256.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Jodhpur||Bird flu: 50 more crows found dead in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: Around 50 more crows were reported dead in Jodhpur’s Setrawa and Phalodi on Wednesday, carcasses of which were disposed of carefully after taking samples for medical examination to ascertain the cause of these deaths. Panic spread in Setrawa on Jodhpur-Jaisalmer highway after 27 crows were found dead. Villagers informed the officials immediately, who buried the carcasses in a pit taking all precautions and sent one carcass for medical examination. Similarly, 20 more carcasses were found at three different places in Phalodi on Wednesday after some crows were found dead on Tuesday. The deaths of the crows in the region summed greater significance after a report from Bhopal declined to attribute the deaths to bird flu. Continuous deaths of crows in Phalodi also triggered panic among bird-lovers, wildlife enthusiasts, environmentalists and the administration considering the presence of about 25,000 migratory birds, demoiselle cranes, popularly known as kurjan, in Khinchan of Phalodi. “No death of any kurjan has, however, been reported from any disease so far,” said Sevaram Mali, caretaker of the birds, adding that two kurjan had died two days ago, but due to electrocution. But the threat is looming large on the winter home of these migratory birds. On the other hand, divisional commissioner of Jodhpur, Rajesh Sharma held a review meeting of the officials from animal husbandry department, forest department and health department and has asked them to issue an advisory by Thursday and submit an action plan to deal with the situation in the next 2-3 days. Sharma also constituted a divisional level vigilance and monitoring team in view of the outbreak of bird flu. The team comprises officials from all the three departments along with those from police and local bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/50-more-crows-found-dead-in-jodhpur/articleshow/80141248.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Vijayawada||AP: Committee formed to look into Divis issue||AMARAVATI: The government has constituted a high-level committee to study the environmental concerns of locals against Divis pharma plant at Kothapakala village in East Godavari district. Industries director J Subramanyam will head the committee comprising senior officials from AP Pollution Control Board, Central Institute of Brackishwater Aquaculture, State Institute of Fisheries Technology and marine department. Industries minister Mekapati Gautham Reddy has asked the industries director to inspect the Divis plant and other industries located in East Godavari district and submit the inspection report by February. The minister has also directed the Divis management to withdraw the cases filed against locals for protesting against the setting up of the plant. “We can’t go against the wishes of locals, particularly fishermen, in the setting up of any industry along the coast. At the same time, we also need to be careful in resolving the issues faced by the industries,” the minister said while reviewing the issue with senior officials and Divis executives on Wednesday. Tuni legislator Datisetti Raja, who also participated in the virtual conference, told the minister that locals are angry over the location the plant due to the pollution which would be caused in the area once it is fully operational. The minister asked the industries director to look into all issues raised by the MLA and suggest a way out to convince locals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/committee-formed-to-look-into-divis-issue/articleshow/80140198.cms||Samdani MN
January 7, 2021||Nagpur||Sloth bear killed in road accident||CHANDRAPUR: A full-grown female sloth bear was killed in a hit-and-run on Rajura-Virur road near village Shirshi. The incident came to fore on Wednesday morning, when a forest guard Chandrashekar Medpalliwar discovered the carcass close to the road. RFO, Rajura range, Videshkumar Galgat reached the spot with his team and took possession of the carcass. Investigation revealed that the three-year-old bear had suffered severe injury, leading to its death. Officials suspect that the bear might have been hit by a speeding vehicle while crossing the road. The injured bear crawled up to a nulla close to the road and died there sometime during the night. Road accidents of wild animals are rising steadily in Chandrapur district. Several wild animals, including tigers, leopards, sloth bears, deer have been killed due to lack of mitigation measures on the road passing through the wildlife corridors. Surprisingly, the culprits and vehicles responsible for such road kills have rarely been apprehended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sloth-bear-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/80141288.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Bhopal||State bans poultry from south for 10 days||Bhopal/Indore: Madhya Pradesh has banned import of poultry from Kerala and the rest of south India for 10 days with immediate effect, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Wednesday after a review meeting on the H5N8 avian influenza outbreak. Poultry has not been affected in MP, and all precautions should be taken to ensure it stays that way, Chouhan told officials. “There is no reason to worry. Symptoms have been found in some birds, including crows. We have given instructions for random checking of poultry farms and the disease has not been found there. I have instructed all district collectors to implement guidelines to check its spread,” Chouhan said. “Since H5N8 avian influenza has been found in chicken in Kerala and other southern states, we have decided to stop import of poultry from there for 10 days,” the CM said. MP meets around 60% of its chicken demand with local produce, and imports the rest, mainly from Telangana and Chhattisgarh, with a fraction from Kerala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/state-bans-poultry-from-south-for-10-days/articleshow/80141237.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||CM presents devpt agenda for LSGIs||T’puram: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday declared full support to local self-government institutions and asked newly-elected members to focus on projects and programmes to create more employment. Addressing the members via videoconferencing, he told them to ensure an investor-friendly approach towards entrepreneurs and asked them to organize online grama sabhas for NRKs, which would help to ideate developmental works. CM asked the members to ensure a market for small manufacturers and seek the help of cooperative societies in this endeavour. Local bodies should strengthen Subiksha Keralam programme, which aims to achieve self-sufficiency in the food sector. CM wanted the new members to be vigilant against corruption. “We are planning to seek the service of NGOs for checking corruption in developmental works in local bodies,” he said. He said the government was willing to hand over more resources to local bodies as recommended by state finance commission. The 20-point agenda put forward by CM for the perusal of new members have several suggestions, including plans for creating clean open spaces for morning-evening walks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cm-presents-devpt-agenda-for-lsgis/articleshow/80140213.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Nagpur||Morning walkers hit by car learner in Mankapur stadium ground||Nagpur: A woman and her daughter sustained serious injuries when a car hit them inside Mankapur stadium on Tuesday morning after the driver learning to drive lost control of the vehicle. The mishap also showed how the playground managed by divisional sports office is being misused for activities other than sports. According to eyewitnesses, at around 7.30am, Manju Shivpeth, her daughters Siddhi and Shruti who were walking on the track were hit by the speeding car. Manju and Siddhi were run over by the vehicle but younger daughter Shruti escaped. A woman was learning to drive the vehicle. Other walkers pulled Manju out from under the car and took the two to a nearby hospital. While Siddhi’s right leg got fractured, Manju sustained multiple fractures. Mankapur police said after the accident, the woman driving the car fled the spot. Mankapur police later traced the driver Bhagyashree Deepak Gotmare, a resident of Zingabai Takli. “We have summoned the driver along with the vehicle,” police said. Morning walkers told TOI the ground was regularly being used for learning to drive, apart from officially permitted political functions or exhibitions. As these were temporary disturbances, citizens tolerated them. The car drivers have turned the place dangerous. A few days ago a car learner had hit a youngster but fortunately he was not seriously injured. Tension is inevitable if people drive cars in a place meant for sports activities, pointed out morning walkers. Walkers even claimed that late in the night, many couples enter the ground in cars and get intimate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/morning-walkers-hit-by-car-learner-in-mankapur-stadium-ground/articleshow/80140205.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 7, 2021||Surat||BAUDA put under D-2 category enrages farmers in Bharuch||Bharuch: Farmers in Bharuch district are up in arms against the state government for refusing to make any changes in the Comprehensive General Development Control Regulations (CGDCR) declared under Bharuch Ankleshwar Urban Development Authority (BAUDA).Miffed tillers decry the provisions claiming that about 40% of the land owned by them will be reserved under BAUDA without paying any compensation after Bharuch, Ankleshwar and about 44 villages were put under the D-2 category.President, Bharuch Zilla Khedut Samaj, Mahendra Karamariya told TOI, “It is an injustice to farmers of all these villages that have come under BAUDA. The urban development department’s decision as a special case is surprising and needs thorough investigation.” Karmarariya further said that stalemate continues despite several representations since December 2020. “It seems the decision is in favour of builder lobby. We have decided to oppose the decision through agitation,” he added. Jivraj Patel, president, Bharuch Citizen Council said, “ D2 category means big blockage in development. There will be no buyers of agricultural land from farmers for residential complexes as 40 percent land will be taken by BAUDA, 15 percent to be kept reserved for road and other utilities, five percent for green belt and common plot. So, how much land will be left for the farmers to utilize for residential projects?”The Bharuch-Ankleshwar Urban Development Authority had collected Rs150 crore for approval of various plans which is yet to be utilised, Patel alleged.Talkint to TOI, Dushyant Patel, MLA Bharuch said, I have represented before the chief minister urging him to change the status from D2 to D4 for overall development of the entire district. It is unfortunate that the government has taken such a tough stand. Bharuch and Ankleshwar needs horizontal development as enough space is available. I will again raise the issue before the CM.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bauda-put-under-d-2-category-enrages-farmers-in-bharuch/articleshow/80139271.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||ED searches Madhya Pradesh ex-CS residence in Rs 3,000 crore e-tendering scam||HYDERABAD: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday conducted searches on former chief secretary of Madhya Pradesh M Gopal Reddy and promoters of Hyderabad-based GVPR Engineers Limited and Max Mantena Micro JV Hyderabad in connection with Rs 3,000 crore e-tendering scam in MP. Searches were conducted at multiple locations in Hyderabad and also in Bhopal and Bengaluru. Sources in ED said the sleuths searched the residence of Gopal Reddy in Banjara Hills here. The ED also searched the offices of promoter of GVPR Engineers, Gandluru Veera Sekhar Reddy, in Jubilee Hills. The ED had booked a Prevention of Money Laundering Act case based on an FIR filed by the economic offences wing of Madhya Pradesh. The FIR was first lodged in 2019. During investigations, it was found that several tenders of various departments in MP like water resources, Jal Nigam, PWD, public health engineering and road development were tampered between January and March 2018. The computer emergency response team of Delhi had even confirmed the tampering. It all began when MP State Electronics Development Corporation Ltd (MPSEDC) was appointed as the nodal agency for e-procurement portal in 2012 by government of Madhya Pradesh. In the e-tendering project, MPSEDC offered a platform to various government departments for floating tenders. “On April 11, 2018, at the time of opening of three tenders floated by Madhya Pradesh Jal Nigam Maryadit, the computer displayed a message that the contents of the document had been modified. This has led to the busting of the scam,” the ED said. During the probe, it was found that GVPR Engineers and other companies changed the bid price in the three tenders of Jal Nigam Maryadit worth Rs 1,769 crore. The ED had also named several other firms based in Bhopal, Bengaluru and Mumbai as accused in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ed-searches-mp-ex-cs-residence-in-rs-3000-cr-e-tendering-scam/articleshow/80141244.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 7, 2021||Madurai||Remove Devendrakula Vellalars from SC list: PT||Madurai: Puthiya Tamilagam party founder K Krishnasamy on Wednesday said that the Devendrakula Vellalar community members were traditionally wetland farmers and that they should be removed from the scheduled caste list. He was taking part in a protest organized by the party at Jayam Theatre in Palanganatham urging the state government to issue a government order classifying the seven subsects of the scheduled castes under the Devendrakula Vellalar community. Krishnasamy said while the state was giving welfare measures to all people, why was a section of people seen as belonging to a lower caste. He said that removing Devendrakula Vellalars from SC list will not affect any community’s quota. Earlier, members of Puthiya Tamilagam party staged a protest blocking the Bypass Road as the city police denied them permission to go on a rally. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/remove-devendrakula-vellalars-from-sc-list-pt/articleshow/80142656.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana among top three states producing unclean coal-based power: Study||HYDERABAD: Telangana is among the top three states in the country producing and procuring unclean coal-based power that is severely affecting the environment, analysis by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), Delhi, has found. The CSE’s new state-wise assessment found West Bengal at the top in buying the ‘dirtiest’ coal power in the country followed by Telangana and Gujarat. In West Bengal, 84 per cent of power stations supplying power to the state are unclean. The percentage stands at 74 per cent in Telangana and 71 per cent in Gujarat. Most stations supplying electricity, especially state-run ones, have not taken adequate measures to comply with the sulphur-dioxide (SO2) emission norms notified by the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change issued in December 2015. These norms had to be complied with in 2017. “In Telangana, among the ones not complying with the norms are mostly state-run power plants by Telangana State Power Generation Corporation Limited. This includes the Kothagudem thermal power station and Singareni thermal power plant. Apart from this, unclean power is also sourced from power stations that are based outside Telangana,” said Soundaram Ramanathan, deputy programme manager, industrial pollution unit, CSE. CSE divided power stations on the basis of compliance with SO2 norms. The ones awarded tenders for procuring environment-protective equipment are labelled ‘yellow’, those in the process of tendering or conducting a feasibility study have been labelled ‘orange’ and those with no plans have been labelled ‘red’. Of all power stations, 74 per cent are orange and 26 per cent yellow in Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-among-top-three-states-producing-unclean-coal-based-power-study/articleshow/80141246.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Jaipur||Bird flu: Health department officials remain vigilant||JAIPUR: After a few samples of crows from Kale Hanumanji Forest Nakka here tested positive for H5N8 Avian influenza virus, the health department has issued directions to remain alert and keep monitoring patients coming to hospitals for any unusual symptoms similar to bird flu. However, health department officials claimed that no such case of bird flu has been reported among humans, but they are constantly keeping an eye on patients coming to hospitals for treatment. “We have issued directions to all our staff in Jaipur to remain alert and report higher authorities if any patient comes to hospital with symptoms of bird flu,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer, Jaipur. Health department officials pointed out that avian flu is primarily a disease of birds and chances of transmission of the virus is quite low among humans. Despite that, officials are taking measures to ensure that humans should not be affected. For the purpose, they have been creating awareness in coordination with animal husbandry department officials among poultry farms owners and those employed at farms. Besides, the Centre has also issued advisories to the state to prevent spread of the disease. The Centre has clarified that there is no direct evidence that avian influenza viruses can be transmitted to humans by consuming contaminated poultry products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bird-flu-health-dept-asks-officials-to-remain-alert/articleshow/80141283.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Decomposed body of woman found in house||HYDERABAD: A partially decomposed body of a woman wrapped in a blanket was found by a sweeper in her one-room tenement in Hydernagar in KPHB Colony on Tuesday night. She was identified as 35-year-old Sravanthi, who was allegedly killed by her husband Venkateshwarlu. “The accused hit the woman on her head with a blunt object and strangled her with a stole,” KPHB police said. A murder case was registered and a manhunt was launched to nab Venkateshwarlu. The house owner lodged a complaint with police claiming that Venkateshwarlu left the house on Tuesday without informing him. He said the couple had moved into the house just a month ago. The accused works in a private firm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/decomposedbody-of-womanfound-in-house/articleshow/80141255.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad enveloped in misty haze, drizzle to continue till weekend||HYDERABAD: The city woke up to cloudy weather conditions on Wednesday, as drizzles added to the chill in many parts of the city by the evening hours. The India Meteorological Department said that a trough and cyclonic circulation prevailing over the state has caused rainy conditions. “Under the influence of this trough, humidity levels have increased above 80 per cent, resulting in light rains at isolated places,” said Naga Ratna, director in-charge, IMD, Hyderabad. Several areas such as Begumpet, Banjara Hills, and Rajendranagar, among others received light rains of up to 6 mm. These triggered traffic jams in many parts of the city. Meteorologists predict that the weather conditions are likely to continue on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-enveloped-in-misty-haze-drizzle-to-continue-till-weekend/articleshow/80141260.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Rush for early withdrawal of accident claim FDs||Ahmedabad: Job loss and economic stress brought on by Covid-19 pandemic forced many to dip into their savings. This is witnessed by the flurry of applications submitted to the motor accident claims tribunal, seeking premature withdrawal of compensation money that has been put in fixed deposits. In an accident case, the courts or tribunals normally order a larger part of the compensation to be placed in nationalized banks in the form of fixed deposits so that the heirs of accident victims are not robbed of the amount. The Supreme Court has ruled that to protect the interest of children, widows and illiterate relatives of accident victims, a large chunk of the award should be deposited in bank for longer periods. The courts are strict in allowing withdrawals from these FDs. They ask litigants to furnish proof for the reason cited to withdraw the money. However, after coronavirus struck, the courts have been more liberal in permitting premature withdrawals especially in cases where litigants cite loss of livelihood and drying up of sources of income due to the prevalent Covid-19 situation. A motor accident claim tribunal in Kalol, Gandhinagar district, permitted Nilesh Patel, whose 70% of compensation was put in a bank, to withdraw the amount even though his FD matured only in 2023. Patel had claimed that he had no means of income during Covid times. The case of Manjulaben Gehlot and her son Dinesh was no different. The mother-son duo was awarded Rs 8.59 lakh in 2018 following the death of Manjulaben’s husband, Mastram, in a road accident. A major chunk of this amount was deposited as FD. They sought the court’s permission to withdraw their share of Rs 2.4 lakh each from the FD, citing complete loss of livelihood due to the lockdown and Covid-19. They claimed that they were finding it difficult to maintain the family. Advocates say that the provisions for FD is made so that the interest of the minors and helpless widows remain protected and they do not end up losing the amount of compensation in a short time. However, the courts seem considerate in this time of distress, they added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rush-for-early-withdrawal-of-accident-claim-fds/articleshow/80141433.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Madurai||23 tonne smuggled PDS rice seized in separate incidents||Madurai: Officials from the police, food cell and revenue departments seized 23 tonne of smuggled ration rice in separate incidents in Kanyakumari and Tenkasi districts. In Kanyakumari district, officials involved in checking vehicles stopped a heavily-laden truck at Thittuvilai on Wednesday morning and found 18 tonne of smuggled PDS rice in it.The invoice for the load claimed that it was carrying 2,400kg of cotton seed oil cake in 40 bags and 2,500kg cattle feed in 50 bags and that it was being transported from Virudhunagar to Thiruvananthapuram. Enforcement agencies claimed that the unidentified men in the truck managed to flee after abandoning the vehicle. Efforts were under way to track the source for the rice in Tamil Nadu and the destination in Kerala with the available documents.In another incident, the Sankarankovil Taluk police seized five tonnes of smuggled PDS rice from a house in Sankarankovil in Tenkasi district late on Tuesday evening. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/23-tonne-smuggled-pds-rice-seized-in-separate-incidents/articleshow/80142707.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Jaipur||SHGs under three depts to be integrated, common online protal to be developed||Jaipur: Additional chief secretary (ACS) rural development and panchayati raj Rohit Kumar Singh on Wednesday informed that all the self-help groups (SHGs) under Rajeevika, women and child development and urban livelihoods mission would be integrated in order to ensure better quality, effective branding and marketing of the products made by them. He said a common online portal will be created for the SGHs to register themselves electronically. “The integration of all the SCGs will also help in their management. Moreover, unless they have a bank account, they will not be recognised as SCGs,” said Singh. The heads of women and child development, local self government and Rajeevika were present in the meeting on Wednesday. Meanwhile, a Rajeevika stall was inaugurated at Rajasthali showroom on Wednesday for the sale of Rajasthani handicraft items. Under Govardhan scheme, as a part of second phase of second phase of Swachh Bharat Mission, community biogas plants will be set up in 73 gaushalas that houses more than 2,000 cattle. Moreover, with a budget of Rs 50 lakh each, biogas plants will be set up in all the districts in the coming five years, said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/shgs-under-three-depts-to-be-integrated-common-online-protal-to-be-developed/articleshow/80141266.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Drawing from nature, GVMC plans Panchatatva parks||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has decided to develop eight Panchatatva theme based parks—one in each zone of the city. Divided into eight blocks and inspired by the five elements of nature, the first layer would have black soil, chips, etc. with water on the east and north side. The second circular layer would have various herbal and medicinal plants, which would be followed by the next layer developed with materials such as metal chips. Likewise, each block would have different material or plants. The parks would also have a Nakshatra garden (plants which represent each Nakshatra) and raasi vanam (trees which represent each sign of the zodiac). These parks would also have acupressure walkways in the centre. The acupressure walkways would have hard, smooth and relaxing components on the same track. Different materials will be used in each block of this circular walking track such as chips, stones, sand, black soil, tree bark, water, etc. GVMC assistant director (horticulture department) M Damodar said the GVMC has already issued tenders for development of four Panchatatva parks in the city. “The parks would get acupressure walking track and various medicinal and herbal plants, which would be good for health,” said Damodar. The civic body estimated that the development of these four tendered out parks would cost about Rs 55 lakh, while administrative sanctions have been given for the remaining four parks. According to medical experts, the Panchatatva parks would come with several health benefits such as addressing sleep deprivation, improving eye sight and immunity, blood pressure management, etc. Apart from developing big parks on its own, the GVMC is also creating residential colony parks under a public-private partnership model following the council’s resolution in 2003. While the Resident Welfare Associations will have to bear one third of the expenditure to be incurred on park development, the GVMC will provide the remaining two thirds as grant-in-aid. The civic body develops about 20 to 30 parks every year under this model in association with the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/drawing-from-nature-gvmc-plans-panchatatva-parks/articleshow/80140220.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Street vendors in Hyderabad to tie up with delivery apps||HYDERABAD: After New Delhi, Ahmedabad, Chennai, Varanasi and Indore, Hyderabad is all set to be the sixth city in the country to enable vendors selling street-food to tie up with food delivery apps, as part of the Prime Minister Street Vendor’s Atma Nirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) scheme. Officials of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) have already started helping street vendors with PAN and FSSAI registration. The vendors will be trained on hygiene, technology/partner app usage, menu digitisation, pricing and packaging as a part of the project. The programme has been taken up under ‘Main Bhi Digital’ campaign, which will continue till January 22. “The street vendors will be sensitised to get on-board with e-commerce platforms like Zomato, Swiggy and UberEats to widen their markets, as the pilots conducted in five cities yielded good results,” a statement issued by GHMC read. As per GHMC records, 1,57,499 street vendors (including ones selling food) have been identified. Of these, 57,372 loan applications have been uploaded and loans to 37,465 street vendors have been granted. The civic body has issued 1,44,279 identity cards to street vendors. Moblisation of vendors to camps, sanctioning and disbursing loan applications, and educating vendors about repayment of loans are among the activities under way. As a part of the project, vendors are being provided financial assistance of Rs 10,000. “The vendors will repay the loan in 12 instalments and the interest rate is seven percent,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/street-vendors-to-tie-up-with-delivery-apps/articleshow/80141278.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Hyderabad||C-Sec use: UoH to work with UK university||HYDERABAD: University of Hyderabad (UoH) – School of Medical Sciences and Fernandez Foundation have been identified as partners by University of Central Lancashire (UCLan), UK as part of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation Research grant on appropriate use of caesarean section (CS). UoH is working with World Health Organisation-Geneva and partners in Brazil and Canada to implement an innovative project titled Re-JUDGE. The project looks at “reducing rates of non-medically indicated caesarean sections through an open access multi-media evidence and behaviour change programme for lawyers and judges”. The project was one of the five worldwide projects of 120 applicants to receive an $80,000 Bill and Melinda Gates research grant award. UCLan’s Research in Childbirth and Health group (ReaCH) led by Prof Soo Downe, professor of Midwifery Studies, was one of only five teams worldwide to be awarded the funding under the foundation’s ‘grand challenges’ research related to use of CS in low and middle-income settings. “This study can have far-reaching impact especially in locations where we have high CS rates; both indicated and by choice. There is also an anticipation that more and more litigations will arise when more CS are done. For us, it is a logical extension of working with Telangana state understanding reasons for high CS rates supported by UNICEF,” said BR Shamanna, faculty in the School of Medical Sciences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/c-sec-use-uoh-to-work-with-uk-univ/articleshow/80141280.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Rajkot||Man killed for having extra-marital affair with married woman||Rajkot: A provision store owner in Surendranagar was murdered by four persons on Tuesday evening for having an extra-marital affair with a married woman.Bharat Chauhan (52), was taken away to a deserted place on Surendranagar bypass, where he was mercilessly beaten up by four persons identified as Mahesh Patel, Mohit Bharwad, Raju Khodi and Iqbal Rickshawwala. According to police, Chauhan had left his house at Nilkanth Society in Joravanagar on Tuesday afternoon. He told his wife Harsha that he had important work and will be back soon. When he did not return until evening, his wife called on his mobile phone, but the calls went unanswered. Around 6.30 pm when two of Chauhan’s friends Amrish Muliya and Bharatsinh Solanki reached his home, his wife asked for help . When Muliya called Chauhan, an unidentified person answered the call. Muliya was asked to come to Surendranagar bypass otherwise he would be killed. When the duo, reached the bypass, a man who identified himself as Mohit Bharwad, asked them to follow him. On reaching a narrow alley near the bypass, Muliya and Solanki saw that their friend was beaten up with wooden sticks. They told cops that Bharwad was continuously speaking that Chauhan had extra-marital affair with Patel’s wife so he must be killed. Bharwad also called out names of three other accused which Muliya and Solankil later shared with cops. As Muliya and Solanki were scared, they left and later called their other friends to help rescue Chauhan. But, before the other friends could reach, the duo saw the accused taking away Chauhan in the auto-rickshaw. A while later, the auto-rickshaw passed by them but Chauhan was not present. When they went in the direction in which Chauhan was taken, they found him profusely bleeding. Chauhan was taken to a hospital, but he was declared dead before admission. Harsha, later, lodged a complaint at Joravarnagar police station against the four accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-killed-for-having-extra-marital-affair-with-married-woman/articleshow/80139281.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Madurai||Sivaganga MCH records marginal increase in deliveries during lockdown||Madurai: There has been an increase in the number of deliveries performed at Sivaganga Medical College Hospital during the lockdown period. As many as 5,048 deliveries were performed in 2020 at the hospital where the figures were 4,220 and 4,211 in 2019 and 2018.Dean of Sivaganga Medical College Hospital, Dr A Rethinavel said that the medical college hospital, established in 2012, was treating patients from many southern districts including Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram, Virudhunagar and Pudukottai. The flow of patients, especially pregnant women, increased during the lockdown since March 24. As many as 17,489 patients were treated as outpatients and 13,920 as inpatients in the maternity section during 2020.On average, 350 patients visit the hospital for deliveries in a month. But during the lockdown period, it increased to 550 per month as the department had conducted 5,048 childbirths in 2020. Many of the patients who come to the hospital had complications such as anemia, high blood pressure, and other complication related to pregnancy. The doctors and medical staff had attended to 9,058 such complicated cases last year.He said that the role of doctors including Dr S Malika, head of the department of obstetrics and gynaecology, Dr Vairavarajan, head of the department of anaesthesia, and Dr Sivakumar, head of the department of paediatrics, had tackled even the high risk patients with ease.As many as 426 pregnant women had contracted Covid-19 and they were treated in isolation wards and their deliveries were conducted successfully. As observed throughout the country, the antenatal mothers were found to have high immunity. Only a few of the children born to the mothers tested positive for Covid-19 and had undergone treatment at the paediatric ICU.“What was disturbing though was the fact that eight infants born at the hospital this year were abandoned by their mothers, mostly due to social stigma, as they were born to illicit relationships or were female children. The number is high compared to 2018 and 2019, when the numbers were only two, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sivaganga-mch-records-marginal-increase-in-deliveries-during-lockdown/articleshow/80142684.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Nagpur||Covid vaccination dry run in 10 dists of Vid on Fri||Nagpur/Amravati: The statewide dry run of the Covid-19 vaccination programme on Friday will cover 10 of total 11 districts of Vidarbha. Nearly 1,000 health care workers will be the dummy beneficiaries. Nagpur district has been excluded as the dry run was held here on January 2. Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, the deputy director of health services for Nagpur division, TOI that the dry run will be “organized in at least three centres in every district”. During a video conference with state officials on Wednesday, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) sought permission for another dry run. It was reportedly denied as it had already been held in the district. However, commissioner of National Health Mission N Ramaswami said, “Though the four districts which held the dry run have been excluded, they are free to carry it out again.” In Nagpur district, the dry run was successfully conducted at NMC’s KT Nagar Urban Primary Health Centre, Daga Hospital and Sub District Hospital, Ramtek, during which 74 dummy beneficiaries participated. All five districts in Amravati division will hold the dry run in at least four centres. No districts in this division were part of the earlier dry run. Both, Nagpur and Amravati divisions, will hold it in urban and rural areas. In Amravati, the dry run will be conducted at the district hospital, Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh Memorial Medical College, Tiwsa rural hospital and the public health centre at Anjangaon Bari, according to civil surgeon Dr Shyamsundar Nikam. In Chandrapur, the event will be held in a school behind Ram Nagar UPHC. “25 health care workers of Chandrapur municipal corporation will participate in it,” said Chandrapur municipal commissioner Rajesh Mohite. Each centre will have three rooms and 5-6 vaccinators. Vaccine will not be administered but will be just a simulation. The dry run is being conducted to check problems in registration, post-vaccination messages etc in Co-WIN application, how much time is taken to conduct the entire exercise and other arrangements. 5 more UK flyers discharged Five more city residents, who returned from Europe, Middle East and South Africa, tested negative and were discharged on Wednesday as they had completed one week in institutional quarantine. So far, 23 flyers have been discharged. 17 more flyers remain to be tested. This will be done after they complete 5-7 days in quarantine centres. The results of five suspected patients of the mutated variant of Covid-19, which had emerged in the UK, are awaited from the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. Currently, they are in the special ward of the GMCH. They tested positive after returning from the above-mentioned countries between November 25 and December 23. Three suspected patients were discharged on Monday after NIV said their swab samples could not be undertaken for genome sequencing as they were RT-PCR negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-vaccination-dry-run-in-10-dists-of-vid-on-fri/articleshow/80140232.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 7, 2021||Thane||Thane: 18 birds dead, officials say can’t say it’s avian flu yet||THANE: After three crows and 15 pond herons were found dead in Mumbai and Thane, respectively, the animal husbandry department said on Wednesday that the reason for the birds perishing was not known. The veterinary department of the Thane Municipal Corporation received a call about the dead herons near Vijay Garden society in Ghodbunder. The crows were found dead near the police commissioner’s office. “The three crows and eight [of the] pond herons have been sent to the disease investigation section, Pune, for testing. Only once the reports come can we confirm whether the birds had bird flu or something else,” said Dr Vijay Dhumal, deputy commissioner, animal husbandry department, Thane district. Commissioner of animal husbandry department Sachindra Pratap Singh said there was no need to panic as the chances of humans getting the virus were miniscule. Since the outbreak of the virus in other states of the country, this is the first batch of dead birds they have come across in the state. “Till date there have been no positive cases in humans in the country and the outbreak in poultry was in 2006 in Maharashtra, after which there have been no cases as we regularly check the health of the animals. Also, even if poultry gets infected, if it is cooked properly, there are no chances of humans getting infected,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/18-birds-dead-officials-say-cant-say-its-avian-flu-yet/articleshow/80143450.cms||Shrutika Sukhi
January 7, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Dry run for Covid vaccine in 26 districts on January 8||JAIPUR: After conducing a dry run for Covid vaccine in seven districts, the health department will perform it in rest of the state on January 8. A senior health department official said the dry run will be conducted at three different places --- hospital attached to medical college/district hospital, private hospital and one in rural area. A video conference was held by ministry of health with health department officials and chief medical health officers of the state. To facilitate the vaccination process, a software ‘Co-WIN’ has been developed by the Union health ministry for real-time information of vaccine stocks, storage temperature and individualized tracking of beneficiaries. The software will assist the programme managers across all levels in conduct of the vaccination sessions. The cold chain infrastructure (like walk-in-freezers, walk-in-coolers, ice-lined refrigerators, deep freezers) along with sufficient supplies of syringes and other logistics have been ensured to begin the vaccination drive, the health ministry told its department officials through video conferencing. In Jaipur, where the dry run has also been conducted recently, 13 points have been identified and 136 vaccination points have been identified in rural places such as community health centres and primary health centres. “The first phase of vaccination will continue for seven days. Under the first phase, healthcare staff including doctors, nurses and other staff will get the shot. In first 2-3 days, vaccination will be done in 13 vaccination points in city area such as SMS Hospital, private hospital and district hospital. After ascertaining that no such adverse events following immunization has been reported, we will take the vaccination drive to the 136 other vaccination points in rural areas,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer, Jaipur. So far, in Jaipur, more than 50,000 healthcare staff have been registered who will receive the vaccine shot. Also, the central government employees of departments such as CISF, army, BSF and railways will also get vaccination on priority basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/dry-run-for-covid-vaccine-in-26-districts-tomorrow/articleshow/80148708.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Dry run for Covid vaccine in 26 districts on January 8||JAIPUR: After conducing a dry run for Covid vaccine in seven districts, the health department will perform it in rest of the state on January 8. A senior health department official said the dry run will be conducted at three different places --- hospital attached to medical college/district hospital, private hospital and one in rural area. A video conference was held by ministry of health with health department officials and chief medical health officers of the state. To facilitate the vaccination process, a software ‘Co-WIN’ has been developed by the Union health ministry for real-time information of vaccine stocks, storage temperature and individualized tracking of beneficiaries. The software will assist the programme managers across all levels in conduct of the vaccination sessions. The cold chain infrastructure (like walk-in-freezers, walk-in-coolers, ice-lined refrigerators, deep freezers) along with sufficient supplies of syringes and other logistics have been ensured to begin the vaccination drive, the health ministry told its department officials through video conferencing. In Jaipur, where the dry run has also been conducted recently, 13 points have been identified and 136 vaccination points have been identified in rural places such as community health centres and primary health centres. “The first phase of vaccination will continue for seven days. Under the first phase, healthcare staff including doctors, nurses and other staff will get the shot. In first 2-3 days, vaccination will be done in 13 vaccination points in city area such as SMS Hospital, private hospital and district hospital. After ascertaining that no such adverse events following immunization has been reported, we will take the vaccination drive to the 136 other vaccination points in rural areas,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer, Jaipur. So far, in Jaipur, more than 50,000 healthcare staff have been registered who will receive the vaccine shot. Also, the central government employees of departments such as CISF, army, BSF and railways will also get vaccination on priority basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/dry-run-for-covid-vaccine-in-26-districts-tomorrow/articleshow/80148709.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Crime branch to probe loan app frauds||Thiruvananthapuram: State police have entrusted the crime branch to probe into multiple complaints of fraud using mobile applications. State police chief Loknath Behera said that while crime branch will probe the complaints, hi-tech crime inquiry cell will assist the crime branch in the probe. “It has come to our notice that a large number of people in the state are using mobile applications to avail loans. They are getting these loans at very high interest rates. It has also come to our notice that some of them have even committed suicides. We have taken it up very seriously and we are now going for a formal investigation by the crime branch,” said Behera. Police have identified that foreign nationals are behind such fraud, and for the same reason, the police will seek help from CBI and Interpol to undertake the probe. Police have also decided to seek help from Telangana and Andhra police, as it has come to the notice that some of the applications were created in those states. It had also come to police’s attention that some of those who had availed loans through mobile applications, had committed suicide after they were threatened when they could not repay the loans. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/crime-branch-to-probe-loan-app-frauds/articleshow/80140252.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 7, 2021||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Outfit churns out bull tamers to keep traditional sport alive||MADURAI: Though it is popularly believed that bull taming is a crude, unorganized game, a lot of effort and self-control goes into becoming a good tamer. Or ask the students of Tamil Nadu Jallikattu Payirchi Maiyam who have made it a habit not to come back empty-handed from a game. Mudakathan Manikandan, who founded the organization, said he had decided to set up a training centre in 2018 after the state witnessed the struggle for jallikattu. ``The bull tamers sometimes do not get the recognition that even the bulls get, but this is a game of valour ingrained in our culture. I thought we should give it due recognition and ensure that the game continues to be played even after our time,’’ he said. Around 150 seasoned bull tamers have been produced by the centre which offers training for free. The only condition they have to fulfil is to stay off alcohol, smoking, drugs and get the consent of their parents before coming for training, said M Ranjith Kumar, state secretary of the organisation, which is a registered body. According to him, it takes about three months for a youngster to get trained in the art of bull taming. They are initially given physical exercise training and tackling of the bull becomes a reality only much later. M Kasirajan, 28, a graduate from SRM university and a ball badminton player, said, ``This game has shown me how I can prove myself and I have participated in over 60 games”. His mother Chitra, who was initially hesitant to send him form training, is now very proud of his prize-winning feats. ``Evading the bulls tactically is an art that has to be learnt. It is not just jumping from side to side, which is taught to us in detail,’’ said Karthik, a student. Diets are specified for the trainees, said B Manikanda Prabu, president of the organisation. K Karthikeyan, 26, has MCom and CA as his qualifications and is employed in a private firm, but come jallikattu season and he goes on leave, as the training under Manikandan makes him wanting to prove his skill. He has won the best tamer award in many games. Though education is not important for the training, Mani says it helps the youngsters understand and adhere to the rules. All of them are now undergoing rigorous training in villages around Madurai and Sivaganga as the games season is just round the corner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/outfit-churns-out-bull-tamers-to-keep-traditional-sport-alive/articleshow/80142731.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Dry run for Covid vaccine in 26 districts on January 8||JAIPUR: After conducing a dry run for Covid vaccine in seven districts, the health department will perform it in rest of the state on January 8. A senior health department official said the dry run will be conducted at three different places --- hospital attached to medical college/district hospital, private hospital and one in rural area. A video conference was held by ministry of health with health department officials and chief medical health officers of the state. To facilitate the vaccination process, a software ‘Co-WIN’ has been developed by the Union health ministry for real-time information of vaccine stocks, storage temperature and individualized tracking of beneficiaries. The software will assist the programme managers across all levels in conduct of the vaccination sessions. The cold chain infrastructure (like walk-in-freezers, walk-in-coolers, ice-lined refrigerators, deep freezers) along with sufficient supplies of syringes and other logistics have been ensured to begin the vaccination drive, the health ministry told its department officials through video conferencing. In Jaipur, where the dry run has also been conducted recently, 13 points have been identified and 136 vaccination points have been identified in rural places such as community health centres and primary health centres. “The first phase of vaccination will continue for seven days. Under the first phase, healthcare staff including doctors, nurses and other staff will get the shot. In first 2-3 days, vaccination will be done in 13 vaccination points in city area such as SMS Hospital, private hospital and district hospital. After ascertaining that no such adverse events following immunization has been reported, we will take the vaccination drive to the 136 other vaccination points in rural areas,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer, Jaipur. So far, in Jaipur, more than 50,000 healthcare staff have been registered who will receive the vaccine shot. Also, the central government employees of departments such as CISF, army, BSF and railways will also get vaccination on priority basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/dry-run-for-covid-vaccine-in-26-districts-tomorrow/articleshow/80148712.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Dry run for Covid vaccine in 26 districts on January 8||JAIPUR: After conducing a dry run for Covid vaccine in seven districts, the health department will perform it in rest of the state on January 8. A senior health department official said the dry run will be conducted at three different places --- hospital attached to medical college/district hospital, private hospital and one in rural area. A video conference was held by ministry of health with health department officials and chief medical health officers of the state. To facilitate the vaccination process, a software ‘Co-WIN’ has been developed by the Union health ministry for real-time information of vaccine stocks, storage temperature and individualized tracking of beneficiaries. The software will assist the programme managers across all levels in conduct of the vaccination sessions. The cold chain infrastructure (like walk-in-freezers, walk-in-coolers, ice-lined refrigerators, deep freezers) along with sufficient supplies of syringes and other logistics have been ensured to begin the vaccination drive, the health ministry told its department officials through video conferencing. In Jaipur, where the dry run has also been conducted recently, 13 points have been identified and 136 vaccination points have been identified in rural places such as community health centres and primary health centres. “The first phase of vaccination will continue for seven days. Under the first phase, healthcare staff including doctors, nurses and other staff will get the shot. In first 2-3 days, vaccination will be done in 13 vaccination points in city area such as SMS Hospital, private hospital and district hospital. After ascertaining that no such adverse events following immunization has been reported, we will take the vaccination drive to the 136 other vaccination points in rural areas,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer, Jaipur. So far, in Jaipur, more than 50,000 healthcare staff have been registered who will receive the vaccine shot. Also, the central government employees of departments such as CISF, army, BSF and railways will also get vaccination on priority basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dry-run-for-covid-vaccine-in-26-districts-tomorrow/articleshow/80141312.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Rajkot||‘BJP using govt machinery to malign Cong’||Rajkot: The Congress party on Wednesday made allegations against the BJP that the saffron party was using government machinery to harass the Congress party workers when the local body polls are around the corner.Addressing the media persons, Congress leaders said that the land grabbing case in Rajkot against the former councillor’s husband Kanaksinh Jadeja and his family members was done to malign the image of the party and impress the chief minister.The land grabbing offence against Jadeja was registered at Rajkot Taluka police station on Sunday night following an order by the district collector. City Congress chief Ashok Dangar said that the land regarding which the case was registered under the new law, is already a disputed site as a civil suit is pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bjp-using-govt-machinery-to-malign-cong/articleshow/80139290.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Jaipur||Active Covid cases in Rajasthan dip below 8,000||JAIPUR: Active Covid cases were reduced to 7,698 after 564 persons recovered from the virus on Wednesday. Jaipur still has the highest number of active cases at 1318 followed by Jodhpur (773), Kota (652), Bhilwara (412) and Pali (371). In Jaipur, bed occupancy in dedicated Covid hospitals has reduced significantly. “ESI Hospital and Jaipuria Hospital, which were declared as dedicated Covid facilities in October, now have very few Covid patients,” said a senior health department official. The number of infections in the last 24 hours stood at 436, which took the cumulative tally to 3,11,111. The number of casualties have also come down significantly and currently stands at 2,723 riding on four deaths on Wednesday. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (72), Jodhpur (53), Udaipur (33), Kota (33), Bhilwara (27), Dungarpur (25), Ajmer (24), Nagaur (21), Rajsamand (19), Alwar (19), Jhalawar (17), Chittorgarh (16), Sirohi (12), Pali (10), Banswara (6), Dholpur (5), Sikar (5), Bikaner (4), Bundi (4), Karauli (4), Baran (3), Tonk (3), Churu (3), Hanumangarh (3), Pratapgarh (2), Sriganganagar (2), Jaisalmer (2), Jalore (2), Barmer (2), Bharatpur (2), Sawai Madhopur (2) and Dausa (1). Jaipur reported its 506th Covid-19 death, Nagaur 93rd, Jalore 52nd and Pratapgarh reported its 20th Covid-19 fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/active-cases-dip-below-8000-mark/articleshow/80141294.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Jaipur||State issues advisory for surveillance of poultry farms||Jaipur: Amid a bird flu scare, authorities in Rajasthan have directed all the districts to prepare a list of poultry farms owners and create an online group through a mobile application to keep tabs on any unusual death of domestic poultry birds.For the same, animal husbandry minister Lal Chand Kataria took a video conference meeting of all the poultry farms owners in the state. As per the animal husbandry records, there are approximately 2,540 poultry farms in all the districts of Rajasthan.An advisory has been issued for surveillance of commercial poultry farms to find any unusual mortality in birds. An official said, “Taking precautionary measures, directions have been issued to all the poultry farm owners to report it on mobile group in case of death. The district administration officials including veterinary officers will also be present in the group. In case any ‘unusual mortality’ in poultry birds is found, samples will be sent to the Laboratory to ascertain the cause. Poultry operators were instructed to strictly follow the guideline issued by the government.”As per the report on Wednesday, a total of 410 birds have died in 21 districts of the state. The highest 297 deaths were reported in crows. Carcasses of six peacocks, 50 cuckoos and 41 other birds were also recovered.In the official report, deaths of 50 birds in poultry farms situated in Kota and Bundi was mentioned. However, officials claimed figures are faulty. Director, animal husbandry, Virendra Singh said, “The staff has sent a combined figure of one week. Mortality of one or two birds are reported at poultry farms, which is normal. The flu has not been reported at poultry so far, but administration has started the preventive exercises.”In Rajasthan total 1,458 birds have died in 28 cities till date. Of which, in four districts, Jaipur, Kota, Jhalawar and Baran, avian influenza virus has been confirmed, reports have also been received from the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal.In three districts Jaipur, Kota and Baran, H5N8 subtype of Influenza A virus was reported in samples of dead birds on Tuesday. Earlier on December 31, for the first-time dead crows were tested positive for the H5 avian influenza virus in Jhalawar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-issues-advisory-for-surveillance-of-poultry-farms/articleshow/80141339.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Kept away from his newborn son, accused went on stabbing spree||RAJKOT: Hitesh Koradiya, who went on a stabbing spree at his in-law’s house in Sarodi village in Surendranagar on Tuesday morning, told cops that he was frustrated as he was not being allowed to meet his new-born son. Koradiya, a factory worker in Surendranagar, killed his 45-year-old father-in-law Damji Chavada, sister-in-law Sonal (19) and injured his wife Meena, mother-in-law Usha and brother-in-law Lalit. On Wednesday, during interrogation, Koradiya told police that he was tired of false cases and complaints being registered against him by his wife and in-laws. Since seven months Meena has been living with her parents during which she delivered a baby boy. “He alleged that he was not even allowed to see his son’s face,” said a police official. After recklessly stabbing everyone in the house, Koradiya had locked himself up in a room in the house. A mob of over 100 people had gheraoed the house to attack him. Cops had a difficult time, to bring him out of the house and take him away to Thangadh police station safely from the enraged mob. “On Wednesday some 35 to 40 people had gathered at the police station demanding that the accused be handed over to them,” said sub-inspector M D Chaudhary. On Wednesday, Usha and Lalit’s health recovered. A resident of Mudi village in Surendranagar district, Koradiya on reaching his in-law’s house, stabbed Usha thrice while she was seated outside the house, then injured his wife on her hand. On entering the house, when he saw Sonal, Koradiya stabbed her multiple times. When Damji came out of the bathroom, Koradiya hurled knife at him. As Lalit reached home at the same time, the accused injured him too. While Koradiya was recklessly stabbing everyone, Meena shouted for help, hearing which her uncle and others from the village gathered. Fearing that they will harm him, Koradiya then locked himself up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/accused-was-upset-over-being-kept-away-from-new-born-son/articleshow/80139321.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Meerut||Bird flu outbreak: Migratory birds under watch, forest & husbandry departs sound alert in Bijnor||BIJNOR: In the wake of the bird flu outbreak in several states of the country, forest and husbandry departments have sounded alert in Bijnor district. Bijnor forest divisional officer M Semmaran said people living in villages along the riverbanks were being sensitised on the gravity of the disease. “We have asked villagers to inform forest department officials immediately if they find a dead bird, especially a migratory bird.” There are several rivers and wetlands in Bijnor district and thousands of migratory birds swoop down here during winter. According to officials, bird flu cases have been reported from several states, including Himachal Pradesh and Kerala, and alerts were issued. The Centre has also warned the states over the possibility of the disease spreading to humans and domestic animals. Kerala has already declared bird flu as a state disaster. Besides, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan have also found cases of bird flu. In addition to this, thousands of migratory birds died of bird flu in Himachal. The highest numbers of birds died of H5N1 avian influenza are bar-headed geese in Pong Dam reservoir area in Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh. Meanwhile, experts are collecting samples from wetland areas in different pockets of the country for conducting tests. Sounding alert in Bijnor, forest officials said starting from October-end every year, thousands of migratory birds flock to the big and small wetlands in Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary, spanning five districts, including Bijnor. Already, colonies of Gulls, Gadwalls, Coots, Brahminy ducks, a few Northern Shovelers, Northern Pintails, Wigeons, Common Pochards and bar-headed goose have settled at the wetlands. Some raptors like Black-eared kite, Marsh Harrier and Peregrine Falcon, too, have been spotted encircling the sky. Bijnor divisional forest officer (DFO) M Semmaran said, “We have alerted our staff and asked them to sensitise villagers living on river banks, farmers and bird watchers about the possibility of a bird flu outbreak. We have appealed to locals to inform forest staff if they find the carcass of a migratory bird for testing.” “There are several rivers, lakes and ponds in the region. Hyderpur wetland, Pili dam and Harevali are well-known wetland areas in Bijnor and neighbouring Muzaffarnagar. A large number of birds are seen on the banks of Ganga and Khaddar’s wetlands. Forest staff will conduct patrolling to check these areas,” added Semmaran. Ashish Loya, a bird watcher, said, “This year, we have seen a large number of Rudy Shelducks, with more than 1,300 of them landing here. Besides, nine Mergansers have arrived, which are very rare. Graylag goose and Pintails are also in good numbers. Forest authorities have asked bird watchers to inform them if they find a bird’s carcass. When we venture into wetland areas, we keep a close watch on birds and the wetland, too. Besides, we are also making farmers aware of the flu. As of now, we have not found a carcass.” On the other hand, chief veterinary officer Bhupendra Chaudhary said they were planning to hold a meeting in this connection. “We have put our staff on high alert.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bird-flu-outbreak-migratory-birds-under-watch-forest-husbandry-departs-sound-alert-in-bijnor/articleshow/80139296.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 7, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Self-fin colleges draft bill gets cabinet nod||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: State cabinet, on Wednesday, approved a draft legislation for regulating the appointment and service conditions of teaching and non-teaching staff in self-financing institutions. According to the provisions in the bill, management and employees should sign a contract specifying the details such as pay scale, increment, grade and promotion. Working days and workload of the employees would be akin to that in government and aided colleges. There should be provident fund and insurance for all employees. For teachers, appointment and retirement age will be what UGC and affiliated university specify. An appeal provision will be introduced at the university level, using which students, teachers or non-teaching staff can challenge disciplinary actions taken by college managements. The university syndicate would be authorized to consider and take appropriate decision on such appeals. The bill insists that education agencies that run self-financing colleges should share with respective universities the full details of teaching and non-teaching staff. College managements would have to comply with the provisions in the bill within three months of the bill coming into force. The registration conditions will be finalized by respective universities to which the colleges are affiliated. The bill comes in the wake of widespread complaints regarding the lack of transparency in appointment and staff remuneration in self-financing colleges. Six months after the law comes into force, self- financing colleges will have to set up an internal quality assurance cell, PTA, student grievance redressel cell and college council. The college is supposed to set up forums that will deal with sexual harassment complaints. However, the details of the bill released by the chief minister’s office is silent on the minimum wages for teaching and non-teaching staff. Though the government had earlier made an attempt to fix the salary scale of teaching faculty, most self-financing colleges refused to follow it. There are over 50,000 employees working in over 1,000 self-financing colleges in state and a majority of them are underpaid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/self-fin-colleges-draft-bill-gets-cabinet-nod/articleshow/80140298.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Nirav Modi’s son challenges confiscation of SoBo penthouse||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Wednesday heard Rohin Modi, son of Nirav Modi on his challenge to confiscation of the south Mumbai triplex penthouse at Samudra Mahal, by Enforcement Directorate (ED), without giving him a chance to be heard as its beneficial owner. His counsel, Abhimanyu Bhandari, said Rohin, now an adult, was the beneficiary of the trust that owns the property and the confiscation order flouted principles of natural justice as he was not heard. The confiscation of June 2020 also flouted an earlier order which assured that a notice would be given, he said before a bench of Justices S S Shinde and M S Karnia during a virtual hearing. For ED, additional solicitor general Anil Singh said he was a minor when proceedings were on to declare Nirav a fugitive economic offender (FEO) but his parents had participated in proceedings, and as his natural guardians and trustees were heard. In fact, submitted the ED counsel on Wednesday, it was clear the property belonged to Nirav and Ami Modi, who purchased it for Rs 24 crore when the trust had a corpus of only Rs 1,000 and the document bears their signatures. Singh contended that the trust was created only to show that it is the owner and said Nirav was declared an FEO in December 2019 and is facing a Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) case for allegedly defrauding Punjab National Bank (PNB) of over Rs 6,000 crore. Rohin’s case was also that the property was acquired in 2006, before the alleged offence of 2011. His counsel said the law specifically allows a beneficiary of the trust to go to trial and demonstrate the property being attached has nothing to do with proceeds of crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/niravs-son-challenges-confiscation-of-sobo-penthouse/articleshow/80140766.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Pune||Vigil in Maharashtra districts on MP border after bird flu cases||PUNE: The state government on Wednesday ordered strict vigil over districts of Maharashtra bordering Madhya Pradesh after crow deaths were reported due to bird flu in eight districts of MP. “We have also stepped up vigil over the big reservoirs and ponds in Maharashtra and communicated the arrangements to the cabinet. Poultry products from Kerala, where instances of bird flu have been detected, do not come to Maharashtra,” said Anoop Kumar, principal secretary, animal husbandry, dairy development and fisheries. “Maharashtra does get such products from Hyderabad. Bird flu cases have not been reported from the southern states such as Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. But if we get reports of bird flu cases from there, we will take a suitable decision,” he said. Kumar said people should not panic after reports of bird flu outbreaks in some states, “as transfer of the virus from birds to humans is very rare, unless there are mutations in the virus”. As soon as the authorities heard about bird mortalities in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Kerala, Haryana and Pong dam in Himachal Pradesh, Kumar said, an alert was issued for stepping up vigil over reservoirs and ponds in Maharashtra visited by the migratory birds. Animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh said, “I have spoken to all animal husbandry directors in the affected states. They confirmed there has so far been no confirmed cases of bird flu in poultry. Human cases with avian influenza are rare. It is difficult to transmit the infection from birds to humans. When people get infected, the mortality rate is about 50%.” Dr Vinayak Limaye, joint commissioner of animal husbandry, disease investigation section, Pune, said, “We have issued circulars to maintain biosecurity and cleanliness measures in poultry farms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vigil-in-maha-districts-on-mp-border-after-bird-flu-cases/articleshow/80141356.cms||Neha Madaan
January 7, 2021||Mumbai||Central Railway catching 1,500 illegal travellers daily since January 1; gets Rs 1.7 crore in fines||MUMBAI: There has been a major jump in unauthorized travellers in suburban local trains, as around 1,500 people are caught daily by Central Railway ticket examiners since January 1. Even though suburban services resumed from June 15, common citizens are still not permitted to travel. Services are only for essential service workers as categorized by state government. A senior CR official said, “Between June and December 2020, 70,000 commuters were caught ticketless or for unauthorized travel. This helped us mop up nearly Rs 1.7 crore in earnings from unauthorized passengers. But offenders are gradually increasing, which indicates that people are willing to take a risk of being fined to travel in local trains as their livelihood is at stake.” In December 2020, there were 29,585 cases of unauthorized travel, which comes to around 950 offenders a day. The figure for November was 23,088 or 770 offender per day. The official said that offenders almost doubled in January 2021, compared to November 2020. CR has also undertaken fortress-checks at CSMT and Ghatkopar, deploying TTE, staff from commercial department and Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel to catch offenders On Tuesday, between 7am and 3pm, CR caught 382 people and collected Rs91,000 in fines. . On Wednesday, fortress checks at Ghatkopar between 7am and 3pm led to 216 cases and fines of Rs50,000. The official said on Tuesday they detected 2,039 cases across the suburban network. CR’s chief public relations officer Shivaji Sutar said, “We have intensified the drive as the crowd is increasing at stations. Such action will act as a deterrent against over-crowding in trains and at platforms.” Zonal Railway Users’ Consultative Committee member Kailash Verma said, “Local trains are not available for the common man for nine months. Commuters will be forced to agitate if restrictions on travel are not lifted as jobs are at stake.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cr-catching-nearly-1-5k-authorised-travellers-daily/articleshow/80140735.cms||Manthank Mehta
January 7, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Congress begins looking for new state party chief||MUMBAI: The AICC on Wednesday quietly initiated an exercise to find a successor to state Congress president Balasaheb Thorat, who is also the revenue minister and leader of the Congress legislature party, in keeping with party’s policy of “one man, one post”. A week ago, Thorat had said that as per his party’s policy, he had offered to quit to pave the way for a new and young leader to take over the reins of the organization. A final decision on the successor to Thorat will be taken after Rahul Gandhi returns from abroad. A Congress minister felt that for the stability of the MVA government, it was essential that Thorat continue to hold the three posts of state party president, revenue minister and Congress legislature party leader. AICC secretary H K Patil, who is in-charge of Maharashtra, was in Mumbai to take stock of the current political situation after Thorat offered to quit the organizational post. Besides legislators and prominent leaders, Patil had a prolonged meeting with former chief ministers Prithviraj Chavan and Ashok Chavan, who is also public works minister on the possible successor to Thorat. Prithviraj Chavan confirmed that he had a meeting with Patil to discuss organization matters and current political situation. Besides Chavan, speaker Nana Patole, women and child welfare minister Yashomati Thakur, RS member Rajeev Satav and relief and rehab minister Vijay Wadettiwar are the frontrunners for the post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/congress-begins-looking-for-new-state-party-chief/articleshow/80143452.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
January 7, 2021||Meerut||UP court orders FIR against ADG-rank officer, 29 others for illegally trying to wrest control of ashram trust||MEERUT: An additional director-general (ADG) rank police officer was among 30 people booked by Meerut police on the direction of a court for allegedly trying to take control of an ashram trust through “fraudulent means”. The petitioner alleged that the accused were trying to take control of Badri Narayan Seva Gram trust, Meerut for its land and for the donations that it gets from the followers. Additional chief judicial magistrate accepted the petition of Krishnanand Kumar and directed Meerut’s Civil Lines police station to register the FIR and probe the allegations. Kumar was the legal advisor of the founder of the ashram. “After studying all the documents presented by the petitioner, prima facie it appears that the case merits a thorough investigation. Hence accepting the plea of Krishnanand Kumar under CrPC section 156 (3), the court directs station officer of Civil Lines police station to file FIR under relevant sections,” the court order read. The accused have been booked under several IPC sections, including 420 (cheating), 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 379 (theft), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 406 (criminal breach of trust) among others. The IPS officer was not available for reaction despite repeated attempts by TOI. The FIR alleges that one of the managers of the ashram, Vijay Gupta, his family members and associates -- which also includes the ADG -- used fake contract deeds, documents and trust deeds to grab the ashram’s property worth crores of rupees. The petitioner also says in the FIR, “In August, I was prevented from going inside the ashram.” According to sources, godman Hridya Narayan Yogi had established ‘Manas Sadhna Mandal’ way back in 1982 and registered it as a trust in Bareilly. Later, it was shifted to Meerut during early 90s when Badri Narayan Seva Ashram was established on Baghpat Road on a six-acre land. During this period, one Akhilesh Kumar Srivastava-- the then regional manager of UP Financial Corporation-- became a disciple of Yogi. He started looking after the expansion of the Yogi’s teachings abroad. When Yogi died in 2001, Srivastava became the head. Troubles began when Srivastava and his wife were killed in an accident in the US, the sources said. Their son, Somesh Srivastava and manager Gupta allegedly tried to wrest control of the trust with the help of the ADG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-court-orders-fir-against-adg-rank-officer-29-others-for-illegally-trying-to-wrest-control-of-ashram-trust/articleshow/80139314.cms||Sandeep Rai
January 7, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Akshaya Keralam gets nat’l recognition||Thiruvananthapuram: Akshaya Keralam, the TB (tuberculosis) elimination programme of state health department, has been recognized by the Centre as the best model public health initiative. The recognition has been given for the efforts taken to provide the treatment services for TB patients at their door steps during the pandemic. Health minister K K Shailaja said this is a recognition for the efforts by the health department in the TB elimination programme. The government had launched the Akshaya Kerala programme with an aim to eradicate TB from society by 2025. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/akshaya-keralam-gets-natl-recognition/articleshow/80140363.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Bhopal||Can’t fix? Hide it: BMC covers unrestored Mahal part with flex||BHOPAL: A flex over a heritage property in the state capital is turning heads. The flex is placed over the turndown façade of 18th century Shaukat Mahal giving it an appearance of the original. “It has been a couple of days since the flex was placed. This portion of the front of the Shaukat Mahal was turned down by the BMC in 2016. Since then, it has never been restored as promised. The flex is perhaps what we would get in place of the original,” said Sameer, a local resident. One of the most unique architectural marvels of Bhopal 185-year-old Shaukat Mahal has been crumbling for years. A ceiling in the front portion of the structure with distinctive Indo-French design, collapsed during the monsoon, leading the BMC to pull down the façade, to avert danger to the public. Since then various restoration plans have been announced for the heritage structure. None have led to real restoration work. The Mahal is a privately-owned property. In 2019, Bhopal smart city announced restoration of the front façade of the palaces would be undertaken after nearby Sadar Manzil is restored. Sadar Manzil would be open to the public from January 10. Local express optimism that Shaukat Mahal would be undertaken soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cant-fix-hide-it-bmc-covers-unrestored-mahal-part-with-flex/articleshow/80140333.cms||Jamal Ayub
January 7, 2021||Pune||Pune: Two private universities plan to open from February 1 for classes||PUNE: After the Savitribai Phule Pune University announced that colleges will reopen from January 11, many deemed universities in the city are also planning to begin in a phased manner. Representatives of universities said they are going to prepare well for the safety of students, schedule the classes and practical sessions and then announce the reopening. Principal director of Symbiosis Society Vidya Yeravdekar said the Symbiosis Medical College for Women will reopen from February 1, and the 150 students from this college will quarantine themselves in the college hostel from January 15 before the classes begin. The medical college has also received a nod from the National Medical Commission to begin classes. Yeravdekar said, “The 150 students have enough hostel facilities and so they will report on January 15 there. We have made provisions for one student in one room. Besides, all safety norms, social distancing and everything else will be followed.” She said the other campuses of the university will begin gradually and as per the needs. Students who are looking for placements and have related work on the campus will be called soon. The university has also sought permission for this from the district collector. All these students will undergo the RT-PCR tests before reporting to the campus. Yeravdekar said the classes of all other institutions are not being thought of at the moment although there is a lot of pressure from students and parents. Once the state government gives the approval only then they will think of reopening, she added. At Vishwakarma University, registrar Kedar Sant, said they were studying the details and were being worked out to conduct physical classes including the practicals. Sant said, “We are in the process of making a detailed plan for conducting theory, practical and other activities in a safe manner complying with all the UGC guidelines and directives issued by the state government.” Executive president and vice-chancellor, MIT ADT University, Mangesh Karad said the administration was planning to reopen the university on February 1 in phases. “Initially, final-year students will be called to campus. Then after 15 days third-year students will be called to the campus if the situation is under control. Then on March 1, the second-year students shall be called to campus,” he said. Ronika Agarwal, principal of MA Rangoonwala College of Physiotherapy (Azam Campus) said the admission procedure for the Bachelor of Physiotherapy course is going on. “Interns and postgraduate students are coming for OPD, IPD during these days. We can start classes by January-end after receiving the guidelines from Maharashtra University of Health Sciences,” she added. Anand Bhalerao, principal of Bharati Vidyapeeth Deemed University's College of Engineering, said the UGC had given permission to students of all research programmes and postgraduate students in science and technology programmes to institutes. The number of students from containment zones are comparatively less and norms of physical distancing and preventive measures can be easily enforced, he added. “Placement of final-year students is also important. Hence, these students will also be allowed to join academic and placement purposes subject to the decision of the university which will soon be taken,” Bhalerao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-private-universities-plan-to-open-from-february-1-for-classes/articleshow/80141368.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 7, 2021||Nagpur||Now, online canter facility at Kolara||NAGPUR: In a relief to low-end package tourists, the Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) will launch online canter safari from Kolara gate soon. The decision was taken at a meeting on Monday. After the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) plans to take over tourist complexes of Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM) at Kolara and Mohurli, these canters were handed over to TATR. “We will operate one canter from Kolara, which was earlier run by the FDCM. One canter was already online from Mohurli gate. We will put the canter on Tadoba portal for bookings in a couple of days,” said Jitendra Ramgaokar, TATR field director. Earlier, though canter was available from Kolara it was with a rider that tourists had to book accommodation with FDCM if they wanted entry inside Tadoba. Hence, despite, poor facilities at the FDCM resort, tourists had to reluctantly book accommodation. Now as the park will run the canter surrendered by the FDCM, tourists will be able to book it online directly. Stakeholders have welcomed the move. A resort owner from Kolara Nikhil Abhyankar said, “This was a long-awaited demand by tourists. Being close to Nagpur (115km), Kolara gate is the most preferred. Now common tourists will be able to book canter at Rs500 per person.” One safari in a Gypsy cost around Rs4,000/5,000 even if one or six persons travel but it would cost less while enjoying a safari in a canter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/now-online-canter-facility-at-kolara/articleshow/80140359.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Rajkot||Five held for robbing chemical agent in Junagadh||Rajkot: Five persons were arrested on Tuesday for robbing a chemical agent in Junagadh of Rs 1.2 lakh on January 3.The five accused have been identified as Salim Bukhari, Anjum Shah Rafai, Nasir Yasin Hingoda, Ashish Limbad and Sagar Nath. A local court had remanded all five accused to police custody till Wednesday. Police said that their remand was sought to recover the stolen cash and valuables and also nab one more accused. The chemical agent, Jayesh Lavani, a resident of Jetalsar in Rajkot district, was robbed by an auto-rickshaw driver to whom he had given a lift and five other accused. The auto-rickshaw driver had asked to stop Lavani near Junagadh GIDC and hand over all valuables he had. Later, the five other accused too reached at the spot and took away Lavani’s mobile phone, ATM card, gold necklace and Rs 10,000 in cash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/five-held-for-robbing-chemical-agent-in-junagadh/articleshow/80139336.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Pune||Police check on externed crooks||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad police carried out a special drive early on Wednesday, visiting the residences of 207 externed criminals. During the drive, one externed criminal was found at his house. A case was lodged against him under section 142 (being member of unlawful assembly) of the IPC. An officer from the Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch told TOI, “It has been observed that after the externment, criminals return to the city and are sometimes involved in criminal activities, too. We carried out surprise checks on Wednesday to keep a watch on such criminals.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-check-on-externed-crooks/articleshow/80141380.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Pune||Hadapsar residents complain of stench from garbage plant in area||PUNE: Residents of Sopanbaug, Udaybaug and neighbouring housing societies have been complaining of a severe stench that they suspect is coming from the Hadapsar garbage processing plant located at Takar Path, Swami Vivekanandanagar in Hadapsar Industrial Estate. Anita Iyer, a resident of the area, started an online petition on Change.org three years ago when the problem started and has obtained over 800 digital signatures but no solution has been found yet. “The garbage plant, managed by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), and a garbage processing unit run by the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) are located adjacent to each other. When we complain to one authority, they blame the other. Due to this blame-game, no solution has been found to address the foul stench in the area,” she said. Additional municipal commissioner Kunal Khemnar said, “Many residents have reached out to me with this complaint. My staff claims that the smell is not originating from our garbage plant but we suspect it might be coming from the processing plant managed by the PCB. We have communicated the same to them. I will be visiting the site with our officers to get to the root of the problem and figure out a solution within the week.” Yogesh Sasane, local corporator, said, “Around 200-250 tonne garbage is brought and dumped daily at the plants in the area. I have raised questions about the processing of the garbage done in the area. If some solution is not found and action is not taken to address the concerns and complaints of the residents, I will move court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hadapsar-residents-complain-of-stench-from-garbage-plant-in-area/articleshow/80141385.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Aurangabad||Task force ready with 122 Covid vaccination centres in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: The task force constituted for carrying out Covid-19 vaccination in Aurangabad has initially identified 122 centres in the city where necessary shots would be given to target beneficiaries during the early phase. In a latest meeting held, administrator of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) Astik Kumar Pandey, who is heading the task-force, has asked authorities concerned to rope in hotels and private hospitals for the purpose of vaccination. “The proposed vaccination centres must be equipped with essentials such as water supply, electricity, wash-rooms, internet facility and vehicle parking. The ward officers and nodal health officers concerned are expected to ensure that necessary preparations are made in advance,” he said. Meanwhile, the civic and health authorities have geared up for dry-run of the vaccination which is scheduled on January 8 along with other cities in Maharashtra. AMC health officer Nita Padalkar said that the civic body is ready for the dry-run which is considered as rehearsal for actual vaccination drive to identify any gaps in the execution process. “The dry-run will be carried out in the AMC’s health centre located in N-11 sector. The civic administration is ready with 122 booths where the vaccination drive will be carried out after receiving formal nod from the government,” she said. Meanwhile, official data released by the AMC states that 3,360 teachers working in schools from the municipal limits have undergone Covid-19 testing since December 28. Of these, 11 teachers have tested positive for the contagion. State cabinet approves proposal for increasing GMCH bed capacity The state cabinet on Wednesday approved a proposal for increasing the bed capacity at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and the District Cancer Hospital by 165 beds. They cabinet also gave a go-ahead to sanction 360 new posts at these hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/task-force-ready-with-122-covid-vaccination-centres-in-city/articleshow/80139352.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: 190 new cases take Covid count to 40,223||BHOPAL: As many as 190 new cases of Covid-19 were diagnosed in the state capital on Wednesday. Two more people died due to Covid-19, taking the death toll to 587 in the state capital. In Bhopal, a total 40,223 people have been infected with Covid-19 since the pandemic began. About 150 people recovered from the infection in Bhopal on Wednesday, taking the overall tally of recoveries to 37,500. On Wednesday, there were about 2,000 active cases of Covid-19 in Bhopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/190-new-cases-take-city-covid-count-to-40223/articleshow/80140364.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Chandigarh||Traces of virus found in air in hosps: Study||Chandigarh: In a combined study by the centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad, and the Institute of Microbial Technology, Chandigarh, it has been found that there has been airborne transmission of Covid-19 in hospitals where more symptomatic patients are inside a closed room for at least an hour. Also, the virus has been found to be present at more than 10-feet distance from patients in hospital. The study, “Detection of SARS-CoV-2 in the air from hospitals and closed rooms occupied by Covid-19 patients” is a preprint authored by Rakesh K Mishra, Shivranjani C Moharir, T Sharath Chandra, Sanjeev Khosla, Amit Tuli. A total of 64 air samples were collected from three hospitals each from Hyderabad and Mohali. Air samples were collected from Covid-19 ICUs, nurse stations, Covid-19 wards, corridors, non-Covid-19 wards, PPE doffing areas, Covid-19 rooms, OP corridors, mortuary, Covid-19 casualty areas, non-Covid-19 ICUs and doctors’ rooms. Four out of 64 samples were positive for SARS-CoV-2 and 16 others showed traces of the virus. The scientists inferred that the chance of picking up SARS-CoV-2 in the air is directly related to the number of Covid-19 positive cases in a room, their symptomatic status and the duration of exposure. Demarcation of hospital areas into Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 areas is a successful strategy to prevent cross infections. From Mohali, 23 air samples were collected from three hospitals (all tertiary care hospitals) between July and December. Among these, only one ICU sample was positive. Moreover, the virus could not be detected in any of the non-Covid-19 areas, providing objective evidence that the strategy of separating hospital premises into Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 care areas is effective.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/traces-of-virus-found-in-air-in-hosps-study/articleshow/80122124.cms||Shimona Kanwar
January 7, 2021||Chandigarh||Congress seeks ballot, secrecy, writes to DC||Chandigarh: Suspecting breach of secrecy of ballot by BJP’s municipal councillors during the mayoral election, scheduled on Friday, Chandigarh Congress president and all the five municipal councillors has written to Governor of Punjab-cum-UT administrator V P Singh Badnore and Chandigarh DC on Wednesday to ensure secrecy of ballot in the poll by adopting all the required measures. Congress says since it has been observed that the ruling BJP has adopted a new strategy of clicking photos of the votes cast, therefore, the authorities need to be extra vigil to stop the practice. “In the past, it has been reported that photographs of the election ballot have been clicked and leaked to outsiders or senior leaders. To stop this blatant disregard of free and fair election process, it is my sincere appeal to you that no such gadget (phones, cameras, pens, smart-watch etc.) should be allowed to be carried by anyone inside the voting room during the entire election process which can be used to click photograph/record video of the ballot/vote,” read the letter. The letter further says that, “An X-Ray scanner should be kept at the entrance of the voting area and proper scanning of the entrants should be done by the security guards so that no such gadgets or objectionable material is carried inside the voting room. Also, it should be strictly instructed to the administration that they should ensure that no misbehaviour is observed in the voting area during the mayoral electoral process and that the entire elections are done in a free and fair manner.” Congress president Pardeep Chhabra said they are hopeful that the administrator and the DC will ensure the free, fair and transparent elections so as to uphold the democratic principles of our country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/congress-seeks-ballot-secrecy-writes-to-dc/articleshow/80140369.cms||Deepak Yadav
January 7, 2021||Pune||Pune: Youth collects Rs 56,000 via fake online profile||PUNE: The Chikhali police arrested a 19-year-old youth for creating a fake profile of a medical student (25) on a social media platform using her old cellphone number and collecting Rs 56,000 from her acquaintances by claiming she was in trouble. A police team took the youth, Shubham Hava from Rahatani, in custody on Monday. Probe revealed that Hava had stolen a motorcycle from Latur district. The medical student had lodged an FIR with the Chikhali police on October 20. “The complainant’s cellphone number, inactive for more than six months, was allotted to Hava. When Hava activated the mobile messaging service, he started receiving messages from the complainant’s acquaintances,” Vithhal Badhe, sub-inspector, Chikhali police, told TOI. “Hava created a fake account of the woman on a mobile messaging service and started sending messages to the complainant’s contact, claiming that the complainant was in trouble and needed money,” he said. Hava collected Rs56,000 from the complainant’s acquaintances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-collects-rs-56k-via-fake-online-profile/articleshow/80141398.cms||Mihir Tanksale
January 7, 2021||Chandigarh||BJP MP to play peacemaker at dinner with councillors today||Chandigarh: BJP MP Dushyant Gautam, who is Chandigarh and Punjab in-charge, will meet all party councillors over dinner on Thursday to press upon them to be united face during the mayoral elections on Friday. Although BJP is claiming everything is back to normal following the embarrassing filling of nomination papers for mayor’s seat by councillor Chandrawati Shukla that were rejected during scrutiny, sources said the party is still struggling to convince a few councillors to not stray during voting. Sources said the party’s central leadership is keeping an eye on the situation. Gautam and other leaders are in constant touch with the local leadership, asking them to keep the flock together at any cost. Gautam will reach the city on Thursday and hold a meeting with all party councillors over dinner. As the municipal corporation elections are scheduled in December, it has become all the more important for BJP to show that there is no rift in the party. “It is a fact that since the BJP came to power in the MC, factionalism has come out in the open in all mayoral elections and persons who rebelled or brought a bad name to the party were not punished. The lack of disciplinary or any kind of action emboldened others and showed the lax attitude of the local leadership,” a senior BJP leader said. At the same time, BJP city chief Arun Sood and party’s mayor candidate Ravi Kant Sharma are not leaving any stone unturned to avoid any embarrassment. Sood on Wednesday spoke to most of the councillors, while Sharma met them and party senior leader and former MP Satya Pal Jain to seek his blessings. Jain extended his support to Sharma, asking him to take everybody along. ‘Will get all 20 votes’ Dushyant Gautam, BJP Chandigarh and Punjab in-charge and MP, said, “Everything is fine in the party. The BJP will get all its 20 votes and ensure a thumping victory for its candidates. Everybody has a right to say their side of version in BJP. But in the end, we are united. The party will win all the three seats in the mayoral elections.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-mp-to-play-peacemaker-at-dinner-with-councillors-today/articleshow/80140368.cms||Deepak Yadav
January 7, 2021||Pune||Cops launch search for 4 attackers||Pune: The Haveli police are searching for four men suspected to have brutally assaulted the newly elected Donje gram panchayat member, Shekhar Parge (35), with sharp weapons shortly after Monday midnight at a farmhouse near the foothills of Sinhagad fort over a petty spat. According to the police, Parge and his alleged assailants were having dinner during which an altercation cropped up over some petty issue. The suspects left the farmhouse in Atkarwadi only to return with sharp weapons and attacked Parge, currently undergoing treatment for head injuries at a hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-launch-search-for-4-attackers/articleshow/80141426.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Bhopal||Nothing to worry over H5N8 situation in MP, says CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||INDORE: As the spread of H5N8 avian influenza increases in Madhya Pradesh, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday instructed the officials concerned to take all required measurements to deal with the situation and stop transport of chicken from southern states. “Today, I held a meeting to review the situation (of H5N8 avian influenza). There is nothing to worry. Symptoms have been found in some birds including crows. We have given instructions for random checking of poultry farms and said disease has not been found there. I have instructed all the district collectors to implement guidelines of the disease by establishing dialogues with owners of the poultry farms,” Chouhan said. He added that said symptoms (of H5N8 avian influenza) have been found in poultry in Kerala and other southern states and therefore, “we have decided to stop import of the same in Madhya Pradesh for next 10 days”. Meanwhile, ‘unusual death’ of over two dozen crows and pigeons reported under Indore and Ujjain division on Wednesday has increased worries. In Indore, the veterinary department collected carcasses of around 20 crows and as many as seven pigeons from Daly College’s campus, Mhow, Patalpani and Betma area of the district. The officials concerned have sent samples of the pigeons to Bhopal-based laboratory. “During the day, Alirajpur and Sendhawa reported the death of as many as six and two crows respectively, while death of a few pigeons was reported in Jhabua” Joint director veterinary department (Indore division) Dr GS Dabar told TOI. He added that in Barwani, carcasses of 15-20 chickens were recovered from alongside a road. “The dead chickens have been dumped there by unknown persons. We have sent two carcasses to Bhopal for lab testing while remaining carcasses have been disposed of,” he said. “So far, there is no proof of H5N8 avian influenza infecting chickens and there are no such instructions to put a ban on the sale or consumption of its meat or eggs. However, one should take precautionary measures including boiling the chicken meat and eggs at 165 degree Celsius before consuming, not to come in contact with live birds and wash hands with boiled water after touching eggs or meat,” Dr Dabar said. Under Ujjain division, Mandsaur, Agar and Ujjain district are also reeling under H5N8 avian influenza spread while the state government has alerted the officials concerned to take all the required precautions to deal with the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nothing-to-worry-over-h5n8-situation-in-state-cm/articleshow/80140407.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Dehradun||NBWL gives final nod for extension of Delhi-Dehradun expressway||DEHRADUN: In a major blow to the efforts of conservationists, the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) on Tuesday gave a final clearance to the Ganeshpur-Dehradun Road (NH72A), which is an extension of the Delhi-Dehradun expressway. The project required wildlife clearance as a 19.78-km-long stretch of the road – from Ganeshpur (in UP) to Dehradun – will pass through the eco-sensitive zone of the Rajaji Tiger Reserve and the Shivalik Elephant Reserve. Even though barely 3.6 km of the expressway will be in Uttarakhand, the Himalayan state will have to forego over 2,500 British-era Sal trees and around 10 hectares of reserve forest area which is a part of the eco-sensitive zone of Rajaji. Uttar Pradesh, which will have around 16 km of the expressway, will give away over 47 hectares of its forest land which is a part of the Shivalik Elephant Reserve too. The move had triggered an outcry from nature-lovers as the area is home to several endangered carnivore species like tigers as well as herbivore species like elephants besides over 300 species of birds. Experts say that adding to the woes of wildlife in this patch is the fact that Uttarakhand will not get an ‘elevated expressway’ like Uttar Pradesh, but simple broadening of the existing 3.6km-road. “From Mohund to Asarori on the Dehradun border, it takes barely 28 minutes and if the expressway is made, it would take 18 minutes. For reducing travel time by just 10-12 minutes, why should Dehradun sacrifice its 2500 trees, which are over a century old?” said Himanshu Arora, secretary, Citizens for Green Doon, an NGO which has also filed a petition against tree felling for the Centre’s ambitious Char Dham all-weather road project. Scientists, too, say that any type of tree removal from the Shivaliks will lead to erosion and impact the overall ecosystem services being given by these huge Sal trees. "Tree felling in the Shivalik foothills would lead to dry climate and thereby add to global warming. Also, Sal trees take lot of time to regenerate and form a perfect habitat for endless species of animals as well as birds, and therefore, felling of these trees would be a significant loss to the area’s biodiversity," said JM Tomar, principal scientist, Indian Institute of Soil and Water Conservation (IISWC), Dehradun. The chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand forest department, JS Suhag meanwhile said that the road widening will have “strict mitigation measures in place as suggested by the experts of Wildlife Institute of India such as barriers on both sides of the road to block and absorb noise and light pollution, bamboo plantation etc and monitoring for 2-3 years to monitor animal road kills and man-wildlife conflict in nearby areas, if any.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/national-board-for-wildlife-gives-final-nod-for-extension-of-delhi-doon-expressway-over-2-5k-british-era-sal-trees-set-to-be-chopped/articleshow/80139387.cms||Shivani Azad
January 7, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Mask is the only medicine for virus’||Chandigarh: Covid-19 infections in the city are gradually decreasing. In the last six days, a total of 242 Covid-19 cases have been confirmed along with six deaths. Going by this trend, herd immunity is far away, say public health experts. Wearing of masks is the only way to prevent the transmission even after vaccination. The lowest numbers of the virus were reported on January 3 when only 16 cases were reported. However, on Wednesday, 78 new cases were witnessed. This has been the highest so far in the past six days. “This indicates that we have to live with the new normal of wearing face masks, adhering to social distancing and hand washing. There will be a rise and fall in the cases as not many have been infected so far. So there is no herd immunity,” said a public health expert at the PGI. He said, “Till antibodies titer (measurement of antibodies) are not available after immunisation, it will not be known as to for how long the Covid-19 shot works to protect against the virus. Also, there are variants coming and the efficacy of the vaccines is not known.” With the recent approvals of the two vaccines, there has been a lot of reluctance to take the immunisation amongst the health workers. The PGI had been one of the 17 sites selected for the trials for Oxford AstraZeneca’s Covishield vaccine. “There is no efficacy studies and we will not know if the vaccines are working or not. The safety tests have been done. But we would prefer to wear masks rather than getting vaccinated,” said a PGI doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mask-is-the-only-medicine-for-virus/articleshow/80140383.cms||Shimona Kanwar
January 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Schools, colleges in Gujarat to partially reopen||AHMEDABAD: The state cabinet decided on Wednesday to reopen schools and colleges to students in a phased manner from January 11. In the initial phase, classes on campus will start with final-year students in colleges and Class 10 and Class 12 students in schools. With this decision, Gujarat joins 16 other states that have allowed reopening of schools after the countrywide lockdown was lifted. “We have decided to reopen schools for Class 10 and Class 12 board students and final-year college students. This also includes final-year students pursuing their postgraduate studies,” said education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama. The minister added that the decision taken on Wednesday applies to all schools and colleges in the state including government, grant-in-aid, self-financed, Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas and all the schools under social justice and empowerment department. Brushing aside all talks of mass promotion, the minister said that regular exams will be held for students but with reduced syllabi. All SOPs and protocols, including social distancing norms in connection with Covid-19, will be observed in schools and colleges. The minister said that attendance will not be mandatory and that online classes will continue till the end of the academic year. Earlier, the Centre had in its Unlock 5.0 guidelines suggested reopening of schools and colleges in the country in a limited manner from October 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/schools-colleges-in-state-to-partially-reopen/articleshow/80142929.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Indore||Nothing to worry over H5N8 situation in MP, says CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||INDORE: As the spread of H5N8 avian influenza increases in Madhya Pradesh, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday instructed the officials concerned to take all required measurements to deal with the situation and stop transport of chicken from southern states. “Today, I held a meeting to review the situation (of H5N8 avian influenza). There is nothing to worry. Symptoms have been found in some birds including crows. We have given instructions for random checking of poultry farms and said disease has not been found there. I have instructed all the district collectors to implement guidelines of the disease by establishing dialogues with owners of the poultry farms,” Chouhan said. He added that said symptoms (of H5N8 avian influenza) have been found in poultry in Kerala and other southern states and therefore, “we have decided to stop import of the same in Madhya Pradesh for next 10 days”. Meanwhile, ‘unusual death’ of over two dozen crows and pigeons reported under Indore and Ujjain division on Wednesday has increased worries. In Indore, the veterinary department collected carcasses of around 20 crows and as many as seven pigeons from Daly College’s campus, Mhow, Patalpani and Betma area of the district. The officials concerned have sent samples of the pigeons to Bhopal-based laboratory. “During the day, Alirajpur and Sendhawa reported the death of as many as six and two crows respectively, while death of a few pigeons was reported in Jhabua” Joint director veterinary department (Indore division) Dr GS Dabar told TOI. He added that in Barwani, carcasses of 15-20 chickens were recovered from alongside a road. “The dead chickens have been dumped there by unknown persons. We have sent two carcasses to Bhopal for lab testing while remaining carcasses have been disposed of,” he said. “So far, there is no proof of H5N8 avian influenza infecting chickens and there are no such instructions to put a ban on the sale or consumption of its meat or eggs. However, one should take precautionary measures including boiling the chicken meat and eggs at 165 degree Celsius before consuming, not to come in contact with live birds and wash hands with boiled water after touching eggs or meat,” Dr Dabar said. Under Ujjain division, Mandsaur, Agar and Ujjain district are also reeling under H5N8 avian influenza spread while the state government has alerted the officials concerned to take all the required precautions to deal with the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/nothing-to-worry-over-h5n8-situation-in-state-cm/articleshow/80148939.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Chandigarh||Taking cue from Punjab, city considers reopening schools||Chandigarh: After Punjab announced reopening of schools from classes V to XII from January 7, the UT too is mulling over reopening of schools for classes V to VIII in a phased manner. The department is expected to consult heads and principals of schools in this regard soon and thereafter a proposal will also be prepared and shared with the higher authorities for approval. The teachers, however, said the ministry of human resource and development has not given guidelines or instructions to call middle school students to schools yet. They said only a few students of classes IX to XII were coming to schools as online classes is still the preferred mode. The UT education department had first reopened schools for classes IX to XII from November 2 onwards. If the department decides on calling students of junior classes, they too will have to get consent from parents, which teachers feel will not be given by most parents. “Not even 50% students of senior classes managed to get consent till date to attend physical classes. It will be difficult to get consent from parents of younger children. If the online is not an option, they might then send their wards,” said a teacher requesting anonymity. School heads have not been approached by the department for discussion on this yet. However, they feel since the campuses of government schools are big enough, students may be allowed in batches. Even if the schools reopen, students will have to follow all the standard operating procedures (SoPs), including following of social distancing, wearing of masks and sanitising regularly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/taking-cue-from-punjab-city-considers-reopening-schools/articleshow/80140405.cms||Kamini Mehta
January 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||GTU to reply in HC over exams next week||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Wednesday questioned Gujarat Technological University (GTU) over granting an online option for examinations to its students. The HC asked the university to explain in response to a petition filed by students who are resisting GTU’s the decision to conduct pen-paper examination. They are seeking court directions to the university to hold semester examinations online by citing prevailing Covid pandemic conditions. Advocate Deepak Shukla appeared for GTU and sought more time to reply to the HC notice. The court has asked the university file reply by January 11 and posted hearing on the next day. GTU had conducted final year examinations online earlier this year due to Covid-19. However, the university decided not to hold tests online for the semester exams. A, few major universities in the state have already conducted offline examinations. They did not give an option of online test to their students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gtu-to-reply-in-hc-over-exams-next-week/articleshow/80142927.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Pune||Physical classes appeal to a section of parents||Pune: Parents hold the key to normalising the school situation for children from standards IX to XII. Their consent form is necessary for schools to taken in the children. As per the government’s guidelines, schools have to take a written consent from parents. Some parents are waiting before consenting while a few have readily agreed to send their children to school after the tentative board examination dates were announced. Parents of students in the standards X and XII are more open to consenting to send their children to school. Rashmi Mahadik, parent of a standard X student, said, “My child has started going to school since Monday. The school had started taking consent from us from last week through Google Form. We had decided to send our child after educating him about self-care and safety in school. Nothing beats face-to-face teaching.” Students of standard XII have been giving their consent too as many schools have started with practical sessions. Subhash Rakshe, a parent of a standard XII student, said, “Since the school said that the initial few weeks they will conduct laboratory sessions, we decided to send the child to school. My daughter is big enough and can definitely take care of herself. They miss classes as online teaching is not so effective especially for science students.” Another parent of a standard XII student, Seema Agarwal, said the school had sent them a video of what precautions they have taken and how classes will be conducted. “It is up to the students to keep safe and attend the classes. We gave the consent to the school two weeks ago.” Those who have students in standard IX are skeptical and want to wait. Shrikrishna Joshi, a parent of a standard IX student, said, “The current attendance in my son's class is only about 25% and schools have online classes simultaneously. So I would rather take a safe call and see how the system progresses and then send my son to school.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/physical-classes-appeal-to-a-section-of-parents/articleshow/80160536.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 7, 2021||Chandigarh||In case of minor girl, FB posts insignificant as evidence: Punjab and Haryana HC||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has made plain that a Facebook conversation between a minor girl and a boy are insignificant for purpose of evidence of their relationship. In this case, the girl had initially deposed that she had left with the boy of her own will but retracted her statement twice before the magistrate, claiming that her consent was given under duress. The boy had referred to a Facebook exchange of posts between them to prove that their relationship was consensual. "So far as the Facebook conversations between the petitioner and the girl are concerned, the same would be of no significance…the girl being admittedly minor, these kinds of messages cannot be considered as having any significance or bearing upon case," the HC has observed. Justice Jasgurpreet Singh Puri of the high court has passed these orders while dismissing a habeas corpus petition filed by a native of Yamunanagar district in Haryana and related cases. The petitioner had sought directions to release his wife from the custody of her parents as well as directions to quash the cases registered against him for kidnapping of girl whom he claimed to have married. In his plea, the man submitted that he had got married to a girl who was below 18 years of age and according to him, the marriage was solemnized as per the Muslim law and since the age of puberty under the Muslim law was 15 years, thus, according to the counsel for the petitioner the marriage was a perfectly legal marriage. The father of the girl, however, stated that his daughter, whose age is around 17 years, was not found in her room at around 3 am on August 30, 2020, and they filed a complaint with police. It was stated in the FIR that they apprehended that the petitioner had enticed the girl on the pretext of marrying her. However, in her first statement recorded before the magistrate under Section 164 of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), the girl had deposed that she had got married to the petitioner of her own accord. Thereafter, she contradicted this in her deposition before the magistrate, claiming that she was kept in illegal confinement by the boy who also committed ‘wrong act’ against her. Later, in pursuance of the directions issued by the HC, a third statement of the girl was also recorded with the assistance of a woman DSP, in which the girl again denied the factum of marriage with the boy. To defend the petitioner, his counsel relied upon Facebook messages in which the girl claimed to have stated that her statement (which she made against the boy) was recorded at night time and the petitioner was not present there and that the petitioner should forgive her. Counsel also submitted several conversations that had taken place between the petitioner boy and the girl on Facebook to prove that it was a consensual relationship. However, the counsel for the state government informed that the police had constituted a special invetigation team (SIT) to probe the entire issue after finding contradictions in the girl’s statements. The SIT found that the documents provided by the boy related to his marriage were found to be fake and even the witnesses mentioned by him in Nikahnama were found to be non-existent. After hearing the matter, the HC dismissed the petition filed by the boy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-case-of-minor-girl-fb-posts-insignificant-as-evidence-hc/articleshow/80141476.cms||Ajay Sura
January 7, 2021||Chandigarh||Air quality in the city was poor on just 1 day in December last year||Chandigarh: The air quality in all the days of the last month in 2020 other than December 21 was under moderate or satisfactory category, with the average touching 111, as compared to the poor level that was recorded in the same period in 2019 at an average of 138. The improvement had come at a time when the city was enduring severe cold. Record showed that from December 1 to 20, the air quality was satisfactory and moderate. On December 21, the air quality was recorded above 200, falling under the poor category. From December 22, it remained under moderate category. On the other hand, in December 2019, the air quality had reached till 305, measured under very poor category and three times under poor category, when the quality was recorded over 200 mark. On the remaining days, the air quality was under satisfactory, good and moderate categories. Debendra Dalai, member secretary, Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC), and director, environment, said, “Since all the activities are still not opened and schools, colleges and other related educational institutes closed, many people are working from their homes. People are also avoiding to come out regularly as they used to earlier. Normalcy has not returned to the city so far. All these factors have helped in improving the air quality.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/air-quality-in-the-city-was-poor-on-just-1-day-in-december-last-year/articleshow/80140437.cms||Deepak Yadav
January 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Students defer plans to study abroad||AHMEDABAD: Rohan Chougale, an Ahmedabad-based professional, planned to go to the US to pursue higher education in engineering and management courses. “Most universities had shifted their courses online. I did not see a point in opting for online education from a foreign university since I was looking for better exposure by living and studying in a foreign country. Since there was a great deal of uncertainty due to the pandemic , I decided to defer my plan by a year,” said Chougale, who had decided to get loans to finance part of his education. According to foreign education experts, majority of the students who wanted to study abroad this year, have deferred their plans by at least a year. “Most of our students have put off their plans for a year because they do not want to go for online courses,” said Ajit Singh, product head at a city-based foreign education consultancy. Singh, however, also pointed out that while demand for loans has dropped, the sanction and disbursal of loans is a concern. “Those who plan to continue with their admissions, either online or offline, are facing difficulties in availing education loans, because a number of private- and public-sector lenders have made their norms stringent,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/students-defer-plans-to-study-abroad/articleshow/80142928.cms||Niyati Parikh
January 7, 2021||Chandigarh||City police stations set to have separate cyber desks||Chandigarh: The UT police department is all set to launch cyber desks in police stations to reduce the burden from cyber cell. As per the available data, around 6300 complaints were received at cyber cell in 2020. As per the information , DGP UT has given his nod to establish the cyber desks in police stations to deal with cyber complaints at police station level and soon all the police stations would have separate cyber desks with trained staff to deal with the cyber complaints. Cyber cell officials said cyber cell desks of the police stations will deal only with a few types of complaints like threatening emails, calls and creating fake accounts on social media and cheating cases with small amounts. As per the cyber cell officials , the main motive behind establishing theses desks is saving the energy and time of cyber cell from investigating unimportant cases and small cheating cases. Officials said in complaints like threatening messages , calls and creating fake accounts , generally people don’t want to lodge any FIR’s. People just want to delete their fake accounts and make sure they don’t receive threatening or abusive messages , calls and mails, cops said. Officials told that hundreds of cops were provided basic training from one week to 15 days to deal with the cyber complaints . These trained officials would be deployed at the cyber desks in police stations. As many as 982 complaints were received regarding the creating fake id’s on facebook, twitter and other sites, threatening messages /calls and hacking of mail ids, whatsapp accounts in the year of 2020. The cyber cell had sent a request for the establishing a separate cyber police station like Hyderabad, Jaipur , Gurgaon to tackle the increasing rush of cyber crime complaints around five years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-police-stations-set-to-have-separate-cyber-desks/articleshow/80140441.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Chandigarh||PU allows research scholars in hostels, but with conditions||Chandigarh: Research scholars who have work in laboratories and completed two years of enrolment can stay in hostels of Panjab University (PU). Prof Sukhbir Kaur, dean student welfare (W), said research scholars who have completed more than five years since enrolment can also avail hostel facility on daily charges. However, all of them will have to take the consent of their supervisor. Research scholars of hostels of Sector 25 will be adjusted in Sector 14 hostels. They will have to follow instructions, the most important getting tested for Covid-19 a week before reporting to hostels, according to the instructions. Scholars will have to submit an undertaking to the warden forwarded through the chairperson of the Department that they will follow all standard operating procedures. Hostel residents will be provided food through tiffin (lunch box) on cash payment basis. No entry for guests Minimum number of messes/canteens will be opened and residents will have to collect tiffin from contractors. Facilities of shops (barber/beauty parlour, tailor, tuck shops, washerman) will not be provided. Protest outside VC office The PU Research Scholars Association held a protest in front of the VC office, demanding opening of departments, hostels and AC Joshi Library for research scholars. Thirty scholars took part in the protest. Their demands were related to synopsis extension fee exemption, Hostel accommodation for those who have completed 5 years of PhD and opening of Gate number 1. for pedestrians.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-allows-research-scholars-in-hostels-but-with-conditions/articleshow/80140420.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Classes 9 and 11 likely from Feb||Ahmedabad: Ruling out the possibility of any mass promotion for students for the academic year 2020-21, Gujarat education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama announced on Wednesday that the state government will reopen schools and colleges from January 11. Campuses will be opened partially, only for classes 10 and 12 in schools and for final-year classes in undergraduate and postgraduate courses.. “If all goes well, then the government plans to resume classroom studies for other classes too. The next in line are classes 9 and 11 which may resume from February,” said a senior government official. Classrooms in schools, colleges, and other institutions have been shut since March 23, 2019, as a measure to check the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. Last year, in November, the government had decided to reopen schools for classes 9-12, but later scrapped the decision. “This time around, the government’s decision is only for students facing board exams and course-end exams. It is a well-calculated move,” said the official. There are about 20,000 schools in the state that will reopen for students from Monday. Against this, there will be about 17 lakh students eligible to attend classroom studies in the initial phase. “It will be easy to maintain social distancing and ensure that students do not suffer academically in this crucial period,” the official added. For Class 12 students, practical (laboratory) studies have taken a backseat due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/classes-9-and-11-likely-from-feb/articleshow/80142926.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Meerut||UP: Labourer, 25, killed for asking Rs 300 as wages||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A labourer, 25, was stabbed to death by his "friend" for demanding his day's wage of Rs 300. The man identified as Salman Ahmed was stabbed "several times" with a sharp object by Shoyab, a mason, with whom he used to work as a labourer. The incident took place in Mandwada village under Budhana police station limits in UP's Muzaffarnagar district on Wednesday. Ahmed's brother Dilshaad said, "Ahmed used to work with Shoyab. When Ahmed asked for his day's Rs 300 wage, Shoyab started arguing with him. He then, all of a sudden, grabbed a pair of scissors from a nearby barber shop and stabbed my brother several times." The critically injured labourer was rushed to a local hospital from where he was referred to a higher medical facility in Meerut. Ahmed, however, died on the way. After learning about the incident, police visited the village and started an investigation. Ahmed's body was sent for postmortem. Deputy superintendent of police of Budhana GS Tripathi said, "A case has been registered against the accused at Budhana police station. The family of the deceased has filed a complaint. The matter is under investigation and action will be taken accordingly." The accused fled the village after the incident. "We will nab the accused soon," police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/labourer-25-stabbed-to-death-by-friend-for-demanding-rs-300-wage/articleshow/80139402.cms||Mohd Dilshad
January 7, 2021||Mumbai||Designer’s coming out as a woman magnifies transgender visibility||While she’s still trying to get the hang of walking in her brand new pair of six-inch stilettos or adjusting her bodice, Swapnil Shinde, reborn at age 39 as Saisha Shinde, appears ready to upstage all the fashionistas that she has been dressing for the past two decades. Transgender visibility in the country reached new heights after Shinde—a fashion designer known for dressing Bollywood actors such as Deepika Padukone, Katrina Kaif, Kareena Kapoor and Sunny Leone—came out to the world on Tuesday with a new name and a new face as a transwoman, becoming one of the first to break grounds with her trans identity in India’s pop culture sphere. With a picture of her freshly minted porcelain skin with perfectly arched brows and a delicate glance, a far cry from the heavy stubble and pompadour haircut that previously defined the Wadala-based designer, she shared a long note on social media where she spoke of her struggles with gender identity that led to “loneliness, aches and pressures” since childhood. “All through school and college, while the boys outside tormented me because I was different, the internal pain was far worse. I felt suffocated living a reality that I knew wasn’t mine, yet one that I had to stage every day because of societal expectations and norms. It was only in my early 20s at NIFT where I found the courage to accept my truth; I truly bloomed,” Shinde wrote, adding she spent the next few years “believing that I was attracted to men because I was gay, but it was only six years ago that I finally accepted to myself, and today that I accept to you. I’m not a gay man. I am a Transwoman.” However, shedding apprehensions and transitioning to her dreams of an appearance to match her identity as a woman was “never black and white”, she underlines. “I’d been toying with the idea for about six years but because of the profession I’m in and the adulation that Swapnil Shinde has always got, many of my friends in the industry out of concern for me felt that I could live my life as a man, and behind closed doors, dress up as a woman to avoid trolling,” says Shinde who has the pandemic-induced isolation to thank for driving her to be her authentic self. “One morning after a chat with my therapist I decided to go with my decision to live as a woman in full swing,” she gushes. Unveiling the woman in her was important for Shinde, not just to break barriers for herself but for others in the transgender community for whom coming out publicly remains a struggle, even as the scenario looks more upbeat for gay men. “If someone like me who is privileged is battling so much, I don’t know what people who don’t must be going through. And that was one of the main reasons for me to come out the way I have. When browsing social media, there’s no one from India that I found who I could look up to with a successful, happy life with a great set of friends,” says Shinde who sees herself engaging with the LGBTQ community about issues impacting the transgender community. “Just like being gay is as good as normal now, I want to be more involved in making people comfortable with the idea of a transgender person being normal too and not a caricaturish image.” Even as Shinde guards her privacy when it comes to the question of sex reassignment surgery, she admits that “40 percent of my transition is done and as soon as the coronavirus is sorted I will get to the next step of surgeries.” While Shinde has received an outpouring of applause from friends in the industry such as actors Parineeti Chopra, Aditi Rao Hydari and Shruti Hassan to stylist Anahita Adajania Shroff and model Diandra Soares, she was actively supported in her choice by her mother who helped her choose the name ‘Saisha’ which means ‘meaningful life,’ and father who’s eager to find her the best surgeon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/designer-comes-out-ramps-up-focus-on-transpeople/articleshow/80142931.cms||Mohua Das
January 7, 2021||Chandigarh||HC sets aside Hry guv decision on Red Cross gen secy tenure||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court has set aside the decision of Haryana governor, being the president of Red Cross Society (state branch), on extending the tenure of society’s general secretary by ‘travelling beyond the service rules’. On June 2, 2020, the governor had extended the tenure of D R Sharma as general secretary of the society till his superannuation on April 30, 2022. “In absence of enabling powers in the service rules, the society president had no inherent power to travel beyond service rules. Once the service rules have been framed, notified and adopted, then the state or its instrumentalities are required to follow the same. The rules are framed/notified in order to regulate. If the authorities at the highest level do not adhere to the rules, then the court is left with no choice, but to intervene,” observed the HC while setting aside Sharma’s extension. Justice Anil Kshetarpal of the HC has passed these orders while allowing a petition filed by one Sumer Singh. The judge observed that in the present case,extension given in the service was beyond the scope of the staff rules, 2017. “If the appointment of respondent No.6 (D R Sharma) is considered to be a direct recruitment, then it has to be made after issuing recruitment notice in newspapers and a selection committee was required to be constituted in this regard. The same has not been followed. On other hand, if it is considered to be by way of promotion, then the case of the first three senior district secretaries was required to be considered,” the judge has observed further. On the contention of Haryana advocate general that the decision of the president of the society had not been ratified as required under the rules although a meeting managing committee had already taken place, the HC observed that in any case once the order of extension was itself beyond the enabling powers, then subsequent ratification, if at all comes through, would not result in curing the inherent defect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-sets-aside-hry-guv-decision-on-red-cross-gen-secy-tenure/articleshow/80141507.cms||Ajay Sura
January 7, 2021||Chandigarh||Meritorious students shun PGIMS for pvt, central med colleges||Rohtak: Tarun Kumar, who scored 626 marks in NEET, ditched the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, despite being eligible for admission to its MBBS course and instead opted for the ESIC Medical College and Hospital, Faridabad. PGIMS is a state-run college while ESIC college and hospital is under the Union ministry of labour and employment. The reason Tarun preferred the central medical college over the Haryana government-run college is because of the introduction of bond provision of Rs 40 lakh on MBBS course students by the state government. Talking to TOI, Tarun said he wanted to pursue his MBBS course from Rohtak medical college, but the bond provision of Rs 40 lakh deterred him from the admission in the state college. “I come from a modest family background. My parents have already invested a lot of their savings on my studies and do not want more liability of Rs 40 lakh for the MBBS course. So, to avoid the monetary hassles, I opted for ESIC medical college, Faridabad,” he said. An MBBS final year course student here said that till last year, PGIMS Rohtak used to have admission till 6,000 AIR rank, but due to bond provision, the merit has slipped to 13,000 AIR rank. “Many students who secured good marks in NEET even chose Maharaja Agrasen Medical College, Agroha (private), over PGIMS Rohtak just because they were not in a position to bear the burden of Rs 40 lakh loan,” sources added. Citing anonymity, a professor at the institute here said from the all India quota of MBBS seats in PGIMS Rohtak, only four seats have been filled while others are remaining unfilled due to the impact of Rs 40-lakh bond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/meritorious-students-shun-pgims-for-pvt-central-med-colleges/articleshow/80141500.cms||Sat Singh
January 7, 2021||Bhopal||No H5N8 in humans yet, but alert needed, say experts||BHOPAL: While the strain of H5N8 virus may have claimed the lives of various birds in the state, experts have said that the virus has only been noticed so far in crows and wild birds and no poultry bird. “So far only H5N8 has been confirmed and that too only in crows and some migratory birds and no poultry. And there has been no recorded incident of H5N8 affecting humans till now from anywhere in the world. But precautions of bird flu should be taken, as these are viruses which are unpredictable,” says a senior scientist associated with research into such diseases. The official, who wished anonymity, said, “It is mostly crows who have been affected and this strain of virus does not affect humans but precautions that are taken in H1N1 should be taken as a preventive measure and close vigil is need of the hour, which is being done by respective administrations.” It is noteworthy that amid increasing number of death of crows and other migratory birds in the country, majority of the states, including Madhya Pradesh, have issued alerts. More than 400 crows have been reported dead from several districts of the state since December 26 and H5N8 has been confirmed in crows that died across more than half a dozen districts, said sources. Chief minster also held an emergency meeting on Wednesday and instructed that procurement of poultry products from states of south India should be stopped for now. It is noteworthy that National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, which is the premier institute for study into animal diseases in the country and is situated in Bhopal, has been receiving samples of birds from all over the country, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/no-h5n8-in-humans-yet-but-alert-needed/articleshow/80140462.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena-led cabinet OKs tax waiver for 1996 Michael Jackson concert||MUMBAI: More than two decades after the ‘King of Pop’ Michael Jackson performed in Mumbai, the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) cabinet on Wednesday approved a proposal to uphold the decision to grant Rs 3.4 crore entertainment tax waiver to an event management firm for the concert. The Shiv Sena, along with the BJP, was in power in the state when the concert was organised by the Shiv Udyog Sena (SUS), then headed by Raj Thackeray, in collaboration with a Wizcraft Entertainment Agency Private Ltd, in 1996. With the cabinet approving the waiver, Wizcraft Entertainment will now be able to take back the Rs 3.4 crore that was deposited in the court treasury after the waiver was challenged in the Bombay high court. In 1996, the Sena-BJP government, led by chief minister Manohar Joshi, has used discretionary powers under Section 6(3) of the Maharashtra Entertainment Duty Act, 923, to grant the entertainment tax waiver on the grounds that the profits from the concert will be used for charity purposes by the Shiv Udyog Sena. However, the waiver decision was challenged in the Bombay High Court by Mumbai Grahak Panchayat the same year. In April 2011, the HC set aside the waiver order citing “non-application of mind”, but remanded the matter back to the state government, asking it to reconsider Wizcraft’s application for “grant of exemption from payment of the entertainment duty in "accordance with law” while hearing Mumbai Grahak Panchayat as well. Sena leader and cabinet minister Subhash Desai on Wednesday said that the waiver was given by the state cabinet in 1996 itself, but the decision was challenged in court. “A detailed review was taken by the cabinet at that time while granting the waiver. Since 1974, cabinets of various governments have given tax waivers to such concerts,” Desai said. The state revenue department, hearing the case since 2018, was also of the opinion that the state has discretionary powers under the entertainment duty Act to grant the waiver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sena-led-cabinet-oks-tax-waiver-for-1996-michael-jackson-concert/articleshow/80141537.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad home sales jump 139% in October-December quarter||AHMEDABAD: The real estate market in Ahmedabad has staged a strong comeback with a robust revival in sales during the October-December quarter of the calendar year 2020.  The resurgence has been witnessed in both residential and office segments. The home sales in Ahmedabad jumped 139% to 2,810 units in the fourth quarter ended December from 1,176 units in the third quarter (July-September). The data was revealed in a report of Knight Frank India, a real estate consultant. The new launches of residential units across the city also surged 127% to 3,294 units in Q4 from 1,451 units in Q3, the report added. Backed by the strong revival in the fourth quarter, the housing market performance improved significantly in the second half (July-December) of 2020. The home sales in Ahmedabad increased 58% to 3,986 units in the second half from 2,520 units in the first half. The launches also moved up by 81% to 4,745 units in H2 from 2,627 in H1, the report said. “The resumption in business activity, low home loan rates coupled with the pent-up demand and aggressive negotiations by developers caused a significant pick-up in demand towards the end of the year,” said Balbirsingh Khalsa, branch director, Ahmedabad, Knight Frank India. “If not for an abrupt rise in Covid-19 infections towards the end of Q4 2020, sales volumes could have been significantly higher,” he added. Stating that more aggressive steps, such as the temporary stamp duty cut in Maharashtra, are probably the need of the hour, Khalsa said: “The state government also took several measures to revive the sector by increasing the carpet area limit for affordable housing.” He went on to say: “These steps are beneficial for upcoming projects and will have an impact in the longer term.” He, however, also made it clear that though Ahmedabad is the most affordable housing market among the top eight Indian cities, the residential demand in Ahmedabad is still adversely impacted by the loss of livelihood and the threat of potential income disruption. With the Covid-19 pandemic crippling business activity in the April-June quarter, the overall home sales for the full year of 2020 remained 61% lower at 6,506 units as compared to 16,713 units in 2019. The launches were also down 37% to 7,372 units as compared to 11,487 units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/abad-home-sales-jump-139-in-oct-dec-quarter/articleshow/80142925.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Ludhiana||Spinning industry jubilant after anti-dumping duty on import of viscose spun yarn mooted||Ludhiana: The spinning industry is in a jubilant mode after the Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR) has proposed to the central government to impose anti-dumping duty on the import of viscose spun yarn from China, Indonesia and Vietnam. According to insiders in the textile and spinning industry, with the DGTR making the recommendation it is now certain that the government will impose anti-dumping duty on viscose spun yarn during this week itself. Businessmen have appealed to the DGTR to also recommend imposition of anti-dumping duty on other imported yarns which pose threat to the local industry. Meanwhile, hailing the move, Sanjay Garg, president of Northern India Textile Mills Association (NITMA), said, “We express our sincerest regards to the DGTR for its recommendation to levy anti-dumping duty on viscose spun yarn originating in or being imported from Indonesia, Vietnam and China. Imports of this variety of yarn had been causing considerable amount of damage to domestic manufacturers and this kind of levy was being sought by the industry for quite a while. Huge quantity of this yarn has been imported during the last few years and recently the quantum of imports reached such a level that a major impact was being seen on the local manufacturers who were already struggling due to several reasons.” Garg added that, “Our association has been actively taking up this crucial issue with the DGTR and we have also sent representation to the department to levy anti-dumping duty on polyester spun yarn as well because both are similar articles as far as duty structure and exporting mills from China, Vietnam and Indonesia are concerned. One can easily understand the impact of not levying this duty as the monthly average imports of virgin polyester spun yarn have increased by 972% from 2015 till 2020. Imports from Vietnam alone have increased by a mammoth 107 times and if we talk of average monthly imports for 2020, then these are pegged at 5,212 tonne per month out of the total domestic monthly consumption of 22,000 tonne per month. So, in the wake of such huge threats to our industry it is the need of the hour that anti-dumping duty is imposed on such products at the earliest.” According to Siddharth Khanna, director of Arisudana Industries, “Import numbers have been rising substantially year after year due to extremely and unreasonably low prices offered by Indonesian and Vietnamese spinners on account of huge idle capacities created owing to their government’s incentives. Huge quantities of yarn are being dumped into India, which can potentially cause an irreparable injury to the domestic spinning sector with the cascading effect, from closure of mills to NPAs and eventually resulting in massive loss of employment. We are very hopeful that all corrective measures needed to safeguard our industry will be taken by the government soon and we will achieve unprecedented growth in this New Year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/spinning-industry-jubilant-after-anti-dumping-duty-on-import-of-viscose-spun-yarn-mooted/articleshow/80140494.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Chandigarh||Covid jabs may hit polio drive from Jan 17||Chandigarh: The polio immunisation drive from January 17 onwards might face hiccups for health workers as Covid-19 immunisation has kept most of the officials occupied. Moreover, schools and colleges are closed and volunteers from these places will also be unable to help in the immunisation drive. Sources in the health department said the country’s largest immunisation programme of Covid-19 vaccination drive will start next week. “Most of the vaccinators are engaged in this drive. Also, the medical health workers and other staff will be on various sites for the Covid-19 vaccination. This will definitely impact the polio drive,” said a health worker. Even while the pulse polio drive is a three-day round, where around 95,000 children are given polio drops in booths and door-to-door, the Covid-19 vaccination programme will be at different sites on allotted days. “There will be 200 vaccinations at Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, where there are two sites. Though only the health workers will be on the top priority, but days will be fixed so that all the nine sites are able to cover 12,000 health workers for the first dose,” said a UT health official. However, there will be an impact on the polio immunisation programme as the health workers will be placed at different sites for Covid-19 immunisation. “There have been directions from the government that routine immunisation should not be affected. But it is not feasible to have the same manpower for such a mass immunisation,” said an official at the health department. He said, “The schedule for the immunisation will not clash, but we still need to have necessary health workers move around and get prepared a few days before the immunisation drive.” While the dry run for the Covid-19 vaccines in the city was a success, with routine immunisation programme, it will become challenging due to shortage of manpower. “We might ask some NGO volunteers to come forward and help us in escalating manpower for the polio drive,” said a senior health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-jabs-may-hit-polio-drive-from-jan-17/articleshow/80140469.cms||Shimona Kanwar
January 7, 2021||Ludhiana||‘Vehras’ major cause of solid waste dumping into Buddha Nullah||Ludhiana: The volunteers of almost seven colleges are these days busy createing awareness among the people living in areas around Buddha Nullah under the ‘Buddha Dariya Cleanliness Drive’, especially the migrant population living in ‘vehras’ located in these colonies as they are the major violators of the ban on throwing of solid waste into the drain. On Wednesday, the civic officials checked areas from Haibowal bridge to Pavitar Nagar bridge, where they found many such ‘vehras’ and most of the occupants of these ‘vehras’ usually throw garbage into the drain. The Swachh Bharat Mission project director, Puran Singh, visited these areas in the morning and met around 100 people. While meeting people, he found that these ‘vehras’ were housing 50 to 100 people and the civic amenities there were very poor. He said these people do not know about source segregation and they do not even hand over garbage to waste collectors and instead throw the same directly into the drain. He said they had given a strict warning to these people to keep waste in segregated form and give it to the garbage collectors. He said the area chief sanitary inspectors or other staff members were also with them and they were told to keep regular checking in these areas so that violators could be punished. Meanwhile, NCC/NSS volunteers paid a visit to the colonies around the drain. Two students of Arya College for Women Suhana Kapoor and Amisha Sharma said, “We meet many people in one day, some listen carefully while some others object to the drive. But when they explain them about the harmful impact of throwing of plastic carry bags and waste into the drain, they paid heed to us.” They said they did not face any difficulties and now people had started even giving suggestions for making this drive successful. Nodal officer Maheshwar Singh said, “We have started getting response from people as on Wednesday, some of the people even volunteered to join the awareness drive and promised to stop others from throwing garbage into the drain.” He said they had instructed some meat shops along the banks of the drain to keep separate dustbins for throwing garbage and other waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/vehras-major-cause-of-solid-waste-dumping-into-buddha-nullah/articleshow/80140514.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: SC confirms IIT seat for boy whose ‘error’ cost him seat||MUMBAI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday confirmed the admission of 18-year-old Siddhant Batra to IIT-Bombay for the undergraduate Bachelor of Technology (BTech) course in electrical engineering on his plea that he had lost his seat to an “apparent mistake” while opting to withdraw only from further rounds during the online admission process. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Dinesh Maheswari and Hrishikesh Roy regularised the admission for Batra, who had scored all-India JEE rank of 270, and said a “quietus’’ be put on this issue. The SC bench in its order which was uploaded on its site on Friday said, “The present case is one of an inadvertent error in withdrawing and it is those facts which persuade us to regularize the admission of the appellant in the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case exercising our jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution of India. We make it clear abundantly clear that this will not be cited as a precedent to open other cases. The appeal stands disposed of." But, on the request of the IIT counsel Sonal Jain, the SC bench directed that its order not be treated as a precedent. On Wednesday, Batra’s counsel Pralhad Paranjpe submitted to the SC that his was “not an adversarial litigation”. He informed the bench that the interim order was complied with and he was given admission by the IIT-B last month. It was a provisional admission, said IIT-B, which had in its counter said it was Batra’s “conscious” move to withdraw from seat allocation. The student said it was a bona fide mistake as the reason he cited was the admission he already secured for the BTech course. The IIT-B advocate said that there were other students who had also withdrawn from the seat allotment process, and one of them had filed a similar petition before the Calcutta high court, hence requested that it should be not a precedent. A resident of Agra, Batra was raised by a single mother, who passed away in 2016, leaving him in the care of his grandparents and an uncle in Mumbai. Last month, he had filed a special leave petition before the SC against a November dismissal of his petition by the Bombay high court. The HC had said the IIT-B had, on its interim order, given him a hearing and said it could not restore his seat since it was a process under the Joint Seat Allocation Authority. On December 9, the SC had passed in interim order directing that IIT-B should permit Batra to join and pursue classes for the BTech course.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sc-confirms-iit-seat-for-boy-whose-error-cost-him-seat/articleshow/80141561.cms||Swati Deshpande
January 7, 2021||Bhopal||BJP trying to stir rift among tribals: Kamal Nath||BHOPAL: PCC chief Kamal Nath on Wednesday morning called a meeting of Congress tribal leaders and MLAs at his official residence here in the state capital. Addressing the gathering, he said that his 15-month government had worked for the benefit of the tribal society, implemented several schemes and took many ground-breaking decisions. Nath said that the BJP-led state government has stopped many schemes, which were meant for the benefit of the tribal population in Madhya Pradesh. He also alleged that incidents of crimes against tribals have increased since the BJP came to power last year. “BJP’s politics has always been centred on dividing and creating rift in the society,” the former chief minister said. “BJP has also tried hard to create rift within the tribal community members. We have to remember and recognise this policy and intention of BJP,” Nath added. The meeting was attended by well-known tribal face and former PCC chief Kantilal Bhuria, former ministers Bala Bachchan, Surendra Singh Baghel, Omkar Markam, former MPs Gajendra Singh Rajukhedi, Nanhelal Dhurve, Tilakraj Singh and Abhijit Shah. Nath alleged that as soon as the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government came in power in the state, it annulled the Congress government’s decision to observe August 9, which is celebrated as ‘International Day of the World’s Indigenous Peoples’ as a holiday. “BJP is also utilising some non-political organisations to split and break the tribal society. We have been continuously receiving such complaints. Now, the ruling party has started purchasing and procuring work also, we have to identify this truth. Your awareness, caution and unity can give a befitting reply to BJP’s divisive politics,” he told the Congress tribal leaders. “BJP works against the tradition and culture of our nation. Our country believes in uniting people. Congress has followed this tradition and worked to unite the country, society and hearts,” the senior Congressman said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-trying-to-stir-rift-among-tribals-nath/articleshow/80140515.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Embossed cement to cover footpaths||Mumbai: Paver blocks will soon give way to embossed cement on Mumbai's pavements. The idea of replacing paver blocks with embossed cement was first considered by the BMC in 2015. Now environment minister and suburban guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray has decided to take it up across the city and make the city pedestrian-friendly. On Thursday, he will hold a meeting with assistant municipal commissioners of all 24 civic wards at the BMC headquarters to discuss implementation of the project. “Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked all municipal corporations to focus on these basics. Embossed cement will ensure the pavement is at one level throughout and not irregular,” Thackeray said. Last year Thackeray had taken up the improvement of pavements from Siddhivinayak temple in Prabhadevi to St Michael’s Church in Mahim. The stretch has religious and iconic sites such as Shivaji Park, Veer Savarkar memorial, Chaityabhoomi and Mahim dargah. The BMC spruced up the pavements from Siddhivinayak to Hinduja hospital, but not elsewhere. The BMC introduced the budget for pavement repairs only two years ago. The first year it budgeted Rs 100 crore but slashed it to Rs 50 crore, releasing the funds to BEST. This year the BMC has slashed its budget for pavement repairs from Rs 50 crore to Rs 7 crore on account of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/embossed-cement-to-cover-footpaths/articleshow/80143464.cms||Clara Lewis
January 7, 2021||Mumbai||Def: Purohit was on Army duty, can’t try him sans sanction||MUMBAI: An accused in the 2008 Malegaon blast case, Lt Col Prasad Purohit, on Wednesday informed Bombay high court that he was on Army duty and was gathering intelligence by attending the conspiracy meetings. Purohit has been booked under the anti-terror laws by the National Investigation Agency. Six people were killed and 100 others injured when a bomb strapped to a motorcycle went off near a mosque in Malegaon on September 29, 2008. A bench of Justices S S Shinde and M S Karnik was hearing Purohit’s application seeking that all charges against him be dropped on the grounds that there was no prior prosecution sanction which was mandatory for a public servant. Purohit’s counsel Neela Gokhale cited a mail from the family of a victim—intervenors in the case—objecting to the appearance of former attorney general Mukul Rohatgi as Purohit’s counsel. The family had, in their letter, said that Rohatgi ought not to represent Purohit as in a PIL before the Supreme Court, he had appeared as attorney general for India against Purohit. Rohatgi was not present for the virtual hearing. The intervenor, Nisar Bilal, represented by senior counsel B A Desai, Sharif Shaikh and Shaid Nadeem, filed a fresh application seeking copies of two documents—letters issued by the ministry of defence in 2018 and 2019. Bilal had lost his son in the blast. Gokhale said the letters were confidential, but she would be showing them to the court and it could decide if they should be handed over to the intervenors. The HC, which has permitted the intervenors to argue in this case, posted the matter for further hearing on February 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/def-purohit-was-on-army-duty-cant-try-him-sans-sanction/articleshow/80141593.cms||Swati Deshpande
January 7, 2021||Meerut||As ‘Thakur’ trends on Twitter, owner of shoe co dragged into controversy shocked||Agra/Meerut: For three generations and 67 years, the Trilokani family in Agra has been selling shoes. But the mini empire they have set up, Thakur Footwear Company, was suddenly drawn into the eye of a storm when a Muslim seller in Bulandshahr was booked for stocking shoes that had “Thakur” written on the soles. Over the past 24 hours, the owner’s phone has not stopped ringing and the controversy over a name his family took pains to establish has shocked him.“The first shop my grandfather set up in 1954, Thakur Chappals, still stands by the Agra Fort railway station,” owner of the company, Narendra Trilokani, told TOI. For decades, they sold slippers under the “Thakur” brand name, the name written on the soles as those of all companies are. The name was not derived from the caste but was that of his grandfather, Thakur Das Trilokani. In 1980, the family-run business entered a partnership and 10 years later, Narendra’s father became a proprietor. “We stopped writing ‘Thakur’ and started writing ‘TFC’ then, for Thakur Footwear Company.” There are many subsidiaries by now, run by members of the family and with variations of the Thakur name, but ownership rests with Narendra. And each shoe is made by hand.“We have been getting so many calls since Tuesday. It’s harassment and a baseless FIR,” said Narendra. “Three generations of our family have never faced such a strange ordeal.” He added that someone from the local police station had called to ask which police station area the primary store is under. Local police, however, denied making any such call.The entrepreneur family’s plight has also surprised shoe manufacturers and exporters in Agra, the hub of indigenous shoemaking. “Many shoe companies name their brands after Krishna, Ganesh. Are they insulting a religion? A name like ‘Thakur’ is common. This kind of attack is unheard of,” Puran Dawar, president of the Agra Footwear Manufacturers and Exporters Chamber, told TOI. “The complaint is a gimmick. The attack on the seller was absolutely wrong.”By Wednesday afternoon, the outrage had translated into a show of support for the Muslim shoe seller and the company — “Thakur” was trending on Twitter, with over 17,000 tweets by people questioning the basis of the proceedings. Bulandshahr Police, for the most part of Wednesday morning, kept responding to tweets with a video statement by the SP. “During investigation, it was found that (Section) 153A was not applicable and was withdrawn. Other IPC sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of peace),” SP (city, Bulandshahr) Atul Srivastava said. But Nasir, released on Tuesday after a day’s detention, has more worries at hand: “Police let me go. But what will I do with the shoes I had invested Rs 22,000 in? I have two children. How will I look after them?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/as-thakur-trends-on-twitter-owner-of-shoe-co-dragged-into-controversy-shocked/articleshow/80139413.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 7, 2021||Kolkata||40 pork lovers from Kolkata to get together this Sunday for adda and ‘Boar-B-Q’ lunch||KOLKATA: Forty pork-lovers from ‘The Calcutta Porkaddicts’ (TCP) will get together to celebrate a pork-themed lunch on Sunday — the first time since the pandemic. There are around 4,300 members who are longing to see one another after the pandemic ‘separation’ and share a pork spread. So when a proposal was floated for just 40 seats, they were taken in a jiffy, leaving the others sulking. But TCP founders said that Sunday’s success will bring back multiple on-site events. The event has been named Boar-B-Q by the group that was formed on social media in 2006 and is now a registered outfit of pork-loving foodies of the city. Today, TCP has chapters in Mumbai, Pune, Delhi and Bangalore too. “We are organizing the first on-site event after 10 months. We wanted to keep it as safe as possible and, hence, we limited the number of seats to 40 on a lawn that can hold over a 100 people,” said Ayan Ghosh, a management consultant, who is also a founding member of the group. Since it’s a winter afternoon, grilled food on the lawns was preferred. “We have many themes for our events. For example, the last event in February, 2020, was themed on the Chinese New Year and the cuisine was curated accordingly. We have an Oktoberhogfest style on the Oktoberfest and a Pigmas for Christmas,” said Abhijit Bose, who has worked for over 35 years with five-star hotel chains. After members got over the initial shock of the lockdown, they decided to celebrate their love for pork in a hybrid mode. The menu was carefully planned and TCP got restaurants to cook and deliver them to members at home. “Then we got together virtually. We ate the same dishes while connecting for adda on-screen. It was a novel experience, but gradually we got used to it as we started connecting frequently,” said Ritesh Sarkar, assistant secretary and bursar of La Martiniere schools. The hybrid mode became so popular with the members that even a ‘Barshar Bhoj Porko’ in the height of monsoons, a Durga Puja Pork Anandamela, and a Foundation Day meet were organized in November. The last meet had members joining in from other cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/40-pork-lovers-from-city-to-get-together-this-sunday-for-adda-and-boar-b-q-lunch/articleshow/80140519.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
January 7, 2021||Kolkata||Showing in Kolkata film fest, 2021: ‘Miss Marx’, ‘Laila in Haifa’ & ‘Dear Comrades!’||KOLKATA: The Nandan premises is all set to welcome film buffs at the 26th Kolkata International Film Festival (Kiff). On Wednesday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said Bengal’s brand ambassador Shah Rukh Khan will virtually attend the inaugural ceremony on January 8. While no international directors will come for film screenings, the buzz around the physical screenings is palpable. The reason, said film buffs, is that KIFF is the first Indian on-ground film festival amid the pandemic. Though Banerjee mentioned that KIFF will be held on a ‘smaller scale’, the bouquet of international movies is quite impressive. One of the most talked-about movies is on the life of the youngest daughter of Karl Marx, Eleanor. Susanna Nicchiarelli’s film titled ‘Miss Marx’ will be screened at the festival’s Cinema International section. The film portrays Eleanor as a strong feminist and socialist who takes part in workers’ battles, fights for women’s rights and abolition of child labour. It also shows her tragic relationship with Edward Aveling. The 107-minute-long Italian film had its world premiere at 2020’s Venice Film Festival. Another interesting film is ‘Dear Comrades!’ The Russian historical drama about 1962’s Novocherkassk massacre is co-written and directed by Andrei Konchalovsky. It narrates the story of a communist Lyudmila, who — during a workers’ strike at the Novocherkassk Electric Locomotive Plant — witnesses the shooting on demonstrating workers by order of the Government Commission. Protests begin. Amid the chaos, her daughter disappears and Lyudmila is left searching for her everywhere. The film won the Special jury prize at Venice and is the Russian entry for the best international feature film at the Academy Awards. Then, there is Tunisian’s Academy entry titled ‘The Man Who Sold His Skin’. In this Kaouther Ben Hania film, Yahya Mahayni plays the lead. He went on to win the best actor award in the Horizons section at Venice. Ananya Chakraborti, a member of the film selection committee and head of the KIFF brochure editorial team, said, “I have heard a lot about ‘Miss Marx’ and ‘Dear Comrades!’ I will definitely watch both.” Amos Gitai’s Israeli-French film titled ‘Laila in Haifa’ that was in the main competition section of Venice International Film Festival also has many takers. The film, set on one night in a club that is one of the few venues where Israelis and Palestinians can socialize together, explores interconnected stories of five women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/showing-in-kolkata-film-fest-2021-miss-marx-laila-in-haifa-dear-comrades/articleshow/80140516.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
January 7, 2021||Ludhiana||Hampered railway operations led to less rake movement||Ludhiana: As a fallout of the hampering of railways operations in October and November due to the farmers’ agitation, both these months have recorded the lowest movement of inward and outward number of rakes of goods trains in the last three years in Punjab under Ferozepur division of the railways. The information was revealed in a right to information (RTI) query filed by TOI with the railways. According to the information made available under the RTI , in October 2020, the total inward rakes under Ferozepur division were only 97 as compared to 486 in October 2019, and 476 in October 2018. As far as November is concerned, in 2020 the total number of inward rakes were 183 as against 386 in November 2019 and 380 in November 2018. As far as outgoing rakes of goods trains under the Ferozepur division are concerned, 177 rakes were outward in October 2020 against 381 rakes in October 2019 and 465 rakes in October 2018. As far as comparison for November is concerned, 266 rakes were outward in 2020 against 384 in November 2019 and 361 in November 2018. Meanwhile, city businessmen are of the view that these stats are indicative of the quantum of losses incurred by Ludhiana’s industry due to hampering of train operations in October and November. The city’s industry has been most affected as the largest number of inward rakes of goods trains arrive here in the form of essential raw material like coal, steel, etc. for the industry. Speaking on the issue, Jagbir Singh Sokhi, president of the Sewing Machine Development Club, said, “It’s beyond doubt that whether it’s inward or outward rakes of goods trains, the maximum numbers are related with Ludhiana’s industry. As far as incoming rakes are concerned, they mostly comprise iron and steel raw material, coal, limestone, chemicals, etc., which are for the consumption of industry and with the disruption in movement of the rakes of goods trains, not only scarcity of these essential raw material was caused in Ludhiana, but the rates of these sky rocketed and had not returned to normal ones. In case of outward rakes too the major contribution is of Ludhiana’s industry and the record fall shows that how badly affected the production in our factories remained due to the railways not running its operations fully in October and November 2020.” Meanwhile, speaking to TOI, Harish Kairpal, finance secretary of Knitwear Club, said, “The central and state governments should take notice of these statistics as they clearly indicate the huge losses incurred by the railways and industry of Punjab as well during the past months. Therefore, it is the need of the hour that some steps be taken to resolve the deadlock of the Centre with our farmers, who in spite of all adverse conditions are sitting at the borders of Delhi.” Inderjit Singh Navyug, former president of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association, said, “Due to the non-movement of trains, major losses had been caused to Punjab’s industry, mainly to those based in Ludhiana. As far as the railways is concerned for them, this loss does not mean much even as they are losing revenue in Punjab, but is earning profits in other states due to freight. I think the state government should initiate a study on the topic on how much losses had been caused to the state’s industry due to trains’ disruption and accordingly, a compensation package be introduced for us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hampered-railway-operations-led-to-less-rake-movement/articleshow/80140517.cms||Mohit Behl
January 7, 2021||Ranchi||Crime against women high in BJP rule: RJD||Ranchi: The RJD claimed on Wednesday that the rate of crime against women was high during the BJP rule. While addressing a press conference here, RJD minister Satyanand Bhokta and former MLA Radha Krishna Kishore said that Babulal Marandi was suggesting that crimes against women have gone up under the present dispensation, but he should first compare the figures with those from the BJP’s tenure. Notably, Kishore along with RJD state president Abhay Singh had on Tuesday visited the spot in Ormanjhi block where a woman’s body was found. Kishore said that though people have the right to protest through various means including dharna, the manner in which a group tried to ambush the CM’s cavalcade at Kishoreganj on Monday was unacceptable and set a wrong precedent. He said that senior BJP leaders who were claiming that the act was spontaneous should clarify whether they support such incident. Kishore further said the BJP was uncomfortable being in the opposition and that was reason why BJP leaders were repeatedly claiming that the government would fall. Meanwhile, the minister said that in the past one year the mahagathbandhan government has performed well. Bhokta said the Jharkhand government ensured the return of the stranded migrant workers to the state at a time when NDA-ruled states like Bihar were hesitant to bring back theirs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/crime-against-women-high-in-bjp-rule-rjd/articleshow/80140986.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 7, 2021||Ranchi||CCTV footage shows Hemant convoy attackers had links with BJP, says JMM||Ranchi: The men who attacked the pilot car of chief minister Hemant Soren’s motorcade in Ranchi’s Kishoreganj area on January 4 evening have criminal antecedents and contacts with senior state BJP leadership, JMM reiterated on Wednesday. “These men, whose faces have popped up in news footages, CCTV grabs and mobile footages shot by passers-by, have pictures with Ranchi MP (Sanjay Seth), Ranchi MLA (CP Singh) and a former chief minister. This clearly indicates their connections with the BJP,” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said. A day after BJP’s legislative party leader Babulal Marandi denied the involvement of his party workers and functionaries in the incident, JMM rubbished Marandi’s claims and said he is shielding his party workers who took part in the coordinated attack on Hemant’s convoy. “They had placards, posters with them and were carrying bags. Now, we suspect they may have been carrying firearms. The police must probe into this angle as well,” Bhattacharya said. “A few hours ago, the same evening, Ranchi MP sat in dharna to protest against the Ormanjhi killing. There was no ruckus there as the police allowed him to protest. There, the lawmaker formulated a plan whereby the CM’s convoy will be gheraoed and pelted with stones,” Bhattacharya said. Bhattacharya demanded police to check the call detail records of the men who had assembled at Albert Ekka Chowk on Monday evening. Taking a dig at Marandi, Bhattacharya accused the latter of misleading the people about crimes against women in Jharkhand. “Babulal ji is lying. What is the source of his data on crimes against women in 2020? There is no data available, but Babulal ji claims there were 1,700 incidents of crimes against women in the state. We have NCRB data of Jharkhand for 2017-2019. It states in three years, crimes against women were above 19,000 on an average in Jharkhand,” Bhattacharya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cctv-footage-shows-hemant-convoy-attackers-had-links-with-bjp-says-jmm/articleshow/80141051.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 7, 2021||Ranchi||Cong urges Jharkhand govt to unlock all sectors||Ranchi: Congress, a part of the ruling alliance in Jharkhand, on Wednesday demanded the Hemant Soren government to unlock all remaining sectors, such as public parks and amusement centres and places of entertainment. The party also demanded allowing coaching centres, considering the upcoming board and competitive examinations. Talking to TOI, senior party spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “After remaining shut for almost a year, it is time for these centres to reopen so that all those who are dependent on earning a livelihood through them can heave a sigh of relief. Our party president Rameshwar Oraon, who is also a minister in the state cabinet, has always advocated gradual unlocking to reboot lives and livelihood.” The party sources said that soon a delegation will formally meet chief minister Hemant Soren and submit a formal memorandum of their demands. Another spokesperson Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo said that although Covid-19 is not fully over, with almost every sector allowed to reopen, there is no point shutting down parks, amusement centres and coaching classes. “Restaurant and bars are already opened so are banquet halls where marriages and other ceremonies are taking places. We demand the government to allow parks and entertainment avenues to also resume with proper dos and don’t’s. As far as coaching centres are concerned, thousands are virtually out of employment because of their closure since March last year. When schools have been allowed to resume, coaching centres can equally function with prescribed standard operating procedures,” he said. Party worker Rajesh Gupta said people are already visiting tourist places with friends and family members and keeping parks out of bound makes no sense. “Opening of parks and other green lungs will enable kids and public to resume their proper exercise and stay healthy,” he said. Sources in the state disaster management department said the government will soon decide on this. “CM is likely to hold a meeting with all stakeholders in the second week of January to take a call on unlocking the state,” said an official, unwilling to be named. Significantly, daily Covid cases in the state are currently on a downward trend, but capital city Ranchi is still getting double digit figures. As per the bulletin issued on Tuesday night, 155 new cases were reported in the state, 255 had recovered and two persons had died. Of these, 47 fresh cases and one fatality was reported from Ranchi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cong-urges-jharkhand-govt-to-unlock-all-sectors/articleshow/80140628.cms||ASRP Mukesh
January 7, 2021||Ranchi||4 crows found dead in Steel City park, authorities on toes||Ranchi: As many as four crows were found dead at Jubilee Park in Jamshedpur on Wednesday, sending the animal husbandry department in a tizzy given the prevalence of bird flu in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Kerala and Himachal Pradesh. Confirming the deaths, the district animal husbandry officer in East Singhbhum, Sunil Kumar Sinha, said, “The samples will be sent to the livestock research centre lab in Ranchi on Thursday for testing, as per the government protocols.” He added, “On Wednesday morning, the park officials spotted the dead crows and informed us immediately. After burying the carcasses, doctors at Jamshedpur Utilities and Services Company Limited (which is Tata Steel’s civic wing) kept the samples so that they can be sent to the Kanke-based lab (in Ranchi) for testing tomorrow. If required, the samples will be sent to Kolkata for further testing.” Earlier this week, the state government had sounded an alert across all the 24 districts in the wake of bird flu deaths being reported in Rajasthan, Kerala and others. All the district animal husbandry officers have been asked to keep a close watch and report any unforeseen incidents. Sinha said that even though crow deaths are usually common in Steel City, they aren’t taking any chances in view of the bird flu other parts of the country. “Following the alert by the government, we are on out toes to prevent any infection. All our on-field officers are sending us daily reports from their respective areas of jurisdiction. So far, we have not received any alarming reports,” he said, adding, “Rapid action task forces have been set up to deal with any kind of exigencies.” An animal husbandry department official in Ranchi said they are keeping tabs across all districts on a daily basis. “All district animal husbandry officers have been asked to keep tabs on the arrival of stocks at poultry farms in their respective areas and to keep an eye on danger signs, if any. We are taking all the necessary steps to prevent the outbreak of avian influenza in Jharkhand,” he said. Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh have so far reported the outbreak of bird flu. On Wednesday, Kerala declared it as a state disaster and kicked off culling of thousands of chickens and ducks in its two epicentres — Kottayam and Alappuzha districts. The Union government also set up a centralized control room to deal with the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/4-crows-found-dead-in-steel-city-park-authorities-on-toes/articleshow/80140728.cms||ASRP Mukesh
January 7, 2021||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand records 194 fresh cases, 2 Covid deaths||RANCHI: Ranchi continued to report high number of fresh infections even as difference between recoveries and fresh infections decreased on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the state reported 194 fresh cases and 165 recoveries on Wednesday. Two deaths, one each from Ranchi and Dhanbad, were also reported, taking the death toll due to Covid-19 to 1,040. Of the 194 fresh infections, 104 came from Ranchi which constitutes a total of 53% of the cases reported. As many as 14 districts reported fresh infections in single digits while six — Dumka, Jamtara, Pakur, Sahibganj, Seraikela and Simdega — reported zero cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/state-records-194-fresh-cases-2-cov-deaths/articleshow/80148683.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 7, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand records 194 fresh cases, 2 Covid deaths||RANCHI: Ranchi continued to report high number of fresh infections even as difference between recoveries and fresh infections decreased on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the state reported 194 fresh cases and 165 recoveries on Wednesday. Two deaths, one each from Ranchi and Dhanbad, were also reported, taking the death toll due to Covid-19 to 1,040. Of the 194 fresh infections, 104 came from Ranchi which constitutes a total of 53% of the cases reported. As many as 14 districts reported fresh infections in single digits while six — Dumka, Jamtara, Pakur, Sahibganj, Seraikela and Simdega — reported zero cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-records-194-fresh-cases-2-cov-deaths/articleshow/80140902.cms||---
January 7, 2021||Ranchi||State to exit pact with RBI, Centre on auto pay of discom dues||Ranchi: The Jharkhand government on Wednesday decided to exit the tripartite agreement with the Union power ministry and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to prevent another auto-deduction of the state’s outstanding dues to Centre-run discom companies. The state cabinet, chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren, gave its approval to the state energy department’s proposal to exit the agreement in the interest of the people of the state. “The money is deducted from a consolidated fund where funds for the development of women, people of scheduled caste and scheduled tribe and the money which is received by the state as per provisions of the 15th finance commission is received. Since the deduction is affecting interests of the state’s people and their Constitutional rights, Jharkhand government has decided to exit the agreement,” state energy secretary Avinash Kumar said after the cabinet meeting. The state government was sore in October last year after the Centre asked the RBI to invoke the agreement and auto deduct Rs 1,417.50 crore from Jharkhand’s account as the first instalment of dues worth Rs 5,608.32 crore owed by state-run discom Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL) to Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC). The tripartite agreement, inked in April 2017, was aimed at providing a payment security mechanism to ensure that outstanding dues of PSU power companies are realised if state-run discoms fail to pay its dues on time. Hemant had expressed his disgust on the Centre’s move and termed it a conspiracy to impose financial penalties on Jharkhand to force the state to increase its borrowing from the market. “After going through the legal provisions, it was found that the agreement was lopsided and against Jharkhand’s interests,” Kumar said. Asked whether pulling out from the agreement will affect the power supply in the state, Kumar said, “There are other mechanisms through which we can purchase power if need arises.” In another decision, the 10-member ministerial council approved a revised regulation to hold Jharkhand Combined Civil Services Examinations. “Replacing the 1951 regulation framework which was amended multiple times through resolutions in the recent years, the new regulation aims to bring in transparency and weed out disputes over the examination process,” cabinet secretary Ajoy Kumar Singh said. The new regulations have been brought in as per the recommendations of a three-member committee headed by development commissioner K K Khandelwal. Singh said: “There will be one educational qualification and one age for candidates for all exams. For preliminary examinations, the number of candidates to be selected will be 15 times higher (in comparison to the vacancies). In case the number of candidates from the reserved category (SC/ST/OBC) falls short of the mark, the cut-off percentage can be lowered up to 8% subject to conditions.” For finals, the number of candidates to be selected for interview will be 2.5 times higher than the number of vacancies. “Aspirants from the reserved category, who qualify on merit, will have the provision of migrating between reserved and unreserved categories for selection of services of their choice,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-to-exit-pact-with-rbi-centre-on-auto-pay-of-discom-dues/articleshow/80141031.cms||Dhritiman Ray
